Notorious , sick and very , very boring	I actually retired from Asian horror films some time ago after becoming completely sick of seeing samey ghost story rubbish . However , I've been getting more and more into exploitation flicks recently , and so decided to give them another chance . My first port of call was highly rated director Takashi Miike's highly rated ' Visitor Q ' . I'd already seen Audition , and while I didn't like it much , I do rate it as one of the better modern Asian horror films . So , I went into this with sensible expectations ; and unfortunately , found only boredom . I suppose this movie is actually really clever and it just went over my head , but what it seemed like to me was simply a collection of violent and nasty scenes with little or no coherency between them . Any comparisons to the work of Luis Bunuel and David Lynch is blasphemous as far as I'm concerned ; all Miike has done here is make a film ; any intelligence surrounding it has been implemented by pretentious fans , desperate to find some kind of meaning . My headache set in about 10 minutes in ( after a father had sex with his daughter for some reason ) , and it didn't subside until the movie finally ended ; at least twenty four hours later , or so it would seem . Don't get me wrong , I'm not against violence in movies and in fact actively seek out the most notorious films around ; but while this may be violent , it's also pointless and boring and I didn't get one ounce of enjoyment out of it . Takashi Miike may have a lot of fans , but I'm certainly not one of them ; and I certainly hope this is the last time I'll come into contact with one of his films .
Wow , it really is as bad as they say . . .	Having seen this and hated it is made even worse by the fact that it's all my fault . When most people hear comments about a film that are as bad as what's been said about Alone in the Dark , they'll avoid at all costs ; but for me , the bad comments really made me want to see it , just to see if it is really is as bad as they say - and surprise , surprise , it's just as bad ; if not worse . There are a number of things that can make a movie be the opposite of good , and Alone in the Dark manages to lampoon a surprising amount of them . First of all , this film is boring in a way not often seen outside of films that have the words ' Blair ' , ' Project ' and ' Witch ' in the title . It's based on a video game ( that I've never played , by the way ) , so you'd expect there to be lots of flashy and exciting scenes ; but there isn't . There are scenes that should be exciting , but it's all so downbeat that it's hard to care . Despite looking good , the film also suffers from really poor production elements , including really bad acting , a terrible script and lethargic direction , courtesy of everyone least favourite modern horror director ; the lamentable Uwe Boll . Actually ( and thankfully ) , this is the first film I've seen from Boll , and I'm not finding the idea of the rest being rubbish hard to handle . House of the Dead was lambasted upon release , so you'd expect movie producers to blacklist the director ; but instead , they gave him this film , which was also lambasted upon release . So what do they do ? They give him Bloodrayne , that gets lambasted and now I've noticed that his upcoming projects include adaptations of Postal and Fear Effect ! What's going on here ? ! I'm not a movie director , and other than what I've picked up through watching other people's films , I don't know anything about movie-making ; but I'd really like to think that even I could make a better movie than this one ( I'm available to make a video game movie , if any of Boll's producers are listening ) . This brings me to the acting . I actually rather like Christian Slater , so I really hope that he was well paid for appearing in this trash , because seeing him try to convince the audience that he's all action hero is really painful . No point in mentioning the rest of the cast . . . or anything else about this film . I wasted an hour and half on it , and it took me about ten minutes writing this . That's enough time down the drain , thanks .
Garbage exploitation crap	When I decided to see every film on the DPP ' Video Nasty ' list , I knew I'd be letting myself in for some rubbish ; but I really didn't expect anything this depressingly awful . This movie transcends the bounds of ' so bad it's good ' and just becomes bad . There are some other bad films on the list , but most of those at least have some redeeming values ; this one really does have nothing . The centrepiece of the film has to do with the ' first ever ' testicle transplant , and that's the only narrative that runs throughout . The rest of the film is padded out by lots of pointless ' experiments ' and other tedious happenings , and it's clear that director Sergio Garrone wanted to make this as sleazy as possible in order to sell tickets - but I like sleaze , and this isn't it . This film was , like The Driller Killer , banned in the UK because of the cover art ; and that's hardly surprising , as aside from the aforementioned transplant and a few sex scenes ; there really isn't anything here to warrant banning , or seeking the film out for . I've been thankful to the DPP and their shopping list in the past , as it's allowed me to discover some great hidden gems such as The House on Straw Hill and The Witch Who Came From the Sea ; films that I otherwise might not have seen , but I'm annoyed that I bothered to see this . On the whole , there's nothing to see this movie for ; and I certainly don't recommend it .
I Fought My Own War	The tagline , " Every man fights his own war " does actually ring true for the people viewing this movie . I fought my own war , against sleep ; as this is one hell of a boring movie . It could be said that being boring is to the movie's credit as it is a good way to cure insomnia . Personally , I'd rather have insomnia . Watching this movie to cure insomnia is like cutting off your head to cure a case of acne . The Thin Red Line , in a nutshell ; " War is bad . It affects people personally , and it affects their personal lives " . There is now no need for you to see The Thin Red Line . The Thin Red Line follows the story of a group of people that are supposed to be soldiers . Supposed , being the operative word ; as most of these guys would be better placed in an agony aunt column . If they're not moaning about something , they're comforting someone else that's moaning ; " there , there " , they say . What ? ! This is war ! Where's Rambo when you need him ? ! The movie plays out like a children's book ; rather than making you think , it just tells you things , " War is bad " , it says , " each man fights his own war " , you are forced to believe . Rather than giving you food for thought so you can come to these conclusions on your own , it just sets them to some sad music ; and that is not a masterpiece . The Thin Red Line is unique in that it is one of the few war movies that is actually worse than Saving Private Ryan . At least Saving Private Ryan attempted some character development , had some decent acting and portrayed it's message at least fairly well . None of that can , or will ( by me anyway ) be said for this movie . The characters are paper thin , some development is attempted by showing you things in the character's personal lives etc , but that's not actual development ; that's just lazy background building stuff . The film also plays ' the long card ' in order to win itself acclaim . Some people will rate a movie higher if it's long , and that's clearly what the producers of this movie thought , as it clocks in at nearly three hours ; most of which is pure drivel . This movie does have one good moment though . . . . oh wait , I was thinking of something else . This movie is over-long , over-boring and over-rubbish and it should therefore , be avoided by everyone . After I spent three hours on this nonsense ; I was annoyed with myself for wasting all that time . I could have seen two movies for the time it took me to watch this one , and as it happens I'd have been hard pressed to find two worse . Overall ; NOT recommended .
If I were to describe this film by holding a button down on my keyboard , that button would be ' z ' . . .	To be completely honest , I shouldn't really be reviewing this film ; but since I wasted half an hour of my life on it ; I feel I really have to throw in my two cents ( I'll make it quick ) . Of course , this film isn't half an hour long - but that's all the time I could bring myself to spend on it , as after the first half hour had elapsed ; I was completely lost in the boring , nonsensical plot . It's a shame because despite the critical mauling that Revolver received , I still went in with relatively high hopes as I'm a big fan of Guy Richie's first two feature films ; and I really like Jason Statham . Since I didn't watch the full film , it's difficult for me to really call it bad ; but I have a high tolerance for rubbish ( I watched all of The Blair Witch Project , and got nearly halfway through Oceans Twelve ) , so the fact that I couldn't stomach the final hour and a half of this film speaks volumes about it's quality . Back in 1998 , Guy Richie was a promising talent . In 2000 , he established that promise a little more - but after the critically hated Swept Away , and now this film ; here in 2005 , Guy Richie's name is only going to keep me away from any future projects of his . To be honest , I wouldn't mind at all if his next career move were to stay at home with his wife and kids . It would probably be a wise one too .
Unbelievably amateurish - don't waste your time !	I have to say that my decision to see every film on the DPP Video Nasty list has largely been a good one , as I've discovered many films ; films such Possession and House on Straw Hill , that I otherwise might not have seen . But when I see a film like this , it really does make me wonder why I ever bothered . If there ever was a film to make the works of Edward D . Wood Jnr look like masterpieces , this one certainly is it ; as poor production values , combined with a hideously unlikely plot line and a rather suspect script ensure that Frozen Scream is one for the ' must not see ' list . The film takes in the idea of cryogenic freezing , and attempts to make a zombie movie out of it . The main plot point focuses on the soul and how it is lost through freezing . This idea is never explained , and perhaps even worse than that is the fact that there is very little in the way of zombie action , and overall ; it just made me wonder exactly why this film got banned . I'm guessing that the helpful censors were simply in need of more films to ban and , with this being a zombie film , it got on the list regardless . The film does feature someone being injected in the eye ; but it's not done very viscerally , and we're not allowed to see much . Overall , you'll miss absolutely nothing by not seeing this film . We thank the lord for small mercies , and the fact that it doesn't last long is one indeed . Therefore , this film comes highly NOT recommended .
Another entry in Milligan's horrible legacy of films	Legacy of Blood is pretty much your typical Andy Milligan film ; poorly produced , badly acted and very boring . This film is something of a remake of Milligan's earlier film ; the very boring , poorly acted and produced ' Video Nasty ' Blood Rites , and does nothing to improve on its predecessor . The film has pretty much nothing in the way of credibility , and while rubbish like this can sometimes be enjoyable ; that isn't an adjective I would use to describe this film . It actually took me three sittings to make it all the way through , as the first two times I switched it off before reaching the ten minute mark . The plot follows three women who travel to a secluded mansion with their husbands for a reading of a will left by the father they barely knew . They then start getting picked off by an anonymous killer . The film features a handful of nasty death scenes , but strangely for Milligan ; they're all rather tame and we don't get to see much . Hitchcock said less is more , but in this case it really isn't as it just makes Legacy of Blood even more of a non-event . Overall , there's nothing to recommend this ( or Blood Rites ) for , and by missing it , you're missing nothing .
Dull and disappointing science fiction flick	George Lucas will , of course , always be remembered for his masterpiece ; the Star Wars series , and for good reason ; as he hasn't done much else . While American Graffiti was a nice non-Star Wars film for the man , this one ; THX-1138 certainly isn't . For a man who made such a big impact on the Sci-Fi / Fantasy genres with Star Wars , you would expect his first foray into those territories to be at least an acceptable film ; but this isn't . Plodding along with an astute dullness , it's hard to be left anything but cold by this film . It's obvious that Lucas wanted to throw in as much Sci-Fi as possible into the film , and this has resulted in the movie resembling a mish-mash of science fiction orientated sequences , which comes very much at the expense of the story . The thin plot follows two people , living in the distant future where sex and love in general have been banned , who have found themselves in jail for breaking the laws of the place they live in . They then decide to breakout with the help of some guy they meet in there . Lucas has seen fit to give the film a style similar to that of Sci-Fi masterpiece 2001 : A Space Odyssey and this style-stealing is somewhat ironic considering that this is the same man that would go on to revitalise the genre six years later with his masterpiece . The people in the film all sport white uniforms and shaved heads and while this enables Lucas to present a regimented vision of the future that compliments the plot and style of the movie , it also means that none of the actors stand out , and since all of them , even the great Robert Duvall and the normally solid Donald Pleasance , find themselves with not a lot to do ; it can't be said that this is an actor's movie . The way that the plot meanders and never really allows the audience the plug into it , is the film's major downfall . Unlike Star Wars , which relied on storytelling to be a success ; this movie relies more on atmosphere and visuals and while Lucas can do these things , he's far too set on doing them and this kills the movie . The same thing happened with the first two Star Wars prequels . Overall - a major disappointment !
More utter crap from Andy Milligan	Andy Milligan has firmly established himself in my mind as probably the worst horror director of all time . Despite making decent sexploitation flick ' Seeds ' in 1968 , Milligan has succeeded only in boring me to death with the rest of his crappy oeuvre since then , and this film is certainly no exception . I really don't understand this director at all ; it seems like he's trying to make some sort of point as his films all have a similar style , but somehow nothing comes out of them but boredom . Take the plot pace of this film as an example ; it's painfully slow and the dialogues are delivered by actors who sound like they're close to death . Quite how Milligan made this film and didn't realise how dull it was is anyone's guess . . . my only thought on the matter is that perhaps it was the director's intention to torture his audience ? The plot supposedly revolves around vampires but for all I care they could have been clowns , postmen , FBI agents or French maids . . . it doesn't really matter . No film made with as little enthusiasm as this is ever going to be interesting , and after seeing five Milligan films ; I doubt I'll be seeing another .
Terrible cannibals !	It's safe to say that cannibal films are an acquired taste , but I think it's safe to say that it is one that I have acquired . However , even I am struggling for good things to say about Cannibal Terror . The best cannibal films hail from Italy , so the fact that this one was a French and Spanish co-production may have something to do with its sub-par quality . The plot follows two would-be kidnappers who end up hiding out in a house near the jungle . However , when one of them rapes the home-owner's daughter , the bunch is left to the nearby cannibals . Cannibal Terror was one of the handful of cannibal films banned by the DPP back in the eighties . Indeed , there is some rather nasty gore on display ; but it's nowhere near as gory as the best films that this genre has to offer , and the gore is hardly shocking as the whole production is so badly done . Director Alain Deruelle never manages to impose the jungle atmosphere on his audience , and the film feels like merely a rip off of better cannibal films . Needless to say , the plot doesn't really go anywhere and the overall effect is really rather dull . Overall , I can't recommend this film as the only reason for watching is that it was once banned ! Avoid .
Like a bad kids ' film	TerrorVision is apparently a horror-comedy ; but I have a problem with this . Any horror in the film is laughable ; but like the rest of the movie , it's not laughable in the funny kind of way . No , this film is just lame , and unlikely to be enjoyed by anyone over ( or under ) the age of ten . I'll get the positive elements of the movie out of the way quickly so I can comment on the more prolific bad elements of the film . The film is about a newly installed satellite dish that begins to receive signals from another planet . These signals are apparently ( and fittingly ) another planet's rubbish that they've converted into energy to get rid of it . However , a trash monster is accidentally beamed down , and begins to cause trouble . To director Ted Nicolaou's credit , he does create a good and fitting atmosphere , as the film always feels like one of those tacky TV shows that America makes . The film gets off to a lively start with a daft song that is played over the opening credits , and a glimpse at the offending alien world . The good points end there , however , as it's all downhill from then on . We are introduced to an array of irritating characters , including a punk girl and her ' Bill and Ted ' style boyfriend , a swinging pair of parents , the common ' senile ' grandfather and some kid who hallucinates , apparently . From there on out , it's obvious that there's going to be little in the way of interesting elements in this amazingly dull film , and despite the scriptwriter's best efforts at being funny ; this film really is anything but . Aside from being lame , the film is also boring as most of the running time concerns the characters wallowing in their own weirdness ; and all this showed me is that swinging can be very boring ( not that I've ever actually tried it . . . ) . The creature effects are purposefully silly , but look like something out of a kids program ; not a proper movie , and since the film focuses mainly on the kids ; it does feel very much like a movie made for children , and so in unlikely to offer anything in the way of enjoyment for serious horror fans . I do realise that this is meant to be a bit of fun and isn't to be taken seriously ; but it's not fun and that's the problem . Avoid .
An awful mess and complete waste of film stock	As I suspect is the case with most people who have seen this film , it was the title that attracted me to it . However , I actually wish that a less witty one had been selected , because then I might not have bothered with this silly little slasher flick . In fairness , the film has suffered a lot in production ; but somehow I suspect that A Night to Dismember was never going to be a masterpiece . The film differs from the majority of slashers as much of it is told from the point of view of a detective in the form of voice-over . However , this idea is squandered immediately because of the fact that his voice sounds ridiculous , thus giving the whole piece a jokey sort of feel , and it's squandered further because most of what he's saying is delivered in a very patronising manner . The ' plot ' follows a young woman and her release from a mental hospital . I'm sure you can guess where that idea is going , and we follow the guy from the voice over as he pieces the clues together and tries to get to the bottom of the brutal murder spree . To be honest , I'm glad that a lot of footage for this film was lost ; because I really don't think I could stomach much more of this film . Despite being just over an hour long , A Night to Dismember is really boring ; I had a headache before watching it , and it only got worse as A Night to Dismember droned on . And on . The disjointed approach to the plotting ensures that it's extremely difficult to get into the film , and this is made worse by the fact that the plot is extremely derivative , like most slashers . The violence is fairly extreme , but it's so inept that it generates more laughs than scares . There's a scene that sees someone put their hand through someone's chest and squeeze their heart . . . and it looks like it was put together by a below average team of five year olds . The final twist really puts the tin hat on the piece , as it's thrown in at the last minute without any build up , thus making it impossible to care or be shocked by it . Of course , I'd heard this film was bad going into it , but for some reason I didn't want to believe it . I believe it now and wish I hadn't bothered ; A Night to Dismember is not recommended .
Went the Wrong Way on ripping off The Last House on the Left	Usually , I love this sort of film . . . but Wrong Way just doesn't cut it . The influence from Wes Craven's classic The Last House on the Left is clear and obvious throughout , but the film doesn't do anything new with it and overall is really rather boring . The Last House on the Left inspired a number of rape and revenge films ; the majority of which hailed from Italy and are rather good if you're into this sort of stuff . That's what makes Wrong Way all the more disappointing ; it's not a bad thing to rip off Craven's film , but when all you've got is a series of sex scenes , you know that it hasn't been done well . The plot is virtually non-existent , and simply focuses on a couple of girls that end up being raped and abused by a few bored hippies . The film is notorious for its rape scenes that go on seemingly forever , but it gets old fast . I have no problem with sex in movies , and in fact actively seek out this sort of dirty , grisly film . . . but there really is no reason to bother seeking out Wrong Way . It's currently unavailable in Britain , and that certainly isn't a bad thing .
Dull Eurotrash rubbish	It was an accident that I even saw this film - I bought the DVD from Diamond Entertainment under the assumption that the disk , titled " Umberto Lenzi Presents Kiss Me , Kill Me " was actually the 1969 Giallo , which also stars Carol Baker . Diamond Entertainment made a mistake , and the disk and the cover do not match , which is a huge shame as Baba Yaga is a horrible mess of a film , and I spent eighty minutes bored to tears with it . The film is along the same lines of Mario Bava's Lisa and the Devil , except it moves slower , makes even less sense and is nowhere near as atmospheric . The plot supposedly comes from an Italian comic book , and follows a young female photographer named Valentina ( Isabelle De Funès ) , who comes under the spell of an evil witch called Baba Yaga ( Carol Baker ) . She starts to realise that something is wrong when she begins having nightmares , and when she has accident with her camera and one of the models ; she begins to suspect the real motive behind the mysterious Baba Yaga . Just the name of this film is enough to put anyone off - what kind of a title is ' Baba Yaga ' ? The fact that the film moves really slowly is annoying enough on its own , and it gets worse because very little actually happens . The film tries to make the atmosphere the star , and this ultimately harms it as despite undertones of sexuality and innuendo ; the film is very boring . The acting doesn't really help the film much either . Isabelle De Funès is great to look at , but despite it being the lead ; her role doesn't really allow her to do much . George Eastman , star of Eurotrash films such as Emanuelle's Revenge , Photo of Gioia and Antropophagus has a small role and the film is rounded off by Carol Baker , who just looks silly in the role of the witch . The murky cinematography ensures that the film always looks very cheap , which doesn't help it much on the ' art ' front . Perhaps the most annoying thing about Baba Yaga is the fact that it's about a relationship between two women , one of them a witch ; and yet barely any attempt is made to capitalise on either of these potentially interesting themes . It only cost me 99p to see this film , and I feel ripped off . If you like messy arty films , you might find something here . . . although I can't imagine what .
Kingdom of Tedium	One of the current trends in cinema is ' historical epics ' . Thanks largely to Lord of the Rings , these sorts of films have been sweeping the cinemas recently , and I have successfully managed to avoid all of them . Kingdom of Heaven stood out as being one that might not be rubbish , however , but unfortunately ; it turned out to be just that . The film has come under scrutiny since release for the way that it portrays hatred between different religious sectors ; but I don't see that as a criticism of the film that holds weight . Maybe the film does portrays Muslims in a negative light ; but it doesn't matter , because there is nothing about this film that warrants it being regarded as anything but a load of rubbish anyway . The film's main problem is it's narrative . It's confusing to say the least , and since the film is long and drawn out ; it doesn't exactly help if we add ' boring ' to the equation . It's a shame because the crusades could have given a nice base for a movie ; certainly a movie much better than this dull tedium . The muddled plot follows a blacksmith called Balian who follows his father , a seasoned knight , to a legendary ' Holy City ' . The action is very melodramatic and ' searing ' throughout , and after about five minutes ; it gets very tedious indeed . Not even the large scale fighting sequences can save this film , as they're filmed in a way that isn't much less boring than the rest of the film . All this wouldn't be quite so bad , however , if it wasn't for a certain cast member . There's nobody more annoying than Orlando Bloom at the minute and the fact that , like his fellow talentless Lord of the Rings star ; Elijah Wood , he keeps getting lead roles at the moment only makes him more irritating . Bloom basically just ' appears ' in this film and gives neither a lasting impression , nor any whisper of a good performance . Liam Neeson gives the only performance worth remembering , and he plays the same character he plays in Batman Begins . I'm rather surprised at Ridley Scott for this film . Historical epics have already slayed fellow competent director Oliver Stone with the critically lambasted ' Alexander ' , and now Sir Scott has fallen into the same trap . Oh well . . . avoid this rubbish . Unless you really like dull epics , of course .
Dull and uninteresting - a great shame	The original Battle Royale is one of my favourite films of all time . It's fusion of extreme violence and a thought provoking , complex substance made for a very different and refreshing movie . The sequel , unfortunately , is merely a stale variation on the events of the first film . It's ironic that this sequel is a complete disaster as making a sequel to ' Battle Royale ' should be one of the easiest tasks of all time . It's simple ; another battle royale , with all the uncompromising violence of the first , and to continue the story ; we'll have Nanahara , survivor of the first film , put back into the frey . Simple . But no ; for some reason , the writers have opted for some drivel involving Nanahara becoming an internationally wanted terrorists and an act known as ' BR 2 ' , whereby school children are ' hired ' to fight terrorist threats . . . or something . Now , you might be thinking along the lines of " well , as long as there's school kids with weapons , I'm happy ' ; but it's no again . The film plays out more like a feature length version of the start of Saving Private Ryan . That's it ; it's more or less a simple war film . Damn . One of the things that made the first film work was the underlying theme that the violence is coming from children that know each other , killing each other . This gave the film a soul-searching horrific edge ; " could you kill your best friend " was the tagline , and the film got it's depth from that . Here , that message is gone ; and it's replacement is a dull ' anti-war ' one . The film piles on the sentiment in an effort to get it's message across , but it never really succeeds . The film also seems keen to prioritise it's ' Requiem ' subtitle . Far too keen , in fact . The requiem sequences were the worst thing about the first film ; interrupting the adrenaline pumping action sequences all too regularly , I don't doubt that I'm the only person who feels this way . Battle Royale 2 is much like one long requiem sequence , with characters ' reflecting ' left and right and the film on the whole suffers because of this . If the film had focused more on character development , the reflecting parts might have worked because we would have cared ; but it doesn't , so we don't . Pretty stupid really . Battle Royale 2 isn't completely devoid of positive aspects , however ; the first half hour is definitely good . Going back to how it was in the first film , we see a group of unwitting school children kidnapped by the government and , of course , the hysteria that results in a couple of the kids ending up dead . Although this is almost a complete copy of the first film ( we've got knives being thrown , necklaces exploding etc ) , it works because the first film worked , and fans of the original masterpiece will no doubt enjoy it . However ; when I said that I'd have been happy with just ' another Battle Royale ' , I did mean one that's different from the first one , not just a remake of it . In fact , the sequel takes most of the ideas from the first film and reuses them ; from the danger zones to the maniacal teacher who delights in seeing his kids maimed and killed . The only real new idea in the movie is the idea of the ' tag game ' , which involves the detonators being linked to each other , so if your partner dies ; you go too . However , although this is a fairly good new idea , it doesn't make sense . . . . you see , the government want these kids to kill Nanahara , so why do they make it hard for them ? Why not send them in with an army of tanks and just have done with it ? Why not just bombard the island with napalm ? On that note : I deem this movie ridiculous and pointless , and therefore not worth your time . Even if you like the original as I do ; this film is one to miss .
Extremely poor Satanic horror	Peter Cushing and Donald Pleasance are legendary actors , and director Kostas Karagiannis was the man behind the successful Greek Giallo-esquire thriller Death Kiss in 1974 ; and yet when you combine the three talents , all you get is this complete load of drivel ! God only knows what drove the likes of Peter Cushing and Donald Pleasance to star in this cheapie devil worship flick , but I really do hope they were well paid as neither one deserves something as amateurish as this on their resumes . The story focuses on a group of devil worshippers that kidnap some kids , leading another group to go after them . The pace of the plot is very slow and this ensures that the film is very boring . The plot is also a long way from being original and anyone with even a passing interest in the horror genre will have seen something a bit like this , and no doubt done much better . The obvious lack of budget is felt throughout and the film doesn't manage to overcome this at any point . This really is a depressing and miserable watch and not even a slightly decent ending manages to up the ante enough to lift this film out of the very bottom of the barrel . Extremely poor stuff and definitely not recommended !
A bad Michael Mann film ? Oh yes , another one .	Well , I've never seen Miami Vice the TV Show ( or ever wanted to see Miami Vice the TV Show ) , I dislike Michael Mann films very much and I'd heard this one was below par even for him , so why did I bother seeing it ? Well , I suppose I maybe thought it might be an entertaining buddy cop flick - wrong ! I never realised a cop flick could be so boring - usually things like car chases and shootouts pop up to make even the most dull cop flick at least slightly interesting , but this one somehow manages to stay boring for the overlong and torturous two hour duration ( seriously , this film is about two hours overlong ) . I don't know how Mann managed to pull off a cop flick as dull as this , I remember thinking that he has an amazing talent for making things that should be interesting dull after suffering through the likes of The Keep , Heat , The Insider , Last of the Mohicans etc , but he's really outdone even my lowest expectations here . Mann actually made his best film right before this one with the surprisingly decent Collateral , but that hasn't spared him on to make a good follow-up . Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx do not make a good on-screen partnership ; neither actor is all that good in their own right anyway , and they have no chemistry together in this film . The plot has something to do with drugs and / or guns or whatever , and it's hard to care about anything that happens in the film after the first half hour . Or before it . I can't believe I actually spent two hours of my life watching this garbage , and a further ten minutes or so writing this review , what a heinous waste of time that I'll never get back ! The music is rubbish too ( a Michael Mann trademark ) , and by the way ; this review has been poorly cobbled together on purpose to give would-be viewers a brief preview of what watching Miami Vice is like ( just so nobody thinks I'm a bad writer ) . I would not recommend this film to even my worst enemy ? well , I might do , but if you're not my worst enemy and you must watch a buddy cop film , go with Bad Boys or any other buddy cop film ever made and leave this drivel well alone !
There comes a time in every man's life when he cannot even believe his own eyes . . .	. . . and that time for this man came whilst watching Plan 9 From Outer Space . Obviously , I went into this film knowing that I was letting myself in for something truly terrible - but even so , nothing could prepare me for just how BAD this is . To be honest , I'm still in shock - how ever did this film manage to get a release ? How did Ed Wood ever dare to make a movie with that script ? How the actors dare to even be a part of it ? All of these questions and more remain unanswered , and all the foggy elements surrounding the movie are matched by the huge amount of unanswered questions about the movie's plot . One of the many things that Ed Wood doesn't seem to have any grasp of is plot coherency . Some of the plot holes on display are so large that you could shove Tor Johnson into them , and still have room for at least three more terrible actors . The film follows the popular fifties idea of aliens landing on earth . These are actually the most stupid aliens ever to be seen in a motion picture , and the plan that they've cobbled together proves that . They want to destroy Earth , yet they want the ' earthlings ' to believe that aliens exist , and the only way that they do that is by resurrecting the dead . Basically , Ed Wood wanted to make a movie about aliens and zombies . Many people give this train wreck plaudits for being ' fun ' ; but personally , I've only ever been more bored watching a movie once , and that was while viewing The Blair Witch Project . Some of ' unintentional humour ' is actually quite funny , and I couldn't help giggling after the film had ended ; but I don't watch films to laugh at how crap the director is , and the fact that there's no characters , plot coherency , decent acting or anything else just renders this film a very torrid time indeed . This film is famous for being the last one that Bela Lugosi ever made ; even though he's only in it for a few seconds , while some guy in a cape fills in for him after his death ; which is probably the most ridiculous death sequence ever to grace the silver screen . The rest of the cast are equally terrible , with Vampira and Tor Johnson standing out the most , but only because they look so stupid . The film kicks off with a narration sequence , and this really sets the right mood for the rest of the movie . The voice-over is so unbelievably cheesy that it's hard not to cringe every time it features . I realise that this movie isn't meant to be taken seriously , but as far as I'm concerned ; Ed Wood has wasted seventy-five minutes of my time with this stupid film , and it really does deserve all the criticism it gets .
Oasis of boring zombie rubbish	Jess Franco and low budget eighties zombies . It will be a match made in either heaven or hell , depending on how you look at it - but I'm more inclined to go with the latter . I do consider myself a fan of Jess Franco , but he has an annoying habit of making amazingly terrible movies , and even at the best of times ; trashy eighties zombie movies aren't very good . Oasis of the Zombies somehow manages to be below average even considering the type of film - this sort of thing should be fun at least , but this film succeeded only in boring me stupid for the majority of its duration . The plot has something to do with a bunch of Nazi's that were protecting some treasure out in the desert . This certainly isn't the worst basic plot for a zombie movie ; but the bad acting and even worse script ensure that the film will have most viewers tearing out their hair by the end of it . The production values actually aren't bad considering the type of film - but this does absolutely nothing to save what can only be described as an out and out failure . As you can probably guess , this film doesn't come recommended - even when talking about eighties zombie trash , this is of low quality .
Boring zombie tedium	Well , Fulci's follow-up to his original zombie masterpiece , Zombie Flesh-Eaters , actually wasn't bad at all for what it was - and even the rip-off After Death had its moments . But Killing Birds a . k . a . Zombi 5 has a complete lack of good points , and if it wasn't for the fact that it's been lumped in with Fulci's zombie films , no one would ever bother seeing it . This film is the biggest rip of the entire series , as despite being called ' Zombi 5 ' , it was actually released a year BEFORE Zombi 4 ! How does that work ? ! The plot has something to do with bird watchers , a man who killed his wife ( or something ) and , of course , zombies . Nothing in this film comes together well , and it's all so amateurish that I had tears of boredom streaming down my cheeks by the end of it . Sometimes , a really bad movie can be enjoyable for the fact that it IS bad - but this one unfortunately bucks that trend by being so bad it's painful . The acting is uniformly terrible , with not a single cast member lifting it above the dreary tedium , and overall I have to say - even if you do like zombie films , this is one you simply have to not see .
Boring vampire film	Peter Cushing in a vampire movie . Sound good ? Yes I thought so too . . . until I saw Tender Dracula . This is a French film and comes across as something like an arty Hammer Horror flick . The plot focuses on two writers . They go on a trip with their girlfriends ( who both look like men in drag ) and end up at the castle of an aging actor . He is famous for portraying vampires on screen ; but as the night progresses , the group begins to wonder if the man is really acting when he is on screen . The film basically consists of eighty five minutes of boring dialogue and as you can probably imagine ; it gets boring quickly . The copy I saw was of really poor quality ; but in spite of that it's clear that the film doesn't utilise any particularly interesting locations which helps to make it more of a dull experience . The title , ' Tender Dracula ' lead me to believe that it might be some sort of soft-core porn outing , but there's no sex or nudity in the film and the title is quite inappropriate . I'd hesitate even to call this a horror film really since there's no actual horror in it . Tender Dracula is a ' lost ' film , and really that is for good reason and I doubt it will be resurfacing any time soon !
Dull and boring Giallo from former master Sergio Martino	The Scorpion with Two Tails has all the makings of a great Giallo . Aside from the intriguing title , it's also directed by Sergio Martino ; the same man who made some of the best Giallo's of the seventies with films such as The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh , it's written by Ernesto Gastaldi ; whose name will mean a lot to every Giallo fan worth their salt as he has written many of the best films that the genre has to offer , and on top of that - we've even got a performance from cult actor John Saxon . However , Martino clearly didn't have his penchant for directing by 1982 , Gastaldi was having an off day and John Saxon's character lasts all of about two minutes ! Like the earlier Giallo , The Dead Are Alive , this film focuses on the ancient ' Etruscan ' civilisation . Joan Barnard , the wife of Arthur Barnard ; a famous archaeologist is having problems . She's suffering from nightmares that focus around ancient tombs . Her woes increase when her husband calls from Italy and ends up getting his neck snapped mid-phone call ! She then travels to Italy to investigate . This film was apparently cut down from a television series , and I can only assume that they left the worst parts in ! There's barely any excitement to speak of whatsoever , and this ensures that the film is very hard to care about . Add in some extremely unenthusiastic performances ( unenthusiastic even by Italian horror standards ! ) and some silly fantasy crap and what we've ended up with here is one of the worst Giallo's ever made ! It's a real shame too as this film blends in a few different styles and if Martino could have just pulled it all together better , this could definitely have sat alongside his more esteemed film credits . One of the few saving graces in this film is the music ; but once you recognise it from The Beyond , the credibility soon dries up ! At least the film manages to limp through with a decent finale ; though once you've sat through the first eighty five minutes of the film , it could be the best ending of all time and most people would be unlikely to care . Overall , this is absolutely nothing to recommend this film for and I recommend that everyone skips it !
Unbreakable - what a load of twaddle !	I seem to remember my opinion of M Night Shyamalan going up slightly after watching this . Not that Unbreakable was any good - just that it was a hell of a lot better than the God-awful The Sixth Sense . Rewatching bad films isn't something I make a habit of doing , but this one came on TV at a time when I didn't have control of the remote , and since I remembered the film being the best of Shyamalan's works , I didn't run for the hills . Anyway , I'm not quite sure what I was thinking upon my first viewing ; as not only is Unbreakable a stupid and rather boring film , it's also completely pointless , riddled with plot holes and fails to make it's audience care about anything they've spent over one hundred minutes watching by the time it ends . The film starts by showing the audience a baby with a bone disease . From there , we move onto a train accident in which David Dunn is the only survivor . He is sought out by a man named Elijah Price - the grown up version of the baby at the start . Price is a comic book aficionado , and has a theory about Dunn's miraculous survival - he believes Dunn to be a real-life superhero . . . Comic books aren't such a big thing here in England , so maybe this sort of thing will mean more to Americans ; but even so , that doesn't disguise the fact that this is a story that doesn't really work in a modern context , and it's one that requires it's viewer to have the mentality of a young teenager in order to buy into what's going on . The plot requires the unlucky viewer to suspend their disbelief on numerous occasions , and this faith is never rewarded . Given Shyamalan's track record , it's obvious that this film is leading up to a big surprise ending , and not only is the ending not a big surprise - it's entirely stupid and doesn't make one once of sense if you think about it . It would seem that Shyamalan does respect his audience at all , and this is shown by the fact that he gives us any number of motives that no one in their right mind would harbour , and expects us to believe in them ! The finale for the central character is simply dumped on the audience and feels pointless for that reason , and not even the star profiles of Bruce Willis and Samuel L . Jackson can save this one . Unbreakable is a great big joke . . . which isn't even funny since I've sat through it twice .
Second offering of 2005 Return of the Living Dead films is almost as as bad as the first	If you thought that the Return of the Living Dead series couldn't get any worse than the pointless third sequel , you'd be right . While this is still an awful , stupid mess ; at least it's a ( slight ! ) improvement over the first of the 2005 offerings ; but of course , that isn't saying anything . Quite why someone has had the bright idea to resurrect a series that was never massively popular anyway is anyone's guess ; and the fact that the resulting movies are a complete waste of film stock aptly shows what a bad idea it was . The subtitle , ' Rave to the Grave ' , should be enough to put any sane movie-goer off seeing this film . . . but anyway , this time the stalwart bunch of teens that always inhabit this kind of movie are having fun getting stoned off their faces with a new drug . ' Z ' will get you high . . . but it will also turn you into a brain eating zombie . It doesn't take long for the whole school to be infested with zombies ; and the rave that they've all been looking forward to may well turn out to be what it's name suggests ; a rave to the grave . Ellory Elkayem , the genius behind Eight Legged Freaks , is in the director's chair for this film , and gives us a tour-de-force of forgettable direction once again . The film uses dreary nu-metal trash for its soundtrack far too often ; as if the rest of the film wasn't enough of a turn off on its own . The zombie design is nothing to write home about , although in fairness ; it's not the worst I've ever seen . There is a zombie in the movie that seems like a nod to the first zombie in the original movie , which would have been nice if this film wasn't a pointless load of crap . The reason why this entry in the series is ever so slightly better than the third sequel is because it takes in more of the humour that the Return of the Living Dead series is notable for . The humour isn't funny really ; but at least the film acknowledges its roots somewhat . Most of the cast from the fourth film return , and basically do what they did in that one ; i . e . fail to make an impression . To be honest , I can't believe I wasted time on this after wasting time on part four . My only advice where this film is concerned is simple ; ignore it !
Extremely lame ghost story - nothing worth seeing here !	I went into this film expecting a horror film , as that's what my TV guide touted it as - but was disappointed ( to say the least ! ) when it turned out that this film is actually a childish fantasy , in the vein of that other load of rubbish ; Paperhouse ( also from 1988 ) . It took about twenty minutes for me to realise that I was in the wrong movie , but by then it was too late , as I hate making it half way through a film . I was turned off instantly by ' happy ' tone of the film , and further turned off by the irritating soundtrack ; which gives away the fact that the film is going to end sentimentally . The fact that it stars that irritating kid from Witness was the final straw , and I was only ever going to hate this film ( unless something really great happened in the last 90 minutes , of course . . . ) . The plot follows a kid who finds himself locked in the cloakroom on Halloween night . Cloakrooms aren't the best places to spend Halloween ; and this one in particular isn't , as our ' hero ' witnesses the death of a girl from years before . Naturally , he resolves to solve the mystery . . . blah blah blah . Aside from featuring an annoying kid , bad music and a ' fun ' tone ; Lady in White is also really , really boring . I was really struggling not to hit the fast forward button before long , and tears of boredom were cascading down my face by the time the final credits ( finally ! ) rolled . This is one of those films that you really have to see when you're a kid to appreciate it ; and even then , you shouldn't really appreciate it . It's like E . T . , in that it's a film where the only good point once you reach adulthood is a sense of nostalgia . Don't get me wrong ; I'm no fan of E . T . , but at least Spielberg's film gives the audience reason to like it ; you will find no such thing here . I've never been a big fan of ghost stories anyway , and it's films like this that are to blame for that . Ghosts simply don't make for entertaining horror ; especially not when they're the goody-goody ones seen here . It's really hard to find them frightening , too , as the leads are impossible to care about . On the whole , I'd rather throw a hammer at my TV set than watch this rubbish again ; and if your TV guide leads you to believe it's worth watching - take my word for it , it's not .
Bava and Price combine to make a double career worst !	Mario Bava is one of my all time favourite directors , and Vincent Price is one of my all time favourite actors ; so despite the fact that I didn't like Dr Goldfoot and the Bikini Machine at all , I still felt almost as if catching this needless sequel was a duty I had to fulfil . Before making this film , Bava had already directed a number of classics including Black Sabbath , Black Sunday and The Whip and The Body , while Vincent Price had completed his work on Roger Corman's Poe Anthology along with several other classic films . I can only assume , therefore , that the pair had decided to take a break from making good films as this is a million miles away from the best that the two men can do ! Well , either that or they both just wanted to spend some time with scantily clad ladies , and I can't really blame them if that was the case ! Anyway , the plot has something to do with dubious ' assassin ' Dr Goldfoot building an army of robot bombs that look like pretty girls ( will be familiar to Austin Powers fans ! ) , and he uses them to eliminate some of Nato's world leaders . . . or something . Mario Bava's best work was in the horror genre and as such a lot of what I like about his directorial style is relative to the genre ; but he has proved on many occasions that he's capable of delivering good films in other genres , but you'd be forgiven for thinking otherwise based on this film ! There is a lot of nonsense happening in the movie and this undoubtedly distracts from the directing ; but it's clear that Bava wasn't really trying . What a shame that this is the only film he and the great Vincent Price made together ! The film was obviously intended to be funny ; but all the humour if of the very goofy variety and I honestly did not laugh even once during the film . At a struggle , I could only really think of two good things to say about this film ; one is that Vincent Price is entertaining ( although he could read out a recipe book and it would be entertaining ) and the other is that some of the girls featured are nice to look at . The first Dr Goldfoot film was terrible , and this one is worse . They couldn't even think of a catchy jingle to go over the title sequence ! I wouldn't recommend this movie to even hardcore Bava and Price fans . . .
No good Gothic horror	On the face of it , this film would seem to have a lot going for it . First up we've got a role for the great Barbara Steele , and second of all the director is Michael Reeves ; the same man behind the horror classic Witchfinder General . However , The She-Beast can only be described as a colossal failure . Naturally , this movie is pure cheese ; but it's not enjoyable cheese as the film isn't merely crap - it's painfully crap . The story is sadly boring , the special effects are terrible ; the acting is rubbish , the direction is rubbish and there is very little in the way of redeeming elements . Not even Barbara Steele can save this film , as she only appears for a few minutes and Michael Reeves doesn't make the best use of her during this time . Interestingly , Reeves used a big horror star in every one of his four films ; Witchfinder General has Vincent Price , The Sorcerers featured Boris Karloff and Castle of the Living Dead has Christopher Lee ; but unfortunately , the female horror icon has been sold short as The She-Beast is absolute garbage , and I seriously see no good reason to waste your time with it . Not recommended .
Crappy soft-core porn spoof	This crappy sex comedy was apparently based on a classic movie with a similar title . That fact doesn't make any difference , however , because as a porn film , a spoof , a jungle adventure or anything else ; Trader Hornee is a crappy film that doesn't work on any level . The plot is just an excuse for the main characters to venture off into the jungle and have sex and focuses on the hunt for a so-called ' White Gorilla ' . The film is laden with a load of humour and none of it works very well at all and succeeds only in being irritating . There is a fair bit of sex and nudity , but it's not all that good in context and the fact that there is a hell of a lot of better porn films than this one makes watching it even more of a chore . To the film's credit , the production values actually aren't that bad and the set design is decent enough - although this isn't all that good considering that most people won't be watching this film to admire the sets ! This film might appeal to fans of cheesy soft-core porn , but such people could definitely find better examples than this one . I don't recommend anyone wastes time on this film .
Mostly dull nunsploitation rubbish	' Exorcism ' is not Jess Franco's best film , but it's certainly not the worst either - which doesn't say much for much of the rest of his oeuvre ! From the title , I was expecting this to be a rip-off of The Exorcist , but it's more like Ken Russell's classic nunsploitation flick ' The Devils ' . As usual with films like this , there is little plot and the thin plot we do get is rather difficult to follow as most of the film is taken up by sex and torture sequences . Basically , the plot focuses on a priest who takes it upon himself to exorcise demons from a group of people he believes to be possessed . The film starts with a torture sequence involving a couple of naked women , which is well filmed and lead me to believe that this might be a halfway decent flick . However , most of the film is really quite boring ; there are plenty of scenes that see naked women strung up , getting tortured but the lack of any real point does get in the way . The film stars the beautiful Lina Romay which is always sure to increase the watchability of any film ; and we've also got a surprisingly decent performance from the man himself Jess Franco ( under yet another moniker ) . All that aside , Exorcism isn't a good film , and therefore I don't recommend seeing it !
Witchcraft has never been so boring	Every now and then , I see a film advertised in the TV guide that I'll see for no other reason than the title sounds interesting . Believe it or not , I thought that ' Witches of the Caribbean ' sounded interesting . I'm a fan of witch related films , as they often make for good horror and the Caribbean setting was leading me to believe that this might offer something in the way of originality . Any hopes I had for the movie were quickly dashed , however , when I found out that the film was directed by David DeCoteau ; a man that has made a whole host of straight-to-video rubbish , including the awesomely bad ' Wolves of Wall Street ' . Really , though , all I wanted from this film was some decent magic done by some hot Goth girls in a nice setting . It's safe to say , however , that I didn't even get that . What I did get is a severely under imaginative movie with a cast that is about as impressive as the film's setting - which looks more like a UK holiday resort on a bad day than the Caribbean . The plot stinks of " cant be bothered " and follows the dull and overly familiar idea of a witch being burnt at the stake , only to be reincarnated centuries later . Not that there's a big problem with this sort of plot ; several films , such as Mario Bava's Black Sunday and Roger Corman's The Haunted Palace have took that theme and made it work ; but both of those movies had something about them , whereas this one clearly does not . The cast of actors doesn't help the film in it's bid to be successful , as none of them stand out enough to make any kind of lasting impression . The only impression made on any level is just that the actors are irritating ; the lead witch , Nicole Marie Monica , being the foremost irritating member of the cast . The special effects are just as bad as the rest of the film , and once again feel like whoever was in charge had something more important on their mind . The awful ending tops off what is a bad movie on the whole and I can tell that if you ever see this film in your TV guide and think it might be worth a watch . . . think again .
Messy , silly , illogical rubbish . Disappointment from the talented team behind Maniac Cop	Uncle Sam represents the only non-Maniac Cop collaboration between Larry Cohen and William Lustig , which is a shame . Aside from just making a derivative psycho killer film , it seems obvious that writer Larry Cohen wanted Uncle Sam to have some brains too , which is shown by the attempt to inject a message into the proceedings . Larry Cohen is definitely a huge talent when it comes to entertaining horror movies - films like The Stuff , It's Alive and , of course , Maniac Cop are camp classics if you ask me ; but he really should stick to entertainment , as this screenplay is a mess and the ' message ' is so jumbled up that I have little idea what exactly it's preaching . The plot follows a young boy who believes that his uncle , who is coincidentally called Sam , is a hero . Uncle Sam was a patriotic , lunatic soldier killed by friendly fire whilst fighting for his country . His body is brought to his sister's place , coincidentally around the time of the Fourth of July celebrations . It's not long before his fellow Americans are abusing their privileges , and Uncle Sam decides to get up and do something about it . It's hard to take a movie about a war veteran zombie seriously , and this is something that Cohen should have taken into account when putting pen to paper . The clear message on show is that war is bad , and there appears to be a backhanded comment about the way America handles people who don't submit to their ' way of life ' . However , American politicians can rest easy because the central figure here is murdering people pretty much at random ; which saps any weight out of the theme . In my opinion , Cohen should have decided what it is he wanted to write ; a slasher , or a film with substance . However , even as a horror film , Uncle Sam falls short . We've got some nice gore scenes on display , but much of the running time is spent on building up the plot with the kid and his admiration for Uncle Sam , and to say the least ; it isn't very interesting . The film is very slow to start , with practically nothing happening in the first half of the film . Good sequences are few and far between , but I've got to say I liked the one that saw a stilt-wearing pervert prying into a girl's bedroom and the one that saw someone falling down a hill in a sack race . Neither of those grab you ? This film won't either . Uncle Sam fails on every level .
Rubbish French zombie flick !	The title of this film alludes to it possibly being a sequel and the only film I could think of that it could be a sequel to is one of the two good Jean Rollin films , ' The Living Dead Girl ' . This film actually has nothing to do with said film and has no relation to it beyond also being French ; but Pierre B . Reinhard's film is at least bad enough to have been made by Jean Rollin . Like Rollin's other good film , The Grapes of Death , this one focuses on a food supply being contained , except instead of grapes it's milk . Three girls fall victim to the contaminated milk and end up dead . Then , the same company that infected the milk pours toxic waste on their graves and the trio returns from the dead for revenge . The plot is thoroughly amateurish and ridiculous and this is carried on throughout the whole film . The only real reason to see it is for the gore and sleaze and the film does feature plenty ; culminating in scenes that feature eye-gouging and necrophilia . The zombie make-up is terrible and the make-up department either couldn't be bothered or was doing the effects badly on purpose . The film is slightly original on the zombie front , as the ones featured are your average lumbering corpses ; but that's hardly enough to make up for the rest of the pitiful film . This one comes highly not recommended .
Seeing this film wouldn't be one of my three wishes	I was worried that this film might be just an eighties version of the crappy nineties horror ' Wishmaster ' , but as it happens ; it would have been a better film if it were . The problem with this film , ironically considering it's a trashy eighties horror film , is simply that it's boring . It starts out slow , and even when the rudimentary bunch of dumb teens start to get picked off , the film never really picks up . It's a shame really as the idea of an evil genie wreaking havoc is actually quite a good one , but this film just doesn't do it justice . The plot focuses on a magic lamp which is stolen from an old woman's house . The lamp ends up in a museum when the thieves are killed . When the museum curator's daughter is possessed , she invites a bunch of friends for fun and games in the museum basement , and everyone ends up coming a cropper . I can live with bad acting and nauseating dialogue , even crappy special effects . . . but the story needs to be good to compensate , and this film is far too simple . The genie itself looks about as scary as your average lump of plasticine , and while the film features a few moments of gory horror ; overall , it's not good enough . The Lamp certainly doesn't come recommended .
Complete waste of time	Halloween 6 was the only Halloween film I hadn't seen ( before I watched it ) , which means that I've now completely wasted my time on no less than eight Halloween films . Given that each film has an approximate running time of ninety minutes , that means I have wasted 12 hours of my time on this rubbish , which of course , amounts to half a day . I feel sick . Quite why I worked my way through a series that I don't like is anyone's guess , but anyway . . . let's get on to reviewing this film . In fairness , at least Halloween 6 tries to do something a bit different than the usual slash-fest . It fails to create anything interesting , but the fact that it tried is admirable . We follow the birth of Michael's child by his niece ( ? ! ) Jamie Lloyd . The film harks back to the original by throwing in series stalwart Dr Loomis again , as well as some boy named Tommy , who was apparently the kid that was being babysat by Michael's sister in the first film . The film introduces the largely unoriginal idea of a cult worshipping Myers , but the real crux of the story follows the idea that maybe Michael isn't solely responsible for his actions . Michael Myers has always been a rampant and really rather dull man with a knife , but The Curse of Michael Myers attempts to give him a little backbone by way of the idea that maybe he was possessed by demons that made him kill his sister and all those other people . This is obviously just an attempt to inject some life into a very much dead series . It fails because there's barely any interest generated . Scriptwriter Daniel Farrands tries to create some mystery and intrigue , but personally I just didn't care . The main reason why many people find Michael Myers frightening is for the fact that he is cold , completely insane and relentless , so the idea of his actions not being his fault is as stupid and needless as a sixth instalment of the Halloween series . The acting is typically rubbish , with the only standout being Donald Pleasance , who chews the scenery once again in his ( unfortunately ) most famous role . Pleasance died before this film was released , and in my opinion it's a shame that he wasted so much of his time in the Dr Loomis role . After seeing his early performances in films like Cul-De-Sac and The Flesh and the Fiends , it's obvious that Pleasance was a talented actor who is better than films like this . I don't know what Halloween fans would make of this movie and I don't care . To be honest , I'm too upset about the fact that I've wasted half a day on these films .
Superfluous eighties slasher crap	There wasn't exactly a shortage of slashers in the eighties , and consequently a lot of the non-memorable ones are just there to bulk out the numbers . This is one such film . Girls Nite Out is yet another slasher flick that takes place on a school campus , and as such ; all the characters in the film are your common set of teens . I couldn't detect much comedy in the film , which is odd because the killer is one of the most ridiculous I've ever seen , in that he goes around slashing people while wearing a giant bear suit ! There's a bit of decent gore , but it's not nearly enough to mask the drivel of the rest of the film . Strangely , considering that the main characters are all teenagers , there's not a great deal of sex and director Robert Deubel generally fails to create any atmosphere or generate any suspense at every interval . Of course , the fact that the film works from a poor script that doesn't deliver any characters that we can care about has a lot to do with the film's lack of suspense . Overall , Girls Nite Out is not a slasher worth tracking down , and should be actively avoided !
Mostly boring war themed exploitation	Whether or not this film was supposed to be powerful I don't know , but despite some ghastly images and a sort of documentary feel , Faccia di Spia is a mostly boring Italian effort . The film , as the English title ( ' C . I . A . Spy Story ' ) suggests focuses on events surrounding the C . I . A . I'm very interested in sickening filthy cinema , but most of this film is concerned with army related stuff and it really turned me off . There are a few good scenes of torture , however , and they include people having their limbs chopped off , eyes gouged out , set on fire and some unfortunate soul gets a piece of metal inserted into his penis . These scenes may prove to be of interest for some ; and indeed they may have for me too if they were involved in a more interesting film . I'm guessing that this film was meant to put a bad light on the C . I . A . , and it may have succeeded in doing that for some , but not for me . Italy has made a million exploitation films like this one , and that considerably lessens its impact as rather than showing the ills of the C . I . A . - it just shows that the Italians found a new way to film exploitation . Overall , I can't really recommend this film . . . although it may appeal to some .
A very lacking film	The Amityville Horror is often regarded as something of a minor classic within the horror genre ; but this is an unfounded viewpoint , as this film is largely rubbish . The first hour and a half at least are boring , and when it finally does begin to get exciting ; you're already too bored to care . The plot follows a family consisting of a mother , a stepfather and a couple of kids . They move into a house where someone killed their family ( good opening gets your hopes up ) in a small town called Amityville . However , all does not go well and soon after moving in , the family starts to experience a couple ( and I mean ' a couple ' ) of slightly odd happenings . This then gets them thinking that the ghost of the man that killed his family is in the house somehow and we've got a horror film on our hands . Or at least we should have . . . In a film that focuses on having the horror moving at a slow pace , you've got to expect a lot of it's running time to focus on building it's characters . However ; the ' down time ' here does no such thing . Instead , it concentrates on ( trying to ) make itself frightening with one ridiculous and boring scene after another . The kid locks the babysitter in the closet , some flies attack a priest , James Brolin ( the actor who plays the central character ) looks " malevolent " etc etc , and it gets boring fast . The Amityville Horror is the next horror film up for a remake , and for once this may be a good thing as this film completely fails to capitalise on it's premise . Of course , ghost stories often make for rubbish films ; but this one fails to even be a good ghost story . To it's credit ; the house does look foreboding and the film builds the atmosphere surrounding it up well , but there's not much else in the way of good things that can be said for this film .
Classic horror writers , actors and directors turn in their graves	The idea behind this film comes off the back of this recent trend of blending together different stories to make one lesser story ; the stories in question being , principally ; those of Dracula , Frankenstein and The Wolf Man . From this premise , you can't expect ' greatness ' , but you can expect a fun romp and , suffice to say , this film doesn't even deliver on that front ; as it's action-fuelled monster antics get tiresome very quickly indeed . Stephen Sommers has basically done what he did with The Mummy , in that he's taken an existing story and added CGI effects , only this time the result is a miserable mess of a film with absolutely terrible CGI and a complete lack of intrigue from the characters and the plot line . The muddled plot basically follows Count Dracula , who has decided to enlist the help of Baron Frankenstein , along with a werewolf to help him in his plot to do . . . something . Enter Gabriel Van Helsing ( Hugh Jackman ) ; the intelligent ( or not , in this case ) monster hunter that goes on Dracula's tail along with an irritating priest and a Princess ( played by the beautiful Kate Beckinsale ) and what follows is what should be an entertaining monster mash , but what is actually a dull , cliché ridden , action film with little or nothing of what made it's influences great . Dracula has been turned from a malevolent conglomeration of evil into a comic book villain . Frankenstein's Monster has taken way too much of the emotional side that Karloff portrayed so brilliantly in ' Bride of Frankenstein ' and is little more than a pathetic mess of a character . The way that the werewolves are integrated into the story is actually quite good , but that's shot down in flames by the fact that the wolves themselves look ridiculous . Whoever decided that CGI was the best way to do effects wants shooting ; it looks rubbish , and the only reason I can think of why it's used is to save valuable time that would have been used creating real effects . If you want evidence of how NOT to do special effects , see the Mr Hyde sequence towards the start . Absolutely awful . The title character is nothing like the character that Bram Stoker wrote for him . I don't even know why they chose to use the name ' Van Helsing ' anyway , most of the target audience will have never have heard of him and since he's nothing like the character that the likes of Peter Cushing and Anthony Hopkins portrayed so well , they might as well have simply made a new monster hunter for the film . Then I wouldn't have been bothered about him being called ' Gabriel ' instead of ' Abraham ' . Kate Beckinsale could have been the film's saving grace , but even Mrs sweetness herself isn't herself in this awful film . I don't know if it's the terrible accent , the rubbish haircut or the daft outfits ; but she's nothing like the ultra sexy character she played in the surprisingly good ' Underworld ' . Basically , what we have here is a film that was made by a man that thought he had an idea that was good enough to carry a film on it's own . The complete lack of ideas and reliance on changes to the original characters shows that , and this is a very sad motion picture indeed . You may have gone into this expecting something of a tribute to the great horror classics , but this film features little in the way of horror at all . If you ever wanted to see a film that showed beyond doubt that CGI isn't the way to create good effects , this is the film to see . But since you don't want to see a film like that , you have no reason to see ' Van Helsing ' . My advice is to avoid this trash at all costs .
Big crazy mess	Well . . . it's a pretty sure sign that you've seen a bad film when you spent nearly an hour and a half watching it and you can barely think of anything at all to say about it ! Crazy Eights was released as a part of the ' 8 Films to Die For ' set in 2006 . I can't say I've been overwhelmingly impressed with what I've seen so far of this series ; and not only does Crazy Eights do nothing to change my impression of it , it actually drags the average down ; being by far and away the worst I've seen so far ! The plot is a jumbled load of rubbish and focuses on a group of friends that end up reliving a childhood trauma after the death of one of their childhood friends . That's basically what we get and it ends up turning into another ' horrifying ' and clichéd ghost story mess . It's obvious that writer-director James K . Jones wanted to do something intelligent although unfortunately the film falls very short of the line . The plot is extremely disjointed and much of the life is sapped out of it by a series of flashbacks . The twist at the end doesn't come off - although it's a bit of a shame as with better handling it actually could have been fairly clever . I lost interest in this film very quickly and as such wouldn't recommend anyone wastes any time on it .
If only it really was the Gestapo's LAST orgy . . .	If it's a bad film you're after , then I recommend seeing anything from the abysmal Nazisploitation sub-genre , as unless I'm missing something ; they're all terrible ! Never has there been a film type so moronic and redundant , and The Gestapo's Last Orgy doesn't do anything to make me reconsider that notion . I suppose in fairness ; it has to be said that this isn't as bad as the completely crap SS Experiment Camp , but it really isn't too far off . My only reason for bothering with this film is because of the fact that it was a part of the DPP's Video Nasty list back in the eighties , and I'm pleased to say that now I've seen three of the four Nazisploitation flicks on the list , I only have one left to go ( the almost certainly mind numbing Love Camp 7 ) . The Gestapo's Last Orgy is slightly more epic than most of the rest of the sub-genre , but that's not a good thing as it only means that it's even more boring . The plot has something to do with a prisoner of war whom various sick Nazi's see fit to experiment on , only for her to start playing her own game with them . . . or something . The storyline is too meandering to be satisfying , and most of the film is caught up in showing how sick the Nazi's were - like we need a film to show us that ! I'm a big fan of cult cinema , and almost all the sub-genres have some decent films among them - that is , except Nazisploitation . Overall , I have to say that unless you're working your way through the Video Nasty list - this is one to avoid !
Stupid and not much fun either	I could say that this film isn't rubbish , but then I'd be a liar . Boa vs . Python is one of those ' Sci Fi Original ' films that I usually avoid ; but for some reason I decided to give this one a go , and it turned out to be a completely pointless endeavour . It's a sad state of affairs when it's been seventy one years since the release of the groundbreaking monster movie ' King Kong ' and the special effects have actually got WORSE ; but unfortunately that is the case here as this film features CGI that looks like it cost just a few pence to put together , and the result is completely condemning for the film as it is both impossible to take seriously and impossible to admire . If the filmmakers had spent time making real effects and the result was poor then you could at least have given them marks for trying ; but when all they've done is just plant some CGI into the film , then there's just no way to respect the effort . Of course , you'd have to be a fool to go into this film expecting anything else , really . The plot is both thin and stupid and simply follows a great big python on the lose , and a pea brained Government plan to release a giant Boa ( which just happens to exist ) in order to track the giant python . There is some justification in that the Government uses other animals ( e . g . sniffer dogs ) . . . but clearly this ' plan ' was put into place simply to get two big snakes in one stupid movie . The stupidity doesn't end there , however , as we are also ' treated ' to a barrage of ridiculous characters and an even worse script that includes a boatload of painful one-liners . Despite having two big snakes in the film ; director David Flores somehow manages to miss the opportunity to make things entertaining . There's a scene that sees a couple in a car come a cropper of the snake and a nightclub scene that went wrong somehow . This film will probably be a target for anyone that enjoys bad films ; and I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone who doesn't . Even so . . . there are ' better ' bad movies out than this one .
Bad acting , and bad everything else .	2005 gave us the very decent " gore porn " flick Hostel , and 2006 gave us Live Feed ; a not so decent rip-off of Hostel . Live Feed follows pretty much the same formula as Eli Roth's earlier film , except this time the dumb kids are in Asia rather than central Europe . The plot focuses on these dumb kids , and one of them has annoyed one of the locals so they find themselves in trouble . The locals decide to lock them all in a theatre , and kill them . Despite the fact that I'd heard some less than favourable things about this film before seeing it , I still hoped that it might be at least half decent because director Ryan Nicholson previously made the very decent 45 minute rape and revenge film ' Torched ' , but this film falls down simply because most of it is either ridiculous or boring . The film is obviously trying to hark back to the good old days of Grindhouse cinema ( which Hostel did , successfully ) , but it really doesn't come off . Surprisingly , considering Nicholson's previous work in special effects - not even the gore is impressive . . . although it is a lot better than the acting ! There's not much else I can say about this film . . . it's bad and not in a good way . Avoid it !
Seriously lacks originality	Despite what some may think , 2005 has actually been a rather decent year for horror movies . We've had The Devil's Rejects , The Skeleton Key , Emily Rose , The Descent and Land of the Dead to name a few good releases , and I was hoping that Wolf Creek would be able to further cement the year as one of the best for horror so far this decade . Unfortunately , that did not turn out to be the case . The film adheres to the revival of seventies style horror that we've had recently , which is nice ; but aside from that and a few nice gore scenes - this really is a lacking movie . The plot is far too simple , and takes a very long time to really get going . In fact , the first half hour reminded me a lot of that 1999 movie where nothing happens , at all . The plot basically follows a bunch of kids in the Australian outback . After a near run in with some thugs in a bar , their car breaks down . They are picked up by a big guy in a hat who offers to tow their car back to his place and put them up for a night until he fixes it in the morning . The car never gets fixed . . . and his idea of ' putting someone up ' is a little different to most . . . The Australian outback , with its vast landscapes and beautiful sunsets provides an ideal location for a story like this . Director Greg McLean does a good job of capturing the surroundings , and this compliments the thick Australian accents and general lunacy seen throughout . The fact that the film is based on a true story helps to make it more shocking , but this is countered by the fact that everything in this movie has been seen before ; recently , even , and has been done a lot better than this . The remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre had better , and more repulsive scenes of gore - while Rob Zombie's two flicks did the torture and lunacy in a way that is far more frightening - and entertaining - than it is here . The main gimmick that the film tries to build on is the one of people going missing in Australia and never been seen again . This is almost frightening , as the land is so vast and easy to get lost in - but the way that it's handled isn't original , or even that shocking , and this ensures that despite it's best intentions of having something behind the immediate goings on ; it's not frightening because it's been seen too many times before . This isn't an entirely bad film ; it entertains after the opening half hour , and the gore is nice - but it's hardly a good example of the modern horror film .
Messy Brit-horror	Incense for the Damned is a huge mess . The director , Robert Hartford-Davis changed the name he would be credited as for this movie , and anyone that sees the film will see why he did that . The movie tries to be a horror movie and a social satire , but it succeeds at being neither ; it just can't get away from the fact that it's a trashy load of rubbish . The plot is meandering , and is loosely strung together by a narration , which seems more like a way for the movie to save money from it's poor budget than anything else . It follows the story of Richard , an upper class Oxford University student that has got lost somewhere in Greece . A group of his friends then set out to find him , only to discover that he has come under the spell of a female vampire , and then , believing they have killed her , the group take Richard back to Oxford , unaware that he is now a vampire also . This movie bills Peter Cushing as one of it's main stars , but in actual fact he appears in the movie for a combined time of about five minutes . Furthermore , Edward Woodward appears in the film , just before he would go on to make the best British horror movie of all time ; The Wicker Man . However , his appearance is little more than a cameo . Patrick Mower , who was in The Devil Rides Out , also appears in the film , and he is an actor that will be best known by British people for his role in the rubbish , yet popular soap opera ; Emmerdale . The movie also features performances from Patrick Macnee , who would later appear in The Howling and Alexander Davion , who appeared some years earlier in the British horror ; Plague of the Zombies . The cast is very much B-movie , but all are somewhat experienced in the horror genre . The fact that the cast is B-grade is evident through the acting if nothing else ; which , with the exception of Cushing and Woodward ( both of which also aren't great ) leaves a lot to be desired . Overall , Incense for the Damned is a waste of time that manages to be neither memorable nor interesting . I even recommend that Peter Cushing fans skip this one .
Boring and crap - a cut below other filth films	From the plot summary , you might think that August Underground might be like a heinously gory version of the Belgian semi-classic ' Man Bites Dog ' , but you'd be wrong as August Underground is nowhere near that good . The film apparently has the intention of being a phony snuff film , and indeed the violence looks graphic and realistic , but it's all really cold and pointless . There is a sex scene at the end of this film that really sums it all up ; it's about as far from being erotic as it gets , so it's extremely difficult to get involved with it , and the same goes for the violence . Violence that is simply shown gives the audience no reason to care , and so overall ; the film is really rather boring . There has been a slew of direct to video trash films like this one over the last few years , and despite the fact that August Underground seems to be reputed to be one of the better ones ; it really isn't . The only good thing I can think to say about it is that director Fred Vogel succeeds in creating a home video style look to the film through the use of a hand-held camera ; but like the worst film ever made , The Blair Witch Project , this really only makes it so that the audience can't always see what's going on ; which only succeeds in being irritating . Overall , I can't really recommend this film . I'm a fan of sick filth , but it didn't do anything for me . I'd recommend seeing something else instead .
Cinema has never seen a film as tedious as this one	David Lynch's highly lambasted take on Frank Herbert's cult novel ' Dune ' kicks off with an intro that makes out as if you're in for an interesting time . When it's finished , however , and you realise that there's a further two and three quarter hours until the final credits role ; interest in the movie falls sharply . The introduction to the film is long , and covers the same things more than once . The fact that it uses lots of different family and society names after only briefly explaining what they're about ensures that it's overly complicated , and this ensures that the movie is setting itself up for a turgid ride . Things get worse after that , as when you realise that the introduction doesn't just set the scene , it also sets up the tone of the movie ; the next two and three quarter hours seem like a very daunting prospect indeed . The intro goes on and on , covering the same plot elements multiple times and if you think this is boring , just wait until the movie starts properly . The word ' dull ' is about to take on a whole new meaning . . . cinema has never been so tedious . David Lynch is famous for his dark movies , and a foreboding atmosphere is as much a part of the man's cinema as the man himself . The lavish sets compliment his atmosphere ; but unlike later feature ' Blue Velvet ' , for example ; we never really get the impression that Lynch cares about the movie , and the darkness of the film only really comes about through the style of the sets and the downbeat performances . The way that the plot plays out is slow ; very slow , and it would seem that nobody in the film really cares about the movie . The battle sequences are cold , lifeless and anything but exciting ; and every performance in the film in surprisingly one-note . Kyle MacLachlan , the same man that Lynch used for Blue Velvet takes the lead role and really just makes himself look stupid . His looks , mannerisms and screen presence epitomise the situation that the actor has been forced into . Many of the scenes that he has to do are ludicrous and the high budget , but low quality style of the movie always ensure that the film looks and feels exactly like it is - trash . The fact that the film has no heart only increases this lacklustre feel . I really do find it hard to believe that this film was considered a ' big budget ' screen adaptation . Quite what it was spent on , I have no idea . Throughout , the film looks low budget and hokey , and not in a good way . The effects are terrible , and don't come close to many earlier Sci-Fi fantasy films such as Star Wars or Alien . In fact , I was shocked to find that the special effects weren't done by some guy in his garage . The centre-point of the film is these giant worms that inhabit the planet of ' Dune ' . These are mentioned early on , but Lynch still makes us wait nearly an hour and a half before we're allowed to finally see one ; and when we finally do , it's just one giant disappointment . They're neither inventive nor well brought to the screen and despite an impressive sequence that sees one eat a mining facility ; the worms are very much wasted . One of the film's saving graces is the score , which is moody and nice to listen to ; but even the film's good points aren't put to proper use , and the movie has simply been saturated in this score ; rendering it extremely dull after the eight hundredth time of hearing it . The version of the film that I saw was , unfortunately , the three hour long television edit version that Lynch subsequently disowned ; leaving the film to be credited to Hollywood's scapegoat director ; Alan Smithee . I don't blame Lynch for disowning the movie ; I would have done the same thing , but I can't imagine Lynch's cut being any better . The film is too fundamentally flawed to be good no matter how it's edited . The slow and dull way that the dialogue is delivered is a showpiece for the slow and dull way that the plot itself plays out , and the fact that the film obviously takes itself seriously and seems to think that it's special effects sequences are offering a new breakthrough in film technology are laughable at best , and extremely irritating at worst . This sort of thing should have cult value for it's low budget and silly effects ; but it doesn't even garner that much respect thanks to it's major flaws . As a fan of cult kitsch cinema , this is the sort of film I usually enjoy but in fact it's turned out to be one of a very select few films that I genuinely wish I'd never laid eyes on . David Lynch missed out on directing the concluding chapter to Star Wars to make this film and that may have been one of the silliest mistakes in the history of dirtectors ' silly mistakes . This is not Star Wars , or even Spaceballs - it's just balls .
The eighth wonder of the world is a man in a gorilla suit ?	This remake has been pretty much forgotten about in recent years , and that's just as well because it's terrible . The original film came out forty three years before this one , and you would think , therefore , that this version would have greatly improved on the special effects . That's not the case at all ; the original version may not look great in today's CGI age ; but it's a hell of a lot better than this one . The ape in the original at least looked real if you stretched your imagination ; but no matter how much you stretch it here , Kong is just a man in a suit ; and it really does bring the whole thing down . I find it impossible to take an ' ape ' walking upright seriously . . . it's like they just couldn't be bothered ! The story has changed for this film , too , and instead of being a film crew travelling to Skull Island to make a picture , we follow an oil expedition that go there in order to find some oil . The island turns out to be more than they bargained for , however , when they meet up with the giant ape ; King Kong ! ? They also find a girl on a lifeboat in an obvious attempt to explain why there would be a woman around for Kong to obsess over . . . The plot details aren't the only thing that's been changed here - there are no Dinosaurs either ! We get to see Kong wrestling a rubber snake ( in a totally ridiculous scene ) , and that's all the monster fighting there is . Skull Island has gone from a lush , tropical jungle bursting with life - to a horrible , baron wasteland desolate of everything ( including a giant ape that doesn't look like a man in a suit ) . In fact , I can't think of anything about this film that wasn't done a million times better in the original . The cast is this film's biggest asset - with Jeff Bridges taking the lead role . He looks every bit the rugged hero and if it wasn't for him , I'd have REALLY hated this film . Jessica Lange gets to be Fay Wray ; and , at times , comes close to evoking an emotional impact from the audience . The original cast was far , far better though . Even the famous Empire States Building ending has been forsaken in favour of having the man in a suit atop the World Trade Centre . Why ? . . . I have no idea . Overall , I really can't recommend seeing this film . Forget it was made - see the original , see Peter Jackson's version . . . but please ; avoid this rubbish like the plague . Would you believe . . . it actually gets WORSE when Kong appears ? !
A derivative and stupid slasher flick	The first murder scene in this movie sees a young kid have his arm viciously chopped off . We then move onto a shot with the kid flailing around with a horribly fake stump attached to his shoulder . This scene pretty much sums up the entire movie ; a movie so terrible that only people trying to track down every film on the DPP infamous ' Video Nasty ' list will bother to see it . And I've no idea who would bother persevering with that pointless endeavour . . . ho hum . Don't Go in the Woods . . . Alone is yet another film that will only be seen because it was once banned , and that makes it's banning pretty ironic . One thing that the British censors obviously don't take into account on their moronic crusade to nanny the country is the fact that mere blood and gore don't make a shocking film ; the gore here is rather extreme , but you'd have to be a complete idiot to take it seriously . The plot follows a bunch of kids ( played by adults ) who go off into the woods on a camping trip . However , in a very original plot twist ; it turns out that there's a homicidal maniac on the loose ! Don't Go in the Woods . . . Alone is basically a bunch of death scenes , populated by a load of filler scenes in between , which fail to build characters or plot . It's a shame with regards to the gore sequences , as some of them are good in theory ; but due to exceedingly poor special effects , most of them turn out terribly . Also , the fact that the film throws these scenes at you one after the other means that it isn't long before they get really , really boring . The fact that we couldn't care less about the characters doesn't exactly help in this respect . Slashers and serial killer flicks are a penny a dozen , but this one is painfully obviously just an excuse to cash in on the schlock horror craze that was abundant in the eighties . Everything about the movie is purely derivative ; from the woodlands setting that was put to such great use in films like The Evil Dead , to the animalistic killers that were brought to the screen far better in films like The Hills Have Eyes . The film only lasts for eighty minutes , but its eighty minutes not very well spent and unless you have a good reason to see the film ; there really is no reason to track it down .
The usual WIP crap	I bought this film thinking it was the 1975 Jess Franco video nasty / women in prison flick ' Women Behind Bars ' , so I was quite disappointed when I found it wasn't ( especially considering that , if it was , I'd now only be left with ' I Miss You , Hugs and Kisses ' to see before I've seen everything on the DPP list ) . Anyway , given my experience of Women in Prison films , I would guess that this film and Franco's Nasty are probably about on par in terms of quality . This one seems to have a bit more of a Nazi theme going on , though as you would probably expect ; association with one of the worst genres ever seen in cinema doesn't do this film any favours ! The plot is just your usual mix of sadism and torture , this time coupled with an escape plan . It's not intelligent stuff , and it's also rather boring , especially for someone like me who has seen far too many of these films . The film drones on for about eighty five minutes and the ending really isn't worth waiting for . While ' Women Behind Bars ' probably isn't any better than this film , I do wish I'd seen that one instead as at least there would have been a point to me watching . There's no point at all in seeing this film so I don't recommend it !
Plenty of ideas in a very messy movie	This film really is a complete mess so it came as no surprise to me that it's actually made up of about three different films that were spliced together over a period of a few years . It's a shame really because there's several interesting plot elements on show and they could definitely have resulted in a decent movie ? as evidenced by Roger Corman's A Bucket of Blood which is an excellent movie based on similar ideas . The central plot line revolves around an artist who happens to be the descendant of a man who was put to death for witchcraft centuries earlier . Both men were painters ? the modern day one very successful . He paints pictures of beautiful women ; before tossing them in a vat of acid when he's finished . He's apparently also a vampire . The film is shot in black and white and features some very interesting visuals , although it does look very cheap throughout . There are a few memorable faces ; including those belonging to William Campbell and Sid Haig and the director's credit goes to Jack Hill , although Roger Corman had something to with it too apparently . It's a shame that the film couldn't have come together better because there are some good ideas here , but unfortunately it didn't and Blood Bath will be best be remembered as a bit of a mess . It's an interesting cult film . . . but I really wouldn't recommend going out of your way to find a copy !
Straw Dogs minus the good bits	The plot of this movie follows a family that , dismayed by their city life , decide to move to the country . However , if things were that simple it would make for a rather boring movie ( hmmm ) , so they move into a house that was once occupied by a man named Dale . . . and he wants his house back . It's not hard to work out the rest of the plot . That's this movie's main weakness ; it's predictable . Adding to that ; it's boring too . Nothing really happens in this movie , or at least nothing that hasn't happened before in a hundred other movies of the same ilk . If the movie was more unpredictable and had some more outstanding moments , it might have been touching upon the ' nice little thriller ' territory , but it's complete lack of twists or interesting happenings hold it back , so all it can do is be boring . The movie is also very tame , and it does the character of Dale no favours as he looks like more of a pussycat than the menacing madman he is supposed to be . Despite being lame and boring , this movie does have a rather decent cast in credibility terms , which includes Sharon Stone , Dennis Quaid , Juliette Lewis , and Stephen Dorff in the role of Brad , whom horror fans may remember from the 80's horror movie ; " The Gate " , which is a lot better than this movie . Dennis Quaid is just as boring in this movie as he was in one of the most boring movies ever made ; " Traffic " , and that's pretty boring . Juliette Lewis and Sharon Stone , two ladies that are usually quite good at acting don't get a chance to flex their acting muscle either , as their roles just require them to do as they usually do ; look pretty for Stone , and act weird for Lewis . A shame . In the last ten minutes , the film tries desperately to win itself some credibility with a conclusion involving the three main characters atop the roof of the house . However , even in this moment of excitement , the film still manages to be predictable , and because of the dull way that Quaid and Stone have portrayed their characters throughout the film , I can almost guarantee that you'll be cheering for Dorff's pussycat over them . Overall , if you want a thriller that will have you in a cold sweat , sitting on the edge of your seat ; biting your nails and cringing in anticipation at what's going to happen next , see The Manchurian Candidate . Or Straw Dogs . Or The Terminator , or even The Gate ; but don't see Cold Creek Manor , it's for fans of the really boring only .
Another women in prison flick	I've come to realise through watching this sort of film that I don't like them very much . Caged Women is yet another ' women in prison ' film , and like the most of the rest of the genre ; the plot is completely forsaken in favour of simply showing nude women . Now don't get me wrong ; I love nude women , but I also like there to be some sort of plot thread to go with the nudity , and since this film has only the basic ' women are in prison ' theme running through it ( aswell as the essential escape , of course ) , I got a bit bored before the end . The film is good because there's barely a moment in it where the women are wearing clothes , but that's about the only positive element . Director ( and writer , ha ha ) Erwin C . Dietrich delights in showing close-ups of the naked female body , but it's never very erotic . The director was the producer on a number of trash flicks , including some directed by Jess Franco . In my opinion , he should stick to producing as his writing talents are non-existent , and he doesn't seem to know how to film a sex scene . This sort of material is rather dry a lot of the time , but I reckon Franco could have made more out of it . Overall , this might suffice for people that are really into this sort of stuff ; but I can't say I enjoyed it .
Just another dull ghost story - nothing to see here !	The tagline for Dead Birds pretty much says it all . " There are worse things than dying " shows a complete lack of imagination , which is something common throughout this mundane movie . Ghost stories , particularly modern ones , tend to be rather boring and this film doesn't do anything to dispute that fact . The fact that it's set in the past also goes some way to ensuring that Dead Birds isn't very good . The period setting doesn't do the plot any favours , and it would have been far easier to relate to a more modern setting . Horror films set in the past tend to be rubbish , and again ; this film doesn't do anything to dispute that . The plot line has been seen a million times before in other films , and , I'm sure , will go on to be used again and again , despite being old and tired . The plot follows a group of bank robbers that hole up in a farmhouse overnight after a storm impedes their escape into Mexico . Of course , this isn't just any house and because of the ' terrible ' atrocities that happened there ( blah blah blah ) , our heroes find themselves the victims of the ghosts that inhabit the house . Blah . Blah . Blah . For some reason , people tend to think this sort of horror is good . Of course , there has been some good examples ; The Shining , for example . But that film had far more going for it than just the plot line itself . Recent examples of this sort of film , which include the likes of The Grudge ( Jap version and remake ) and Deathwatch , are very trite and dull films and once you've seen one ; you've seen them all . You just know what's going to happen before going into this film , and the film doesn't surprise us at all . We've got loads of people with white faces , some " shocking " imagery and a bunch of dull actors portraying a bunch of dull characters . You would think that , since this film has pretty much been made before , the writer and director team of Simon Barrett and Alex Turner would be keen to do something a little different this time round . Quite why they're happy to just make ' another ghost movie ' is anyone's guess , but the best way to show your disapproval is simply not to bother seeing this film . You might have heard that this is one of the better horrors of this decade , but it's not . You heard it here first - forget about this movie . . . . you'll wish you did .
Dull Exorcist rip-off , not worth seeing !	While I certainly consider The Exorcist to be a horror classic , I have to admit that I don't hold it in quite as high regard as many other horror fans do . As a consequence of that , I haven't seen many of The Exorcist rip-offs , and if Exorcismo is anything to go by , I'll have to say that's a good thing as this film is boring as hell and certainly not worth spending ninety minutes on it ! In fairness to the other Exorcist rip-offs , this is often considered one of the worst , and so maybe it wasn't the best place for me to start . It's not hard to guess what the plot will be : basically it's the same as the one in The Exorcist and sees a girl get possessed by a demonic spirit ( which happens to be the spirit of her dead father ) . The village priest is then called in to perform the exorcism . Like many Spanish horror films , this one stars Paul Naschy , who is pretty much the best thing about the film . Exorcismo was directed by Juan Bosch , who previously directed the derivative Spanish Giallo ' The Killer Wore Gloves ' . I haven't seen any of his other films , but on the basis of these two : I believe that originality wasn't one of his strong points . There's not a lot of good things I can say about the film itself ; it mostly just plods along and the exorcism scene isn't worth waiting for . I certainly don't recommend it !
An ingenious and refreshing Sci-Fi drama . . . not	Imagine the situation : you've just woken up in a strange place that you don't recognise , and after escaping , you return to the house that you , your wife and your daughter have lived in for the past few years , only to find that there's another family living there and , get this , nobody knows who you are ; as far as they're concerned , you never existed ! Oh dear . Oh dear , oh dear . You then meet your wife and , get this , she doesn't know who you are either ! Oh my god ! I know what you're thinking by this point ; " oh my god , maybe I died in a car crash , had cybernetic implants that have made me half man and half machine so that I could overthrow some government on the orders of a secret corporation , just before I had actors act as my family and friends to create false memories which have now being implanted into my brain ; thus causing me to be confused between what's real and what's false " . And guess what ; in this situation , you would be right . Well , Timothy Hutton actually is in this situation , and after finding out all that I've said so far , he says ' oh ? ok ' . Realism is this film's key aspect . Now , I know you probably doubt that this film could possibly get any cooler , but you don't know the half of it , as this movie features the man that is probably the hardest looking man in history , movies or otherwise ; John Glover . You wouldn't want to meet him on a dark night , and neither would I , as this guy is nasty with a capital ' N ' . He approaches his role as the action hero-esquire secret government agent thingy with gusto and really makes you believe that he has the hard man ability to run a corporation with an iron fist . This guy makes Arnold Schwarzenegger look like a fairy , he really does . In fact , if he were any harder ; he actually would be made out of stone . Well , I wouldn't be at all surprised to find out that he is . As mentioned , his adversary is the half man , half robot ; Timothy Hutton . Hutton makes a great impromptu action hero . . . ahem , not . His only role in this film is making John Glover look even harder , if that's even possible and I don't know if it is . Actually , I think this movie would be better without Hutton in it at all . Think about it ; we could just follow the escapades of John Glover's character . If John Glover , or anyone else with stature in the movie industry would like to get in touch with me about the possibility of a trilogy of spin-off's ( probably called ' The Chronicles of John Glover ' ) , just drop me a line as I have some great ideas . Anyway , I don't know what happened in the end because I fell asleep with about fifteen minutes to go , but I like to think that it ended with a bunch of Hutton's mates coming into the final scene with a keg of beer , saying " April Fools " , and then Hutton and his friends laugh the whole incident off while saying things like " I cant believe you thought that you were a half man , half robot assassin prototype ; you didn't even doubt the story for a second ! " etc . That would be great . . . wouldn't it ?
As amateurish as they come , a shocking waste of film stock !	I saw this film purely based on the fact that it was on the DPP Video Nasty list , and while I'm glad I saw it because it's now ' another Video Nasty down ' - on its own merits , Andy Milligan's film really isn't worth bothering with . There are , of course , far worse films on the infamous list ; but that doesn't make the pain of viewing this one any easier . The film was obviously shot on an extremely low budget , and that has translated into the script ; as Blood Rites works on an idea often seen in horror cinema , and doesn't do anything new with it . Basically , the plot centres on three couples who find themselves at a house awaiting the results of a will . It's not long before they start getting picked off . . . blah blah blah . For most of the film , nothing happens ; and then when we finally get down to the scenes that justify the movie being banned , they're so amateurish and silly that they're impossible to take seriously on any level . It's a very good thing that this movie doesn't have a very long running time as otherwise it could have been used as a particularly nasty method of torture . It all boils down to a fittingly tedious ending , which also succeeds in being a non-event of epic proportions . Apparently , this movie is still banned here in the UK ; but somehow I doubt it's because of its shock value . Basically , Blood Rites isn't worth seeing and I personally can see no reason to recommend it . Unless , of course , you've made it your business to see everything on the Video Nasty list . . .
One part unoriginal and two parts boring	Satan's Slave is a derivative of the good British horror films such as The Wicker Man . However , while The Wicker Man managed to entice the viewer with its interesting , enticing and original plot ; Satan's Slave only succeeds in being boring . The plot of Satan's Slave follows the story of a young girl ( Candace Glendenning ) , who goes with her parents to stay with her uncle at his home . Upon arrival at the house , her father crashes the car into a tree , which escalates into a full-blown fire , which kills both of her parents . Despite this tragic and shocking event , there is little emotion towards the loss of her parents whatsoever on the face of Glendenning . The loss of her parents is barely noticed by the young girl ; spend all day crying in bed , is something she does not do . Cry at all , is also something she does not do . See a policeman about the accident ? Nope . In fact , if it hadn't have been for the fact that we saw the car explode a few minutes earlier ; we would never have known that her parents had died . This lack of emotional response is carried on throughout the film , and none of the actors really give their characters any feeling or depth whatsoever . The cast is mainly made up of unknowns , or actors that would later vanish into obscurity , with just one exception ; Michael Gough , who would go on to gain himself a solid role as Alfred in the Batman films . The acting in the movie is bad throughout . In fact , it almost seems like you're watching your local theatre put on an amateur production for the vast majority of the movie . Satan's Slave tries to be shocking at times by putting in things such as a girl on girl sex sequence , and a couple of murders ; but basically , the film is very boring with most of it just following the young lady round her uncle's house . The film doesn't get going until the last ten minutes , and it is really too late by then as the movie has already bored you to death . The ending of the film does feature two nice twists , even if the second one is rather predictable . The twists at the end do save the movie from absolute rock bottom marks , albeit only just . Basically , you could do something better with this part of your life .
Just another drama	A year or so ago , I saw a film about a horrible accident that affected three different parties . This film followed these three lives , and we saw how the accident caused their lives to intertwine . The film was directed by a man named Alejandro González Iñárritu , and was notable for it's gritty styling and downtrodden acting . The film was , of course , called ' Amores Perros ' ; but from the information given so far , it could easily have been 21 Grams . The only real difference between the two is that the first version of this story was massively superior to this retelling . 21 Grams has all the ingredients to be considered a great film by today's standards : a tragic story , lots of shouting . . . sorry , I mean " powerful performances " it's gritty , it's downbeat and it's even got the split method of story telling . However , there's just one problem ; having these things in place is not the way to a great film . Ingeniuty , interesting stories , great acting - these are the things that make cinema great . I don't know what's wrong with people these days , why does stuff like 21 Grams always receive a strong critical reaction ? The acting in this film is really great . . . or is it ? Are you sure it's not just dull ? One of the side effects of these gritty dramas taking over is that the art of acting has been cut back and cut back again until all that's left is a dreary residue ; of which so many actors are more than happy to wallow in . And why wouldn't they be ? Anyone can mope , and these guys are getting Academy Award nominations for doing it ! Death and tragedy has always been a favourite of Hollywood , and the dreary and depressing nature of this film takes advantage of that fact . 21 Grams attempts to explore the subject of loss and personal trauma by way of the soul , which is shown by the ' 21 grams ' that we lose upon death . This is extremely ironic when you consider that this film has no soul . It's backbone is dissolved into the tedious screenplay , and 21 Grams doesn't offer us a single reason to care for any of the characters on display , meaning the only reason we should get behind them is because they're the protagonists ; and that's no reason to care for a character . The characters in 21 Grams can kill people , be told that they have a month to live and lose their family until they go blue in the face - but if I don't have a reason to plug into their plight , I'm afraid I simply don't care . All in all , 21 Grams is a tragic waste of film stock . It's a product of it's time and reflects the way that cinema has changed this century . It's a shame that films of this nature will continue to get strong critical reactions , and as long as that keeps happening , the studios will continue to churn them out . 21 Grams is nothing but another film .
More slasher crap from the eighties	It would seem that even deranged psychopaths don't just kill for any reason . Calendar dates always provide these lunatics with a great excuse to go around butchering people ; we've had Halloween , Prom Night , Christmas . . . god knows what else ; and now we have Valentines Day . Naturally , the resulting film is just as pointless as all the other slashers , not to mention the day itself . The plot is completely ridiculous , and takes in themes of Valentines Day dances and miners being killed underground . The story behind the killing this time around revolves around the only surviving miner of a disaster at the local mine . While he was trapped underground , the town happily enjoyed themselves at the Valentines Day dance . . . much to their peril as he returned the year after , with his pick-axe ! All this is conveyed through a very corny voice over , and the main basis of the plot takes place at ' present day ' . It's been twenty years since the nasty miner went around murdering people , and the town has decided that enough is enough ! It's time for a Valentines Day dance . . . but women aren't the only ones who'll be breaking hearts this February 14th . . . The whole miner idea is ridiculous because it's so far removed from the holiday that the film seems so keen to focus on . The scriptwriter uses the excuse that the miner was trapped on Valentines Day ; but that's amazingly flimsy . Why not properly tie the killer in with Valentines Day - how about a bitter kid who never gets any cards , for example ? It seems that the whole miner thing is just an excuse so that they can have the killer parading around in a gas mask . . . because as we all know ; all the best killers wear masks . The idea of having him roam around with a pick-axe is a fairly good one , as this robust weapon isn't used too often in slasher flicks ; but the murder scenes are disappointing in the extreme , as there's very little blood and most of the action takes place off screen . The climax takes place down the mine and lasts for about half an hour . This goes on for too long , and although I wasn't tired while seeing this film ; I soon found myself battling against sleep . The final ' twist ' leaves a lot to be desired also . This film is just your typical , everyday , eighties slasher and therefore not worth ninety minutes of your time . Unless , of course , you love seeing dumb teens being picked off by a dull killer .
Boring B-grade horror crap . Not worth bothering with .	Squirm has a bad reputation . I was hoping this would be because of its B-movie status , but it turns out that its earned this reputation because of the fact that it's really , really boring . The first half of the movie drones on and on and since the characters are so poorly defined and uninteresting , Squirm leaves its audience begging for some worms to come along and swallow the cast up . Monster movies are a penny a dozen , but this one is at least somewhat original because worms aren't the most immediate of God's creatures to spring to mind when thinking of a creature to take the starring role . The prologue informs us about an accident involving electricity , and then the movie proceeds to show us what happened ( and I really wish it hadn't ) . We then learn that electricity can make worms go insane , and after forty five minutes of tedium , a quiet fishing village somewhere in America becomes the victim of said lunatic worms , who proceed to eat the locals . We focus on two dull teens that go around trying to stop the invasion . At least that's what I think they were doing , in between bouts of boring me to tears . This film was directed by Jeff Lieberman , the same guy behind the severely disappointing woodlands slasher ' Just Before Dawn ' . He seems to like forest environments , as this one too has a lot of scenes in a forest . Actually , in fairness it has to be said that the forest location is well used ; but that's about the only good point I can think of for the movie . I guess the film's biggest problem is the fact that it never really gets going and instead of progressing , it just wallows in its insane earthworm idea and never amounts to anything above mundane . The acting performances are really shallow and don't manage to grab your attention enough to pull you into the film . Of course , you can't expect good performances in this sort of stuff ; but still . The characters that the actors are trying to portray have nothing about them , and I would say that I was cheering on the worms ; if it wasn't for the fact that they're hardly in the film . Squirm does have a kind of nostalgic feel , as it's not very gory like many seventies horror films , but nostalgia counts for nothing it's not done well . Overall , I wouldn't wish this film on my worst enemy .
Not the masterpiece it claims to be	With The Godfather part 3 , Sofia Coppola proved that acting isn't her forte . So what about directing ? Well , Lost in Translation is my first taste of Ms Coppola behind the camera , and let's just say ; if her other films aren't as good as this , then I hope this is my last taste also . Lost in Translation is the tale of two people that suffer from insomnia and have hit a dry patch in their lives . The two are in the foreign land of Tokyo , Japan . They are outcasts in this land , not just because of the language , but the culture too . So what we basically have here is a story of two fish out of water that find romance . You may notice that my plot analysis isn't very detailed , and that has a reason ; this movie has very little plot . It has a premise , and that's all ; and all it does is play out from that premise . The movie is very random as it doesn't follow a set formula , and although that can work for some movies because it can be spontaneous ; it doesn't work here . The film is very subdued , too subdued in fact , and after a while you are instilled with a notion that nothing out of the ordinary will happen in this movie ; and it doesn't . This will be to the movie's credit in some people's opinions , because , as we all know , movies that are slow are ultimately more intelligent than anything that is entertaining . And as you should have gathered from that last sentence , I was being sarcastic . That's my first major criticism of the movie ; it settles into itself to a point where after a while you forget you're watching a movie , and it just seems like you're simply watching a fish bowl with two people in it ; and although this is good in terms of realism , and I don't doubt that Sofia intended it that way ; movies are supposed to be an escape from reality , and although some people would disagree ; movies are also meant to be entertaining , and I for one don't watch movies to not be entertained ; Lost in Translation fails in both of those respects . In it's bid to realistic ; Lost in Translation is ultimately a hollow movie experience . It's a simple tale of two people , and that's all that can be took from the film . The characters lack depth ; he's a bored middle aged man going through a mid-life crisis and she's a bored wife that is doubting her two year marriage ; we don't learn anything about the two characters other than this , and a few minor details such as the fact that he has a wife and kids . In one scene , through dialogue , Bill Murray gives Scarlett words of wisdom regarding children ; and this is as deep as the film gets . She says that the advice he gives is different from everything she's heard regarding the subject , but it's merely blatantly obvious advice that any fool with kids or an imagination could conjure up ; and this film does that a lot . Two people have empty lives , they find love and they like it . Yes , that's great ; now where's the point ? I imagine that people with empty lives can relate to this film , but I can't see why . Had the film have had depth of character , it would have improved it vastly . Take Brief Encounter ; a similar film along similar lines , but it worked . It worked because it was fleshed out ; we can see the main character's predicament clearly , which enables us to get inside of her head and see why she wants to spice up her life by having an extra marital affair . Here , we have none of that . Scarlett Johansson's husband is about as much use in the film as the taxi driver that took them to a party , or the waiter that served them drinks ; here's there so we know he's there , but we don't learn anything about the couple's predicament , so why should we care if she finds her life empty and hollow ? We know nothing about her . It's similar with him ; he's a big movie star that is past his prime and now he's advertising whiskey in Japan , so what ? We're supposed to empathise with this guy why ? That's another major criticism of this film ; the characters have no feeling , they're just there . Despite the review so far ; Lost in Translation is not completely void of positive aspects . It has one in particular ; the cinematography . Although I don't think the way Tokyo was photographed in this movie is among the best examples of location shoots of all time , and it certainly isn't enough to carry the film ; it is good . However , although it is well photographed ; Tokyo is not a nice place . Take Roman Holiday ; another similar film along similar lines . That film also made the best use of it's surroundings to increase the impact of the film , the only difference is that it's locations were beautiful . Rome is a beautiful city ; the style of the architecture , the relaxed feel of the city is incredible ; Tokyo looks cheap and nasty . This is very much an opinion ; but Tokyo is a hive of plastic rubbish and is overall a place with a very low quality feel . The town is not beautiful ; in Roman Holiday , the location almost took on a life of it's own , and it increased the potency of the film ; here all we have is an awful metropolis that offsets the potential beauty of the story . The hosts of the film ; the Japanese , were also not portrayed in the best light . Onto the acting , then . Both Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson were praised for their performances in this movie , and they both got the essence of their characters right . Bill Murray did , at times , look like he was trying to be funny and never really pulling it off , though . However , I cant give any plaudits for the acting . The characters in the film are , like the rest of the film , subdued , and I'm sorry ; but anyone can do subdued . I can mope around looking solemn and bored , and so can anyone else ; it's the roles that require charisma and the actor to work that should win the awards ; not stuff like this . This is typical awards fodder , however ; and I'm afraid it will continue to be like this and I will continue to be baffled by it . But neither Scarlett , nor Bill won the award ; and neither Scarlett nor Bill deserved the award . Sofia Coppola can create a picture that's memorable ; the shot where a pink wig wearing Scarlett puts her down on Bill's lap sticks out in my memory , as does the scene with Bill on the bed ; but when it comes to creating a scene , Sofia doesn't do memorable , I saw this film a little under two hours ago , and I've forgotten bits of it already . This is mostly due to the fact that in it's 95 minute ( or so ) running time , nothing really happens ; and if a movie is forgettable , it cannot be a masterpiece . And forgettable , Lost in Translation is . The scenes tend to lack things which would make them memorable because they're so subdued and they fade into each other ; which although this creates fluidity in the scenes , it discredits the movie because nothing really stands out from anything else . Overall , Lost in Translation is not an awful film ; it does have its plus points , but it's not a great film either . Lost in Translation is forgettable , it doesn't stand up , in any way , to the Romance genre's true milestones ; Casablanca , It Happened One Night , Roman Holiday etc . It left me feeling cold at it's conclusion . And that's not a note that a masterpiece should end on . Lost in Translation is not a boring film , and it does have enough to hold the audience's interest throughout , but once the movies ends and the curtains close , does Lost in Translation really have an impact ?
Laughably Un-Evil	I have no idea why I even entertained the notion of watching this film . Eighties slashers don't do much for me at the best of times , and this one doesn't exactly have a good reputation . The film just follows on from the barrage of Friday the 13th / Halloween films and offers nothing new for the genre . To his credit , director Dominick Brascia seems to realise that he's just directing another throwaway horror movie , so there are a few nods towards other ( and better ) films in the genre at certain points during the film . The plot is just your standard slasher fare , and features someone that was wronged in the past blah blah and now is back for revenge blah blah . The film focuses on a group of medical students that decide to spend a weekend fixing up an old house . However , the old house used to be an old orphanage and the main carer was accused of child molestation before the house burned down under mysterious circumstances . Naturally , strange things start happening soon after they get there , and there's a killer with a ' strange laugh ' involved . . . The film's gimmick is , as the title suggests , the " evil laugh " delivered by the killer . Instead of being frightening , however , it's completely pathetic and this idea fails to generate any suspense at all . The cast of characters is typically forgettable as all the kids are just about the same , and certainly don't look anything like medical students ! Add into the mix some frankly boring plotting and a painful soundtrack , and the film is on the back foot from the beginning . The only saving grace in many slasher films is the kill scenes , but alas this one doesn't even do well on that front . Most of the murders are similar and forgettable and the only one that stands out in any way involves one of the dumb teenager having his head boiled in a microwave . However , this sequence is just too silly for words since every microwave I've ever come across won't let you turn it on without the door being shut ! Overall , you would do well not to bother with Evil Laugh . It's not easy to come across anyway , and it certainly isn't worth tracking down . Avoid !
So many squandered opportunities for a good film	Here we are then with yet another lacklustre remake of a ' classic ' horror film . Quite why the powers that be decided to remake the 1979 slasher ' When a Stranger Calls ' is anyone's guess as it's not exactly well known and respected . However , initially this remake doesn't sound like such a bad idea as it takes the interesting part from the original film and makes the entire film focus on that . I'd heard nothing but bad things about this remake , but as it happens ; the film is not just bad , it's just hugely disappointing also as the location , lead actress and plot base are interesting - but the execution is poor in the extreme . The plot focuses on Jill Johnson ; a young lady grounded on the night of a big school bonfire and hired to baby-sit for a rich couple's kids inside a huge sprawling mansion house . Nothing happens for a short while , and then the peace is disturbed by a series of increasingly inane events that seem to be hinting that there's a killer on the loose , and he's probably ' already in the house ' . It's amazing just how badly director Simon West has squandered this opportunity for an atmospheric and terrifying horror film . His reasons for doing so and the reason why just about every horror film coming out of the mainstream these days is rubbish are the same - Hollywood is always striving to make horror appeal to the young cookie cutter audience , and as a result - it's not really horror any more . You can't say that there isn't enough plot for the film to remain interesting as several films have worked with a lot less than this , and the fact that something pops up every couple of minutes rather than letting the tension build is proof that the film and everyone involved ( including it's target audience ) are garbage . Camilla Belle looks tasty in the lead and provides a suitably lustful target for the killer . Her relationship with the killer is yet another disappointment , however , as it turns out that he's just some guy ( as it's obvious he would , due to the complete lack of mystery surrounding his identity ) , which leaves the audience feeling cold . I'm adamant that there's a good film in here somewhere ; the base plot could even have given way to a Giallo - but it's been squandered here , and that actually is a shame .
Rubbish and forgettable trash	Well . . . from the plot description , you would certainly be forgiven for thinking this one sounds promising , and indeed it does ; but what we have here is a very turgid movie that doesn't make good use of any of it's positive elements . The base of the plot is not particularly original as it had been used in previous ( and superior ) films such as The Collector in 1965 and focuses on a man who takes a girl hostage . In this case he is the insane makeup man B . J . Lang and he keeps the girl in his prop room . Former child star Mickey Rooney takes the lead role and succeeds only in making a fool of himself . The film really lacks direction and the characters ' motivations are never really made clear , which often made me question why I was actually watching it . Director Yabo Yablonsky clearly doesn't have a clue and it's not surprising that he didn't direct anything else after this film as his direction adds nothing and he obviously didn't know where to go with his own story and doesn't get the best out of his central performers . Overall , this film certainly doesn't come recommended . See The Collector instead !
A terrible film , which should stay as masked and anonymous as possible	Bob Dylan may well be a great poet - but he can't sing . . . and he certainly can't act . Bob sleeps through this film with an expression that remains the same no matter what he's doing . He can be fighting , loving , being invaded by men with guns . . . going down for something he didn't do , and he still just stands there . Emotionless . Fans of his , and no doubt the man himself , will say that he's playing an emotionless character , but at the end of the day ; this isn't acting , it's just appearing in a film . It's a real shame that Bob is the star because when the star can't act , there's going to be problems . He could have gotten away with a ( small ) support turn , or even just singing his songs ; but people that cant act shouldn't be given a starring role . It's as simple as that . A whole host of big names have been hired to try and hide Dylan's awful acting , however , and the list includes the likes of Jeff Bridges , Penélope Cruz , John Goodman , Mickey Rourke , Jessica Lange , Luke Wilson , Ed Harris , Val Kilmer , Chris Penn , Giovanni Ribisi , Cheech Martin and even Christian Slater joins the . . . ahem , fun . But sadly , not a single one of these big names can save this mess . I was surprised to find that this crap was co-written by Bob Dylan himself . Judging by his lyric writing abilities , I always had Bob down as a wise man ; but according to his work here , he's a self-indulgent egomaniac . The film is really just a poor excuse to show Dylan performing his songs , and far too much of the running time is spent watching Bob perform . The rest of the film is spent watching Bob stand around while the big names try and make the scenes interesting . Watching Bob clutter up the scenes is really funny at first , but it soon gets boring and the messy plot with it's even messier message doesn't help the proceedings at all . It's not even like you can ignore the lead and just enjoy the plot because that's terrible as well . In fact , the only positive element of this film that I can think of is Sertab Erener's cover of Bob Dylan's " One More Cup of Coffee " , which isn't a far cry away from being as good as The White Stripes ' version . The only reason I watched this film was because it was late and there was nothing else on . If I could have turned it over , I would and if you haven't got a real good reason , like that one , you really shouldn't be watching this film .
Ms Hyde has nothing on Sister Hyde !	The seventies Hammer Horror film , Dr Jekyll and Sister Hyde , took the ridiculous idea of Robert Louis Stevenson's Dr Jekyll accidentally turning himself into a woman and ended up making a brilliant horror film out of it - David Price's film , on the other hand , takes the same idea , pretty much ditches the horror and spins it into a worthless comedy . I really wish I'd watched the Hammer film again instead of wasting my time on this garbage , but unfortunately , it's too late now . Robert Louis Stevenson would probably turn in his grave if he knew what had become of his classic story , and I wouldn't blame him for it . This film mixes gag based comedy very loosely with horror , and Dr Jekyll and Ms Hyde is , basically , just an excuse for having Timothy Daly get himself into all manner of embarrassing situations . At best , it's only ever moderately amusing . Daly plays scientist Richard Jacks ; a perfume creator . One day he discovers that his grandfather was Dr Jekyll , and so sets about dabbling in his experiments ; however , he soon regrets it when his alter ego , Helen Hyde , is created . The film loosely mixes in themes of the difference between men and women both personally and career-wise into the plot ; but these themes are only ever half baked , and feel as though they've been incorporated by accident due to the plot rather than because the film has anything to say . The acting is your typical over the top comedy stuff , with Timothy Daly taking the lead role . In fairness , he approaches his role with relish and is actually quite good , despite his silly voice-overs . Sean Young gets the role of his alter-ego and sleepwalks through the film , while the shining light where the cast is concerned comes from Lysette Anthony's corner . Not because of a great performance ; but she is nice to look at . Comedic support from Stephen Tobolowsky , Harvey Fierstein and Jeremy Piven gives the film most of its gags , but most of them aren't funny . The way that the plot moves is largely annoying , and director David Price seems to like focusing on an object , and then cutting to the next scene . The plot is basically a series of situations , which does nothing to draw you into it ; and it's not long before the film becomes monotonous . I don't recommend this crap at all , but if you like watching films where Dr Jekyll turns himself into a woman ; there's always the Hammer Horror flick .
Lesbian porn and vampires . . . what could go wrong ? Apparently , everything !	This is my third film from Seduction Cinema ( the other two , coincidentally also directed by Tony Marsiglia ) , and it's by far the worst . For some reason , the director has attempted to mix mysterious Gothic horror with soft-core lesbian action and the result is truly ridiculous . A lot of the film doesn't make sense , and what does make sense is often hard to decipher because it's all damn boring ! If it wasn't for the fact that the film stars the oddly compelling Misty Mundae , I doubt I ever would have seen . . . it is , therefore , unfortunate that she stars in it . The plot line isn't important ; but it has something to do with a bunch of lesbian vampires , one of which is called Countess Dracula . There are some nods to Bram Stoker's classic tale - including character names and a few lines of dialogue , but none of it is clever and it's clear that this is just a lame excuse to film some porn . I'm sure Bram Stoker wouldn't have approved ! Aside from Mundae , the film stars some other Seduction Cinema ' luminaries ' such as Julian Wells , Andrea Davis and Darian Caine , who is definitely the worst ' Dracula ' ever . . . but on the plus side , she is pretty damn hot ! Overall , I really can't recommend this film . There are better vampire films out there , better lesbian porn films out there ; and better vampire-lesbian porn films out there . Don't bother !
Lethargic retelling of a classic story	On the one hand , I respect director Jan Svankmajer for having the guts to make this ; a stop-motion animated version of Lewis Carroll's classic story , ' Alice in Wonderland ' - but on the other hand ; I resent him for not making it better . I saw the Disney version of the story immediately before seeing this ; and the differences between the two are clear - and I'm not just talking about the obvious ones . Disney's version of the story is bright , lively and exciting - while this version is dark and ominous ; but also turgid and rather dull , and just like the movement of most of its characters ; this film doesn't run smoothly . I can't imagination that this is the way that Lewis Carroll wanted his story to be told , and although I'm usually all for innovation in cinema ; I'm going to have to make an exception for this film . The plot mostly sticks to the layout of the original story , although there are a few notable differences , and follows a young girl's imaginative journey through her own imagination as she comes up against a number of strange and ludicrous characters . I can't imagine that this was anything but a labour of love for its director ; but all the same , it must have been a nightmare to film . Many of the puppets look like they must have cost a few pence to create , but they're animated with care and attention ; although their movements are often slow and lethargic , and not very exciting to see . I can only really recommend this film to people that like to see everyday objects moving around , as that makes up the vast majority of the running time . Kristýna Kohoutová is the only actress in the film and appears in every sequence in which her character isn't represented by a doll . The fact that the film does star such a young girl increases it's cult value as it's made all the more bizarre by it . I can see why a lot of people like this film ; as it's very different to most others ; and although I can give a film plaudits for daring , I can't do that if the resulting film isn't very good . I liked the way that the director concentrated on the dark elements of the story - for example , off with their heads , and the way that the more inventive scenes from the story are brought to the screen ; but other than that I can't say I got much enjoyment out of this film .
Disappointing voodoo rubbish	Amando de Ossorio will always be best remembered for his Blind Dead series of films , and that's a very good thing as the films he made outside of that trilogy aren't nearly as good - this one is a prime example . The subject of voodoo is an interesting one , but it never seems to cross over very well to movies , as just about every film I've seen on this topic has been disappointing and unfortunately , this one is no different . It's a real shame too as a film with these elements really could have been a lot better , but Amando de Ossorio isn't able to create an interesting plot around the central idea and unfortunately it falls flat . The film starts with a sequence that sees a woman have her head cut off during a voodoo ceremony . From there we focus on a team of researchers who head out into Africa in an attempt to find out why elephants are disappearing from the area . They soon discover that the locals are afraid of a legend about some voodoo witches in the area , and naturally this turns out to be true and some of the researchers get killed . . . etc etc . I'm not sure if it was just a problem with the copy I saw ( apparently , there's a remastered DVD out now ) , but this film is very dark and it's often difficult to make what - if anything - is going on . The cinematography is nothing special either and that's a shame because any film set in Africa has the potential for plenty of interesting shots but that isn't capitalised on . Amando de Ossorio does manage to pack some gore and nudity into the film , though it's scant consolation for the rest of the film . The sorcerers themselves also don't manage much in the way of intrigue as they don't appear all that often and when they do , not a lot happens . The plot surrounding the team of researchers is completely worthless and didn't generate anything that I cared for , which gives the film a rather flimsy backbone . Simón Andreu is the only name on the cast list that I recognised and he doesn't do enough to stand out . To the film's credit , the women featured are invariably very nice looking . Overall , this is not a great film and I can't recommend it ; see Ossorio's Blind Dead series or The Loreley's Grasp instead !
Is it The Exorcist ? Is it The Omen ? No , it's just another rip-off . . . .	You just know going into a film like Lost Souls that you're in for a dreary time ; and this Winona Ryder vehicle doesn't disappoint in that respect . These Exorcist / Omen inspired films are ten a penny ; and this one is worth even less than the rest of the pack . Lacking the slightly intriguing elements of Stigmata , and the rough and readiness of Arnie's End of Days , Lost Souls really doesn't have much going for it . One thing is does have going for it , though , is . . . nah , I'm just kidding . Well , actually I suppose the cinematography is rather nice ; but you can't polish a turd , and that fact remains true despite director Jaunts Kaminski's best efforts to prove otherwise . Yes , this is the only feature film to be directed by this guy , and after it got it's critical mauling ; he's wisely retreated back to the safety of the cinematographer job on Spielberg's sets . The plot is really original . . . err . . . not . . . and it follows a former victim of possession , turned personality-less shell who suspects that some writer may be the next anti-Christ because some other possessed guy cryptically said he would be . Groan . I saw this film mostly because Winona Ryder is in it . Even though most ( if not all ) of her recent output has been rubbish like " Lost Souls " , I do like Winona and even with dismal material like this , she almost lifts it out of the absolute pit of the dustbin . It's rather sad to see the actress who lit up the screen in the eighties teen comedy hit ' Heathers ' having to work with such lacklustre material . She really needs a new agent . The rest of the cast isn't worth mentioning , so I wont bother mentioning them . As you would expect from this sort of dross , much of the running time is spent on characters seeing things , and then ambiguity taking over and it turning out to be something else , or nothing at all . Not only is this annoying , it's rather boring and will undoubtedly make you wish for the ending to come as quickly as possible . Speaking of the ending , the twist in the tale is really predictable . Or rather , it would be if you cared enough to put any thought into what might happen at the end . On the whole , I will wholeheartedly recommend this film to people I don't like . If you haven't seen many horror films , I don't know , you might find something here ; but most people will do well to stay away .
Another boring film courtesy of the Asian horror industry	One thing that I have been less than impressed with over the last few years is the quality of films being pumped out of modern day Asia . While the continent has made some very nice films in the past ( Onibaba , Kaidan etc ) , the recent crop is dull . Samey , boring films ; all handling the same topics and I for one am bored stiff with them . I was surprised , then , when I heard that A Tale of Two Sisters was a cut above the rest of the pack ; but I really should have known better . As a new thing that I'm not impressed with , is this film . I can see why people would say it's better than the likes of Ringu and Dark Water - it's atmosphere is thicker and far more foreboding , and it's got a lot more style - but it still falls down on the principal , most important element of any film ; and that's the story . Frankly , the plot is dull and samey , and adding to it's woe is the fact that it's convoluted and complicated ; owing much to the way that it's told . I have no problem with films that demand the viewer to pay attention to what is going on - but if you're going to make a film complicated , at least make it interesting enough so that I CARE what's going on . It annoys me how a foreign film can be released and met with praise despite not having anything great about it . Aside from the atmosphere ( which still isn't ' great ' ) , this film doesn't have any quality that puts it ahead of the rest of the films it imitates . The way that the plot plays out is about as gripping as socks on a laminated floor . It starts out as a family drama , some Ringu style camera angles are thrown in with a ghost that looks surprisingly like that one that comes out of the telly in said film , then we go back to family drama , there's a brown sack like the one in Audition , then it ends . The plot really just made me beg for it to end , as despite trying my best to connect and even like the film , I couldn't and as the movie jumps from one plot point to another ; I just couldn't care less . If you like Asian horror , you'll probably like this one too as it really is just more of the same , but really I recommend checking out some other niches of the genre like the stuff coming out of Europe or even the US indie scene rather than Asia . From this day forward , recent Asian horror movies are banned from my television screen , as they just aren't worth watching .
Another insect related horror flick	I have to admit : I love films about rampaging bugs ! These flicks are often gruesome and gory , and the exaggerated insight into the insect world is often fascinating ; but They Nest is certainly not one of the best example of this type of film . In fact , for the first hour of the film ; practically nothing happens at all ! There are one or two deaths , but none of them are imaginative and really the film just goes through the motions for the first hour ; then things start to heat up and the excitement levels still fail to get off the ground . Obviously with this being a TV movie , you can't go into it expecting too much , but I've seen TV movies deliver much more than this . The films is set on an island , and the insect that it focuses on is giant cockroaches . They've become mutated somehow and now have a taste for flesh as well as some other new features . New in town doctor , Dr . Cahill , discovers these creatures and tries to warn the locals about them ; but since the townsfolk aren't keen on him , nobody will believe him . . . They Nest is wholly unoriginal as there are a lot of films different only for the fact that it's a different insect at the centre of the story . The plot surrounding these cockroaches is basically non-existent and the film gives you no real reason to care about anything or anybody in it . There isn't a great deal of atmosphere either ; the island setting is well used , but the director doesn't manage to enforce its presence and the location isn't really all that important to the storyline . Naturally , since it was made for TV , the film doesn't really feature any violence that will make gore fans want to take note ; there are a few nasty Alien style chest busting sequences , but that is about it . The insects themselves look like regular giant cockroaches to me , and the film just relies on the fact that there are a lot of them to create terror . It's not really very terrifying , however , unless of course you happen to have a fear of cockroaches . It all boils down to a predictable and dreary conclusion and finishes with the same ending that all these films finish with . Overall ; They Nest isn't really worth seeing .
Dreary eighties slashing by the numbers	I've never professed to be a fan of slashers , and films like this one are the reason why . Mountaintop Motel Massacre is just as trashy as it's name suggests , but it's also a ' slasher by the numbers ' with few surprises and , even worse , few good kill scenes and very little violence , which kind of makes viewing it pointless . As you could probably guess from the title , the film takes place in and around a motel , so no prizes for guessing where the inspiration for that comes from . There's no mystery as to the identity of the killer as it's announced as being an elderly lady named Evelyn right at the start of the film . Evelyn has been staying in a mental home for the last few years but is finally released and put back in charge of the Mountaintop Motel . It's not long before her old urges take over and she kills her own daughter . Luckily for her , the police don't put two and two together and she manages to convince them all that it was an accident . However , the voices in her head are still there and telling to kill everyone , so she sets about doing that . My main problem with this mess was the killer . Having an old bag as the murderer is not a good idea as she completely fails to create a formidable screen presence and despite slashing around with a sickle , it's never very frightening or believable . The acting is terrible all round and the film is very shoddily made , which is really not all that surprising considering the type of film this is . The film also fails to create any interesting characters , with only a braggart pretending to be a music producer creating any entertainment value . The film barely contains any nudity and there isn't much violence either . There's a couple of decent kill scenes involving a sickle ; one of which sees a girl get it straight through the cheeks , but this is actually really disappointing as we don't get to see the sickle go in and there's no gore - and since the film proclaims itself to be a ' massacre ' , I'm sure the fact that the gore is lacking will be an issue for most people who tune into this one . Overall , this may do a little more for fans of eighties slashers than it did for me ; but really , I don't think anyone who would miss much by skipping this one .
Blood Feast's seventies update	Blood Feast will always have cult value for the fact that it was directed by Herschell Gordon Lewis , and for the fact that it is the oldest film to be featured on the DPP Video Nasty list . Whether or not it needed a seventies update , however , is up for debate ; but it got one , so I guess someone thought it did . Mardi Gras Massacre puts more focus on nudity than HG's classic did , and the gore is a lot more realistic ; but despite the script which contains some real inept lines of dialogue , Jack Weis ' film just doesn't have the camp class of the earlier schlock-fest , and overall the film just isn't as good . The plot once again follows a deranged psycho who is going round killing various women in order to sacrifice them to some god or other . We follow the psychopath as he goes about his macabre business , and also a rather ineffective police investigation into the whole affair . The acting and dialogue are continually ridiculous . . . perhaps not quite to HG Lewis ' standards , but certainly below the level of most B-movie pictures . Many films on the DPP list didn't deserve to be there ; and there's nothing in this film that warranted it's banning either . The gore is fairly plentiful and is often fused with ' scenes of a sexual nature ' , but it's nothing that the average adult couldn't endure . The music is note for being particularly stupid , and also for featuring far too often . The music , like a lot of the scenes in the movie , seems a lot like filler . Blood Feast didn't have a lot of plot to go on either , but at least it didn't stretch its running time out to over ninety minutes . Mardi Gras Massacre could easily have been cut down by twenty minutes without losing a thing . There are certainly a few good scenes in this film ; the opening murder being a highlight , but even so ; it has to be said that Mardi Gras Massacre is severely lacking . There is a lot of rubbish on the Video Nasty list ; but despite that , if I were to line them all up in terms of quality - this would be nearer to the bottom . Not particularly recommended .
No lesbian vampires in sight , but still not a good film from Jean Rollin !	Jean Rollin is best known for his lesbian vampire films . I have seen five of said films and all of them were rubbish . If The Iron Rose were another lesbian vampire flick , I would never have seen it ; but strangely , the non-lesbian vampire efforts I've seen from Jean Rollin ( The Living Dead Girl , The Grapes of Wrath ) were quite good so I figured maybe his work outside of his favourite genre might be decent , but on the strength of this film ; I have to say that I think I was wrong ! The Iron Rose takes the atmosphere from Rollin's lesbian vampire flicks ( often the best attribute ) and fuses it with a bizarre plot that sees a couple trapped in a graveyard . Nothing about the film makes any sense ; the way they meet is unlikely , the way they get to the graveyard is stupid and what happens in the graveyard is pointless . Rollin was clearly trying to make some sort of sexy / surreal drama but what we end up with instead is a load of depressing nonsense . The location shots are nice , with the graveyard itself being a particularly outstanding place to set a horror movie with its Gothic gravestones and foreboding atmosphere so it's a shame that Rollin couldn't make more out of it . The film feels like it should have some profound and deep message but if it did , it's buried so far under the boredom that I wouldn't know where to start looking for it . The film is also poorly edited and badly shot , the latter point being a major shame considering that the graveyard is really the only good thing about it . Overall , I can't recommend anyone sees this film ; mercifully it is quite short at seventy five minutes , but that is seventy five minutes that could be better spent elsewhere . Avoid !
Cannibal Ferox 3 : The Predator Rip-Off !	Ripping off big budget American films was a common practice for Italian filmmakers in the seventies and eighties with the likes of The Exorcist , Dirty Harry and Jaws being ' reinvented ' several times by a host of names , which often included Bruno Mattei . By 2003 , cheap exploitation cinema had become less popular in Italy ; but Bruno Mattei was still making movies and apparently he didn't see any reason to stop this often practiced tradition of ripping off American movies , and saw fit to reinvent John McTiernan's Predator and splice it together with another popular American export , the cannibal movie , and what we have as the result is this film . Land of Death takes place , as you would expect , in the Amazon jungle and as was the case with Predator ; we focus on a group of soldiers that have to go into the jungle on a rescue mission . They have to rescue a general's daughter who has been kidnapped by a cannibal tribe who , fascinated by her blonde hair , believe her to be some sort of goddess . Most of the Italian rip-offs released during the seventies and eighties were a bit more subtle than this film . The order of the day was usually to rip a film off thematically and basically spin a new story around the idea used in the successful American film . But Mattei apparently couldn't be bothered to go through the time consuming process of thinking up an idea and writing a script ; so what we get instead is just a re-run of Predator . And I mean that literally ; whole lines of dialogue are taken , scenes are stolen almost frame for frame , the characters are the same etc . In fact if it wasn't for the fact that there is no alien , this could be a frame for frame remake of Predator ( although it's more along the same lines as the fan made version of Indiana Jones quality-wise than Gus Van Sant's Psycho ! ) . Basically , if you've seen Predator , you will know exactly what to expect here and to be honest there's not much point watching unless you're only there to see just how badly McTiernan's film has been stolen from . Mattei does at least give us some gore . . . but to be honest , this is shameful stuff .
Nice try , but poorly made and not very good .	Australian Indie flick Marauders is a film that sets out its stall pretty quickly ; it's clear that it's going to be a nihilistic , yet poorly made thriller right from the word go . I do feel like I have to be slightly forgiving to the film because it's clear that the filmmakers had no budget and couldn't even afford decent actors ; but unfortunately , this film is just rubbish so it's hard to be too forgiving . The only thing that Marauders really has going for it is the nihilistic atmosphere , which would have been good and impressive if only the rest of the movie was good enough to support it such a way that it could be taken seriously . There's not really much of a plot and the film begins by introducing us to a bunch of wayward Australian delinquents . We find out what kind of people they are and then the plot starts properly as we witness a hit and run accident ( that is actually one of the only good moments of the film ) and two psychopaths band together to chase down to the car driver who was responsible and get their revenge . The film is obviously playing up to the classic films of the exploitation genre and indeed at one point in the film the characters are directed to ' the last house on the right ' , but while the grittiness is captured through the poor production values , nothing else is and most of what goes on in this movie is fit only to laugh at . The most ridiculous thing about it is undoubtedly the performers . Obviously acting isn't all that important in a film like this , but here it's just ridiculous and really rather boring as a result . The actors just don't seem interested in the film and it's hard to care about anything they're doing when it's being portrayed in such a dull manner . Some of the acting is so rubbish it actually is painful to watch , and even worse than this is the fact that all the " psychos " look so unconvincing that one has to question how they ever managed to get cast . We end up with actors that don't look right and don't have the talent to carry the thing off , which is never going to work . Thankfully , Marauders is very short at just seventy minutes so that is a relief but I was still really bored by the end and while I can respect the director somewhat for getting this off the ground ; his film still isn't very good .
Dull , uninspired , unoriginal , dreary , messy , tedious little mystery flick	What we have here is another religion-themed mystery horror movie that is neither as successful as the films it's copying nor as inspired as it thinks it is . This film was released around four years ago , but I suspect that it has ran into some distribution problems as the film still doesn't have a wide release . This is no loss to anyone . The film ponders along a plot line of mystery mixed with horror elements , or rather tries to ; it actually comes out like a standard drama where someone is seeing ' visions ' . The plot is messy throughout , and even though it's not heavy going - getting confused is easy as several plot points just sort of spring up without much explanation . The plot follows a girl who gets hit by a car . After suffering only minor wounds , and amnesia , the woman who hit her takes the girl back to her place ; where she is given the job of nanny for the two children , despite the fact that not even the girl herself really knows who she is . This is lumped in with a religion themed plot about a ' gathering ' of people who watched Christ die on the cross . The main selling point of The Gathering is , of course , the fact that it stars Christina Ricci . Ricci tries to look enthusiastic about her role , but her performance only ever comes across as being forced ; and you don't get the idea that she was particularly fascinated by this film . I can't blame her . Personally , I think she should get a better agent , as she's not been getting the good roles in recent years . A saving grace for the film , for me anyway , is the fact that it's set in Britain and benefits from a distinctly Brit style . Many British films don't make proper use of the location , but at least this one mostly does . The horror is incredibly ineffective , with most of it stemming from the dull central character seeing things idea . I'd even go as far as to say that this isn't really a horror film , as the major focus is always on the plight of the lead character . But then again , it doesn't work as a drama either - the plot is too uninteresting , and it's clear that director Brian Gilbert didn't really know what he wanted his film to be . On the whole , The Gathering is a messy , aimless and dull ' mystery ' film that isn't worth seeing . Avoid , is my advice .
More rubbish from the Halloween people	Halloween 4 is a thought provoking drama that asks an intriguing question of it's audience - namely , " why are you watching this ? " . So come on , you've already wasted your time on three horrible Halloween movies , why are you back for more ? Are you a sucker for punishment ? Do you like terrible films with little or no redeeming qualities ? Do you enjoy seeing monotonous movies that are exactly the same as the last instalment , or was there simply nothing else on ? The latter is this film fan's excuse , and I sincerely hope that's yours too as this movie is seriously terrible , and I'd hate to think that somebody actually caught it on purpose . As you may have guessed from the tagline , this sequel features the return of cinema's most boring villain - Michael Myers . Groan . Halloween 3 was rubbish , but you have to respect it for trying to take the series in a different direction and do something a little bit original . Of course , we'd have been better off without any sequels , but you can't expect a teen-friendly series like Halloween to disappear after just one outing . Also making a comeback for this sequel is Donald Pleasance , who reprises his role as Michael Myers ' doctor and biggest fan , Dr Loomis . Pleasance spends the entire movie bigging up Myers ; if he's not telling people that Myers cant be stopped , he's trying to convince them that he actually is evil on two legs . . . and it all gets rather boring very quickly . By this point you'll probably be thinking " ah , but at least there's a few murders to enjoy " - but no ! There are murders , but in typical Halloween down style , they're boring , and not only that but they're either extremely tame or take place off screen ! Boooooooo . . . To the film's credit , it does feature some nice scenes of atmosphere , and at least the campy style can be amusing , if not quite ' so bad it's good ' . I certainly don't recommend this trash to anyone , as it's a complete and utter waste of time . Avoid .
Sub standard , disappointing Fulci	I'm a big fan of Lucio Fulci ; many of his Giallo and splatter flicks are amongst my favourites of all time , but this made for TV movie is extremely sub par and not what I've come to expect from the great Italian director . The film is neither interesting , like some of Fulci's more tame Giallo's , or gory like the majority of his cult classics ; thus leaving it lacking in both major areas , and ultimately ensuring that the film isn't very good . The film works from a plot that has been used many times previously , but still it's an idea that always has the chance of springing an interesting story just because it focuses on the theme of the afterlife , which is the ultimate unknown . This film focuses on Giorgio Mainardi ; a man that isn't exactly well liked and after he dies of an apparent stomach hemorrhage , there aren't many people that are sad to see him go . This means that his ghost is trapped somewhere between life and the afterlife , and so he decides to try and get to the bottom of his death , and his only ally in this endeavour is his daughter . The video that I saw this film on is proudly proclaimed that the film is " in the style of HP Lovecraft " , and that's one of the most blatant attempts to sell a film I've ever seen . There is nothing even slightly reminiscent of the great horror writer in this tale , and the reason for that tagline would appear to be because of title similarity to the Stuart Gordon / Lovecraft film , ' From Beyond ' - which is a lot better . The film does benefit from a distinctly Italian style , and the score is rather good . Unfortunately , however , Fulci has seen fit to positively roast every scene in it - and so the theme quickly becomes annoying . The plot plays out in a really boring way , and most of the scenes simply involve the ghost ' desperately ' trying to find things out , or the daughter placing her suspicions over her family members . This movie was made for Italian TV , and so it's not surprising that it's all rather tame . There's a little bit of gore and a nightmare sequence with zombies ; but this isn't the Fulci we all know and love . Overall , this film is extremely mediocre and not a good representation of Fulci's talents . Not worth bothering with , unless you're a Fulci completist .
Kill an hour by doing something else !	Since this film is a thriller directed by someone with an Italian sounding name , I was expecting something like an American version of Italy's finest export - the Giallo . The film certainly has elements that resemble the Giallo , but it constantly falls down as everything in the film is just so DULL . The plot opens with the discovery of a dead body making its way down the Hudson River . We than follow the investigation into the crimes , which is a joint venture between a police detective and a TV talk show host . The story also gets an extra element of mystery through Virna Nightbourne ; a clairvoyant who draws the crimes before they happen . Obviously the idea of someone being able to draw crimes before they happen is more than a little bit preposterous , but to be honest I could live with that if the resulting film was entertaining . However , the film is not entertaining ; we've got a couple of decent murder scenes , and that really is the only point of interest . The way that the film plays out is far too serious given the silliness of it , and by the time it ended I was thoroughly bored ! Not recommended .
Dull and boring period horror	The Hand That Feeds the Dead apparently is often confused with a film called Lover of the Monster . That's not at all surprising ; they're both directed by Sergio Garrone , feature basically the same cast ( both headed by Klaus Kinski ) , both were released in 1974 , they both feature similar plots and even some of the same footage . Unfortunately , they're also both rubbish . After seeing Lover of the Monster recently , I had it in my head that at least it couldn't be worse than The Hand That Feeds the Dead - but I was wrong , as despite a very nice title ; this film is utter dross . The film takes place in the nineteenth century and focuses on a doctor by the name of Prof Nijinski . He stumbles upon an old laboratory in his basement and begins experimenting with life and death ( yadda , yadda ) . Of course , the experiments go wrong and end up messing with the doctors head . I have to admit that the version I saw was sourced from a Turkish VHS and was cut down to about seventy eight minutes . I don't know exactly what was cut out , but I'm guessing it was all the good bits because we haven't been left with much . I'm sure that some of the gore was cut out because I didn't see much of it ; there were a few skin graft scenes but overall the film is very lacking on that front . The period setting and obvious low budget gives the film something of a gritty feel that works fairly well with the plot but is nowhere near enough to save the production on the whole . Klaus Kinski is undoubtedly one of the major stars of cult cinema , but even his presence is not enough to lift this production ; frankly he looked about as bored as I was . The pace is very slow and the editing is inept , which makes the film even harder to watch . I really didn't care what happened at the end and the climax was not interesting anyway . This film has vanished into obscurity since its release and I'm not at all surprised about that . The Hand That Feeds the Dead is nowhere as interesting as it sounds and is not recommended !
Another rubbish slasher	Cherry Falls represents two of the slasher genre's key elements - sex and murder . The film often gets referred to as a ' spoof ' of the slasher tradition , but there isn't anything here to suggest that it's a spoof ( other than the humour , but that's a common part of the slasher ) . The reason why it gets labeled as a spoof seems to be simply that it's got just about every cliché you can image in it , from the main girl managing to outrun the killer while everyone else gets stabbed to her finding an article from years ago on that newspaper machine that they have in American libraries ; it's all here ! The story is a familiar one and takes obvious inspiration from the smash hit " Scream " , in that it follows a murderer in a small town . There's a little bit of the incredibly rubbish " I Know What You Did Last Summer " in there too , as it turns out that the reasons for the murders are because someone was wronged in the past . Groan . This movie suffers from something that is common in movies like this - boring and irritating characters . Because the characters are so underdone , and largely dislikeable ; every moment of tension in the movie is diffused and it becomes easy to simply cheer the killer on . While this is OK in that seeing the red stuff will be an important objective for people viewing this film , it does make the movie boring as if you cared for the characters , the tension would work . The plot is very predictable , and it is all too easy to guess the killer's identity ( I guessed it within the first twenty minutes ) . The humour in the movie stems from the plot idea of the killer killing virgins , and obviously this leads to the teens in the film trying to have sex as soon as possible to avoid becoming the next victim . Some of the jokes here are actually quite funny , and that's the films one saving grace . The cast isn't all that good , with Brittany Murphy taking the lead role and doing OK with it , but she doesn't have a lot to play with . One of Hollywood's most incognito actors , Michael Beihn is in the movie and fails to make any kind of impression , just like he has done in everything post-Aliens . Suicide Kings ' Jay Mohr is here , and so is that geek from Road Trip , in a small role that is too big . I would recommend missing this . The plot does sound like the basis for a decent slasher , but the film doesn't deliver on it . Overall , this just proves that none of the Scream rip-off's are worth seeing . Alfred Hitchcock would be turning in his grave if he knew what his masterpiece has ended up inspiring . . .
Tedium reigns supreme in a house on the outskirts of Madrid	Spain will be remembered by many film fans for a lot of very good horror movies and thrillers ; but unfortunately many Spanish directors go overboard with the idea of ' slow burn ' and tedium becomes the end result - and that unfortunately is the case with this film . That House in the Outskirts takes slow burn to the extreme and essentially nothing happens for the entire running time . The script is the main problem as it's trite and doesn't do much at all in the way of progressing the story or providing dialogue with enough about it to make any of the characters interesting . The story focuses on a husband and wife who rent an old isolated house outside of Madrid so the wife can relax while she is pregnant . However , luck would have it that the house they rent just happens to be the same house that was once a private clinic where the wife went for an illegal abortion years earlier . Naturally , the house brings back bad memories , and the upstairs neighbour just happens to have been the abortionist's assistant . . . The plot does not sound particularly interesting on its own ; but the idea of pregnancy and abortion has lead to horrifying films before ( most recently with French horror ' Inside ' ) and I was hoping that might create some interest . It really doesn't . The film can't even be called a thriller as it doesn't ' thrill ' in any way , shape or form and fails at being anything other than a cure for insomnia . It has to be said that it is rather well made ; director Eugenio Martín lays the atmosphere on thick and the acting is rather good ; but it means nothing when the film is so painful to sit through . Alida Valli ( whom cult fans will recognise as Suspiria's Miss Tanner ) is the pick of the performers and actually provides the film with one of its only plus points . It soon becomes clear that the ending is not going to provide anything of interest ; and indeed that is the case . I can only imagine the high ratings this film has received is down to the fact that it's an arty and obscure ; but don't be taken in by it . That House in the Outskirts is definitely not worth the trouble of tracking it down !
Emanuelle , this time in Bangkok	I often enjoy a spot of hardcore porn , and in spite of that and the fact that these films star the beautiful Laura Gemser ; I have to say that I'm not much of a fan of Emanuelle films . Emanuelle flicks tend to be very similar to one another , and this is yet another film with only a theme to differentiate it from the rest of the series . The theme this time is that Emanuelle has found herself in Bangkok ( seems like a suitable place . . . ) for whatever reason , and naturally it's an excuse for her to engage in lots of sex with men , women and couples . The film is directed by Joe D'Amato , so as you might expect ; sleaze comes as standard , and the film isn't lacking in that department . The sex scenes aren't particularly bad , but after seeing a fair amount of this stuff ; I can't say that this film features anything that most of the others don't . The plot is practically non-existent as you would expect , and the sex scenes really aren't interesting enough to carry the whole film . There's not really a great deal that can be said about this one ; it's not the worst Emanuelle film or the best , it's just an average one and I can't really recommend seeing it .
Laura Gemser on Taboo Island	Emmanuelle on Taboo Island has absolutely nothing to do with the Emanuelle series - it's just another attempt to pass a Laura Gemser film off as an Emanuelle film in order to sell it . I've got no problem with this in theory and indeed some of the ' fake ' Emanuelle films ( fake rip-offs of rip-offs could only be made in Italy ) are very good - but that is not the case here , as Emmanuelle on Taboo Island is really very boring . The plot takes the familiar idea of a man being washed up on a desert island . He turns up on an island ( presumably called ' Taboo Island ' ) and soon falls in love with a native , played by Laura Gemser ; but this doesn't go down too well with the girl's family . There's really nothing to recommend this film for - even the fact that Gemser spends most of the film naked isn't a good reason to see it . The plot is very boring and no attempt is made to spice things up , which is a shame for the audience . It all basically just drones on - we are not even given any reason to care for the characters - until we reach the ending , which really couldn't come soon enough . This film might be of interest to hardcore Laura Gemser fans ; but everyone else had best stay clear of it .
Boredom Rises from the Tomb	Paul Naschy made a great number of horror films . In terms of quality , they tend to range from fairly good to unwatchable trash ; and unfortunately , Horror Rises from the Tomb is closer to the latter . The plot is just your average story of a witch , wizard or ( as is the case here ) warlock , who is put to death - but not before swearing vengeance on those who did it . . . etc etc . We then get a séance and one thing leads to another , and pretty soon the executed warlock is up to no good again . The plot is slow , painfully boring and the film constantly feels pointless . The characters string out reams of diatribe and it never serves the film in any way whatsoever . Paul Naschy wrote the script , and if you ask me he should stick to acting because the dialogue is trite in the extreme , and only serves to make the film even more boring than it already is . Carlos Aured , who also directed Naschy in Blue Eyes of the Broken Doll and Curse of the Devil provides dull direction here , which likes the dialogue does nothing to help the film . Sometimes crap films like this have a certain charm about them ; but Horror Rises from the Tomb doesn't even have that . This is a painfully boring film that has little or nothing in the way of interest .
Nonsensical garbage . . . . in a blue world	If there's one thing Spanish and Italian filmmakers in the seventies loved , it was making their own versions of popular American classics . Rip-offs of films such as Jaws , Dirty Harry and The Exorcist almost became genres in their own rights as so many films were made . Perhaps a less obvious to rip-off is Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece ' A Clockwork Orange ' , but director Eloy de la Iglesia obviously thought it was a good idea . It wasn't though as this exploitation / sci-fi garbage has little in the way of interest and doesn't manage to create anything worthy of the great ideas brought forward in the superior Kubrick film . The film appears to be trying to make some sort of social commentary and although similar ideas worked well in the 1971 film , here they're portrayed with the use of a daft looking biker gang and it doesn't really have the same impact . I was surprised to see Jean Sorel among the cast members ; as one of the better known European actors at the time , I'd have expected him to have a bit more sense . God knows what the scriptwriters were thinking ; sometimes you can see glimmers of a good idea in there somewhere but clearly the film is just a load of nonsense and I wouldn't recommend anyone sees it .
Tedious Italian thriller	I have to say , I'm really disappointed with this film . I'm a big fan of the Italian thriller known as the Giallo and while I went into this film knowing that it is not a Giallo ; I was still hoping that director Luigi Comencini would be able to make the film interesting enough to at least be entertaining . The plot provides a decent base for a murder mystery flick and begins with a murder , which is promptly investigated by Commissioner Santamaria . Any chance of this being a good film is promptly cut away however by the fact that it's all so boring . The film contains practically no suspense whatsoever and while some of the exchanges between the lead characters are fairly interesting and there's a few red herrings thrown in ; it really is very difficult to keep focused on The Sunday Woman . The performances are all rather flat too and most of the actors look about as bored as I must have looked watching the film . It's clear that the director wanted the film to be of high quality , and while the tatty VHS I saw it on does the film no favours , I have to say he didn't succeed there either . There's a score from the great Ennio Morricone and some Italian humour thrown in too ; but I've seen better of both in other films . The Sunday Woman does have some favourable comments on it so maybe I'm just missing something here ; but personally , I can't see much to like in this film .
Somewhat amusing , but mostly a letdown .	I figured this film might be amusing after seeing the trailer , and while it has it's moments , overall I'd have to say that Night at the Museum reminded me far too much of that other poor kids film about inanimate objects coming to life , The Indian in the Cupboard . The film gets off to a good start , as we are introduced to Ben Stiller's ' loser ' character as he tries to get a job to provide stability for his son . It's obvious that it's just an excuse to get Stiller into the museum where everything comes alive , but he's a likable actor and the opening of the film does well at getting the audience into the film . However , once we finally get to the museum coming to life , it starts to become obvious what this movie is going to turn into . While it's somewhat amusing to see a dinosaur skeleton acting like a dog and a talking Easter Island head , I was let down by the way the film is so clearly made for children that I felt like I was being patronised while watching it , which makes the film much less fun . One of the major strongpoint's of this film is the cast . Ben Stiller is likable , as usual , in the lead role and he gets good back up from a range of stars . The trio of Dick Van Dyke , Mickey Rooney and Bill Cobbs provide a few laughs , while the film is fleshed out by comedians such as Robin Williams , Owen Wilson and Steve Coogan as museum exhibits . Ricky Gervais also makes an appearance ( as a favour to Stiller for appearing in Extras ) , but doesn't look comfortable in his role at all . To its credit , at least the film is never boring and the CGI is actually quite convincing too , which isn't always the case . The film really isn't all that funny , though , and a lot of the jokes just fall flat . There's also far too much sentiment for my liking and the film just ends up being irritating most of the time . It all boils down to a largely predictable conclusion that is unlikely to do anything for most viewers . The film does have its good points ; it's entertaining and kids will probably like it , but Night at the Museum is not very well put together and most older film viewers won't get much out of it .
The Dead Pit is a dead-loss	I certainly consider myself a fan of eighties horror , zombie flicks and low budget films ; and so I figured that put me in good stead to see The Dead Pit ; a low budget eighties zombie film - but alas , due to a complete lack of originality and overall poor execution , this film is more boring than your average cult schlock flick . As if the overlong and turgid running time isn't enough to put you off ; the fact that the film is completely humourless in the face of it's low budget heritage , and the way that it takes an eternity for a very , very simple plot idea to finally deliver anything at all that even may be worth remembering , might . The film presents a very dismal and morbid atmosphere from the beginning , and the mental hospital in which the film takes place in is well used ; but the big positive elements end there . The plot takes influence from better films ; chiefly , Stuart Gordon's masterpiece ' Re-Animator ' and sees a doctor discover that a surgeon at his place of work is conducting experiments on the dead . 20 years after shooting him and walling him up in the basement , an amnesia patient finds herself in the hospital and claims that her memory has been surgically removed . . . Places like mental hospitals and prisons often don't make very god locations for low budget horror films , in spite of the benefits gained from atmosphere , simply because it gives the often talentless writers an excuse to pack their film with over the top and silly characters , rather than writing so that everything fits . In fairness , this film stays away from that well - but unfortunately the time saved on staying away from too many silly characters is mostly spent on the drab central character . Cheryl Lawson is no good in the lead role because her acting is awful , and she's not good looking enough to provide eye candy for the audience . The only decent cast members are the undead ; which look fairly decent ( certainly a lot better than a lot of other low budget crap ) , but aren't well used as the mindless creatures find themselves with a few too many brains to convince the audience that they actually have been dead . Director Brett Leonard can be given plaudits for sticking quite a few fairly nasty gore scenes in his film , which see things like eyeball violence and impromptu organ removal ; but not much else . Given the plot , the location shoots and the gore - this could have been a winner , but it isn't .
Unsuccessful ' R Rated ' remake of the notorious 1973 rougie	This film by Jim Sotos ( the director of the surprisingly decent eighties slasher ' Sweet 16 ' ) is apparently a remake of the earlier infamous film of the same title by Shaun Costello and starring Harry Reems . Forced Entry was never meant to be a mainstream flick , but it would appear that Sotos was trying to turn it into one with this film as the plot is basically the same but we don't get any of the sexual violence , which is a bit of a shame because that's the only thing that most people will have tuned into the original for and it's always going to be difficult to make an R-Rated film based on this plot line and make it a success . The plot is very simple and focuses on a psychopath who works at a gas station . It's the old story of abuse as a child and this man suffered at the hands of his mother ; which has lead to an acute hatred of women . Naturally , he decides to use his job ( which involves meeting women ) to find females to have his way with and murder . However , soon he meets Nancy and actually falls in love with her , which puts him at odds with his murderous rage . On the whole , it has to be said that this film is not successful and the only part of it I really liked was the music on the opening credits sequence . Showing the violence and gore is not always necessary in films ; but it is in this one . The original was meant to shock and it did ; but this film's neglect towards showing the violence means that it is not shocking , not true to the original and it also doesn't feature a plot strong enough to hold up a film like this without violence . Ron Max is the lead and while he convinces as the psychopath , he isn't very charismatic and the performance feels a bit flat . Luckily , there's some female talent in the form of Tanya Roberts and Nancy Allen on hand to help the film along . The film features a voice over that shows us what the psycho is thinking and feeling and it's all rather generic stuff and the film could have done without it . There's not a great deal of interest created in the plot and the ending is both predictable and generic . The film has a handful of decent moments and it's worth tracking down as a companion piece to the original ; but it's not very good unfortunately .
Headless frozen Nazi's	Frozen Dead is basically just a twist on the classic Frankenstein story ; except instead of a brilliant doctor trying to reanimate a corpse , we get a not so brilliant doctor continually trying and failing to bring the dead back to life . I have no problem with films like this ; in fact , I'd even say that this one was slightly pioneering - but the main problem with it is simply that it's boring . The plot moves at snail pace and despite some interesting ideas , none of them are put forward in an interesting way ; and the film has no point to it . The plot focuses on the idea of bringing key members of the Nazi party back to life . A crazy scientist kept the frozen heads of several party members and has been keeping them safe until a chance to bring them back to life presents itself . He finally finds a way to bring them back by attaching their heads onto new bodies ; but finds himself in need of a fresh body to experiment on . His niece's friend who is staying with him provides the perfect solution , until the niece decides to look into the disappearance of her friend . The sixties and seventies were something of a golden period for UK horror ; the Hammer and Amicus films are , of course , the main standouts ; but there was some good stuff coming from elsewhere also . There were also a lot of very bad horror films being made around this period , and Frozen Dead is certainly one of the latter . The ideas regarding the doctor's failed experiments could have provided some interesting moments ; but they don't and the film continually fails to generate any interest from the viewer . It's actually quite a shame that this film is so woeful because we do get some ideas that are original considering the time period ; the whole ' Nazisploitation ' genre was still a few years away , while the macabre way certain body parts are brought back to life goes a bit further than the Frankenstein films that were made before this one did . There's nothing special about the atmosphere or the acting about the film ; both are serviceable considering the type of film but neither is anything to write home about either . Overall , Frozen Dead is a miserable example of a British sixties horror film and I would not recommend it .
Dull ghost horror	If I had to describe The Haunting of Julia in one word , the word I would choose is ' boring ' . The film is of the slow build variety , but that isn't the problem in itself - the problem is that there is never enough going on to keep the audience wanting to see what happens next , and therefore the film does drag on far too often . The story is rather derivative of many other films and focuses on a woman who has moved to London after losing her child . However , in her new home she is haunted by the ghost of another child . Mia Farrow takes the lead role and while she is undoubtedly an excellent actress ; she isn't able to elevate this drab material much above the bottom of the barrel . The film could be said to be ' horror ' because of the ghostly plot , but aside from a séance sequence , there aren't many shocks and scares and I'd say it's more of a supernatural drama . The Haunting of Julia does not benefit from an interesting atmosphere either , as while some attempt is made to build one with a musical score ; it never really comes off . Overall , I'm not surprised at all that this film is not better known and gathering dust on an old video shelf is really where it belongs . I would not recommend anyone going out of their way for this !
Dismal drama lacking in excitement	Despite being British myself , I have to say I'm not a big fan of our modern film industry , and films like this are the reason why . Ever since the release of Trainspotting , it seems everyone wants to focus on the ' gritty ' side of the country with ' realistic ' films like this and it's a real shame because , like this example , most of them aren't up to much . The film is listed on this site as being a ' thriller ' and nothing could be further from the truth . Red Road makes an episode of Eastenders look like Hitchcock in comparison and ' slow burning ' is a misguided understatement ! The film focuses on Jackie , a lonely Scottish woman who has a job watching security monitors . Her boring life gets a bit ( and I mean ' a bit ' ) more exciting one day when she spots a man on the monitor that she apparently recognises . It soon transpires that the man was once in prison but got an earlier release than expected . Jackie then decides to begin stalking him and soon the pair becomes ' romantically ' involved . But clearly Jackie has a more sinister motive . . . One of the good things about watching movies is the ' escapist ' element . I don't live in Scotland , but the people and places depicted in this film are quite similar to people and places where I live and to be honest it's not much fun to watch a film and be reminded of that fact . Director Andrea Arnold was obviously hoping to achieve realism and did , so I guess she deserves some plaudits for that but it didn't do much for me . The plot itself is very dull and since none of the lead characters are interesting , the film is a bit of a pain to get through . Lead performers Kate Dickie and Tony Curran give realistic performances but it doesn't help much in a movie practically devoid of interesting elements . The best part of the film comes about 20 minutes from the end when we get ' treated ' to a surprisingly realistic and graphic sex scene . It doesn't last for long though and wasn't really worth the wait . It's a shame the film was mislabelled a thriller as otherwise I would never have bothered with it . Overall , this might appeal if you like slow burning boring films ; but everyone else should stay clear .
Tedious and boring ! What happened Mr Deodato ? !	Well , I was hoping I'd heard wrong about this film as I'm a big fan of Ruggero Deodato and really didn't want to see him slip up ; but unfortunately , this Giallo-styled supernatural load of nonsense is just as bad as I'd been lead to believe it would be - and that's pretty terrible ! The plot doesn't work at all , as the film attempts to blend murders and a supernatural theme through a telephone and it all feels very forced and silly . Furthermore , the plot doesn't make much sense at all , and you have to ask yourself " what's the point " numerous times throughout the movie . The plot focuses on a young woman living in an apartment block and being terrorised by a telephone . The best thing about the movie is undoubtedly the presence of the beautiful English actress Charlotte Lewis , and unfortunately the good points pretty much stop there . There are a handful of deaths scenes , some of which are gory ; but all of which are incredibly stupid , the one that sees someone get killed by coins sticks out especially in that respect . Overall , I really can't recommend this to anyone ; non-Deodato fans are unlikely to impressed , and Deodato fans are likely to find the film depressing . Avoid !
Just as bad as it's reputation suggests !	There are two types of bad films : bad films that are fun and somehow end up being good , and bad films that are no fun and only manage to be crap . Given the plot line , this bad film really should have belonged to the former group ; but somehow it doesn't manage it and ends up being a part of the latter . Quite how a film about ravenous , over-sized animals could be so boring escapes me , but somehow director Bert I . Gordon has managed to make it so . The film is based on a story by the great H . G . Wells , and while I haven't read it , I think it's safe to say that The Food of the Gods is a lot better on paper than it is on screen ! The plot focuses on a group of friends who go hunting on a Canadian island . It's not long before they are attacked by a group of wasps , but they're not just any wasps - they're giant aggressive wasps ! One of their number is killed by the wasps , so the friends go looking for help , when they come upon a barn inhabited by giant chickens ! It's not long before they put two and two together and realise that something funny is going on - shortly before they meet the most dangerous creature on the island , the rats . . . Giant animal films don't tend to be high quality , and this one does nothing to buck that trend . Most of the action is unexciting , and when you've got people battling giant animals - that really shouldn't be the case ! The special effects are decent in places , the rat attack looks decent enough considering that this is a very low quality film , but some of the effects look terrible and the gore isn't any good either . The plot is fairly basic and there isn't much explanation for anything , which is a shame as the story basically just lays out it's stall ( a load of white goo trickling down the side of the mountain ) and lets the giant creatures take it from there ; but the giants aren't enough to keep things entertaining , and the film fails for that reason . It becomes hard to care about anything shortly after the film starts , and that doesn't get any better as it moves on . Probably quite unsurprisingly , I wasn't impressed at all with The Food of the Gods , and that's a shame as this could have been quite decent if it had been handled better . I can't really recommend wasting time with this film - shiny new DVD release or not !
Direct to video nasty ( and that's not a good thing ! )	Here we have a sequel to a classic cult film , made almost two decades after the original . Guess what ? It's rubbish . Oh yes , obviously someone had a bright idea to make a sequel to a well known film in the hope that it would emulate the original's cable TV success in the dreary direct to video market . Trouble is , while this was being thought through ; these people obviously forgot to hire a decent scriptwriter - d'oh ! What we are left with , therefore , is a rehash of the original film - except with less excitement , less ideas and less reason to see it . The film has a few flashbacks to the original film during its running time , and ironically - these are the best bits . The film's plot has written itself , and sees the hero from the original film making the mistake of driving back down the road where the events of the original happened . As if this mistake wasn't silly enough , he then makes the mistake of picking up another hitchhiker ! Some people just don't learn , but in his defence - it was naturally all the fault of a woman , in this case his girlfriend . It doesn't take a genius to guess what the rest of the film is about . The original film was very much a B-movie , and this one is too . We have , therefore , a B-movie cast . C . Thomas Howell is in it for the money , as he reprises his role from the first film . He is joined by Jake Busey ; Gary Busey's son , who actually manages to turn in a decent performance amidst this train-wreck of a film - but nowhere near Rutger Hauer , of course . B-movie actress Kari Wuhrer tops off the central trio . I saw Kari Wuhrer in the pointless seventh part of the Hellraiser series ( " Deader " ) recently , and along with her small role in Eight Legged Freaks - have come to the conclusion that she needs a better agent . She's not a brilliant actress , but she's good looking and definitely deserves better roles than what she's been getting . The action is generally very tame , and stinks of a film that couldn't get the budget . The original didn't have much of a budget either - but that made the best of it , this one doesn't . Several sequences in this film are merely rubbish rehashes of scenes in the original - including the most famous scene from ' The Hitcher ' - which isn't nearly as effective here . On the whole , this film shouldn't be seen by anyone . If you're not a fan of the original , you won't like it anyway - and if you are ; you won't want to see one of your favourites defiled like this . Avoid !
Not great Gothic horror	Terror in the Crypt certainly seems like a great film on paper - it's stemmed from the classic novel " Carmilla " by Sheridan Le Fanu and the screenplay is by none other than Ernesto Gastaldi ; the man responsible for a number of great Giallo films in the seventies . Adding to the writing credits is the fact that the film stars the great Christopher Lee ; but unfortunately the pacing is far too slow and the film is more ' Castle of the Living Dead ' than ' Black Sunday ' . Anyone that has seen one of the numerous films based on the La Fanu novel will probably know what this film will be about . Count Karnstein comes to believe that his daughter Laura has become possessed by the spirit of the dead ancestor Carmilla and sends for a doctor to help her . However , this does not stop the daughter from being influenced by Carmilla . The film does well on the atmosphere front and director Camillo Mastrocinque delivers a great setting for the film to take place in with a lavish Gothic castle . However , there's just not enough going on to keep the film interesting for the duration and unfortunately despite the positives ; the film is not very easy to follow for this reason . Perhaps fans of Gothic horror will find something to like here ; but while I consider myself just that , unfortunately I didn't .
Unbelievably stupid exploitation crap	This film has earned its cult reputation due to the fact that it's ridiculous - and as you might expect , this reputation isn't exactly unfounded . Mad Foxes is just as ridiculous as it's meant to be and then some . . . however , while I enjoy a good silly flick , the inconstancies and illogical nature of the film don't help it as the plot doesn't move well at all , and the film gets confusing too often , which isn't good when the plot is as simple as the one here . The plot is pretty much routine for a rape / revenge flick , and focuses on a guy and his girl who end up getting on the wrong side of a neo-Nazi biker gang . The gang beat him up and rape his girl , so he vows revenge on them . . . blah blah . The way that the plot moves isn't very fluent , and usually just jumps from one scene to the next ; which can be irritating . There are a few good sequences in the film , and these include things such as a man being blown up on the toilet and a Nazi-style bondage session towards the end . In fitting with the rest of the film , the acting and the dialogue are both terrible ; but the film is very funny on numerous occasions , and while I can't say I overly enjoyed Mad Foxes ; it might appeal to those who enjoy seeing movies at their worst .
Dull , clichéd mess	Going into Teaching Mrs Tingle , all I wanted was a fun , enjoyable teen comedy that would entertain me for it's running time . Despite a rather good first half hour , the film quickly subsides into a dull , clichéd mess that's about as entertaining as pulling out your eyelashes with pliers . Rusty pliers , at that . ' Scream ' writer Kevin Williamson wrote and directed this movie , and proved that Scream may well have been a fluke . Most of the elements of this movie have been seen a million times already in other films ; and while it was OK for him to steal elements from other movies in Scream , due to the fact that it's meant as a slasher tribute ; here , it just looks like he's completely ran out of ideas . The plot follows the cleverest girl in school , played by Katie Holmes . After being caught cheating along with two of her friends ; the three decide to take the teacher that caught them hostage in her own home . However , this isn't just any teacher ; it's Mrs Tingle , the meanest bitch in school . She isn't taking being tied to the bed lying down either , as she begins to play mind games to turn her captors against each other . The plot is very similar to the 1997 flick ' Suicide Kings ' , and a whole host of earlier films . It's actually not a bad idea for a movie , and if Williamson could have populated the film with interesting characters ; it could have worked really well . The character of Mrs Tingle is the most interesting in the movie , but she's massively one dimensional , and like all the other characters in the film ; is merely a caricature . The acting is largely diabolical , with the exception of Helen Mirren in the title role . She's suitably evil in the role , and while she doesn't have a lot to get her teeth into ; she clearly enjoys herself playing the central figure . The teenage cast isn't worth mentioning , with only Katie Holmes standing out ; and that's only really because of her star profile , not her acting talents . Williamson has draped nearly every scene in dull soft rock music , which would be really annoying if the film wasn't absolutely terrible anyway . Honestly , this movie does have a few moments that are rather good ; but basically , if you want to see a good example of the teen comedy - this isn't the movie that you want to see .
Nothing on the original , or the remake .	I'm in the minority of serious horror fans since I'm one of the few that enjoyed the remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . While it didn't touch the original , Marcus Nispel's opus represented a decent slice of modern horror for it's keenness towards violence and torture , and the fetid atmosphere in which most of the film takes place . However , the reasons why I enjoyed the first film are also the reasons why this one largely falls flat - that being that both movies are essentially the same . ' The Beginning ' attempts to tell the story of Leatherface's descent into insanity , and does this by way of a scene in which he is born at the beginning , and another sequence that sees him brutally murdering his employer after the meat factory closes down . After that , the film merely becomes ' business as usual ' , as after a scene involving the local law enforcement ( which does explain something about the 2003 film ) , we are introduced to the usual line-up of dumb ' lambs to the slaughter ' . Eric and Dean are about to go to fight in the Vietnam war , but end up coming across the deadly redneck family and finding something far worse ( yadda yadda ) . The resemblances to the earlier film are always evident , and despite more focus on torture this time round ( probably because of the success of Eli Roth's Hostel ) , there are very few differences between the plots . There also isn't much in the way of characterisation of the central family , and considering this film is a ' prequel ' , more should have been made of that area , as otherwise it's just another film about a madman with a chainsaw . Of course , I realise that there isn't too much that you can do with that premise ; but the script just feels really lazy , and this doesn't even do justice to the remake ; let along the 1974 original . The cast features the usual array of talent for a film like this , although several members of the remake cast reappear , including best of all R . Lee Ermey , who is by far the best thing about the movie in his role as the sadistic head of the family . There's a fair amount of blood and gore ; but the film just doesn't have that shock factor that films like the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre had , and despite some really quite nasty moments ; it still feels like you're watching MTV . After the hour mark , I was expecting to be complaining about the lack of chainsaw ; but it does get put to good use towards the end of the film , which is nice . Overall , this is pretty much what you would expect from a film like this , although experienced horror fans are likely to find it rather lacking .
Hit the highway , instead of seeing this film	My interest in seeing Highwaymen stems from the fact that it was directed by Robert Harmon ; the same man behind what is probably the best road thriller ever made , ' The Hitcher ' . Any hopes of this being as good as the 1986 film are quashed immediately , however , as an early scene that sees a number of cars smash into each other makes it clear that the action scenes aren't directed with any panache , and once the film starts properly and we are introduced to the dull cast of characters ; all that we are left with is a rather crappy thriller . It seems as if Harmon thought he was directing something more like The Terminator , as the lead villain is a mechanical monstrosity , while Jim Caviezel's character stinks of Michael Biehn's Reese in the aforementioned masterpiece . The film gets underway when a young woman escapes from a car accident that claimed her friend . It soon becomes apparent that the perpetrator is a serial hit and runner , as the mysterious Rennie pops up and tells the young woman that he has been hunting the man in the car ever since he killed his wife . In fairness , this film has to be given some plaudits for the fact that the car chases don't utilise CGI , and so they have a certain realism to them ( even if this realism is often way over the top ) . It's hard to really care for any of the action , though , because the characters are so poor and since the lead actress is so irritating , I often found myself cheering on the murderer . The villain is slightly different to the norm ; given that he's a wheelchair bound maniac driving a specially adapted car , which he uses as a murder weapon . However , this sort of thing has been seen many times before and the fact that it's all so unlikely brings it down . Jim Caviezel hasn't been in many great films , but he should be glad that Mel Gibson took a chance on him in 2004 as I'm sure he wouldn't want to make rubbish like this for the rest of his career . The central cast is rounded off by British actress Rhona Mitra , who doesn't get to do much in her role . Overall , this is a far from perfectly pitched thriller ; the action sequences aren't very exciting , the characters are boring and the plot doesn't offer much . Not worth bothering with , is my verdict .
Completely underwhelming and derivative tedium	Kevin Tenney , the man behind the fun eighties cult horror ' Night of the Demons ' is also the man behind this film ; an undeveloped , yet overlong supernatural inspired horror flick . The idea of a Ouija board is certainly an intriguing one , and since there aren't a great deal of films that make said item their main focus , this one really deserved to be better . Perhaps my rating of the film is a shade lower than it should be , as I really don't like this sort of film in general ; although I don't think too many will disagree with me that this isn't a very good film . The worst thing about it is the fact that there isn't really anything memorable , and in taking lots of different ideas from a range of films ; Kevin Tenney has only succeeded in making one that is easy to forget . The plot is purely routine and features an evil murderer getting access to the world of the living through a Ouija board . All of the cast take everything very seriously , and there's nothing like Linnea Quigley's lipstick moment in this film . It's easy to see where it's going at all times , and Witchboard never really provides any surprises . I don't really know why some people would like this film ; as all the ideas contained have been done better elsewhere . There's nothing else to say about it , and if I had to sum my thoughts up in one word , I would use the word ' meh ' .
Bad , even for a Jaws rip-off !	This film starts off by thanking the underwater directorial team for risking their lives for the making of it . I sincerely hope that this is just some sort of ploy and not actually the case , as Mako : The Jaws of Death is definitely not a film that anyone should even consider risking their life over . In 1975 , Steven Spielberg released what is probably the great shark movie of all time with Jaws , but he really has a lot to answer for as that film inspired a whole host of awful ( mostly Italian ) rip-offs . I've only seen a handful of Jaws rip-offs , but even among the few that I've seen ? Mako : The Jaws of Death surely ranks right down near the bottom , and that's actually a shame because it has a fairly decent plot idea going for it . Basically , we focus on a man with a bond for sharks . He keeps a few as ' friends ' but attracts interest from local entities - including a scientist and a nightclub . He ends up loaning out some of his sharks , but is not impressed with their treatment and so decides to take his revenge . . . The film does manage a true seventies exploitation style and while the film obviously shot on a very low budget , it still manages to be fairly good in that respect . The problem really is with the way that the plot is developed as it doesn't fulfil its potential and none of the characters are interesting enough to really care about , and that unfortunately includes the lead who really should have been a lot better considering his strange interest in sharks . There are a couple of familiar faces in the cast list - most notably Richard Jaeckel and Harold Sakata , who is credited in this film as Harold " Oddjob " Sakata . Unfortunately ( saying that a lot in this review . . . ) , considering that the film is about sharks , sharks actually don't feature all that often and when they do it's a bit of a let-down . The film also lacks a lot of humour , and while it's clear that the filmmakers were not making a serious horror film to the audience ; apparently they themselves were oblivious that fact ! Overall , Mako : The Jaws of Death is a silly and tepid film and should not really be viewed by anyone !
Tedious and dull exploitation nonsense	This film ends with a speech in which the narrator tells us the fates of two of the lead characters and that the names of people and places have been changed . . . before telling us that relation to actual people and events are purely coincidental . This ending line actually sums up everything that has gone before it ; as Rino Di Silvestro's messy film completely lacks vision , and if there is any point to the plot ; it wasn't put there on purpose . Werewolf Woman is often seen as a guilty pleasure or a ' so bad it's good ' film , but I completely disagree . Normally , I enjoy films like this ; but Werewolf Woman is indeed a bad film , and despite all the sex and savagery on display ; it doesn't even make for a fun watch , and that really is unforgivable . The film really doesn't have much plot , but the thin sliver we are given involves a young woman , who also happens to dream that she is a werewolf . She dreams of going out and finding men , having sex with them and eventually killing them . Back in the real world , she falls in love , but her lover is killed and she goes out for revenge . . . The film is made up of scenes of sex and gore , which are padded out with extremely dull talking sequences in which various characters mull over the recent events . These scenes are probably there to forward the plot and build characters ; but they really don't do that , and succeed only in turning what could have been a passable exploitation romp into an extremely underwhelming film . It would seem that the director was more interested in style and atmosphere than the plot , and this is shown by the fact that the film looks and sounds nice . The sex scenes are often overlong and not very erotic , but the gore works well . The premise is ripe for giving way to a very sexy slice of exploitation , as there's plenty of naked women , and the fact that the central character has a werewolf origin means that there could be plenty of erotica ; but this isn't capitalised on , and while I can stomach huge doses of bad acting and poorly done plot lines , I really can't stand watching films and being bored . Overall , I wouldn't even recommend this film to big exploitation fans . There's plenty of better stuff than this out there , and while the title may sound intriguing - the film isn't .
Shameless cash-in , but gory enough to be fun	You know going into a film like this that it's going to be a complete waste of time . . . but Zombi 3 wasn't bad , and even though it's obvious that this instalment of the ' Zombi ' series is even more a cash in than the last one , I knew I'd be happy if I just enjoyed watching it . As you might expect , the plot doesn't follow on from the last film and the only similarity between this and the rest of the series is the fact that they all feature zombies in a Caribbean setting . The plot here is based on the controversial idea of science versus religion . . . but don't be expecting a resolution to any debates . We've got a bunch of corny scientists on one side researching ways to cure cancer , and on the other there's a cheesy voodoo priest , who doesn't like their scientific ways ( or something ) and so , naturally , decides to raise the dead . Around the same time ( I think ) , a woman and a group of mercenaries go to the island ( which also happens to be the same place her parents were killed ) , and of course ; it's not long before all hell breaks loose ! The main reason I can't give a very definite plot description is not because this film is such a complex work of art that I wasn't able to fully grasp everything ; but rather because the way that the plot is presented is extremely choppy , and despite not being much of it ; it's not always easy to fully grasp what's going on . The plot isn't the most important element in an eighties Italian zombie movie , however , and this is shown here by the fact that more emphasis is placed on showing as much blood , gore and zombie action as possible . After Death is actually quite strong in the gore department ; most of it is stupid and hard to take seriously , but I always enjoy a bit of splatter . The film features one of the cheesiest songs over the credits that I've ever heard , and it's extremely fitting to the rest of the film . I have a strong suspicion that I won't remember much , if anything , of this film come next week - but I will say that if all you want is a silly zombie movie to waste your time on , this one isn't boring and you could do a hell of a lot worse .
Grade F slasher !	I've got to say that I'm not a massive fan of Troma films . Granted , I've only seen three of them ( or four including this one ) , but two ( Blood Sucking Freaks and Mothers ' Day ) are widely reputed to be the best , which leads me to believe that all the others aren't worth seeing . That would certainly seem to be the case with Graduation Day , which is a Troma take on the over-popular eighties slasher . While the film is never particularly bad ( given the type of film ) , it's never particularly good either ; and by the end , all I could think about was ' why did I bother watching this ? ' . Anyway , the plot sees some girl die on a race track , and shortly thereafter ; more people start dying . Naturally , there are a few possible suspects ; but it's hard to really care about anything that happens . Of course , in slasher terms ; it's the gore that is most important , and given Troma's track record where the red stuff is concerned , I was expecting buckets of it . There are some decent kill scenes , and some of them are gory ; but it's never very shocking , which really just makes this another dreary slasher based on a celebratory event on the American calendar . It's worth noting that there's a small role in this film for sleaze queen Linnea Quigley , but the rest of the cast aren't worth mentioning . The direction , plot and its execution are all very mundane ; and I will say that unless you're a big Troma fan or someone that wants to track down every slasher ever made ; don't bother with this film .
Misty Mundae , Darian Caine and a man wrapped in bog roll , in someone's garage	I can't say I'm all that experienced in misty Mundae flicks having seen only a handful , but it's obvious that this was made on a shoestring , and while it might have been respectable that the filmmakers were able to make a Tomb Raider rip-off inside a garage , it isn't because it's completely obvious that this is what they were doing . The film only runs for forty five minutes , and this is definitely a good thing as there isn't nearly enough plot here to stretch it out for any longer . It has something to do with an evil Nazi scientist ( who looks about as evil as a porn star playing a Nazi scientist ever could ) , a mummy , which is clearly a man wrapped up in toilet roll and Misty - this film's version of Tomb Raider , who keeps her top on for much less time than Angelina Jolie did in the big budget version . I have to say that even in spite of its shortcomings , this film could have been better . It's got Misty Mundae for a start , and even better than that if you ask me is the fact that it also stars the even hotter Darian Caine . The pair gets to engage in all the lesbian sex that you would expect from a Seduction Cinema film and this is at the expense of the nonexistent plot , although that isn't really a bad thing . Obviously , this is a rubbish film - but the fact that it's short is to its credit , and if you're after a bit of lesbian sex , you could do worse .
Badly plotted Sci-Fi mess	The only reason I saw this film was due a mistake . I mistook the UK title , Deranged , for the 1974 Ed Gein flick . I was hoping this would be one of those great ' happy accidents ' , but unfortunately ; it wasn't . Peter Fonda's Sci-Fi adventure has a good premise , but the plot fails to capitalise on it due to the fact that it's completely pointless . Screenplay writer Thomas Matthiesen doesn't seem to know where to go with his post-apocalyptic theme , and so what we get left with is a lumbering ' survivors ' theme , tied in with something to do with time travel . The idea behind the central plot is that bunch of researchers travel into the future in order to discover what it is that has wiped out humanity . However , they soon become stranded and after uncovering some evidence , discover that maybe mankind hasn't been wiped out completely . Idaho Transfer actually gets off to quite an intriguing start ; but it quickly dries up , and the middle of the film is much like watching paint dry . The plot picks up towards the end ; when it pretty much self-destructs . The film is directed by Easy Rider star , Peter Fonda , and to be fair ; he does quite a good job . Fonda creates a good impression of a post-apocalyptic world . The environments are always desolate , and create a sense of hopelessness in the viewer . It's just unfortunate that the plot is desolate also . Peter Fonda doesn't appear in front of the camera and the lead role goes to Kelly Bohanon . None of the cast really stands out , and Bohanon is no different . Keith Carradine is the only name I recognise on the cast list and his performance is nothing special . To be honest , I've never been a big fan of seventies Sci-Fi ; it doesn't age well , and these days the ' futuristic ' computers look like they wouldn't be out of place in the Stone Age . I can't really say that it's a shame this film isn't very good ; it hasn't got a great deal going for it anyway , but it definitely could have been a bit better , and its poor plotting that has made it lose out at the end of the day . I can't really say that there's anything to recommend this film for , and as it's not easy to come by ; I don't recommend going out of your way to find a copy .
The first , second and third stages are all a choking sound	Body Melt is basically what it appears to be ; just a big pile of gore . Australia isn't a nation instantly recognised for a lot of hit horror films ( despite one or two successes ) , and this one really shows why - as aside from all the blood and guts , there is nothing at all to recommend it for ; and anyone that doesn't watch horror films purely for gore won't even have that small pittance to fall back on . Body Melt is a more modern example of the ' melt movie ' - a worthless type of film kicked off by the worthless James Muro flick ' Street Trash ' towards the end of the eighties . I can't say I've seen too many of these sorts of movies , and this one isn't even as good as the earlier eighties film . The plot is similar to Street Trash , as it follows the unoriginal idea ( also seen in Larry Cohen's " The Stuff " ) of a new product disrupting people's bodily functions . The product in this film comes from a health farm and is known as ' Verbatim ' . The film starts with a sequence that sees a horribly mutilated man crash his car after his body begins to melt . After that , we see other people melting . . . The film only runs for about seventy five minutes ( not including closing credits ) , and the vast majority of that is filler . It would seem that every time director Philip Brophy doesn't know where to go , another person melts . It didn't come as a surprise to me , therefore , that the film is based on a series of short stories - as that's exactly what it feels like . The gore actually isn't bad , as despite being cheap it does have a cheerful feel to it ; and the film goes further than most would dare , as offending body parts include penises , placentas and over-sized tongues developing a mind of their own . The way that they are used doesn't inspire the imagination , however , and that is a shame as this film could actually have been quite scary if done correctly . The only recognisable person in the cast is Ian Smith , who many will immediately identify as ' Harold ' from the Aussie soap ' Neighbours ' . It's not surprising that there's no other ' names ' as this production is unprofessional and lacklustre , and if I were an actor with a good reputation ; I wouldn't have gone anywhere near it . This film might delight fans of mindless gore ; but most of us are better off elsewhere .
S . W . A . T . a load of rubbish	You cant go into a film like S . W . A . T . with anything resembling high expectations ; but you can go in expecting to be entertained - and this film doesn't even deliver on that implied promise . Sure , it has all the explosive action sequences you will have come to expect from this sort of tosh , but because the characters and script are so lame ; it takes all the fun out of them . Roughly half of the dialogue in this flick is made up of smart-ass quips delivered in the typical ' cool ' aggressive way , and it makes it very hard to take seriously down to the fact that people simply don't talk to each other like this in real life . I realise that this is ' just a film ' , but being unrealistic makes it hard to connect with . The story is typical of this sort of film , and it sees a rich jailbird offering loads of money to whoever can spring him from jail . It's lucky , then , that S . W . A . T . are on hand to save the day ! ( groan ) . The film handles it's plot badly , however , as it takes ages to get into it and most of the early stages of the film are taken up by boring training and recruitment scenes , which are filled out by more rubbish dialogue . The cast is marginally impressive , with Colin Farrell in the lead , and being supported by LL Cool J , Michelle Rodriguez and Samuel L . Jackson . Jackson is , of course , the standout as he's the best actor on the cast list ; but he really needs to start reviewing the material he's going to be working with . There's no doubt that he can carry a bad movie like this ; but his talents would be better off elsewhere . Colin Farrell is overrated , annoying and never convinces as the hardman he's trying to portray . The action sequences are thick and fast once they finally kick off , but again it's the dialogue and the characters that spoil it . Adding to that is the predictability of this film and all of it's counterparts . The fact that you know it's going to be a Hollywood style ' happy ' ending really spoils the proceedings . Especially when most people will be hoping that our heroes will end up biting the bullet , due to the fact that they're all underwritten , boring and never say anything isn't a quip . On the whole , this film is garbage and I don't recommend it . If you're easy to please or just like films that don't require any input from the viewer , however , you may find something here .
Trashy slasher rubbish with some nice gore	Despite the lurid title , " Nightmare in a Damaged Brain " , this infamous Video Nasty is a rather unappealing experience . The film is poorly produced and largely unoriginal , thus meaning that the only reason left to bother watching it is that it was a part of the DPP horror fan's shopping list back in the eighties . Unlike a lot of films on the list , however , this one is actually quite gory ; and while the plot often finds itself lost in tedium , at least Nightmares in a Damaged Brain has several gory sequences to fall back on . The plot comes together from a range of different sources ; most notably the barrage of serial killer flicks released before this one , but the ' days ' approach that was used to great effect in Stanley Kubrick's " The Shining " and the classic story of ' The Boy Who Cried Wolf ' feature also . The plot follows a man on an experiment drugs program that is released from an asylum . He visits a few strip shows , and it's not long before he gets back to his murderous ways , and when his attentions become fixated on a certain family , they all find themselves in danger . . . Probably the first noticeable thing about this Video Nasty is the appalling state of the acting . There's a scene in which a young boy pretends to have been stabbed , and the reactions of the cast look so fake that it actually is painful . You can't expect good acting from a film like this , but here it's even worse than normal . The way that the plot comes together isn't very good either , as first we follow the mental patient and then the film skips over to the family he's going to stalk without any explanation of exactly what's going on ; this makes the film difficult as we're left wondering why we've moved over to different characters . The gore scenes are too few and far between to please most fans of this sort of stuff , but when they do feature ; they're certainly bloody enough . The ending , which depicts a murder scene that has been hinted at in flashbacks throughout the film , is massively over the top , but the blood flows freely and even though the effects are clearly fake , it's still a nice gory scene . On the whole , I won't recommend this movie as its rubbish , but fans of gory , poorly made slashers are likely to find something to like .
Boring , predictable and forgettable	This film annoyed me . I have to admit that a thriller doesn't necessarily have to do anything special for me to enjoy it ; and I tend to like any movie that offers entertainment value regardless of how good it actually is . This film had all the resources and star power to become an above average thrill ride , but instead all we have is a continually lacklustre effort that builds it's plot around an idea that has been done many times already , and doesn't even do it with any panache . The plot plays out sluggishly , and even during the shootouts and chases ; The Sentinel doesn't manage to thrill or enthuse its audience . The two dimensional character designs are mostly to blame for the film's shortcomings , but the actors don't do it any favours . Michael Douglas just goes through the motions and does nothing to change my already low opinion of him . Kiefer Sutherland , however , is an actor that I like ; but he's been lumbered with a role that is a lot like a less interesting version of Jack Bauer ; his character in 24 , and therefore he isn't given much to play with . Eva Longoria does well at providing eye candy , but never convinces as a Secret Service agent and the rest of the cast don't appear long enough to get a mention . I could go on but there's no point ; this is a forgettable thriller and there is absolutely no reason to recommend it .
Lame horror & unfunny comedy . . . no thanks .	Why is it that all these new zombie films have to have a thick layer of comedy messing up the horror ? I know that this is categorised as a ' horror comedy ' , but personally ; I don't want the zombies to suddenly erupt into a dancing scene just when the film's starting to get going . There have been quite a lot of zombie films released over the past few years , and most of them suffer from the same major problem as this one ; they're just stupid . In fact , there's a hint of irony in this whole ' horror comedy ' thing , because before the horror starts ; the comedy is actually quite funny , and then the horror comes along and everything goes down the toilet . Don't get me wrong ; I don't have a problem with comedy , but if it's going to be fused with horror , please ; make it funny . The plot , or rather excuse for lots of silliness is that a bunch of kids are travelling across America in a van in order to get to a wedding . On the way , they stop at a strange bed and breakfast , and after finding the owner having a heart attack and the chef dead , they are made to stay in the town while the police chief conducts his investigation . Then zombies start popping up . I know that this film shouldn't be taken seriously ; but I really like zombie films , and feel that it's about time a good one got made . The ' bigger ' recent releases such as Dawn of the Dead ( remake ) and 28 Days Later were terrible , and all these little ones are rubbish because they're not being taken seriously ( by the filmmakers ! ) . A film like this , without the unfunny comedy , would be a real treat for horror fans . The cast features a couple of names , including David Carradine ( who couldn't get out quick enough ) , his niece Ever Carradine and Jeremy Sisto ; whom modern horror fans might remember from the likes of May and Wrong Turn ( both of which are a lot better than this ) . The film features a country and western singer , who pops up every now and again for an ' amusing ' commentary on the recent events of the movie . This is quite cute at first , but it quickly becomes boring ; and I actually turned the film off before he had chance to sing his final song . Really , Dead & Breakfast doesn't seem to know what it wants to be . Comic book pictures pop up , the comedy doesn't suit the horror , the zombie effects suck and , as mentioned , the country music gets boring all too quickly . If you don't really care much about movies , give this one a shot ; otherwise , there really isn't much to recommend it for . See the original Dawn of the Dead again instead .
The Exorcism of Rosemary's Baby ? Rosemary's Exorcist Baby ? ?	Beyond the Door is more than just merely an Exorcist rip-off ! Director Ovidio G . Assonitis built a career on ripping off popular horror films , and so not content with merely ripping off William Friedkin's 1973 classic , Assonitis opted to throw in some Rosemary's Baby and what we end up with is a dual rip off , taking parts and ideas from both superior movies . Luckily this film was made before The Omen otherwise I'm sure parts of that film would have featured too ! Anyway , it soon becomes clear what sort of film you're going to be in for as Beyond the Door opens with a narration . . . by none other than Satan . Ahem . The plot focuses on an average family with two kids . The mother has fallen pregnant again , which is a surprise to her since they hadn't been trying for a baby . Of course it turns out that this is Satan's child and carrying Satan's child apparently has a few unwanted side effects - like making the mother be nasty to everyone she encounters . Later , an ex-lover ( whose life was saved by Satan ) turns up to make sure she gives birth to Satan's offspring . Despite the fact that its terrible , this actually isn't the worst Exorcist rip off out there ( that dubious honour falls to Spanish production ' Exorcismo ' from my viewing experience ) but this one is right down at the bottom of the barrel . The main problem with the film is clearly the fact that there's far too much going on at all times and since most of it isn't explained , it left me scratching my head often . It could be argued that this isn't a big problem since there's little about this film that makes you really care about any of the characters anyway so it doesn't really matter what's going on . . . but really that just adds to Beyond the Door's woes . The rip-off train eventually gets into full swing and by then we've got the lead character vomiting and spouting obscenities everywhere with none of the same vigour of the 1973 original . The Exorcist rip-offs genre's ' jewel in the crown ' for me is Alberto De Martino's excellent The Antichrist ; and this film does nothing to even challenge for that title . Strangely , Mario Bava's 1977 film ' Shock ' has ' Beyond the Door 2 ' as one of it's a . k . a . titles . . . but surely this couldn't have been a success in its native Italy . Could it ?
One of the most boring Giallo's ever made !	Everything I'd read about this film prior to seeing it pointed to it being rubbish , but after reading the plot description ; I figured that it might actually be OK . However , I was wrong . The plot sounds like Cold Eyes of Fear could be a gritty cross between the Giallo and the slew of ' house ' films ( e . g . House on the Edge of the Park , The Last House on the Beach ) whereby criminal ( s ) take innocents hostage inside their home . It sort of is a cross between these genres ; but it's so damned boring that any positives that may have come from this are instantly sucked away . The film takes place in London , which is unfortunate as it means that we're ' treated ' to a load of phoney British accents . It really annoys me that some people actually think we talk like this ! Anyway , the plot focuses on Peter ; a young man who picks up an Italian hooker and takes her back to his place . However , they arrive to find a criminal in wait for them . Peter's father , a judge , then sends a copper to sort the situation ; but the man who turns up is an impostor , hell-bent on revenge . . . The film actually gets off to a good start . . . but that then turns out to be a stage show , and that pretty much sums the entire film up . Other directors have proved many times that the Giallo can be wholly entertaining , despite the often rubbish plots ; but Castellari shows here that they can be really boring too ! It's a shame really , as the director has proved himself to me with a trio of great crime films ( The Big Racket , Street Law and The Heroin Busters ) , as well as one of the best Jaws rip offs in the form of The Last Shark - but the man obviously can't handle Giallo . It's strange that a man with such a penchant for violent action would make a film so boring , and perhaps one of the reason why it is so boring is that a lot of the main ' action ' focuses on talking , and Castellari is obviously better suited to shooting car chases and fist fights . The acting is as crap as you would expect , and this isn't helped at all by the awful dubbing . Not even Morricone's score is up to much . Overall , don't bother with this one - there are FAR better Giallo's out there !
BLOODLESS Voyage !	Obviously , you can't go into a completely obscure and very cheap film like this and expect anything other than crap ; but even though crap is exactly what I got , I still have to say that I'm a little bit disappointed . Maybe it's because the plot has the potential to be good ; I mean , it doesn't get much more claustrophobic than a yacht out in the middle of the ocean and many films have proved that a murder mystery is a more than adequate backbone for a horror film . . . but this one doesn't want to take the ball and run with it . The plot is purely mundane despite the ingenuity of the setting , and simply follows a bunch of murders on a pleasure cruise . Naturally , the remaining cruisers want to know who's committing the murders , and this curiosity leads them to turn on one another . Director Frank Mitchell ( unsurprisingly , his only credit as director ) fails to generate any intrigue through the atmosphere and doesn't manage to pull a good performance out of anyone in the film . The plot moves at snail pace and despite the fact that this is supposed to be a murder themed horror movie - there's only one scene that features blood in the entire movie ! And you hardly get to see anything anyway ! On the plus side , the film is completely undemanding and very short . . . but its definitely not worth seeing .
Nothing to see here !	I didn't expect much going into this film , and it's a really good job that I didn't because Red Monks really doesn't deliver ! The film offers little that you can't get from several better devils / exploitation flicks . The film has Lucio Fulci's name attached to it since the great director has a producers credit ; but I don't know why that attracted me since even the films that Fulci did direct around the late eighties were mostly not up to much . This one is directed by Gianni Martucci , and while the director has something of an eye for aesthetics , he's not great at creating tension and it results in a very boring film . The story revolves around some ancient ritual involving a bunch of people dressed in red monk robes . The wealthy owner of a castle where this takes place meets a pretty young woman and marries her . She goes to live in the castle and soon becomes frustrated by her husband's secretive night time behaviour . People start dying and her husband's secret becomes in danger of being revealed ; but maybe his secret is not the most surprising . The film drones on for about eighty minutes and there's very little that's memorable about it . In fact , the only sequence I can remember well is a scene with the most ridiculously fake spider I've ever seen , and considering I only saw it last night - it has to be said that this film is not overly memorable . It all boils down to a supposedly surprising twist that I guessed before the film even started . Overall , it has to be said that Red Monks is a big waste of time and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone !
Disappointing effort from HG Lewis	Herschell Gordon Lewis earned the title ' The Godfather of Gore ' for his gory horror films , and as something of a fan of the schlock director ; I like to see Herschell doing what he does best . She-Devils on Wheels generally doesn't get a good word said about it even among Lewis ' own fans , and that's hardly surprising as this isn't Herschell at his best or doing what he does best . In fact , it seems more like Herschell was trying to rip off the great Russ Meyer - the only difference being that Meyer did this sort of thing well and HG doesn't ! The plot revolves around a gang of man-hating female bikers that ride around and terrorise a town . This isn't bad as a premise , but Herschell fails to implement much action , gore or interest into the film . Meyer would have added some breasts which would have at least spiced it up a little ; but sadly the film is lacking even that most basic element . It's really hard to believe that this effort is from the same director who bestowed on us legendary trash classics such as Two Thousand Maniacs and The Gore Gore Girls . She-Devils on Wheels is a completely disappointing experience and doesn't come recommended !
The Slayer meets The Evil Dead and both are ripped off !	In 1982 , a little film called ' The Slayer ' was released . It was basically an eighties slasher ; except it was ( slightly ) more intelligent than the usual fodder as rather than just having the characters at the isolated retreat where the film takes place being picked off one by one ; there was a bit of psychological horror thrown in as the psychopath was a part of the lead character's nightmares . The film subsequently banned in the UK by the DPP as a part of their campaign to clean video shelves of the so-called ' Video Nasties ' . Fast forward twenty four years and apparently someone called Rolfe Kanefsky didn't realise that The Slayer is now commercially available ; and decided to make a blatant rip off of it without anyone noticing . The plot focuses on Ellen ; a woman who gets a fertility mask from Africa that , rather than fertilize her husband , fertilizes her head with the ' Nightmare Man ' - a vicious psycho in a mask . The husband is driving the wife to the nut house one day when the car breaks down and the Nightmare Man comes after her . . . As a film in its own right , Nightmare Man is pretty poor . The production values seem amateur at best and the film doesn't even manage to capitalise on the ' low budget slasher ' aura than many other films have . After a lengthy chase sequence towards the start of the film , we are introduced to some new characters ; a bunch of teens playing truth or dare , and all are clearly just there to provide the film with some death scenes . However , the film doesn't even impress on that front as while the death scenes aren't completely awful ; they're not very imaginative either and don't even deliver much in the way of gore . None of the characters make the film interesting ; and the twist that comes midway through leaves a lot to be desired . I saw this coming before the film even started , which was very disappointing . However ; there actually is a surprise in store as the film moves along , which comes in the form of an Evil Dead ' tribute ' . It doesn't really fit the film , but at it moves out of mundane territory for a minute or so . The final twenty minutes are much better than the first seventy ; but it's not enough to completely save the film .
Overlong and dull porno !	Well , since it's called Porno Holocaust and directed by Joe D'Amato , I went into this film expecting sleaze . . . and while I somewhat got it , Porno Holocaust was a massive disappointment as it's just so damned BORING . The title suggests that the film will feature porn , and that's not wrong - Porno Holocaust is pretty much just porn , and most of it is just the same stuff over and over again , I was fast forwarding before the end . The first sex scene is between two women and it got my hopes up , but after that it just degenerates into normal porn , and the rest of the film ( for the first hour ! ) is made up of talking , and you can imagine how much fun that is to sit through ! The plot focuses on a deserted island where , believe it or not , something strange is going on . Naturally , it's not long before a group of people - made up of a few men and some scientists , who all happen to be sexy women , land on the island . They have sex a few times and some strange things happen , then over an hour later they're attacked by a mutant zombie creature with an eye for the ladies . . . This must have seemed like a good idea for an original porno - a zombie who likes to get it on , but unsurprisingly it doesn't work well at all . The film clocks in at just ten minutes short of the two hour mark , and that is far too long for a film like this . I have no idea why Porno Holocaust is as long as it is ; if they'd just snipped one minute out of every sex scene , the film would have been under ninety minutes , and that would have made it much more tolerable ! The zombie takes what seems like an eternity to appear ( it's quite a long time before there's a sex break long enough for them to actually travel to the island in the first place ) , and when it does finally appear , it's a huge disappointment ! I realise that this is low budget B-movie trash , but D'Amato surely could have tried a bit harder and come up with something better than this ! I'm not even going to bother mentioning the acting , atmosphere etc , there's no point . Porno Holocaust is basically just your average dull porn flick with a slight sprinkling of horror , and I can't recommend it !
Dull Satanic Euro horror nonsense	I'm a big fan of Euro horror and went into this one hoping for something along the lines of Sergio Martino's excellent paranoid Giallo All the Colours of the Dark , and came out of it severely disappointed . The plot focuses on Hilda Torres , a woman who decides to infiltrate a strange cult when her sister goes missing . She soon gets noticed by Tils Nescu ; doctor and leader of the cult , and he has his own designs in Hilda . The film does look very nice and this is complimented by a cast featuring several nice looking ladies , but this doesn't cover up this film's main problem - that being that it's far too slow and the plot is completely uninteresting for most of the film . There's a hell of a lot of talking in the movie and it started to grind me down after a while . Usually with films like this , I can pick out a few good things to say about it ; but Feast for Satan is seriously lacking in anything positive aside from the aforementioned good looking cinematography and actresses . There's a little twist at the end that doesn't really add much to the film and overall I feel safe in saying that even you're a fan of Euro horror , you can find something better to do with this part of your life .
One good idea is scuppered by poor execution	This film actually works from a fairly original idea - I've never seen nymphs that were thrown out of heaven in a horror movie before anyway . However , the way that it executes this idea isn't original in the slightest ; we follow a bunch of kids that , for some reason decide to go on a trip into the forest . The fact that the forest is inhabited by these nymphs make it more interesting than merely another forest filled by rednecks / nutcases / zombies etc ; but really , the monsters are just a variation on the common horror in the woods theme . Many films of this ilk don't have a single good idea - and it would seem that this one has worn its brain cells out with just that one . The only real asset that the monsters bring to the table is the fact that they're beautiful women that the characters lust for , rather than being hideous grotesques that they want to run away from . This is good up until a point ; but it soon gets boring , and the almost complete lack of any back-story surrounding the central monsters ensures that the film is never going get itself out of the ' horror trash ' category . It's been years since The Evil Dead made the woodlands a prime horror location , and in spite of films like The Blair Witch Project ; it still makes for an excellent horror setting . This is one of the film's major assets , as the forest presents a good impression of the unknown - the only problem is that Forest of the Damned doesn't ever seem to have much up its sleeve . The death sequences show a distinct lack of imagination , and the fact that all the characters are clichéd in the extreme doesn't help , as you're more likely to be looking forward to seeing them get killed rather than hoping they can get away . The cast is made up of kids mainly , but there is a role here for Tom Savini ; who unfortunately doesn't get to have fun in the special effects department . The only real highlight the film has where personnel are concerned comes from the nymphs themselves . The naked ladies tend to look great , and if it wasn't for them , this film would get very boring very quickly . There's nothing to recommend this film for really ; but if you want a daft little horror film that harks back to the style of eighties woodland flicks , you might find some enjoyment here .
Just as dull as it's title	There has been something of a revival of the horror genre over the past few years , and already this decade has been a whole lot better for horror than the mediocre decade that was the 1990's . However , there's still a core of rubbish horror films being made - namely , dull ghost stories . Backed up by the wave of acclaimed , yet samey , Asian horror films ; this sort of film will continue to get made because some people think that uninteresting plotting and ' jumpy ' moments are the way to a good horror film . Actually , this one hasn't been met with acclaim ; but there are some who like it , and it is because of comments from those people that I have ended up seeing it . Overall , Darkness is as inspiring and imaginative as it's title - i . e . not very . It's clichéd and dull , and there's barely a moment in this film that I haven't already seen in a ghost / haunted house movie . The dull plot follows a family that move into a new house and quickly find out that they aren't the only ones living there - as the house is already inhabited by an evil ' darkness ' , which manifests itself in shadowy form . It's ironic that this film is so uninspiring , because the plot was obviously meant to be intriguing - and it could have been , if given decent handling . When you reach the halfway point in a film and the only thing that's happened is that someone's discovered a secret room , you know that you're in the wrong movie . Most of the movie is spent on characters musing or worrying and it all gets very tiresome , very quickly . Darkness isn't helped by the fact that it's lead actress , Anna Paquin , looks more like she's enjoying a game of charades than playing the lead in a movie . It's really difficult to take her seriously at any point , and this takes our attentions away from the already dismal plot . The film takes in ideas from other films , such as the ' day by day ' thing in The Shining , but none of it's recycled ideas work as well as they did in the film that writer-director Jaume Balagueró stole them from , simply because this film doesn't have a base with enough interest to build a movie from . To be fair , things do pick up a little towards the end , but despite a couple of exciting moments and some atmospheric effects ; it's too little too late , and it can't stop this film from being a failure .
Mostly boring seventies thriller	Being a big fan of British horror and seventies horror , I went into this film with marginally high expectations ; but unfortunately , Night Watch is just too similar to any number of other films , and since the plot isn't really carried off with any panache , the film doesn't have enough about it to make much of an impact . The plot is the familiar story of a woman who believes she's seen someone killed and upon trying to make others believe her eyes , finds herself being labelled insane . Elizabeth Taylor is the film's strongest asset in the lead role , but even her strong performance and good looks aren't enough to save the film . The plot mostly just drones on and , to be honest , by the time it reached the end , I wasn't really bothered what the outcome to the story would turn out to be , and that isn't a mark of a successful thriller ! Director Brian G . Hutton does manage the odd atmospheric moment and the style of the film is spot-on ; but the positive elements aren't enough to make the film good and overall I really wouldn't recommend anyone track this film down .
The dark water is back . . . and it's still not very interesting	My TV guide said that this film " simply doesn't have the suspense of the original " . I was hoping that would be true , but unfortunately this film largely has the same amount of suspense as the original ; and that is not much . However , I would say that this film bucks a remake trend somewhat , as it is a more involving take on the story originally written by Kôji Suzuki than the one seen in the 2002 Japanese film ; although that possibly does have a lot to do with the fact that this one stars incredible natural beauty Jennifer Connelly , who kept me watching even during the more boring moments of the film ( which are numerous ) . The plot focuses on Dahlia Williams ; a woman involved in a custody battle with her husband over their daughter Cecilia . She moves into an old apartment block with her daughter and soon the pair is ' menaced ' by a big damp patch on the ceiling and a red kid's rucksack . Things get worse when the kid develops an imaginary friend who she insists is real . It later becomes apparent that the apartment block is haunted . Like the original , this film is very , very slow and other than the lead actress ; there's not much to enjoy for most of the duration . It seriously takes over an hour for it to get going and only the last ten minutes or so really contain anything of interest , and even then it isn't that interesting . The film mostly consists of build up and while it's well acted and nice looking build up , it's not very interesting and fails to create the important elements ( intrigue and menace ) , thus rendering it mostly pointless . Jennifer Connelly was the star of classic eighties horror masterpiece Phenomena in 1985 and it unfortunately took her twenty years to make her way back into the premier film genre . . . although arguably this film is not really horror either since most of the " action " focuses on drama , not terror and suspense . Still , seeing Connelly on screen is good even if it is in a lacklustre film . The film does benefit from a good supporting cast , with John C . Reilly , an unrecognisable Tim Roth and the always solid Pete Postlethwaite in support . It all boils down to an ending that wraps up the story well , but is also a bit of a letdown as with so much build up , a bigger payoff was needed ; plus it's really predictable . I honestly don't understand why anyone liked the original Dark Water , and while this film is not much better ; it is a superior remake . Still , there are not many good reasons to see this film .
Just a shadow of other fairytale horror films	The first thing I noticed about this film was the completely inane dialogue , and unfortunately ; there is a streak of ineptitude running throughout Werewolf Shadow , and this is a shame as without it ; this film actually isn't bad at all . The principle positive element is without doubt the atmosphere , as León Klimovsky's film features a surreal dreamlike ambiance , which bodes extremely well with the fantasy-horror elements of the rather unoriginal plot line . As the title suggests , the film handles the stalwart horror monster ' the werewolf ' , and it does it in an almost fairytale like manner . This again ensures disappointment as films like Suspiria have shown what a great effect a fairytale plot line can have on a film ; although this film proves otherwise . The plot centres on two girls ; Elvira and Genevieve , who find themselves travelling through the French countryside in search of a medieval tomb , believed to that of a murderess . However , they happen to run into Waldemar Daninsky , a Count with a secret , who invites the girls to stay at his castle . The film is probably most notable for the fact that it stars prolific Spanish horror veteran , Paul Naschy . I have to admit that I've only seen a handful of Naschy's films ; but they've ranged from bad to worse and personally , I'm not a big fan of what I've seen thus far . In this film , Naschy doesn't get to do much more than chew the scenery anyway . The acting isn't the best overall and the special effects leave a lot to be desired also . The gloomy Gothic atmosphere is definitely a treat , however , and it really is a good job as if it wasn't for that , the film wouldn't be worth watching at all . Werewolf Shadow isn't a very long film , lasting just over eighty minutes , but it really does drag as the plot simply moves along without ever being too interesting . Director León Klimovsky does pad his film out with some very nice imagery , however , and the film does look very nice on a number of occasions . Overall , I really can't recommend going out of your way to find Werewolf Shadow ; all of its elements have been done better in other films , and despite some nice aesthetics ; this is a sadly lacklustre effort .
Not as macabre ( or as good ) as Danse Macabre	For some reason , Italian maestro Antonio Margheriti felt the need to remake his masterpiece ' Danse Macabre ' almost a decade on ; and personally , I can't see a single good reason for doing so . The original worked mainly through its atmosphere rather than its plot , and this was put across well through the stunning black and white photography . In the move from black and white to colour , the film has lost the main thing that made it great ; and the fact that Margheriti doesn't handle the plot as well this time around ensures that this film isn't much more than an interesting cult film . In typical Italian fashion , the plot doesn't make a great deal of sense ; and this is made all the more infuriating by the fact that it doesn't have the stunning Gothic atmosphere to fall back on . The plot follows a journalist by the name of Alan Foster , who ends up making a bet with the great Edgar Allen Poe that he can spend a single night in an old Gothic castle , which is rumoured to be inhabited by ghosts . While in the castle , the journalist encounters several strange characters ; and soon finds out that they're more than they seem . The only real name on the cast list belongs to cult German actor Klaus Kinski , who gives the only memorable performance of the film in the role of Edgar Allen Poe . The original film benefited from the presence of the beautiful Barbara Steele ; but this film has to make do with Michèle Mercier , who isn't particularly bad ; but is no Barbara Steele . Anthony Franciosa ( ' Tenebrae ' ) takes the lead role , and like much of the rest of the film ; is instantly forgettable . The atmosphere surrounding the central location isn't too foreboding , and the sets look more cheap than Gothic . Margheriti does help the film along by way of a number of shots that help to build the atmosphere ; the scene that sees smoke edging down a flight of stairs being the standout . There is a sense of beauty about the film , and while the plot always feels like an afterthought - it does bode well enough to fully fit the style of the film . However , there are too many tedious scenes and for everyone that works , there's at least two that don't . Overall , this film may be a point of interest for fans of ' Danse Macabre ' ( myself included ) , but I really can't rate as a film worth tracking down .
Lacklustre fairytale that could have been better considering the people involved	I must admit that I was never a big fan of kid's movies even when I was kid and as an adult , I'm especially not a big fan of them of them now . This of course begs the question of why did I watch this movie ? Anyway , what we basically have here is a children's fantasy about a mythical goblin world , directed by Muppets creator Jim Henson and starring controversial rocker David Bowie as the ' Goblin King ' as well as a young Jennifer Connelly ( who was probably given the role because of her excellent turn in the Dario Argento masterpiece ' Phenomena ' a year earlier ) as the young heroine named Sarah . The plot begins when the young Sarah gets sick of her baby brother's crying so does what any aggravated sister would do - and wishes him off to the Goblin Kingdom . The Goblin King gets hold of her brother and keeps him in his castle , which happens to be right at the centre of said Goblin Kingdom . Naturally she decides to try and get her brother back and the rest of the film follows her in typical fairytale fashion as she makes her way through the various pitfalls . This film apparently didn't do very well upon its release and I'm not really surprised . Not least because the two leads were not well known ( David Bowie not well known for acting ) but also because the movie just doesn't work . Labyrinth has a lot to play with from the plot but it all feels very dingy and like the producers didn't want to stump up the money to have the film made properly . Fantasy worlds really should be colourful in kid's films , and if they're not then the plot should be dark enough to justify the tone , but what we end up with is a typically ' happy ' kid's movie with plenty of singing and dancing etc in an environment that doesn't suit it . David Bowie tries to create a big of menace with his character but ends up looking silly more often , and while the heroine does face some tribulations in her efforts to get her brother back ; I never really felt like she was in any danger and that it wasn't all going to turn out OK in the end . To her credit , Jennifer Connelly is the best thing about the movie and puts in a suitable performance in the lead role . Most of the characters are puppets and they all look a bit crap and I'm sure that the puppeteers could have managed something a bit more impressive . Overall , this is a rather lacklustre fantasy with not much to recommend it for ; but it is better than the crappy ' Legend ' at least .
Cheap and cheerful Alien rip-off	During the eighties there were more bona fide cult classics released than one could shake a stick at , and while this film has all the makings of being a cult classic ; for my money , it's just a cheap Alien rip-off that makes good use of a small budget in some ways , but didn't do much for me . The most notable thing about the film is obviously the monster itself , and it's an interesting creation and is brought to the screen in a manner that is boisterous and fun . It's clear that the film is meant to be a horror-comedy , but the comedy is not really funny and the film is not scary because of the focus on comedy . There's a fair bit of gore featured , but again it's cheap and cheerful and not really up to much . None of the characters are engaging and I couldn't really care less what happened to any of them . The focus is very small scale , focusing mostly on a farmhouse and it's good because it keeps the action contained and since the central monster is fairly big , it looks more impressive in the small surroundings . But there's not a great deal of invention and I felt like I've seen all this stuff before . You've got to give some respect to low budget stuff like this for the fact that it didn't have a lot of resources to draw on ; but it just didn't do much for me .
Women's prisons in Brazil are sleazier than most !	Well I've got to say that I do enjoy a good slice of sleaze ; but I also like there to be some sort of narrative to keep my interest , and this film lacks that ; which leaves it feeling rather shallow and pointless . As the title suggests , Bare Behind Bars is another one of those ' women in prison ' films , and the fact that it hails from Brazil means that you can certainly count on gratuitous sex and nudity , which this film features in droves . There's all sorts of stuff going on , from lesbian sex to the use of dildo's and other implements , and everyone in the prison gets involved ; from the prisoners to the guards and everyone in-between . The only slight hint of plot revolves around a prison break , which happens towards the end . There's a fair amount of violence to go with the sex and general sleaze , which includes certain male body parts being removed and , on one occasion , being fed to the family dog ! However , while this film has everything you could want in terms of sleaze ; the lack of any plot at all really does harm it . Obviously this is not a genre that is well known for great stories , but this film is shallow even by genre standards ; and while I'm not an expert on sleazy women in prison flicks - Jess Franco has certainly done better .
Good ideas , but dull execution	This odd little Sci-Fi film takes the common ' when animals attack ' horror theme , but instead of making them giant or an animal that usually attacks humans , this time it's just ants that are the focus . Of course , the idea of ants attacking humans had already been done two decades earlier with the classic monster movie ' Them ! ' back in 1954 . However , this is not merely a retread of old grounds , as the ants here attack using the power of combined intelligence rather than new a found increase in size . This is all well and good , as the film is rather original and it stands apart from other films of a similar nature ; but all in all , the 1954 film was far more entertaining and not nearly as flat . The plot focuses on a pair of scientists ; one of which a man who has noticed that common ants have started becoming more intelligent . We then follow the pair , and a girl that they saved , as they study the ants inside a lab in the desert . However , the ants aren't happy about being studied , and begin to use their collective powers to torment the three people inside the lab . I respect the fact that the filmmakers obviously had a lot of ideas for this film , but most of them aren't well executed , making it ; to me at least , a film full of missed opportunity . Director Saul Bass seems to care more about close-up photography than character development or plot , as he delights in capturing magnified shots of the ants , but forgets to almost everything else . The close-up photography is good , but I thought I was in for a horror film , not a documentary on insect life . The film does get off to a good start , and ideas touched upon at the start are brought forward later on . The ant is a fascinating creature , and given their organisation prowess ; if an insect was to threaten human life on a mass scale , I'm sure it would be ants ? but as there isn't much horror to go with this idea ; so the film is never very terrifying . The ending is completely ambiguous , but it also feels rather lazy , as the film ends before we get any explanation as to why the ants suddenly got clever , and so the whole film turns out to be rather pointless . Still , at least it was somewhat original .
Indians turn in their graves at the poor film-making going on in the house above them !	The Amityville Horror is considered a classic in some circles ; I don't know why ; to me it was merely just another haunted house horror flick , and a rather dull one at that . Amityville 2 has addressed the problem of its predecessor being dull by packing in plenty of violence and demonic horror , but it's really just lead to another load of problems as this film fails on too many levels . The film is directed by Damiano Damiani , an Italian director who cut his teeth in the seventies with a load of Polizi flicks . I wasn't surprised that it's an Italian at the helm ; rip offs of The Exorcist almost became its own genre in Italy after 1973 , and really that's all this film is . The plot focuses on the house that was introduced to the world in the 1979 film and we follow the first family that lived there . The Montelli family move into the house not realising the evil that dwells there . It's not long before the son , Sonny , becomes possessed by an evil demon that instructs him to shoot his family . A local priest discovers what is happening and decides to try and save the boy's soul . . . Damiano Damiani clearly wanted to shock his audience with this film , but he doesn't manage it because every time something shocking is about to happen , the camera cuts away ! I don't know if it was his fault or the orders from the producers , but this film completely misses the point of ' less is more ' . The point of it is to make the audience think they're seeing something without actually showing it ; but the camera cuts here make it quite obvious that we aren't seeing the shocking things in this film , and it just kills it . Had the film been well shot , it actually would have been quite a shocking horror flick , featuring things such as incestuous sex and young children being blown away ; so it's a bit of a shame . In spite of these problems , the film is fairly good , story-wise , for the first hour . After the central set-piece , however , it all becomes rather superfluous and silly . The final third of the movie almost feels like a different film packed with silly demonic voices and rubbish special effects . Clearly this is not a good example of the horror genre , but it is at least interesting as a heavily flawed example of how NOT to make a shocking horror movie .
Not even nearly as good as it's title	This sixties flick has all the right ingredients to be another horror treat . We've got Peter Cushing , a ridiculously silly plot line , the Hammer Horror style and even the right sort of title , which by including the words ' blood ' , ' beast ' and ' terror ' , leaves you to assume that there's going to be some entertainment value within . This is not the case ; as The Blood Beast Terror falls massively short of the high mark where films of this ilk are concerned ; but don't fret too much , as this isn't all bad . The plot has the potential to be lots of fun , as bug-related monsters aren't seen too often ; and there's a murder investigation , complete with some mutilated cadavers to add to the piece - but what it all comes down is the fact that the audience already knows who the monster is ; which completely saps all mystery , and tension , out of the film . The Blood Beast Terror stars Peter Cushing in the role of a police inspector who goes undercover in the British countryside to investigate a couple who are acting strangely . There's a reason for that ; she's a giant death's head moth , and he created her ! You can usually count on a decent performance ( at least ) from Peter Cushing ; but he appears to have read the script before performing in this film , as he sleepwalks through the movie . Even so , it's nice to see any film with him ; but the movie could have benefited from a more interesting performance . Robert Flemyng co-stars , but is never given much chance to make an impact . The special effects are really terrible , with the transformation sequence from moth to woman being appalling ; but not quite as bad as the moth itself - which is portrayed by a pathetically obvious man in a suit . This film is Tigon's answer to the Hammer success , ' The Reptile ' - but The Blood Beast Terror doesn't hold a candle to the aforementioned film in any way . The Reptile had suspense , characters that are slightly more than dull and creature effects that are decent enough to believe if you stretch your imagination a little bit . I don't rate The Blood Beast Terror as a complete and utter failure . The film does have its moments , and I've got to say that I didn't get too bored watching it on the whole - but I'd only recommend this to people that absolutely love British horror movies .
Snore and doze seems more likely	Despite all the bad things I'd heard about this film , I decided to go right ahead and watch it anyway as both the titles ( Scream and Die , and even better , The House That Vanished ) sounded interesting and director José Ramón Larraz did make one of the best lesbian vampire movies of all time with the excellent Vampyres . I have to admit that the film isn't quite as bad as I was expecting ; there's a good atmosphere and a few decent moments of tension ; but overall I have to go with the majority opinion here and say that the film is very dull on the whole and is mostly riddled with genre clichés . The film gets off to a promising start as a young couple stumble upon an old house in the woods . Being a thief , the boyfriend decides that they should loot it . However , instead of valuable items ; the couple find a murder . The girl flees the house and the boyfriend vanishes . Naturally she tells people what she's seen upon returning to society , but her attempts to find the house again fail - the house has . . . errr . . . vanished . Anyway , she finds another bloke but the murderer is still out there . . . The film features the cheap looking and very cheap sounding British style that many seventies British horror films feature . José Ramón Larraz photographs the film well and gives it a thick and foreboding atmosphere that does benefit it ; although it must be quite difficult to make a film about an old house and not have some sort of atmosphere . The plot is the biggest problem with this film as it is really boring and not much of interest happens . There's a murder sequence that sees a naked woman get sliced that's well done and it's one of the few highlights . José Ramón Larraz does make an attempt to make up for the lack of plot with plenty of naked women , most of which are quite beautiful so that was nice of him . There's not a great deal of gore in the film , though it does seem to want to incorporate as much of the Giallo style into the film as possible . The characters in this film are pretty stupid and make daft decisions , and this stretches all the way to the ending which is completely obvious and can be seen coming a mile off . Overall , I can't say that I enjoyed this film much and I can't recommend it either .
The lack of originality spoils the fun	I'm a big fan of zombie movies , but this low budget fan-made stuff doesn't tend to appeal much . It's not that I don't enjoy the splatter , it's that recycled ideas can only go so far before you're completely watching someone else's film ; albeit regurgitated . The Dead Hate the Living isn't a complete dead loss , and it's easy to see what the filmmakers were trying to achieve - but it suffers from the common problem with films like this , in that it doesn't have enough ideas in it's own right to be fun enough to completely keep the audience going with it . The film definitely has it's moments , though , such as the ending which brilliantly pays tribute to Lucio Fulci's " The Beyond " . The constant name-dropping gets tired after a while . It's not bad at first , as you can see that the film is made by fans of this sort of stuff ( people like me and , probably , you ) but once the point has been made ; it doesn't need to be made again . And again , and again . The plot is typically thin , and it follows a film crew making a no-budget zombie movie in an old abandoned hospital , which also happens to be a resting place for a doctor that wants the dead to take over the Earth . This plot probably took about five minutes to think of , and the same again for script writing time ; but funnily enough , the plot is what gives the film it's main point of originality in the way that the characters are making a film , which turns out to be about what's happening to them . What makes this idea fun is the way that the film almost spoofs itself with the way that we see the crew making their film , and then ending up getting butchered for real . While the plot isn't bad , the plotting will no doubt get on many people's nerves . The gore doesn't turn up at all in the first half of the movie , and even when it does it isn't thick or fast and the result isn't all that fun to watch . It's also ironic that you spend the first half of the film waiting for the zombie mayhem to start , and when it finally does ; you realise that the first half of the movie was actually better ! The Dead Hate the Living is a film that I would recommend to zombie enthusiasts only . There isn't enough about it to appeal to people who aren't zombie fans , and in that respect even zombie fans may be a little disappointed . A note to everyone ; beware of the truly awful CGI towards the end !
Leave your brain at the door , but this could have been a lot worse	Troma aren't exactly well known for high quality horror films , and this one fits the bill pretty well in the quality stakes ; but it's actually more childish than the usual gory Troma output . The film is something of a spoof of the monster movie genre and , as the title suggests , focuses on the childhood fear of a monster in the closet . The film kicks off with a few mysterious murders and it's not long before the horrible closet monster is revealed . The monster itself is an extremely camp creation and is sure to leave most audience members in stitches - not usually the desired effect for a monster but the film is obviously intended to be tongue in cheek and the monster is actually a very original creation . I really wasn't expecting anything at all decent from this film , but in fairness to it ; it's actually quite decent . There's nothing particularly clever about it ; though the idea of the monster ' recharging ' in closets is nice in that it seems to be a ham-fisted way of explaining the whole closet monster idea . The characters and plot line surrounding the monster are interesting and entertaining and Monster in the Closet is at least a decent way to waste ninety minutes or so .
Flowers that are not exactly blazing !	The Polizi genre is generally best known for it's entertainment value ; and it is with that in mind that I say that I'm not surprised that Blazing Flowers is not one of the best known films in the genre ; and the reason for that is down to the fact that the film is really rather boring . The plot itself is sleazy enough and we focus on several shady areas of society ; including drugs and prostitution , but the story is rather dull and the characters are not interesting enough to hold things together . The main character is a cop played by prolific Italian star George Hilton , and he has a grudge against a local crime boss and so pairs up with an ex-con in order to stop the criminal . The plot basically plods along and the audience is given plenty of opportunities to get bored . There's very little in the way of action and only the odd car chase here and there gets things going , and it's not enough . George Hilton doesn't give his best performance either and helps to instill the movie's place as a failure . I've not really got anything more to say about this film . I have to say I'm a big fan of the genre and that's why I saw it - but in case you're not a big fan , you can feel free to skip this one !
Dreary horror comedy	Well . . . despite the fact that many people find this film funny , I really can't say it did much at all for me . I found The House in Nightmare Park to be derivative , unimaginative and really rather boring - Frankie Howerd in the lead role didn't do much for me either . Horror films ( and horror comedies ) about a family / bunch of people in an old house always seem to revolve around a hidden fortune , and this film is no different , which is a shame . The film is directed by Peter Sykes , who also directed two of the lesser Hammer films in To The Devil a Daughter and Demons of the Mind , and while this film is actually slightly better than those two ; it didn't do anything to improve my opinion of the man at the helm . The plot focuses on Foster Twelvetrees , an actor who is hired by the mysterious and sinister Henderson family to perform at the house . It soon transpires that somewhere on the property is buried treasure , and naturally everyone in the house wants to find it - and they're happy to do that , even if it does mean bumping off the others in the process . The film is meant to be a horror comedy , although it doesn't provide a balance between the two - rather , it's a comedy with some atmosphere and a creaky old house thrown in . Frankie Howerd is a popular comedian for a reason , but all the same ; his style of humour doesn't appeal to me much . There's nothing particularly wrong with his performance in this film ; he leads it well and keeps things mostly interesting . There aren't a great deal of standout moments in the film and a lot of the jokes aren't funny . The plot moves well , but it's always obvious where it's going , especially for me since I've seen this sort of thing many times before . Ray Milland pops up in a supporting role and gives the film a bit of much needed class . The locations aren't bad and the country house itself is a foreboding presence . The ending doesn't come as much of a surprise , although the build up to it is the best part of the film . The House in Nightmare Park has its fans , but as I've made quite clear - I'm not one of them !
Disappointing ' Demons ' style " homage " to Black Sunday	Like almost every other late eighties Italian horror film with a plot that even slightly has anything to do with demons ; this film is labelled as a part of the ' Demons ' series , started by Lamberto Bava in 1985 . This ' series ' is very hard to keep up with once you get past the first ( and only official ) sequel . The title ' Demons 3 ' was given to Umberto Lenzi's " Black Demons " , Michele Soavi's " The Church " and Lamberto Bava's " The Ogre " ; while Michele Soavi's " The Sect " ( which had nothing to do with demons ! ) was released as " Demons 4 " , and this film ; released two years BEFORE The Sect , gets the title " Demons 5 " . Oh , and let's not forget the ' sixth instalment ' ; Luigi Cozzi's The Black Cat , also released in 1989 . Anyway , naturally this film has nothing to do with Lamberto Bava's other two ( or three ) Demons films , and is actually something of a homage to his father's 1960 masterpiece Black Sunday . The plot focuses on a group of friends skiing in the Alps . They fall into an ice cave and one of their number is killed . The also find a body with a devil's mask nailed into its head ; and decide to remove the mask . . . which naturally unleashes demons and stuff . After hearing the plot summary , I was convinced that the story , along with the fact that we have a director homaging his own father , would lead to an at least interesting film . However . . . the result really couldn't have been much more disappointing . As mentioned , the film is not really a homage to Black Sunday at all ; there's the obvious similarity of both films having a witch killed by having a mask nailed into her skull , but that's about the end of the similarities . The tone and style of the film is much closer to the aforementioned Demons films ; which obviously makes this one very trashy indeed . The one thing I did like about it is the fact that it's set in the snow covered Alps - this provides a refreshingly different location for an Italian horror , and credit must be given . The film was made for television , and as such the gore is kept down to a minimum . There's a few disgusting sequences . . . but nothing to write home about . This film has become very hard to find ; and an English language version is even more difficult to find . . . so I wouldn't recommend anyone but the most ardent Lamberto Bava fans goes to any lengths to track down a copy .
Could have bee ( n ) better	Well , I wasn't expecting anything more than a ' fun B-movie thriller ' from Invasion of the Bee Girls , and I didn't get anything more . I can certainly think of more fun ways to spend ninety minutes of my time too , but on the plus side - as this sort of film goes , this one isn't a terrible example . Insects are some of Earth's most interesting creatures , and this film sets itself apart from many other flicks handling similar topics as it actually takes some time to make that point . . . not everything the film professes is true ( for example , the female praying mantis will only eat her mate if she is hungry ) , but you can't expect a proper lesson on the natural world from a B-movie thriller . The insects that the film focuses on , unsurprisingly , are bees , and we focus on the results of experiments conducted by Dr . Susan Harris , as a number of men are found dead - apparently from excessive exertion during sex ( hey , there's worse ways to die ! ) . The majority of the film is actually rather dull , however , and while some attempt is made at fusing insect life cycles with the human one - the idea behind the plot certainly could have been given a better story to work with . Overall , I can't really recommend Invasion of the Bee Girls - it's not as outlandish as the title suggests it is , nor is it as ' fun ' as you would expect ; but if you do end up watching this , it has to be said that you could do worse .
Awful British accents in a silly lost nineties flick	Split Second is one of those nineties films that was forgotten five minutes after it was released ; and upon discovering the film , I've got to say that I can understand why this film was forgotten . Split Second isn't a particularly ' bad ' film ; but it's not very good either . The plot and execution are reminiscent of a number of earlier films , and this one doesn't offer much , if anything at all , in the way of originality . The film also suffers from a series of nuisances that bring the film down . The first and most obvious of these irritations is the large amount of incredibly fake and silly British accents . Much of the cast is British , but the ' hard man ' accents don't bode well with the film . Chief among the rest of the flies in the ointment is the fact that the film takes place in a futuristic environment ; but doesn't make any use of it ! Split Second follows a tough guy copper in London 2008 , after global warming has ravaged the city and , presumably , the rest of the planet . He's on the case of the murder of his partner , which is supposed to have been perpetrated by some strange monster . . . It was the plot that attracted me to this film , and staying true to the rest of the movie ; it's a big disappointment . Rather than run with the idea of a monster on the loose in futuristic London , instead the director focuses on the dull relationship between his central characters ; which mostly revolves around Neil Duncan's student cop unsuccessfully trying to bring out a sensitive side in Rutger Hauer's stone faced policeman , only to be ' amusingly ' brushed away . Hauer's lead performance isn't very impressive , as the actor that stunned audiences in the likes of Blade Runner and The Hitcher looks uncomfortable delivering the painful script , and doesn't work well in the good guy role . Support comes from the likes of Kim Cattral , Pete Postlethwaite and Ian Dury ( of Blockheads fame ) . The action is sometimes well paced and exciting , but more often than not it isn't present ; as the film constantly revolves around the more boring elements of the plot . Don't get me wrong ; there's a lot worse forgotten nineties films out there - but Split Second isn't up to much , and is best left on the shelf in the ' ex-rentals ' section .
Lead character and audience in comas	Patrick gets off to a good start as we watch a young kid kill his mother and her lover ; but the influence of Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece Psycho ends there as the rest of the film is as dull as dishwater . The film's main gimmick stems from its central character ; obviously named Patrick . He's grown up from having caused his mother's death and has been in a coma all of his adult life . We pick up the story when a new nurse starts at the hospital and is put in charge of Patrick . Shortly thereafter , strange things start to happen and Patrick appears to have a telekinetic ability which he uses to kill people . It's a decent premise for a film , but in order for it to work ; the plot really needs some excitement . The film is sadly lacking in that department and I actually felt like I was slipping into a coma on several occasions . Obviously the killer doesn't have a personality to speak of , and so we are left only with the supporting cast of characters - which are all dull and don't manage to hold the audience's attention enough on their own . Unfortunately , director Richard Franklin doesn't even reward us with some interesting death scenes . Overall , this is a boring movie that isn't helped by its near two hour running time and one that I wouldn't recommend to anyone .
Nice style but that's about it !	Hairspray marks something of a departure for director John Waters ; a man best known for his ' bad taste ' pictures such as Pink Flamingos and Female Trouble . The film still features Waters ' style , but the bad taste is massively toned down and the whole feel of the movie could be described as ' John Waters Lite ' . The film is set in 1962 Baltimore and music is the major focus of the film . Waters obviously realised that the style of it would be the major attraction ; and as such has taken time to lay it on as thick as possible , and this blends well with the music and storyline . The plot focuses on a corny music show enjoyed by the teens in Baltimore . ' Pleasantly plump ' Tracy Turnblad is one of the many obsessed by this show and sets out to get a role as one of the dancers . She achieves her goal and soon becomes a local hero , but she loses some friends when she decides to use her success in order to speak out for what she believes in - namely social integration . While John Waters ' style is one of the best things about the movie , in another way it's one of the worst . In his earlier films , the content is generally distracting enough for the audience not to really notice the rather boring directorial style ; but this film doesn't have that , and while the style is a big enough distraction at first ; it soon becomes clear that the plot is rather lacking and the film becomes dull before we even reach the halfway point . Hairspray stars Ricki Lake in the lead role , and she does a rather good job with it . The role doesn't require any great acting talents , but she is at least bright and breezy for the duration . The rest of the cast is filled out nicely by an eclectic list of names , which includes Debbie Harry , Divine , Pia Zadora and even the director himself in an amusing role as a psychologist . The message regarding segregation may well be a good one ; but really it's not all that interesting and isn't put forward particularly well , and that's where the film falls down . Overall , I do like the style of the film and appreciate the ideas behind it ; but it's not well executed and I don't rate it among Waters ' best efforts .
Enjoyable , but disappointing considering the source material	James Herbert is a great horror writer , and The Rats ; the first in a trilogy of rodent-infested horror stories , is surely one of his finest works . However , Herbert seems to suffer from an even more severe case of the same affliction that haunts Stephen King when it comes to movies ; and that is that his work never gets the respect that it deserves . Aside from a few character names and the basic central theme , Deadly Eyes has little in common with its source material . The sluggish way that the plot plods out in this film is nothing like the exciting and engrossing way that Herbert wrote the story , and the principal problem here is that it takes far too long to get round to the actual rat attack ; and the scenes in-between the horror aren't very interesting . The film focuses on Harris ; a gym teacher who teams up with a woman named Kelly from the local health authority when a bunch of rats eat some infected corn and become monsters . It takes a while , but our lead character eventually realises what's going on ; and it comes to a head on the subway where the rats have nested . Director Robert Clouse is no stranger to ' when animals attack ' films , as he directed the decent ' The Pack ' back in the seventies . He seems to not be too bothered about tension and suspense , however , and this is shown throughout as there's a distinct lack of it . We do get treated to some rat attack scenes throughout the film , but nothing too devastating until the ending when the film lets rip as much as the budget would allow . The major problem with the ending is that it's such a missed opportunity ! The climax was a real highlight in the book and gave the story more weight than a novel about giant rats had any right to have ; but here it's just the standard ' wipe them all out with fire ' conclusion . To say this isn't a good film would be a huge understatement , but despite its short comings in just about every department ; there's something that is easy to like about this film . Maybe it's the amazingly rubbish acting , or the fact that the rats are simply small dogs dressed up . It's probably best not to think about the book too much and just enjoy the film for what it is ; namely , a below average slice of eighties tosh .
Dirty and nasty , but lacks staying power	Despite the fact that it was clearly shot on a micro-budget and received an incognito release , Johan Vandewoestijne's Lucker has received cult status thanks to its legendary gore sequences . However , the gore scenes are either lacking in blood and / or completely ridiculous in their execution , and by putting the focus on making the central character as sick as possible ; the director has forgotten to implement any horror with staying power into the movie , and it all feels a little bit flat . The central character - John Lucker - is presented as a man on a mission , and this is conveyed by the way he stays wordless for the majority of the movie , and by the fact that all his sick antics are leading up to one thing ; namely , revenge . We are introduced to Lucker while he's staying at a mental hospital . Naturally , it doesn't take him long to break out and after killing and raping a couple of nurses , he's back on the street where his crime spree continues . Lucker's sick objective revolves around a young girl that he raped and intended to murder - only he didn't get the last part right , and that's what he's aiming to sort out . The film only lasts for just over seventy minutes , which is a definite good thing as the plot is thinly applied even given that run time . A lot of the plot is concerned with watching the central character maraud around murdering people , and it's lucky that the director manages to introduce another sick sequence just about every time the film looks like it's getting a bit too boring . I have no idea what ' Necrophagous ' means , but I'm guessing it has something to do with the fact that the title character enjoys using the women he kills after death . The sequence towards the end where he licks gore from one of his dead victims from his hands is the sickest in the movie . . . but it didn't offend me too much . The style of the film is down and dirty throughout , which definitely does the movie a lot of favours and the only other positive in the film comes from the lead actor - Nick Van Suyt - who does well in providing the right kind of feel for a character as sick as this one . The role doesn't require much actual acting , but at least he looks the part . Overall , I have to say this film doesn't really look up to its reputation , and while I sort of enjoyed it ; I can't recommend it .
Flat remake	This film is a remake of the 1965 William Castle classic of the same title . It was made for TV , although that's not such a big problem on paper as the plot is very simple and there's not a lot of room for bloodshed anyway . The film also features a distinctly eighties style , which firmly puts the story in the time in which the film was made . Unfortunately , however , the focus of the film is spread thinly over a lot of different areas and as a result ; the central plot suffers as its not fleshed out very well and the characters suffer too as we never really get to know anything about them . The plot focuses on two kids babysitting a younger one . They're bored and decide to get some kicks by making prank phone calls . The game soon gets round to " I know what you did " , which involves phoning someone and simply saying that phrase . Unfortunately , however , they decide to call a Mr Adrian Lancer , a disturbed man that happens to have just murdered his wife . . . The original film featured the same basic plot , so to call this one unlikely and the original not would be unfair . However , the fact that the original is so much better handled means that this version really struggles to get the plot across . The big coincidence of the girls ' game and the murder isn't glossed over with any kind of gimmick which makes it stand out like a sore thumb . Furthermore , the girls themselves have very little character and Robert Carradine looks bored in his role as the murderer and so doesn't bring forward any tension or suspense . The plot is played rather straight for most of the film , which means things rather just drone on and it gets tiresome quickly . Tammy Lauren stands out in her role , though that's only because of her awful eighties haircut , while Shawnee Smith is mostly incognito . It soon becomes clear that the film isn't going to present any surprises and indeed the ending is rather typical . We do finish off with a final twist that is both nonsensical and redundant . Overall , I highly recommend giving the original a look if you want a fun lightweight thriller ; but don't bother tracking this version down .
This horror omnibus ain't up to much	Stephen King's films don't often translate to the silver screen well , and pretty much everything that Romero has touched outside of his famous ' Dead ' trilogy and the brilliant cult gem ; Martin hasn't been up to much - and Creepshow does nothing to change either of these facts . Creepshow is another horror omnibus stemming from the eighties , only this time we are given five tales of terror in a distinctly comic book style . The comic book style tries to capture the ' magic ' of horror comics that were popular in America in the 1950's ; but for me , all the style does is give the film a kiddie sort of a feel . The stories aren't very good either , with all five lacking in imagination , logic , coherency , adequate events to fill the running time or a combination of two or more of these elements . Previous and later films have proved that the omnibus horror style can lead to some good horror . Classics such as Black Sabbath , Dead of Night and many of the films that Amicus made in the seventies show this best - but the eighties provided some good ones ; and this isn't one of them . The first tale gives you a good impression of what sort of film you're in for . This distinctly under-imaginative segment features a lame story and some even worse ' special ' effects , both of which recur throughout the flick . Story number two could have been good , but it's the effects again and this time the acting that lets it down . We get treated to a tale that is very much in a comic book style - but it's never interesting enough to be good . Leslie Nielson lights up the film for the third story . It's odd to see him in a ' serious ' role , but once you've gotten over that - even this segment isn't much above the average . The fourth segment seems to be the centrepiece , with a massively overlong running time and a story that can't fill it . It's a shame , because finding a monster in a crate is about as camp as it gets . . . but Creepshow manages to make even that boring . As bad as tale four is , at least it's not as dull and pointless as the climatic story . It's obvious that the film was trying to be a little bit clever by sneaking in a psychological tale at the end - but this is neither the time or the place , and the overlong run time throughout Creepshow will have numbed you too much to really appreciate this story by the time it appears . On the whole - a shame , but this isn't very good at all .
No wonder Clive Barker wasn't pleased . . .	There is a scene in this movie in which someone screams " He is god ! " , and then we cut to a shot of a big guy in a ridiculous rubber mask . That pretty much sums Rawhead Rex up , as the movie is so completely ridiculous that the audience is never allowed to take it seriously . However , believe it or not ; horror fans have a lot to be thankful for when it comes to Rawhead Rex , as it was the crappiness of this movie ( and the earlier ' Underworld ' by the same director ) that lead to Clive Barker's decision to direct Hellraiser himself . . . and that turned out pretty well . The plot is based on the story by Clive Barker , and features his typical ideas of otherworldly evil . The story takes place in the British countryside , and we follow the idea of a farmer who accidentally unearths a demon . After plaguing the English countryside for a while and upsetting a few people by doing things such as killing children and smashing up kids ' toys , it soon becomes apparent that there may be more to this demon than just a daft-looking killing machine , and perhaps the church has the answer . . . It's easy to see why Clive Barker wasn't happy with this adaptation of his story . The themes of good against evil and religion are put across rather well , and the story behind Rawhead Rex is full of intrigue . The screenplay isn't bad either , and while the story feels stretched ( despite the 85 minute running time ) , it's usually at least entertaining . The reason why it's brought down if you ask me is almost completely down to the demon itself . After the ridiculous intro scene , it's impossible not to approach every scene that the monster is in without laughing ; thus making being scared impossible . The demon at the centre is supposed to be absolute evil . . . but if absolute evil really did exist , I doubt it would look as silly as it does here . The murder scenes aren't bad , though , and the British countryside bodes well with the story and provides an excellent location for having victims picked off in . I liked the way that the characters speak with thick country accents too ; it gives the whole piece a little bit of credibility , which it lacks in so many other areas . Many viewers pass this film off as absolute rubbish , and while the film is terrible ; I've got rate it more as a shame than anything . I'd be pleased if Barker himself one day decided to remake it .
Franco's very own slasher flick !	Bloody Moon sees prolific sleaze director Jess Franco take advantage of the slasher movement that was becoming increasingly popular in the United States around the time that this film was released . Being a European film , the film has a sort of Giallo feel around it , although it's clear that the intention was to draw on the success of films like Halloween and Friday the 13th . Unsurprisingly , Jess Franco is in joint first place for most films on the Video Nasty list back in the eighties along with fellow Eurotrash luminary , Lucio Fulci . Bloody Moon appears on the Nasty list along with Devil Hunter and Women Behind Bars , and while the gore isn't as bloodthirsty as some slasher flicks ; Franco still makes sure that the film deserves its place on the list . The plot follows a group of young girls being murdered at a Spanish school . The killer is revealed in the first scene , and he takes the form of a disfigured young man who has a strange lust for his sister ! The film pretty much plays out in a familiar slasher fashion for most of its duration . While Jess Franco isn't the greatest director of all time ( as shown here ) , one thing he has to be admired for is his ability to make his own entry into any popular sub-genre and make it sleazier than most . While Bloody Moon isn't exactly original , Jess Franco makes sure that his slasher is sicker than most by way of the incestuous relationship at the film's centre . Not only is Franco's serial killer a multiple murderer , he's also a disgusting pervert ! The film is most infamous for the murder that features a young girl coming face to face with a buzzsaw , but that's not to say the other murders , featuring numerous murder weapons such as chainsaws and razorblades , are suitably nasty . The film has a rather large body count , and it's not hard to see why it got banned . . . although gorier slashers didn't suffer the wrath of Britain's intolerable censors . The cinematography is rather bland , and unlike many European horror movies ( including some of Franco's own films ) , this film isn't very nice to look at , and this is matched by the uninspired musical score and some truly diabolical acting . To be honest , I can't really recommend this film , although there may be something here for slasher fans .
It's Not Such a Wonderful Life	I must say that I was surprised , after seeing this movie , to come to it's page on this website to be met with a barrage of largely positive reviews . While I can certainly see the attraction of this movie ; the fact is , it simply isn't very good . The version of The Butterfly Effect that I saw was the largely more liked ' Directors Cut ' version , so whether or not the theatre version is better , I don't know . The muddled plot follows Evan Treborn ; a young man that suffered from black outs as a child , and has found a way to not only remember these black outs as an adult , but go back in time and change them . Which is something that has a massive effect on his current life . As you might expect , this plot opens up a number of plot holes ; and that's the first thing that is wrong with this movie . If you want to make a movie about something confusing , at least make sure that everything makes sense . . . and if that's not possible , at least make some sort of story that could be used in conjunction with the audience's imagination to fill the plot holes . And that's only the start of The Butterfly Effect's woes . The film's main problem is simply that it's RIDICULOUS . The whole thing comes off as being very phoney and just about every event in the film can be described as either ' over the top ' or just far too convenient . The action , therefore , is just stupid and hard to fully connect with because of that . At several points in the movie , I asked myself how one guy could be so unlucky ; and you will too . When you cant believe in a film's plot , that film has failed and that is what has happened to this film . Before seeing it , I thought that Ashton Kutcher might have been the film's downfall ; but ironically , he's one of the best things about the movie . While his performance is far from brilliant , at least Kutcher has fun with the role and his verve helps the film to swing along . Another thing that can be credited to the film is that at least it doesn't get boring , which is something that it could well have done due to the muddled plot . However , the good aspects are sapped up by the terrible ending , which swallows both any point that the film may have had and also betrays all the confidence put into the film by the viewers up until that point . The film draws it's substance from the idea that we are products our memories and the effect that our actions can have on ours and others ' lives . As you will see at the end ; the movie never really knew what to do with it .
Looks nice , but the lack of plot ensures boredom !	I've been looking forward to seeing Dark Waters for ages , and with that in mind ; I have to say that the film is a huge disappointment . The film is definitely style over substance , and it would seem that director Mariano Baino ( a man with only one film credit ) was happy to have it that way as Dark Waters features a wealth of memorable nasty sequences , but hardly anything in terms of plot and coherency . Italian films aren't exactly renowned for making a whole lot of sense ; but the plot here is completely pointless , and this ensures that the film is actually really boring and the stylish elements just aren't enough to save it . The film focuses on an island where strange things are afoot . The island features a bizarre convent full of nuns who don't seem to be interested in God , as well as a load of other strange and eerie characters . We follow Elizabeth ; a young girl who travels to said island , where she just happens to have been born , as she constantly suffers from nightmares about it . It's obvious that there's a strange ancient evil on the island , and after staying there ; she soon finds that there is no escape . . . The main influence on this film would seem to be the work of H . P . Lovecraft , as themes of ancient evil being reawakened are rife , and the film features a typically Lovecraftian atmosphere . It is for this reason that Dark Waters is so disappointing as if it could only have been fused with an interesting storyline , we could have had a masterpiece . If I were to slot this film into a genre , it would be somewhere between nunsploitation and good old Gothic horror as the film features themes from both sides of the spectrum . I'm guessing that the director didn't really know what he wanted the film to be , as it's all very disjointed and that makes it a shame that Mariano Baino was the man at the helm as someone with more experience could have done a lot better . It's hard to really judge the acting performances given the nature of the film , but lead actress Louise Salter at least looks the part and fits into the film nicely , which is to Dark Waters ' credit . The island itself certainly has presence , and the cinematography is generally of a high standard too , which is nice in that it ensures the film is easy on the eyes . Still , it all boils down to the fact that there is no plot here and , unfortunately , the style isn't enough to save it !
Mostly lacklustre Italian Gothic horror	I was really expecting something pretty good from The Embalmer . . . but unfortunately all I got was a dreary horror flick with a couple of good ideas and a complete lack of suspense . The film was apparently inspired by Edgar Wallace , who was the inspiration for a lot of the German " Krimi " style of film-making . Not being too familiar with Wallace's work , I can't say how true that is - but The Embalmer is certainly not the Giallo I was expecting . The film is set in Venice , and makes best use of the scenery . . . though it does get a bit boring as the film sets the scene without putting anything relevant to the story with it ! The film was possibly an inspiration on the brilliant Dutch " Giallo " Amsterdamned as it focuses on a killer who lives under the Venetian canals . The killer is selecting young women of Venice and dragging them to the depths of the canal , where he has his way with them - by filling them up with embalming fluid to keep them beautiful for all time ( etc etc ) . A journalist picks up the story , and soon ends up falling in love with the killer's next victim . The main problem with this film is that it's entirely lacklustre ! The cinematography , acting , direction , plot line etc all stink of a group of people that couldn't really be bothered to come up with something half decent . The film is not very suspenseful at all , and a lot of is made up of mind numbing diatribe , which means that when we actually get to watch the killer with his victims , most viewers will already be bored out of their brains . The killer himself looks cool - completed clad in black with a skull mask , but that's the only good thing about him . He makes long winded speeches to his dead victims that were obviously intended to be scary , but actually come as being rather silly . It does boil down to a fairly decent finale , which despite not justifying the rest of the film ; at least ensures that the movie doesn't just leave a bad taste in the viewer's mouths by the end of the film . Overall , this is a good film to track down because it's extremely rare and seen in some circles as a precursor to the Giallo genre - but trust me , it's not worth the time and effort !
A lesser " Django " movie	This film was made in the same year as ' Django the Bastard ' , with the same director and the same actor in the title role . A Noose for Django feels a lot like an afterthought , and I wouldn't be surprised to find that is the case . This film doesn't benefit from as good a storyline as the aforementioned Spaghetti western , and it feels more like a film that has had the name ' Django ' slapped on it to help it's selling prospects , as the title character feels very much like he's just been dropped into the plot . The plot highlights the antagonism between Mexicans and Americans in a story about smuggling illegal immigrants into an American township . Towards the start , we see a smuggler ditch his cargo in callous fashion . From there , we learn that there's a bounty on the heads of all illegal smugglers , and this attracts the bounty hunter Django to the fray in order to bring the men to justice . However , Django isn't the only hunter on their trail as he faces competition from other gunslingers . Well , I think this is the basic plot line ; the muddled screenplay doesn't exactly make it easy to decipher exact plot details . A Noose for Django is one of the more difficult to find entries in the Django series , and that seems pretty apt it really isn't all that good . Naturally , the film features a plethora of violent gun fights and a handful of gritty characters ; but nothing is really explained or done in any great detail , which really leaves the film feeling rather flat . Anthony Steffen gives a performance that is , in my opinion , better than the one he gave in Django the Bastard ( albeit slightly ) ; but it's spoiled by the fact that he's eclipsed by his rival bounty hunter and his very cool seven barrelled shotgun ! Said gun represents what is probably the only real memorable thing about this film ; which really says a lot for it . However , in typical Italian fashion ; A Noose for Django compensates for its muddled and rather boring story with style . The atmosphere is dark and gritty and the locations , while obviously cheap , do help the film with regards to the atmosphere as it presents a very minimalist western style . Overall , I can't say that I liked this film very much and don't recommend tracking it down ; although there may be something here for Spaghetti western fan .
Uninspiring eighties slasher	Eighties slashers aren't exactly known for being brilliant , and brilliant this film is not . The Initiation takes in all the common themes of the slasher ; dumb teens , vicious murders , an uninspiring plot line etc etc , and it mostly takes place in a shopping mall , a la Dawn of the Dead . The worst thing about this film is simply that there's nothing particularly good about it . The film straddles a line somewhere between teen comedy and a slasher flick , and it actually does the teen comedy side better . . . which doesn't bode well considering this is supposed to be slasher before a comedy . The film follows the familiar idea of something from someone's past coming back to haunt them , as we open with a sequence that sees a young girl witness a man die in a fire . Fast forward a few years to Kelly Fairchild's school life , and she's still suffering from dreams about the event earlier on in her life . However , now she's also got to contend with the American apple pie institution of ' initiation ceremonies ' , and the one that her friends are putting forward involves sneaking into her father's mall . The plot of this film is all over the place , as we've got far too many ideas going on and they don't all bode well . Towards the start , it seems that the dream sequence is going to be the main plot point ; but then all the kids get thrown in and the film doesn't really know what it wants to be . To make matters worse , we've got an amazingly unoriginal plot about a bunch of maniacs that have escaped from a mental institution , and at least one of them is going around murdering people before we've got anywhere near the shopping centre . This film is the only feature directorial credit for Larry Stewart , and that's not surprising as there's nothing particularly special about the way he handles the film . The acting isn't terrible , but it's not very good either . Daphne Zuniga is OK in the lead role , while support from experienced performers Clu Gulager and Psycho's Vera Miles doesn't make much of an impression . It all boils down to something of a shock conclusion , but by that point in the film ; I really couldn't care what happened at the end . Overall , I don't recommend this film ; but if you've got nothing else to do , you could do worse than watch it .
It's not bad , but it's hardly brilliant either	This redundant and superfluous sequel to 2000's Meet the Parents is an enjoyable , if not overly brilliant , piece of fluff . Of course , cinema could have done without this production , but since it's been made and I enjoyed the first one , I figured I'd enjoy this one too . However , simply put ; this film isn't as good as the original because it's gone way over the top with it's quirky characters and instead of being something of a muddled commentary on in-laws like the first one ; this is more of a film where a load of incompatible characters have been thrown into a mixing pot together . This isn't all bad however , as it does make for some nice entertainment and it also allows room for some nice jokes . While the film doesn't offer anything in the way of intelligent humour that you'll remember for a while after the final credits , it does supply the audience with nice set piece gags that are very funny at the time of watching . My personal favourite of the set-pieces involves Ben Stiller , a baby and . . . Scarface . Robert De Niro has been getting lots of stick lately due to the fact that , with the exception of his relatively small role in Jackie Brown , he hasn't been in a really good film since 1993's A Bronx Tale and This Boy's Life . However , his performances haven't diminished and even though the material he has to work with here isn't exactly of the highest standard , he still makes the best of the role and is easily the highlight of the movie . Returning from the original is Ben Stiller , who does just fine as the eager-to-please son-in-law , and the rather incognito Teri Polo and Blythe Danner , who don't really get to do much . Joining them is the duo of Dustin Hoffman and Barbara Streishand , who play Stiller's parents ; the ' amusingly ' titled " Fockers " . The material for them is weak , but they both look like they're having fun , and a few of their gags are funny . On the whole ; this movie will be remembered more for it's name than it's hilarious gags , but if you find yourself with nothing better to do than watch this movie . . . well , it's better than nothing .
I am feeling sleepy . . .	After a promising start that sees our hero look into a female patient's mind whilst she is under hypnosis , this psycho-drama quickly degenerates into the realms of familiarity and becomes a rather turgid and dull thriller . The story follows that of Michael Strother ( Goran Visnjic ) , a hypnotist that can also read minds . While treating a patient ( Shirley Henderson ) for smoking one day , he has a vision of a young girl drowning and we later find out that she is the only escaped victim from a serial killer known as ' The Tattoo killer ' . Naturally , Michael gets drawn in to help the police with their investigation . A film like this has no end of possibilities for imaginative and exciting sequences , but the movie features very little of them . The best scene . . . and only good scene , really , comes from the death of one of the central characters , which is one of the most disturbing and painful I have ever seen ; an incision is made in his chest and then , while he's still alive , a live rat is inserted into the hole . The thoughts you could have about that are endless ! The film does have a good aspect in that there is a lot of tension . Even though the characters are underdeveloped and we don't ever really feel the need to care for them ; the film piles on the tension and some scenes are literally nail-biting . Notice I said ' some scenes ' , though . . . for every time it works , there's another time where it didn't . Doctor Sleep is a film that was funded by the BBC , which is ironic as it feels very much like one of those drama series ' that the BBC puts out . The director , Nick Willing is also the genius behind two other made for TV outings ; remakes of Alice in Wonderland and Jason and the Argonauts . But it's not his direction that makes this feel like made-for-TV , it's the acting that does it . For the most part , it's awful ! The actors don't look or sound like they are putting in any effort at all , and most of their voices sound very put on . The ensemble of actors that have been put together is a mixed bag indeed . Goran Visnjic stars , and he's not bad . He's never brilliant , but at least he's believable . Starring opposite him is Shirley Henderson . Her performance is the worst in the movie , and maybe one of the worst ever . She's a good-looking lady , but she can't act . Paddy Considine , who you may remember from the overrated " In America " , appears for a little while and he's not bad , and Miranda Otto ; the most impressive lady in Lord of the Rings , is very much wasted . The script is also of note in this film . Of note for being really bad , that is . It feels , at times , like it has been written by a couple of eight year olds . No , that's unfair ; a couple of eight year olds and a monkey , a clever monkey even ( as stupid ones don't know how to write ) . Some of the things that the characters say are absolutely ridiculous and totally unrealistic , such as the exchange between Goran and the gasman , and the episode of about 5 minutes where , it seems , the scriptwriters have tried to give Shirley Henderson as many swear words as possible to say . It's a shame overall as this could have been a decent thriller to rival the big American ones , had they have chosen a better lead actress , hired a professional scriptwriter , been more imaginative and not had the whole thing feel like a poor made-for-TV movie . . . . oh well .
Emanuelle gets her revenge , alright !	Prolific sleaze maestro , Joe D'Amato , directed this flick before the sexy Laura Gemser became the star of the series , and for that reason ; we have Rosemarie Lindt , from cult flicks such as Salon Kitty and Who Saw Her Die , taking the lead role . This puts the film on the back foot from the beginning , as Lindt doesn't bring the same amount of sassiness to her role as Gemser does , and the film is a less memorable entry in the series for that reason . Actually ; it would appear that Emanuelle's Revenge wasn't intended to be a part of the Emanuelle series , and only got the title due to it's director's affinity with it . The fact that it's alternate , and more fitting , title is ' Blood Vengeance ' shows this clearly . Anyway , the plot is a little bit more involving than most porno flicks , as it plays out like a thriller . We follow a young woman called Emanuelle who gets her revenge on the man responsible for her sister's death by chaining him up in her basement and forcing him to watch her having sex . The Emanuelle character is nothing like the one played by Laura Gemser , as the young lady here has a sadistic streak a mile wide . The ending alone , without what precedes it , shows this clearly enough ! Despite being more of a thriller than most Emanuelle films ; Emanuelle's Revenge still finds more than enough time for sex scenes . The entire film feels very low rent , and the sex sequences do too ; they're not terrible , but they're also not very erotic , and the fact that most of the film is filled with these scenes doesn't do it many favours . Emanuelle's Revenge is sure to please fans of seventies Italian films , however , as it's dripping with the typical sleaze style , and this is helped by the music and cinematography . The acting isn't especially brilliant and the film suffers from poor dubbing as always . Not having seen much of the Emanuelle series , I can't really say how good this is compared to the others ; but in its own right , it's not too bad . The thriller structure is good , and the way that the film is consistently sleazy is sure to please also .
More food for thought as the Samaritan Jess Franco continues to show the horror of women's prisons . . . ho hum	Even though it's not a real word , the title pretty much sums this one up completely . Sadomania is yet another exploitation ' women in prison ' film from the insatiable Jess Franco . I certainly don't have a problem with this sort of film in theory ; I mean , who wouldn't want to see a bunch of naked lesbians having sex with each other inside a sleazy prison ? But the fact is that these films are often really boring , and once you've seen one - you've seen them all . This one actually has a base plot , and it focuses on a couple of newly weds who get pulled over . She gets thrown into a lesbian jail , and he gets set free ! ( Sounds a bit unfair to me , who's going to cook his dinner ? ) . After that , it's business as usual as the clothes budget was so miniscule that Franco couldn't afford to have his performers wear much ; so everyone appears naked , while a few set pieces that involve a woman being ' hunted ' and various other sleazy goings on populate the rest of the movie . I actually managed to get myself a copy of the ' uncut ' version , which runs at a massive 102 minutes . As usual , a lot of this movie is filler that could have been cut but , I suppose , for what it is ; Sadomania isn't a terrible film .
Calling it ' The Dullwich Horror ' would be too easy . . .	The writings of the great H . P . Lovecraft have lead to some truly great films , but unfortunately his stories aren't always enough to carry a film through , and despite the fact that this film features all the elements of a successful Lovecraft adaptation - The Dunwich Horror is a sadly lacklustre movie . It has to be said that the film does look very nice - for a low rent early seventies production , the cinematography is surprisingly crisp and the locations look good - but this isn't matched by the story , which is always intriguing but director Daniel Haller lets the suspense build and build and then makes the cardinal blunder of not giving his audience a worthwhile payoff at the end . The plot revolves around one of Lovecraft's most famous creations - the Necronomicon , a book which can supposedly summon alien Gods to Earth . Wilbur Whateley wants this book so that he can complete some ancient rite , and in order to do so he needs the services of Nancy Wagner - a young University student that offered him a lift home when he unfortunately missed his bus . The film is packed with provocative imagery ( for the time ) , and includes a nude scene for Sandra Dee and a whole host of trippy psychedelic scenes . However , while he was doing all this stuff , the director forgot that he was actually filming a horror film - and because of that , there's barely any horror on display at all and the closest we really get to anything horrifying is a vibrating door with a bolt on it . Naturally , it's not long before all this starts to get more than a little bit boring as you can only watch a bunch of meaningless characters swan around for so long . However , the way that the director builds suspense is sometimes intriguing , and I have to admit that I did want to know what was going on - the fact that the ending is so pithy pretty much cancels that out , however . There is a good sequence mid-way through in which we find about the birth of the main character and some other scenes are interesting ( like the fight between our warlock and a library security guard . . . ) , but overall there really isn't much to recommend this film for and I don't doubt that my fellow Lovecraft aficionados will be disappointed .
I Spit on Your Grave . . . Dancers	Well , this film is often regarded as one of the better entries in the ' Eight Films to Die For ' sets ; but I wasn't very impressed with it . Sure , it has a handful of good points ; but unfortunately the film is not particularly original or interesting and that ultimately condemns it . The film does feature a starring role for Dominic Purcell ; who apparently is a star of a TV program called Prison Break , which I've never watched . So I guess that a lot of Prison Break fans have given this film a high rating . Anyway , the plot focuses on three people that used to be friends and have reunited for the funeral of another friend , who died ( obviously ) . Anyway , the three of them go out and get drunk and then decide ( as you do ) to go to a graveyard , where they read an incantation from one of the gravestones and then proceed to dance on the graves . This might not have been such a bad idea if it wasn't for the fact that they were in the ' psycho section ' . Anyway , it turns out that the dead don't appreciate having their graves danced on ; and the three are terrorised by vengeful spirits . Credit where credit is due ; and it's due in the case of whoever designed the ghosts . Like most people , I'm tired of the Japanese style watery black haired ghosts , and the common smoke-like spectres that have featured all too often . For this film , the ghosts look more like something out of The Evil Dead ( and possibly took some influence from the final chapter of the Mario Bava masterpiece Black Sabbath ) and they really do look horrific . They're mostly well used too , and while the film goes way over the top on many occasions ; it does feature a few jump scares that work well . However , the simple fact is that the story and characters just aren't interesting enough and the reason behind what is happening to the central characters lacks imagination . I have to admit that I didn't really care about anything that went on with the plot of this film and things only got less interesting when the whole ghost hunter plot was introduced . It all boils down to a silly ending and overall , while I really did like the special effects , this is a disappointing horror film and I do not recommend it .
Another film about the end of the world	When it comes to religious horror films where a female takes the lead role ; there are two contenders , namely The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby . The Seventh Sign is bound to be compared to those two masterpieces often , and it will lose out every time . This Demi Moore vehicle isn't essentially a bad film ; but it doesn't have a lot going for it , and serves as merely just another addition to already overpopulated horror sub-genre . This film sets its scope broader than the likes of The Exorcist , and rather than making a personal battle the centre of the piece , we follow the fate of the entire world . The Seventh Sign takes its plot from the idea of the seven signs of the apocalypse from the book of Revelations . As strange events begin to happen around the globe , the church is acting very strangely by trying to pass them off with scientific reasons . For one woman , however , the signs are very real ; as the seventh sign will be the birth of her child . As the world draws nearer to oblivion , only a heavily pregnant Demi Moore and some dorky kid with huge glasses can save the day . . . The plot isn't a bad base for a horror film , despite being unoriginal , but the way that the film is set out really lets it down . There isn't much suspense in The Seventh Sign , and as the plot is spoon-fed to the audience ; it's easy to know what's going on all the time . . . which makes watching it a bit pointless . I could have pretty much guessed the ending before seeing the film . The way that it takes in ideas from the bible is good , however , as it gives the plot some kind of credibility ; and the way that it veers away from demons and black magic ensures this further . But then again , the fact that it tries to keep the plot grounded in reality makes the film more boring than it should have been . . . and going out on a limb more often may have ultimately helped Carl Schultz's film . Demi Moore takes the lead role , and it's easy to believe that this film was made just for her . Not because she fits the role so well or anything ; just because the entire piece feels like an excuse to have her on screen . Michael Biehn stars opposite and gives one of his trademark forgettable performances in a movie that I won't be remembering for long . The Seventh Sign does have its moments . . . just not many . Only see this if you have literally seen everything else .
A dazzling , if lacking , musical experience	You will notice , whenever Chicago is mentioned , that the title ' best picture ' is never far away . It's almost as if people are trying to convince themselves that this really DID deserve said accolade . However , while this film certainly does not deserve to be called the best picture of 2002 , and is the weakest film to win the award since Schindler's List in 1993 , it is still not essentially a ' bad ' film . Not a great one , but at least it isn't terrible . The most curious thing about this film , however , even more curious than it getting best picture is Catherine Zeta-Jones getting ' best supporting actress ' . Don't get me wrong , Zeta-Jones is very good looking and she has a great body , and although I realize that the Academy awards are silly and with such rash decisions on which films deserve the awards ; aren't really worth much , I didn't think even they would resort to giving an actress the award because she's sexy . Eh , maybe she bribed them . . . Chicago could be viewed as a commentary on the fickleness of fame , but this commentary comes across as muddled at best . The problem is that , because this film is a musical , the focus is very much on the music sequences and although these sequences are grand and largely quite fun to watch , the message is lost within them . That's not to say that the musical sequences are superfluous to the film's plot , however , as the majority of them serve in building up the main characters . The best of these character-building sequences is Richard Gere's rendition of a song titled " Razzle Dazzle ' em " . This is ironic , for two reasons ; the first , fairly obviously , is that this song sums up the whole film . It's a dazzling experience , but there is nothing within that is particularly brilliant , and certainly nothing to suggest that it should be considered a ' great ' film . The second is that this sums up Gere's career ; he's a rubbish actor , but his dazzling good looks have , and will continue to , get him good roles . A Freudian slip ? Maybe . The majority of the songs in the movie are nice and have a good tune to them , but once you've heard four or five ; they tend to get a bit samey . Chicago surprises on a number of occasions , the most notable of which sees Richard Gere using Renee Zelwegger as a puppet ( it makes sense when you see it ) , but overall . . . this is pretty routine stuff . Although it is still worth seeing , don't expect anything brilliant .
Boring thriller , not an underrated classic or hidden gem !	Jennifer Eight seems to often get described as a ' sleeper ' - and I agree with that description , although not for the same reason . This film is not a hidden gem ; the reason it hasn't matured with a good reputation is simple ; for a thriller , there's just not enough excitement . Bruce Robinson's film is very well made ; it has a good cast and they all perform well , but that really counts for nothing when the story is not interesting enough to keep the audience interested for the overlong two hour running time . Our central character is John Berlin ; a police detective on the trail of a serial killer . The severed hand of a young girl has turned up in a parking lot and the detective soon starts to believe that the murder may be connected to an unsolved case that happened in the town some years previously . His investigation leads him to a blind institute where he meets and is attracted to a young blind girl named Helena . His suspicions about the new murder being connected to the old are not well received by his fellow cops ; although he soon fears that Helena may be in danger . Director Bruce Robinson is best known as the writer and director of the seminal classic Withnail & I , but apparently his writing skills don't lend themselves to the crime genre very well . Jennifer Eight suffers from far too many drawn out and boring scenes where nothing really much happens , and even the film's most exciting moments aren't exactly exciting . The major problem is the fact that the film tries to blend two big story lines and doesn't have the capacity to do so . The romance between the police officer and the blind girl takes up far too much time and is both boring and plotted out in an unlikely manner . This leaves the murder plot almost a spare wheel in it's own film , and the way that the plot takes another turn midway through only helps to distract more , meaning that by the end we don't really care who the murderer is . The film's saving grace is the acting . I've never been a fan of Andy Garcia but he's solid in the lead role and gets good back-up from the always reliable Lance Henriksen . Uma Thurman doesn't really get to do much other than play the token ' victim ' blind girl , and John Malkovich steals the show once he gets on screen . Overall , this film really is a big disappointment and doesn't really deserve digging up any time soon .
Man in a gas-mask murders some teenagers	As slashers go , this actually isn't a bad one . . . but then again , it's not all that good either . Like most slashers , this one isn't much different to the rest of the pack , but at least there's some nasty gore on hand to ensure that it isn't a complete dead loss . The film features a gas-mask wearing man going round murdering people with a pitchfork . I always prefer slashers when the murderer has something about them , but the fact that this one is isolated by a distinctly uncharacterised gas-mask ensures that isn't the case here . The film is more along the lines of the ' stalk and slash ' tradition popularised by Halloween rather than a brutal kill-fest , which is fine by me . We start off with an atmospheric intro that sees a soldier have his heart broken by a ' dear John ' letter , shortly before a couple of kids find themselves on the wrong end of a sharp garden tool . From there , we move on to a high school prom . There's not much point in saying what happens next , as we all know what a maniacal killer , some daft teens and Tom Savini amount to . Yes , this film's main selling point is the fact that Tom Savini is on gore duty , and so the film features plenty of scenes that will delight the horror fan while everyone else looks away . Actually , Savini isn't allowed to make the most of his place in the make-up department as most of the murders take place with a variety of just two murder weapons . There is a nice exploding head scene towards the end , though . The atmosphere is dark as most of the film takes place at night , and the film in generally quite foreboding . However , The Prowler lacks any real tension as none of the characters are given any personality , and so what we get instead is man in a gas-mask going round murdering people that it's impossible to care about . This is decent enough entertainment , but it doesn't take long to get monotonous . Cult actors Farley Granger and Lawrence Tierney get to chew the scenery among a cast of small-talent teenagers , while director Joseph Zito does an adequate job in the director's chair . On the whole , this may do something for slasher fans , but personally I prefer my horror films with brains that aren't scattered all over the floor . . .
Another ghost story	Below is a film of two halves . On the one hand , it's a very well directed movie , with some brilliant horror sequences , camera angles and a claustrophobic atmosphere that will make many horror fans foam at the mouth . However , on the other hand it's just another lame ghost story that unfortunately lacks both the invention and the intrigue that it needs to make it a complete horror package . The story is predictable , and basically follows the same path that a hundred ghost stories before it have followed - i . e . man is killed and comes back to haunt those who wronged him . There is an element of originality in the way that the film climaxes ambiguously , but the originality is strewn from it due to the fact that these sorts of twists have become very predictable of late . Cheers , M Night Shyamalan . The story takes place on a World War Two submarine . After finding survivors from another , less fortunate ship , the captain of our ship decides to let them board . We begin a voyage of discovery as certain events transpire and the crew begin to believe that their submarine is haunted . This is a film that needs to be followed in order to fully understand the story , and so people that are tired or just fancy seeing something easy should find something else to watch . The fact that the story is rather difficult to follow hampers the film in the end , however , as when we discover the mystery behind what's been going on , it's a disappointment to say the least . Below also suffers from a rather turgid script , which is riddled with clichés and dull one-liners to deliver the action . The characters are neither believable nor interesting , which doesn't do the film any favours either . It's saving grace is , as mentioned , the directing . David Twohy directs out attention through numerous angles , all of which help to instill the idea that we're on a submarine in the viewer's mind . The special effects are somewhat hokey , but numerous scenes impress ; most notably the part where our hero's find themselves in the middle of a bunch of Manta Rays . If you're a film fan that likes your ghost films to have an interesting story , try The Devil's Backbone instead . If you like technical prowess , you could do a lot worse .
Good enough for a single viewing	I'm actually quite surprised . After all the terrible things I'd heard about Flightplan , I was expecting a really horrible film - yet , in truth , while this film isn't exactly brilliant , it's entertaining enough and certainly not the bad film that many critics are leading people to believe it is . The plot is played out by way of the classic linear structure , which is no bad thing as far as I'm concerned . Too many films these days try to be innovating with the plotting , and just end up being cumbersome and repetitive ; this film doesn't . What this does mean , however , is that Flightplan has nothing new to offer to cinema , and is therefore only around to entertain it's audience for the single viewing it's worth , and then be forgotten about . Still , it does it's job well enough as far as I'm concerned . The plot follows an airplane trip . Jodie Foster is on board , transporting her dead husband's corpse and her daughter . When her daughter goes missing , she causes havoc trying to find her ; getting the passengers and crew to search the plane . . . but is there more to this disappearance . To be honest , Jodie Foster annoys me somewhat . She has great screen presence and usually delivers a decent performance ; but her accent and mannerisms are irritating . Still , her strong character makes the perfect lead for this movie . The lead role was to be given to Sean Penn , but I'm glad they changed the character from male to female . Penn might have boded better with the action sequences , but a female character goes much better with the lost child plot , which makes up the backbone of the film . Director Robert Schwentke does a great job of creating the right sort of claustrophobic atmosphere for the plane . The central location is mysterious and foreboding throughout , which blends well with the plot itself . My main gripe with the film is the amount of twists , and the way that they're handled . There's not enough ambiguity to go with the action , so the twists feel like they've just been thrown in and all but the first one fail to keep the viewer on the edge of the seat . This is not good when the plot hinges on these twists . As mentioned , this isn't a great thriller ; but it's good enough for a single viewing and I found it enjoyable enough .
Weird trashy sex flick	Something Weird sure does release some weird stuff , and this film is certainly some weird stuff . The films plays out something like a cross between a noir flick and an exploitation film focuses squarely on one man . John Steele is a salesman in New York who becomes dismayed by life and ends up going on a sex spree when he finds his wife in bed with another man . The film is not very well made and certainly fits the ' trash ' bill well . It plays out like it's made up of bits and bobs from other films , and that probably isn't too far from the truth . The only thing stringing everything together really is the constant narration from the lead character . This is actually the most interesting thing about this film - it gives it a sort of gritty noir edge and actually succeeds in making the whole thing more watchable and enjoyable . There's a fair bit of sex featured in the film , although none of it is particularly graphic , which is something of a shame . There are no shocks or surprises in the film , but it's only an hour long so not too much time is wasted watching it and I'd say it's at least somewhat worth seeing for the fact that it's so obscure .
Blink , and you'll miss the good parts .	The main reason I saw this film was not because I thought the plot sounded interesting , or even because of the fact that it stars the beautiful Madeleine Stowe ; the reason I saw it is purely down to the fact that I remembered seeing posters for it in the video store when I was a kid . With such a nonchalant viewing reason behind me , it probably wont come as a surprise that I wasn't expecting a lot from this film ; and it's a good job as Blink is a highly disappointing thriller with numerous problems and very little to recommend it for . The plot is not particularly original , and focuses on the idea of a blind woman in peril . There is a slight twist on this theme ; as the woman in this film is not quite blind ; in fact , she is the benefactor of a breakthrough ' eye transplant ' , which re-enables her sight after over twenty years of being blind . A side effect of this treatment is the fact that she sees some things ' by memory ' , and this is a problem when she apparently witnesses a murder as she's not sure if it's real or just flashback . . . The film would be described a ' psychological thriller ' , and the reason why these films are often hit and miss is the main problem with this one . A film like this really needs a central character that is easy to get into ; and while I believe that Madeleine Stowe is a great actress , she's not given the room to do much with this role . The plotting is not good at all , and is often all over the place ; and too much of the film focuses on the tentative ( and boring ) relationship between the central character and a policeman on the case . This relationship feels extremely phoney , and since it makes up a large proportion of the running time of the film ; it becomes a pretty big problem . There are a few decent scenes ; Stowe is very good despite the poor material , though I would have preferred a lot more suspense , given that this is really supposed to be a thriller . The ending is pulled off fairly nicely , though its impact is lessened by the tepid film that preceded it . For a far better take on a similar theme , see the fantastic ' Wait Until Dark ' , and skip this .
If only the murderer had more tools . . .	I don't like slashers where the murderer only uses one murder weapon , so the premise behind The Toolbox Murders sounded great to me - a psychopath with a whole box full of weapons to do his slicing and dicing with ! The opening sequence , which sees a young woman butchered with a drill , gives way to an even better scene where we watch a hot naked chick killed with a nail gun . But for some reason , the film doesn't follow these scenes up with anything similar in quality , and after the good opening ; The Toolbox Murders becomes rather routine . The plot is supposedly based on a true story , which sort of makes the sickness more potent and benefits from a nice gritty atmosphere emanating from the block of apartments that make up the central location . The plot follows a butch man with a toolbox full of goodies who , for some reason , decides to use them for things other than DIY . When a young man's sister is kidnapped , he decides to track her down himself and after being asked for advice by the police ( ? ) , we get treated to the discovery of the identity of the not so helpful repair man . Considering the huge amount of potential this had to be one of the truly great slasher films , The Toolbox Murders is a huge letdown . Our killer has a nail gun and a drill in his toolbox , but that's about it . I was highly disappointed to find that a chainsaw wasn't present and the death scenes we do have , while shocking and gory , aren't what they could have been . The film was , rather unsurprisingly , banned during the eighties as a part of the DPP's " Video Nasty " list , and really that's the only reason to bother viewing it . Tobe Hooper remade this film in 2003 , and while I didn't like the remake much ; it is superior to this movie . The atmosphere is rather nice , as the cheap feel of the movie translates into a gritty and depressing feel that bodes well with the murders . However , the killer's motives are never really explained ; and the central idea of the kidnapped girl doesn't make a lot of sense . The murderer himself is suitably sick , but it's hard to believe that this guy would take it upon himself to begin butchering people with his array of tools . Naturally , the acting is rather crappy and overall , while The Toolbox Murders has its moments ; I can't say that I'm glad I saw it .
Stagy trash film , didn't do much for me .	Well , I have to say that ' Tis a Pity She's a Whore wasn't exactly what I was expecting . Given the title , and the fact that it was made in Italy during the 1970's , I was expecting something a lot more sleazy and bloody than this ! The film is based on a stage play by John Ford , and this is always obvious as it's all very stagy and the focus seems to be on the performances . This might be a good thing if you were going into the film looking for something ' great ' - but I just wanted sleaze ! The plot line , however , is about as sleazy as it gets and puts most of its focus on the sick idea of incest . There's a bit of the standard ' arranged marriage ' theme thrown in for good measure , and the plot focuses on Annabella ; a woman who marries Soranzo after it was decided she would . However , this isn't good news for her brother - a man named Giovanni , as he's also in love with Annabella , and has managed to get her pregnant , despite the fact that she's his sister . The plot is actually rather good , in that the central theme is interesting . It's the way that its portrayed that was the problem for me , however , as the plot pace isn't very exciting and it seems to take an eternity to get to the point . There's a fair amount of sex in the movie , but it isn't very graphic ; so fans of the rough stuff are likely to be disappointed . One of my main reasons for seeing this film was because of the fact that it stars Charlotte Rampling . She might not be as beautiful as some of the other women making trash films around the same time ( e . g . Edwige Fenech , Rosalba Neri , Barbara Bouchet ) , but Rampling is a classy lady who doesn't seem to mind starring in unsavoury movies , which is OK with me . She is joined by Fabio Testi and Oliver Tobias , who apparently was some sort of sex symbol around the time . The film does get more interesting towards the end , when the story opens up and we finally get to see some blood . I'm not saying this is an overall bad film - but the story and the way it's portrayed didn't work very well .
Less than successful crime flick from Abel Ferrara	Abel Ferrara is one of the kings of gritty , urban cinema , and he's made some good stuff with flicks like Ms 45 , King of New York and Bad Lieutenant ; but when he gets it wrong , it's often disastrous ; shown by boring films such as Cat Chaser and The Funeral , and unfortunately ; Fear City is another not completely successful film from the cult director . I went into this one hoping for something like a Giallo-styled urban thriller set in New York , but it's more like a hodgepodge of cool and dodgy characters , with a bunch of murders that feel more like an afterthought than a well thought out plot line . The plot focuses on a strip club in New York . Matt Rossi , an ex-boxer who was forced to quit the ring after killing a man is working for a talent agency with links to the strip club , along with his friend Nicky . Strippers start being murdered , and cop Al Wheeler starts to exert pressure on Matt and Nicky in the hope that he'll be able to bring them down . This leads Matt to try and track down the murderer himself . . . The main problem with the film is the plot . Ferrara doesn't seem to want to just focus on one thing , and the result is a film that tries to do too much and ends up being a confusing mess . Furthermore , it's often completely predictable where the film is going and it's not even all that fun getting there . The murders are the biggest disappointment as despite the fact that the director has something of a flair for violence - these ones are very tame and some of them even happen off-screen ! Very disappointing . The scenes inside the central strip club are nice and sleazy and , actually , my favourite thing about the film . The characters aren't particularly interesting , nor are the performances . The only notable actors in the film are Billy Dee Williams ( better known for his role in the latter two Star Wars films ) and a young Melanie Griffith . The most notable part comes at the end of the film in the form of a fight between the boxer and the murderer . Overall , Fear City has a good atmosphere and looks nice ; but this isn't backed up by a decent plot , so the film isn't all that good .
Nicholas Cage is hilarious in ridiculous crime caper	You want to know the best joke I've heard lately ? The Kiss of Death remake . Despite having great source material to work from ( that being Henry Hathaway's 1947 original ) , Barbet Schroeder's film might as well have been a comedy , as the level of incompetence on display really is mind blowing . The film features a whole range of well known stars , and almost every single one of them is heinously miscast . Nicholas Cage delivers the silliest role of his career as the babyish gangster ' Little Junior ' . Cage's character is this film's answer to Richard Widmark's Tommy Udo , but unlike Widmark ; Cage just can't do the extreme psychotic , and succeeds only in making a fool of himself . Samuel L . Jackson isn't given room to breathe , while Helen Hunt , Michael Rapaport and Ving Rhames are entirely wasted . Perhaps the biggest casting mistake was giving David Caruso the lead role . It's hard not to laugh while he's trying to look hard , and the ginger actor looks completely ridiculous throughout . The only actor in the entire film that has been well cast is Anthony Heald ( Silence of the Lambs ' Dr Chilton ) , who has a very small role as a lawyer . Kiss of the Death is one of the clearest examples of casting with the poster in mind that I've ever seen . The plot follows an unlucky guy who gets arrested after taking ' one last job ' as a favour to his friend . While on the inside , he is asked to rat out his accomplices , and but won't . However , he changes his mind when it comes to the end of his sentence ( oh yes ) . What made the original great was that the story was tight , and by concentrating on just a handful of characters ; the audience was able to care for their plight . This movie doesn't benefit from that , as the film needs a whole load of characters so that a load of big names can star , and it harms the film as the whole thing is far too convoluted . Not much thought has gone into any scene in this film either , and certain plot threads seem to come out of nowhere ; the lead character's relationship with the babysitter being a good example of an idea that the film simply throws at you . You really need to stretch your imagination with this movie , as several things don't make sense ; and the fact that all in all , this film is bad ensures that stretching the imagination isn't easy . The ending is similar to that of the original , but here we don't get the impression that it's come about as a result of the characters ; and Samuel L . Jackson's last moment on screen throws mud in the eye of the dark tone that a story like this should have . All I can say is that Kiss of Death is actually an apt name for this film , as Barbet Schroeder and co have embraced a good idea and killed it .
Disappointing D'Amato sleaze	When Laura Gemser and Joe D'Amato team up to make a movie ; you can bet that no matter what the movie is about or what character Gemser is playing that some of the alternate titles will include the word ' Emanuelle ' . And this film is no exception , as it got branded with the unimaginative title ' Emmanuelle Goes Japanese ' . Naturally , the film has nothing to do with Gemser's most famous character and thankfully the title Black Cobra Woman is generally the more accepted one - and the one that I saw the film under . From the plot description I was actually thinking that this film might be half decent . . . and it does at least get off to a decent start . The film focuses on Judas ; a rich man who surrounds himself with exotic snakes but has little contact with people . One night , Judas goes with his brother to see an act at a nightclub that involves a beautiful woman dancing with a snake . Naturally , he is immediately taken in by this woman ( she's played by Laura Gemser so this part of the film is quite realistic ) and decides to take her back to his home . . . Laura Gemser takes the lead role and spends most of the film either naked , getting it on with other women or both ; which is all well and good , but anyone familiar with Gemser's filmography will have seen it all so many times before and it's particularly disappointing in this film as we actually have the basis for a decent plot here . One of the more bizarre casting decisions is represented by Jack Palance , who I guess was either not getting a lot of work around the time or just couldn't resist a starring role alongside the beautiful Laura Gemser . Naturally for a Joe D'Amato flick , it features plenty of sleaze and it's really all encompassing so there wouldn't really have been room to flesh out the story even if the director wanted to . The film does at least deliver on the title's implied promise of featuring snakes ; and seeing Gemser dance with a big Cobra is worthwhile . A scene that sees a snake skinned alive and cooked was a bit needless , though . Overall , however , this film is not really worthwhile ; it's better than some of the lesser Emanuelle flicks , but that's not really saying anything . I can't recommend tracking Black Cobra Woman down .
Don't expect this to be another A-quality comic book flick . . .	Much like the halfbreeds of it's plot , Constantine treacherously treads a thin line between a divide . The film isn't dark or deep enough to be considered along the same lines as the likes of Batman Begins , and at the same time it's not camp or over the top enough to be considered a ' fun ' comic book flick . This is one of the main pitfalls for the film , as with this strange placing of the film ; it has cut out both of the comic book audiences , and left itself with a film that is as muddled as it's lead actor's acting is weak . The plot seems to jump from one happening to another , often without any kind of explanation or logic . This makes viewing this film a very turgid experience , and the fact that the plotting is so carelessly done has also left the movie a good twenty minutes overlong ; which only serves in making the film more painful . It's a shame that this film isn't better , as it has a plot that could have lent itself to a very fun flick . The plot follows John Constantine ; a man that can see the demons that live among us . When policewoman Angela Dodson's sister apparently commits suicide , the two team up and discover a conspiracy beneath the surface of their native Los Angeles . Keanu Reeves often gets criticised for his acting , and for good reason - he's rubbish . He slinks his way through the film , giving the very same nonchalant emotion to every scene and event that he comes across . The good thing is that a downtrodden character like John Constantine suits him , so it's not as bad as it could have been . . . but on the other hand , if a talented actor were given the role ; the film would have been much better . Keanu's " Chain Reaction " co-star , Racheal Weisz joins him again here , and pretty much does the same thing that he does - i . e . just ' appear ' . You don't go into a movie like this expecting good acting really ; but this film doesn't have even have ' acting ' ! The only performance I really enjoyed was Peter Stormare in the role of Satan , and that only lasted about five minutes . The special effects are typically dazzling , and while it's not the best CGI of all time ; it's imaginatively used and provides the movie with it's main asset . It's a shame that this film is a flop , as the film noir elements of the plot could really have delivered something interesting , the subject of devils and demons always makes for fun viewing ; and the recent run of comic book films has been quite impressive . . . but impressive , this film is not , and on the whole I recommend giving it a miss .
The seventies style is a plus but doesn't save the film from boredom	I didn't go into this film with any real expectations - most of the reviews I'd read were good but as any veteran of this site will know , the first reviews submitted for any film don't tend to be very reliable ! It turns out that is the case here too , as despite a couple of good ideas ; this is nothing more than another tired teen slasher flick . In 2005 , Australian horror flick Wolf Creek attempted to bring back a seventies Grindhouse style to the slasher movie , and this movie does too . Ironically , they both suffer from the same major problem - that being that it's far too long before something finally happens . As the title suggests , the main player here is a young girl called Mandy Lane who , believe it or not , is fancied by all the boys at her high school . Apparently , she suddenly got hot over the summer and the film starts out with a sequence that shows how far some of the male population will go to impress her . Some time after , some of the kids at this school are going for a party at a secluded ranch and they decide to invite Mandy along . . . and after a while ; they start being picked off one by one . It seems obvious that director Jonathan Levine was trying to make a movie in the seventies style , and for that reason it's a real shame that this wasn't better as I'm a big fan of the stuff that this takes influence from . The director packs the film with pop songs , which is OK ; but it soon gets tired and he could have chosen better also . As mentioned , the film is far too slow ; after the opening sequence , it seriously is about an hour before anything of interest happens and I was already turned off long before it got to the end . The cast is obviously made up of young actors and despite the fact that all the characters in the film are completely one dimensional ; they do manage to put in good performances as an ensemble . Amber Heard is good enough in the lead role . . . though doesn't really stand out much which is a shame considering she is the lead , and the one that the film is all about . When the killings finally do happen , they're not bad and there's some gore on display . It all boils down to the token slasher twist - and it's not a good one . It can be seen coming a mile off and there's not a lot of justification for it either . Overall , I don't rate this film much at all - it's not a complete disaster , but not far off .
Torturous Tomb of Torture	One of the reasons I am a fan of Italian horror is for films like this ; though this particular example is not one of the better ones . The film is directed by Antonio Boccaci and also doubles up as his only directing credit ; which isn't really surprising as despite having a recipe for success to work with , he doesn't implement much style or suspense into the proceedings and the result is sadly underwhelming . It's also really slow , and the bulk of the film consists of not a lot of interesting things happening . Tomb of Torture takes place mostly in and around an old Gothic castle . The film gets off to a fairly good start as we get treated to a macabre sequence that sees two girls tortured to death . The plot then takes a familiar turn as we fast forward some years into the future , but the focus still remains on the eerie castle from the beginning . We find out that the Countess went missing years ago and the new female lead is a young girl who happens to look just like the missing countess and who goes to the castle on the advice of her doctor . . . The black and white cinematography is undoubtedly one of the best things about this film and helps it immensely when it comes to the atmosphere . This bodes well with the eerie castle , as well as the shots of the torture ; which is expected considering the title . However , these two elements actually don't mix as well as they should as the director doesn't direct with much verve and this isn't helped by the slow plotting . The main antagonist is a weird looking deformed hunchback who wanders around the castle grounds unseen . Like the main plot , this one is also derivative and it's also not made good use of as nothing really comes of it and the hunchback itself looks more silly than foreboding ( looks kind of like the poor man's Wolf Man ) . The acting is passable but nothing to write home about with all the leads doing their job and not much more . It takes a long time ( or at least it seems to ) before the ending is finally upon us , and while it does offer up a suitable climax to the film ; it doesn't really justify the eighty minutes that came before it . Overall , this is actually quite a boring movie and I certainly would not recommend anyone goes out of their way to see it .
All that was left in the tank after The Oblong Box	After the excellent adaptation of Edgar Allen Poe's ' The Oblong Box ' earlier in 1969 , director Gordon Hessler would team up again , in the same year , with horror legend's Vincent Price and Christopher Lee for this second feature . This time , fellow legend Peter Cushing joins the already impressive line up , which allows Scream and Scream Again to be one of the few films to profess starring roles from all three British legends . However , all is not as it seems as Peter Cushing appears in the movie for all of about one minute and the other two stars don't appear for much more than one minute either . The majority of the acting is left to an unknown cast , meaning that , basically , the three big names are only in the movie for the sake of the poster ; which is something that I find very irritating indeed . The wayward plot follows something to do with a Nazi-esquire group that wants world domination and a Frankenstein-esquire scientist that is attempting to build a race of super-humans . Or something . This movie is very messy indeed and although it never becomes boring , there is a number of occasions when the audience is forced to ask themselves what exactly is going on , and why . The lack of plot shows through at times as the film features an overlong chase sequence midway through , and ends with a nice , but rather off with the rest of the film , mad scientist scene . The film meanders through it's two basic plot lines , but it doesn't fit together well because the stories have very little to do with one another . The sixties swing atmosphere is nice , but it isn't very horrific and doesn't create the best atmosphere for a horror movie . The music isn't very good either , and it throws any chance of capturing a mood of malevolence out of the window and replaces it with a very tacky feel . If you haven't guessed it already , I'm basically saying that this film isn't very good . I hate to pass bad comments about a film that includes three of the best actors of all time , but I'd be lying if I didn't .
Mosrly dull blaxpolitation flick	I can't say I'm a fan of " Blaxploitation " films , and indeed this one is one of my very few forays into the genres . It didn't change my opinion much either ; what we have here is basically a crime thriller along the same lines as Scarface , except most of the main players are black . The film appealed to me mainly because of the fact that it's written and directed by Larry Cohen who also wrote and directed some of my favourite low budget trash films ; films such as It's Alive , The Stuff , Q and The Ambulance . This is an early Cohen film and it appears he didn't get much chance to refine his craft as despite a decent directional debut with ' Bone ' a year earlier ; this film mostly fits the ' trash ' bill in the bad way . The lead character is Tommy Gibbs , who starts off a young kid and gets his leg broken by a copper during a robbery . He's not best pleased and upon his return several years later , he decides to rise to power himself in order to put up a fight against the powers that stand already ; both the criminal and the law enforcement . Aside from the fact that the film didn't appeal to me much , it's also badly written and doesn't make up for in originality what it lacks in substance . As mentioned , I'm not well versed in this genre ; but I imagine it's more about style than anything else and Larry Cohen does at least give the film a cool vibe that is well done . James Brown features heavily on the soundtrack and it works with the film , although the scenes involving " The Boss " only served in reminding me of how Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels used the song much better . The lead role is taken by Fred Williamson and it does have to be said that he's one of the best things about the film . The central role in this film does require someone ' cool ' to play it , and Williamson certainly is that person . The plot is a problem because it's never exactly difficult to tell where it's going and this results in the film not having a great deal of suspense . Cohen's script doesn't really make us care for the lead character either , which means it doesn't really matter where the film goes . This might appeal to fans of this genre but it hasn't made me want to see more it . . . I don't recommend this one .
Decent throwaway entertainment	John Cusack and Catherine Zeta-Jones are Gwen Harrison and Eddie Thomas ; a pair of actors that are collectively known as " America's Sweethearts " , due to how well loved they are by their adoring public . However , all is not as rosy as it once was for America's favourite couple , as she has taken a Spanish lover , which has resulted in him entering into a spiral of depression . The situation of their break-up gets worse when the director of their new film has decided to withhold it until they are brought back together . Enter Lee Phillips ( Billy Crystal ) ; the movie publicist faced with the task of getting them back together while trying to keep the press - that want to see the new movie - at bay . However , all is not to simple as that , as Eddie is having his head turned by Gwen's sister , ' kiki ' . . . America's Sweethearts is a nice film , but it's one that suffers from too much attempted satire , and not a lot of jokes that work . Billy Crystal co-wrote the script and strangely , he seems to have given himself the short end of the stick , jokes wise . The cast of America's Sweethearts is good on the whole . John Cusack adds to every movie that he's in ; his charisma and style are great and it's always nice to see him on screen . Catherine Zeta-Jones is an overrated actress , but luckily this role doesn't require her to do much more than look nice , which she does nicely . Billy Crystal , whom I've already mentioned and Julia Roberts make up the rest of the leads and support is given to them by Seth Green , Hank Azaria , the excellent and underrated Alan Arkin and Christopher Walken in a hammy and memorable cameo as the director at the film's centre . The satire side of the movie is good , but it flirts with missing the mark throughout the film . The overblown finale is nice and the way that the film shows the media handling things , not to mention the ' films ' that it shows Eddie and Gwen in at the start are highlights . If you want to enjoy yourself for ninety minutes with an enjoyable piece of fluff , you could do a lot worse than this . Of course , you could do a lot better ; but this isn't a complete waste of time .
Rape and revenge on a shoestring budget	No matter how you look at it , Black Alley Cats is junk . Even for this type of film ; this is still below par in the quality department and not everything can be blamed on the low budget . The film is extremely obscure ( apparently only seeing the light of the day in the form of a Something Weird VHS some years ago ) and that's hardly surprising . The plot begins with a rape and leads into a group of girls taking kung fu lessons and buying some ' mean ' jackets , and then going round robbing people as some sort of revenge tirade . The low budget gives way to a very unpolished look which helps the film in the sleaze department . There's plenty of sleazy goings on too and most of the film is made up of either the girls pushing people around or , more frequently , some rather rough sex scenes . This is what really sinks the film ; it's all too samey and doesn't have enough about it to keeps itself interesting for the whole eighty minute duration . The acting is stunningly atrocious too ; not that I would expect anything else , but the performances are so humdrum that it makes the film even more difficult to get into . Fans of this genre may want to track this film down and may even appreciate it but there are far better examples of films like this out there and that is reason enough to leave this one in obscurity .
Worth watching if you're in hospital and there isn't anything else on	The basic premise of Visiting Hours is that an unsuccessful serial killer decides to finish off the job at the hospital where his victim is being treated . There is about enough plot there to make a good TV episode or short film , but somehow Jean-Claude Lord's film has been stretched to an hour and forty five minutes . As you might expect , this leaves the film overlong and more than a little tedious as the majority of it is merely filler . Furthermore , neither the psychopath nor any of his victims are elevated above the very basic level of characterisation needed for this sort of film , and since this plot was done to ( slightly ) better effect a year earlier with Halloween 2 , there really isn't a lot of reason to bother with this hospital slasher . Of course , the film did feature on the DPP ' Video Nasty ' list back in the eighties , so it will always have something of a fan base as well as a list of people wanting to see it ; but even as a Video Nasty , it isn't all that good as the scenes of gore mostly feel rushed and in true Halloween style , the murders aren't exactly imaginative . The hospital setting ensures that the film stands out as hospitals are traditionally ' safe ' places where the sick get better ; whereas here we've got someone bumping off the patients . The setting isn't very well used , however , as the rooms mostly look like offices and the director doesn't do a very good job of building up the location . The acting isn't very good either , as while Michael Ironside may have a look of Jack Nicholson - he certainly doesn't have his talent , as his performance isn't charismatic or even interesting , and he's a lot like Michael Myers without the mask . Linda Purl and Lee Grant both give typical performances as typical female victims ( although the film features no nudity ) and William Shatner also has a small role . Basically , the problem with this film is that it uses up all of its energy in the first sequence . The first scene has suspense and terror ( best shown in the laundry shoot ) , but after that it just fizzles out into an overlong boring mess . I'm not the biggest fan of slashers anyway , but there's far better one around than this ; the Video Nasty list itself even has some better ones .
Useless Remake	The end credits proudly proclaim " In the memory of Alfred Hitchcock " , but anyone who sees this will know that the great cinema master was rolling around in his grave back in 1998 . The film is , basically , a frame for frame copy of the first . However , it never gets over it's outstanding question ; " why ? " . Why was this film made ? There's nothing that could be added to Hitchcock's amazing original , and it doesn't even need an update , that's the thing ; Psycho more than holds it's own against the horror-thrillers of today . As I've established ; this film is pointless and shouldn't have been made , but ignoring that fact ; let's look at the film itself . The remake does actually feature a fairly nice cast . Three of them , Julianne Moore , William H . Macy and Phillip Baker Hall seem to have took time off from the shoot of Paul Thomas Anderson's " Boogie Nights " to make this movie , which is no bad thing as they can all act . The only problem is , mostly with Macy and Moore ; they just don't look right in the film . Speaking of people that don't look right , Vince Vaughn springs to mind . It's hard to follow someone like Anthony Perkins , a man that made the title role his own ; but Vaughn doesn't even give a respectable performance . Perkins portrayed the character as a naive young man , but one who has a definite atmosphere of malice about him ; Vaughn only succeeds in looking silly . Viggo Mortensen has a small and noteless pre-Lord of the Rings role in the film . His character is small , but he fails to make any impression anyway and finally ; Robert Forster , a man that is best known for his role in Jackie Brown , is decent in his bit part as the psychiatrist analysing Norman ; the same one that many people think was misplaced in the original film . The film itself is fairly well shot but , maybe because it's in colour , it gives the impression of being too modern compared the original , and it suffers a loss in charm because of that . Gus Van Sant takes the directors chair and does a good job , but then again ; that's not hard when all you're doing is copying a master . The story is good , but that is , obviously , to the credit of the original . Overall , as a film ; it's not great and as a remake of a classic movie , it's pointless and a waste of time and therefore should not be viewed by anyone .
Third time unlucky for Matt Cordell	The first Maniac Cop film is one of the supreme trash classics from the eighties ; and its sequel , the imaginatively titled ' Maniac Cop 2 ' is about as good as a sequel could have been . However , in true sequel fashion ; this third outing is extremely poor . The film is subtitled ' Badge of Silence ' , but ' Bride of Maniac Cop ' would be more appropriate , since that's the road that the second sequel has chosen to go down . Once again , we have William Lustig directing a script written by Larry Cohen ; this team worked so well on the first two films , but something hasn't clicked this time around . The entire movie feels like it cant really be bothered , with the plot serving only in dishing up the relevant elements for Matt Cordell ; the ' maniac cop ' to go on another killing spree . We see a voodoo priest resurrect the mental copper shortly before witnessing police officer Kate Sullivan gets killed during an armed robbery . For some , largely unexplained , reason ; Matt Cordell decides that he wants to make Kate his bride . It's not long before Sean McKinney ( the hard-bitten detective from Maniac Cop 2 ) begins to suspect that Cordell may be back on the scene . One of the main problems with this film is the scenes with the maniac cop . There aren't enough of them for a start , and the ones there are merely show him powering his way through people , and this fails to capture the creepiness of the original . Robert Z'Dar is still imposing in the only role that his name is associated with ; but his presence was much better handled in the previous two films . I quite like Robert Davi ; he's no Bruce Campbell or Tom Atkins , but he looks the part as the experienced policeman , and definitely fits this sort of film well . The atmosphere is well created again , with a foreboding New York feel accompanying most of the street scenes ; which is a shame since most of the film takes place in a hospital . The police force itself isn't portrayed very well , and there isn't a single scene that is really convincing . The film has a very direct to video feel throughout also , and no attempt is ever made to mask the fact that you're watching a worthless piece of crap . The violence is fairly heavy , although there isn't a lot of blood ; and the final car chase goes on far too long , and manages to drain the last bit of energy from an already frail film . If you loved the first two , you might find something here . But then again , you might not . Skip it .
Twisters smaller , lower quality , brother .	At one point in the movie , Bruce Campbell is told that he is not god . Realism aside , however ; for a TV movie , this isn't too bad . It loses out to it's bigger budget 1996 big brother ; Twister on just about every front , but there is still reason enough for this movie to warrant your time . Bruce Campbell is the main reason ; he's a B-movie legend . His performance here doesn't echo the fantastic work he did on The Evil Dead films , in fact ; none of his other films have anything on those great performances and I continually get the impression that Bruce's heart just isn't in a lot of the stuff he makes . However , it's always a pleasure to see this great man in a movie and although , as I said , his performance isn't great ; it's good enough , and he alone is more than enough reason to see the film . The rest of the cast isn't noteworthy . . . the majority of the acting is typical TV fare ; not rock bottom , but not exactly good either . Campbell is more than enough to keep it afloat , however . The effects in Tornado ! aren't brilliant . Not even good , in fact . They're very low quality and don't even come close to the lovely effects in Twister . The effects here are mostly just tease stuff ; there's wind and people shouting , but rarely do we see a tornado , and even when we do it's usually a cut from a real tornado , as opposed to an actual effect . This is good in a way , but bad in another ; as although it's more realistic , it loses credibility as it means that we don't get to see the tornado ravaging houses and cars etc . The story of Tornado ! is really rather dull , as it tries to draw parallels with the current global warming situation . This is a waste of time , and the movie would have been better served not bothering ; as nobody is going to listen to a message in a low quality TV movie . Also , just like in Twister , Tornado ! has some extremely terrible human drama to go with the tornados . Unfortunately , unlike in Twister ; the drama here is central to the story , as opposed to secondary like it was in Twister . And this is unfortunate because the drama is bad . Overall , I'd have to say that Twister has far more going for it than this movie does . But then again , Twister doesn't have Bruce Campbell ; so I'd recommend this movie because Bruce Campbell is in it , and he's actually starring this time ; unlike in most of his non-Evil Dead films in which he only has a small cameo appearance .
Interesting for Fulci fans but that's about it !	Lucio Fulci . Just hearing the name will make most cult cinema fans think of blood and gore - and for good reason since the great director was responsible for some of the best gory highlights ever made , and for that reason ; he's just about the last director you would expect to make a period drama . Fulci did have a varied career , making films in many of Italy's most famous genres , from westerns and Polizi flicks to Giallo and the blood and gore films with which he made his name . . . however , it would seem that period dramas were not his thing as Beatrice Cenci will not feature in my list of favourite Fulci flicks ! The plot is actually a decent base for a film and is set in 16th Century Italy . The title character , Beatrice Cenci , is the daughter of a rich landowner named Francesco Cenci . Francesco is a cruel man who keeps his daughter locked up in a room and tortures her . Naturally , she's not best pleased at this arrangement and since she's not the only one who dislikes her father , she doesn't have a hard time getting some other people to help her murder him . I have to admit , part of the reason why I didn't like this film is because I'm not a fan of period dramas . Naturally , my only reason for watching this is because I'm a big Fulci fan and I'll watch anything that the director's name is attached to , even if it is something from a genre I have no love for . Even though I found the film rather dull , I do have to admire the great director's work on it . He may be best known for his gore flicks , but Fulci's talent came out best in his earlier films and here he creates a great atmosphere and manages to pull good performances out of his cast . Aside from Fulci at the helm , this film also features another great cult luminary in an early role , in the form of the always watchable Tomas Milian . He is joined by Adrienne Larussa who takes the title role and does a good job with it . Despite the fact that this is a departure from what Fulci is best known for , it's not completely devoid of the elements that won him his fan base as the film does feature some rather nasty torture scenes . Overall , I can respect the craftsmanship on this film but I won't pretend to like it ! Recommended to hardcore Fulci fans only .
This lake ain't placid !	A year after The Mountain of the Cannibal God , Sergio Martino decided to go back into the jungle - although instead of bloodthirsty cannibals , this time he brought with him a ridiculous looking fake crocodile ! The influence from this film obviously came primarily from Steven Spielberg's Jaws ( which was a big hit among Italian film directors in the seventies ) , with a bit of the cannibal sub-genre thrown in for good measure . It's safe to say that this film isn't very good - and has nothing on Sergio Martino's more successful films ( his Giallo's in particular ) , but at least the film is fun enough for most of the duration . The plot revolves around a legendary crocodile that lives near a tourist resort in Africa . Unfortunately , the over-sized crocodile is not pleased about the tourists ' intrusion and so takes it upon itself to kill everyone ! On the land , the natives believe that they are being killed by the tourists and so they take to the lake in a boat . . . but in the lake , the hungry crocodile awaits them ! Of Martino's three jungle movies ( the other two being The Mountain of the Cannibal God and Island of the Fish Men ) , this one is definitely the weakest , although it's not all bad news as it's still entertaining enough . Naturally , the crocodile looks completely ridiculous but this adds charm to the film and I'd rather see a silly looking and obviously fake crocodile terrorising people than a CGI one . Unlike Martino's other films , this one doesn't feature much in the way of gore , nudity or sleaze which is a shame as I would have preferred more of all three . Like Island of the Fish Men , this film stars Barbara Bach and again she looks absolutely great . Her co-star is Claudio Cassinelli ( also from Island of the Fish Men , as well as Mountain of the Cannibal God ) and he looks the part as the rugged male lead . The scenery is good and the film is obviously shot on location , which helps Sergio Martino to build the atmosphere surrounding the " mythical " central monster . Overall , The Big Alligator River is silly and fairly poor quality , but it's a fun viewing and therefore isn't all bad .
A visionary and metaphoric time-capsule	To the untrained eye ; Slap Her , She's French is just another pointless teen comedy ( albeit it , one with a title that is more snappy than most ) , but to the more astute eye ; this film is a metaphor for the current state of international affairs . A portrait of the western world and it's relationship with it's eastern counterparts . Of course , it's a metaphor that is saturated with make-up , shoes , cheerleaders and shallow people in general ; but you have to admire the imagination and astuteness of this film's observations . The main character of Starla Grady , played to perfection by the sublime Jane McGregor is a hollow cheerleader from Texas . An all-American girl ; She rules the roost , talks with a funny accent and comes across as being rather stupid . Remind you of anyone ? A certain . . . American politician , perhaps ? Of course , Starla Grady is much more attractive than George Bush , but the comparisons between the two are too obvious to ignore . Starla's opposite number is Genevieve LePlouff ; a French exchange student , played by Piper Perabo , a young lady whom you hopefully wont remember from Coyote Ugly . Genevieve is the quintessential French person , or at least the quintessential American idea of what French people are like . She's primitive ; impressed by everything " American " . This is a metaphor for American values . . . America is so much better than France ( not to mention everywhere else ) , don't you know ? This is also linked to the Iraq war as France obviously opposed it , which has lead to French Fries having their name changed to Freedom Fries , among other such childish activities . The title is metaphoric too . . . . she's French , let's slap her ! The comparisons between world politics and raunchy teen comedy don't end at the main characters either . Starla's younger brother , Randolph is a walking dictionary . He helps Starla out when she's in a tight spot later on in the film . Where do we know him from ? That's right , he's America's younger brother , the nation of walking dictionaries . . . Great Britain ! Even the underlying lesbian tones coming from Starla's friends can be seen as . . . oh wait , let's just forget about that . The film is about as funny as your average teen comedy . The storyline , however , is slightly above average . It follows the story of the aforementioned Starla Grady ; the most popular girl in school , who agrees to take a French exchange student on in order to win a competition ( somebody else played the ' god card ' , if you're wondering why she didn't just do that ) . This taking on a French student is also very " American " . . . look at us , we HELP nations . However , to our heroine's surprise , this Frenchie is not all frog legs and beret caps ; she's secretly evil . . . I didn't see that one coming ! This is indicative of the backlash of the Iraq war , and also provides the film with some of it's best laughs . Seeing Starla in jail is priceless . . . actually it isn't , but it is sort of amusing . On the surface , this movie is silly and forgettable ; but if you look past the facade of innocence and stupidity , what we have here is a very deep and complex masterpiece that is indicative of the time it was made in . Slap Her , She's French is a mind game , it will play with you and it will make you think . Few movies have this kind of vision and still manage to be funny and accessible at the same time . A modern classic . . . . . Or maybe it's just a silly teen comedy .
Crime , drama and plenty of sex scenes	The Emanuelle series is basically made up of two types of film ; ' official ' entries ( as official as an Italian rip-off of a French porn series can be ) and random Laura Gemser films that were re-titled ' Emanuelle ' to help them sell . Emanuelle : Queen of Sados , is one of the latter . The film is something of a crime-drama . . . although it could be better described as ' wall to wall sex scenes ' , as that's mostly what it is . Anyway , the plot basically hinges on a woman whose plan to hire a killer to murder her husband backfires when the killer begins blackmailing her . In the version I saw , Laura Gemser's character was called ' Emmanouella ' , although despite a similar name ; she has no relation to the journalist character seen in the official entries . The title is interesting . . . and I really have no idea where the ' Queen of Sados ' part comes from . Perhaps it was an attempt to fool audiences into thinking that the film has something to do with sadomasochism ? Anyway . . . I really can't say that this film is all that interesting . The sex scenes are not bad , but do become monotonous after a while ; and the cinematography isn't great either so it doesn't benefit from good looking scenes like the earlier Black Emanuelle , White Emanuelle did . I'm not sure what fans of the series would make of this film ; but Laura Gemser is in it ( and looks great as usual ) so that's something at least . Overall , I'd put this in the mid-range of Emanuelle films and only fans of the series need apply .
More erotic vampire trash from Jean Rollin	Jean Rollin is famous for his ' erotic ' vampire movies , and for me Fascination is the fifth that I've seen . The four previous ones have disappointed me , and even though Fascination is generally reputed to be one of his best ; it disappointed me also . I have noticed that the French director is better at directing zombie films , as The Grapes of Death and The Living Dead Girl are the only Rollin films among my favourites . Still , it would seem that the man himself prefers vampires . The main problem with this , and probably most of the rest of Rollin's output ( certainly the ones that I've seen ) is that it's all so similar to previous efforts . Lips of Blood was my first Rollin vampire flick , and every time I see another one , I am constantly reminded of the fact that I really shouldn't have bothered . The plot takes place in 1916 , and follows the story of a young thief who stumbles upon a castle while on the run . The castle is owned by two beautiful and seductive women , who proceed to toy with and torment him for their pleasure . However , there's something more sinister about them and they turn out to be part of a vampire blood cult ! If Jean Rollin was better at writing , his films could be masterpieces . The director clearly has a great eye for detail , and his art direction is superb as the film looks lovely and benefits from several memorable shots . Furthermore , Rollin's scene setting is good ; the sequence that sees one of the women in a black cape with a sickle being a particular standout . However , the rest of the movie is entirely forgettable ; as the characters spout awful lines of dialogue at one another , and resort to having sex with each other every time that Rollin can't think of what else to do . The film doesn't take long to get tiresome , and after a while I found myself just admiring the locations rather than trying to connect with the cold and lifeless plot . The surreal atmosphere is well felt , however , and the director does a good job of ensuring that his film always feels like it is taking place in a dream world , which helps the erotic side of the movie . However , for a film about vampire lesbians ; Fascination isn't very erotic at all , as Rollin films the sex with little or no feeling . Overall , this movie is bound to delight fans of Rollin's other vampire films , as it's essentially more of the same ; but personally , I don't think I'll see any more vampire films from the sleazy French director .
Axe murderer on the loose	Well I'm not a big fan of slasher flicks and the reason for that is mostly because they're all too similar . This film didn't do anything to change my opinion of slashers or like the genre any more than I did before seeing it ; but as a strictly by the book slash-fest , it's not too bad and I have seen worse . The film is a Spanish and American co-production and is directed by one José Ramón Larraz - the man behind a number of trash ' classics ' including Vampyres and Black Candles . Being a partly Spanish film , the film does seem to take a little bit of influence from Giallo tradition ( that being prominent mostly in Italy , but also in Spain ) as we do get a little bit of mystery towards the killer's identity . The plot is very simple as you would expect from a film like this and simply follows a man that goes round hacking up women with an axe . Naturally this soon attracts some attention from the local police force and an inept investigation into the murders is started . The title suggests that the murders will be committed with an axe - and indeed they are , and this is the film's strongest element . There are a couple of sequences that are quite brutal , but there's not a great deal of blood and this is unfortunate . The main problem with the film is the parts between the murders , which are largely very boring . The story surrounding the main characters is lacklustre at best and doesn't do much to hold the audience's interest . The mystery towards the killer's identity is slightly more interesting than the characters themselves ; but even this is spoiled by the fact that it becomes obvious who the killer is far too early . The direction courtesy of José Ramón Larraz is decent enough - he builds suspense well in places , although the low budget gets in the way often and the film never rises above its trashiness . Overall , I really wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to find this one . Slasher fans may find something to like but it's not one of the best of the genre .
Social commentary wasted in a lacklustre film	Massacre at Central High is one of the earlier exploitation / slasher films to feature a school full of thirty-something's getting bumped off , but that's not to say it's a cut above the rest of the genre . The film stands apart from others like it because it features a social commentary to go along with the bloodshed , but it's largely ill-conceived , and doesn't work the way it was obviously intended to . That's not to say that the social commentary isn't a good idea ; these sorts of themes have worked well in many more professionally made films , but the inane dialogues and poor production values of this film make it too difficult to really take seriously , which doesn't do the social commentary any favours . The plot focuses on David ; a new student at a high school in America . David was once friends with Mark , who is in a clique with the school bullies . They rule the school with an iron fist , but they get more than they bargained for when they decide to cowardly injure David under a car . Now crippled , he decides to take his revenge on the gang that did it . Aside from the none too successful social commentary , this film also suffers because it's never all that interesting . The seventies style is there , but other than that , the film can be a bit dry . The murder scenes are more inventive than your common slasher fare , but they're not very gory and are mostly extremely unlikely . None of the performers succeed at convincing the audience that they're young enough to even go to school , and it's all rather wooden as well . This isn't always a problem with trashy low budget cinema , but there's little distraction with this film . The fact that the film was shot on a low budget is evident throughout , as the locations are often very bare , the cinematography is bland ; and as mentioned , they couldn't afford any capable actors . One thing that writer-director Rene Daalder does succeed at , however , is putting the focus squarely on the society at the centre of the film at all times , and this is done by only showing the school " kids " , and no adults . Overall , this might appeal more to the kind of people that enjoy slashers and the like ; but I found this film very lacklustre .
The poor man's eighties horror film ( the same poor man who spent all his money phoning up silly horoscope lines )	Eighties horror tends to vary ; it can be either trashy and great or trashy and trash , and unfortunately this film belongs more in the latter category . But that's not to say it's all bad ! Freddy Krueger himself , Robert Englund directs a film about an outsider getting their revenge , in the style of films like Carrie and Evilspeak . The plot isn't very original , as we've got a rather common ' evil down the phone ' theme , and it also features some kid getting possessed . In fact , it's not even a world away from A Nightmare on Elm Street , in which Englund made his name ; but unfortunately , even some of the sequels to Craven's commercial hit are better than this film . The plot follows some kid who finds an advert for a ' horrorscope ' . Naturally , he can't resist phoning it up , and neither can his younger cousin ( it would have gone straight in the bin if I'd found it ) . Unfortunately , it turns out that whoever rings this number gets possessed by the devil and begins getting his revenge on all those who have wronged him . As you've probably guessed ; brains aren't a major strongpoint here . The relationship between the two cousins that the film centres on makes up its backbone , and it could have been good if Englund had spent a bit more time concentrating on it . Unsurprisingly , the kill scenes and gore seem to be Englund's main priority , and while I don't necessarily have a problem with this ; the final third is pretty much entirely about the younger cousin's ' revenge ' , and it doesn't take long to get really boring . Before that , however , the film seems to be mimicking the USA's other popular genre in the eighties ; teen comedy , and it's actually quite funny with it . It becomes rather annoying at the end when just about everything you've seen leading up to it amounts to nothing , though . The acting isn't too bad , with future gay porn star Stephen Geoffreys taking the lead role and convincing as a young kid despite actually being in his mid-twenties during filming . Patrick O'Bryan is his opposite number , and while it's not exactly a mystery as to why he hasn't made many films since , he puts in a decent performance overall . On the whole , this isn't a horror classic ; and it's not really all that good either , but if you're into eighties horror ; there's something here .
Not the best version of this classic tale	The Phantom of the Opera is one of the greatest horror stories ever written . No wait , scratch that understatement ; it's one of the greatest stories ever written , period . The Gothic setting of the story mixed with the tragedy of it's lead and the heartbreak of his lust for the young opera singer combine to make a very interesting and unique tale indeed , but when it comes to cinema ; it's never had a truly satisfying adaptation . Sure , the 1925 Lon Chaney version is excellent ; but it's dated . When you consider that it was made nearly 80 years ago , though , that is to be expected . This version isn't a truly satisfying version either ; it's not bad , but considering how amazing it's source story is ; it's certainly not great . The main problem with this film is that it's perspective is wrong . There's far too much emphasis on the music side of the story , and the much more interesting element of the tragedy of the phantom's fate and his resulting obsession with the opera singer are left by the wayside , almost a co-star in their own film . I'm really sorry , but I have an acute dislike for opera music . Quite frankly ; it's awful . Operatic vocals can be good if given the right music to go with ( e . g . Nightwish ) , but on their own or with classical music , they're more painful than pulling your toenails out with pliers ( not that I've ever pulled my toenails out with pliers , of course , but I'm imagining it is ) . Of course , in Phantom of the Opera , you have to expect SOME opera , but at the end of the day ; this is a horror film , and as it has more opera music than horror ; it's safe to say that it's got it's perspective wrong . The film also seems keen to have moments of comedy in it , which works sometimes ; but more often than not feels like an awkward addition to the film . Another disappointment is the ending ; gone is the lavish and expansive ending that we were treated to in the 1925 version , and we have to make do with a very small , unsatisfying climax . Which pretty much sums up the film's relationship with its title character , actually . On the good side , this film has some nice elements ; the sets are grand and lavish , and overall very refreshing and a treat for the eyes . The film also looks very nice on the whole , especially when you consider that it's over sixty years old . The direction is assured , if not overly brilliant and the performances range from good enough , to very good ; with the excellent Claude Rains being at the business end of that statement . Ten years prior to this film , Rains carried a movie with his voice alone in The Invisible Man , but here we get the voice and the screen presence of a man who is undoubtedly one of the finest actors to ever grace the screen . If you're a fan of Phantom of the Opera , then this adaptation may well be to your liking . If your not , but want to see a film version of it , then I recommend starting with Lon Chaney's version . It's better .
Disappointing and boring horror	What we have here is a concoction obviously based on the classic Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde story and taking a bit of influence from Frankenstein . It actually reminded me a lot of the modern horror classic Re-Animator ; although anyone expecting anything as gory / entertaining as that film will likely be very disappointed after seeing this one ! Lover of the Monster is the second 1974 film directed by Sergio Garrone and starring Klaus Kinski - the first being The Hand That Feeds the Dead , and the two are apparently often confused . The plot here focuses on a doctor and his wife who go to stay at the wife's childhood home despite having some marital problems . The doctor begins snooping around the house and comes across some work investigating life and death . Naturally the doctor wants to investigate this himself , but things go wrong and he ends up with a murderous alter-ego and goes round the countryside murdering people , only for a poor innocent tramp to get the blame for the killings . Sergio Garrone was responsible for one of the most notorious ( and one of the very worst ) Video Nasties with SS Experiment Camp in 1976 ; so it's surprising just how tame Lover of the Monster is . The film is very slow indeed and features practically no bloodshed whatsoever ; which is fairly surprising considering that there are more than a handful of murders on display . All the murders are committed through the eyes of the killer ; and it's really rather dull and pointless since we always know exactly who the murderer is and thus it may as well be shown . The film takes on a period setting ; which doesn't do it any favours either , aside from the fact that Klaus Kinski looks right at home . The film runs for less than ninety minutes but somehow it still manages to outstay its welcome and my interest in the film waned further as the film went on , and unfortunately there was nothing at the end to reignite it . Lover of the Monster is a rather rare film ; and I'm sure it will stay that way as there's no good reason to dig it up !
The 13th to Last Lakeside Massacre on the Left	Lake Dead is clearly a rip off of much better films such as The Last House on the Left and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ; but to be honest some of my favourite films are rip offs of those films so I wasn't too worried going into it . That was until I realised that most of my favourite rip offs ( films like The House on the Edge of the Park and Death Weekend ) were made during the heyday of horror when even a talentless bunch of hacks could churn out something good with a decent location and a fistful of film stock . Unfortunately the makers of Lake Dead weren't able to follow suit ; but to the film's credit , it's entertaining enough stuff and I cant really criticise it too much considering the type of film it is . The plot focuses very simply on three sisters who go with their friends to check out a motel left to them by their grandfather ; who just so happened to have died a rather grisly death . The sisters have their eyes on a big sale price ; but get a surprise once they arrive at the motel when they discover that their long lost relatives are a bunch of psychos . . . Anyone with more than a passing interest in this type of film will have seen most of what happens here many times before , which is a bit of a shame because the director obviously had good intentions and the film might have been decent with just a little bit of originality . The characters are all very samey and clichéd and thus hard to care about , or follow . The three sisters are very nice looking at least . . . but this novelty wears off pretty quickly . The setting is good however and the cinematography is nice and crisp . . . although actually a gritty style would have suited the film better . The psychotic relatives are not all that interesting either and pale in comparison even to the family in the remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . The gore is well used and fairly realistic and there's a fair few death scenes featuring including one that sees someone have his face caved in with the blunt end of a shotgun . However , it's the lack of originality that ultimately condemns the film and if you're looking for something you haven't seen before ; feel free to look elsewhere .
Nothing you haven't seen a million times before	In this film , Mary Lynn Rajskub plays exactly the same character that she came to fame with in the hit show 24 , and that is very fitting in a film that sees everyone in roles that they've been in before and a script that features a load of events that have happened in films many times before . The plot is the age-old ' family kidnapped , bad situation ' sort of thing , and unfortunately it isn't handled with any panache and anyone that has seen more than a handful of movies wont be dazzled by this one . However , films like this often provide a couple of hours worth of mindless entertainment despite being forgotten moments after the credits have rolled ; but alas , Firewall doesn't even manage that most basic of thriller elements . The plot takes in ideas of kidnapping and bank robbing and sees security specialist Harrison Ford being blackmailed into helping rob the bank that he's being paid to protect . His family are being held to ransom by a nasty ( British ) villain and they've put a whole load of things in place to ensure that the security guy can't get out of the sticky situation he's found himself in . . . This film is like a retirement home for actors that are past their best . Harrison Ford looks old and tired in the lead role and while he has gotten away with his lack of acting ability in previous , and better films ; he doesn't manage it here . This isn't helped by the fact that the usually talented Virginia Madsen is completely unbelievable as his wife . She might have convinced as his daughter , though . Cult actors Robert Patrick , Robert Forster and the great Alan Arkin appear in roles that don't allow them to make any kind of impression , which is a shame and only Paul Bettany , who worked with director Richard Loncraine on 2004's Wimbledon doesn't adhere to this trend ; but like the rest of the cast , isn't able to pull off a good performance , despite being one of the major protagonists . The way that the plot moves is extremely unimaginative , and basically follows Harrison Ford skipping from one clichéd scene to the next . The idea of the kidnappers and the central family having to share the same space isn't capitalised on at all , and the action sequences lack any real flair and come off like a bad TV movie . Overall , not only is this derivative and boring , it's not very well made either . Most of the cast have been better in the past and this plot has translated to the screen in better ways several times . This reviewer is unimpressed .
Hilariously inept zombie bloodbath !	Hell of the Living Dead is yet another film that attempts to rip off both Dawn of the Dead and Cannibal Holocaust and mould it into one film . Make no mistake , what director Bruno Mattei has created here is nothing short of a complete mess ; but as far as entertainment value goes , it certainly does its job and even though the film is painfully bad ; hilarity ensues to ensure that the film is always at least amusing . Oddly , Mattei has chosen a very serious tone for the film , and it only serves in making the whole thing more ridiculous . The film does attempt to bring a bit of substance to the common Italian theme of zombies taking over the world , and that takes form in the idea of the third world rising up and eating the hand that doesn't feed them . Of course , this idea isn't put across very well , and it's clear that it was put in the film as an afterthought only as Hell of the Living Dead puts the focus on the zombies and the gore rather than the themes . The plot simply follows a group of soldiers that go off into the jungle when a food supply factory accidentally turns all of its workers into flesh eating zombies . Perhaps the most amusing thing about this movie is the imaginative use of stock footage , which sees Bruno Mattei lazily sticking shots of elephants , eagles , kangaroos and other stuff into the proceedings , apparently in an attempt to set the scene . Further lazy ripping off comes from the score by Italian rock band ' Goblin ' , which is listed under ' non-original music ' for a good reason , as a lot of it is actually the very same music from Dawn of the Dead ! This sort of stuff ensures that Mattei is never going to be considered one of the premium Italian horror directors , but believe it or not the film is otherwise quite competent as far as directing is concerned . The acting is hilarious , with the entire cast putting in forgettable performances as a load of dull characters . The zombie effects certainly aren't the worst I've ever seen , but they're not very good either . The gore makes up for this , however , and there are several sequences that sees the blood flow freely , which is always nice . The film is hugely overlong at over one hundred minutes , and could definitely have been cut down by quite a bit . Still , Hell of the Living Dead is certainly an amusing piece of entertainment and there are a lot worse zombie flicks out than this one ( e . g . Zombie Lake ) .
Just as silly as it's title , but not as easy to like	The title of this film is one of the most ludicrously lurid in the whole Giallo sub-genre , and that gives the viewer the right impression of this film . Some Giallo's strive for artistic merit , while others are more than happy to depict graphic , violent murders and make the sleaze and trashiness the main ingredient ; this film is one of the latter . The film gets off to a very promising start , with a bloody murder that sees a young woman have acid thrown in her face before having her throat sliced open with a razorblade . While this sequence is poorly brought to the screen and suffers from really bad special effects , it's at least entertaining . However , from there the film quickly moves downhill , and director Riccardo Freda bombards the viewer with tedious sequence after tedious sequence , until the ending in which the film gets back on track . The plot after the initial murder sees the mutilated corpse turn up in the boot of the Swiss Ambassador's car . The Ambassador refuses to cooperate with the police as the girl was a former lover of his , and hard-bitten ex-cop John Norton is soon drafted in as the murders continue . . . If Riccardo Freda could have made the middle of the movie as trashy and violent as the beginning and end , this could have been a pristine slice of Giallo sleaze ; but the fact that the plot gets far too convoluted means the film gets boring too quickly , and despite a couple of decent scenarios in the centre of the film , there really isn't much to remember it for . The best sequence in the movie sees a young woman being chased through the streets by the murderer . The scene setting is good as the smoke filled pathway looks absolutely gorgeous , and the total lunacy of the conclusion to the chase bodes well with the trash theme of the movie . The acting leaves a lot to be desired and the poorly dubbed voices don't help . Of course , this isn't an actor's film ; but considering the talent involved , this part of the movie should have been better . The murder scenes feel a little too much like an excuse to show blood and guts , and the fact that they aren't very well realised helps to ensure this . The climax is good , however , and while the identity of the killer doesn't really matter after watching the ninety minute ordeal , the revelation scene is good trashy fun . There isn't a lot I can recommend this for other than the obvious cult value ; but fans of lurid cinema may find something to like .
Not up to the high standard set by Casa Negra so far .	Well , this is the fifth release I've seen from Casa Negra , and the other four were all excellent ; those being The Curse of the Crying Woman , The Witch's Mirror , The Black Pit of Dr M and Brainiac . . . and while this film isn't terrible , it pales in comparison to those four as there isn't a great deal of imagination and the plot seems stretched out , despite the fact that the film only runs for seventy minutes ! I was surprised to find that this film was directed by Fernando Méndez : the same director behind quite possibly the best of the Casa Negra releases so far , The Black Pit of Dr M . Perhaps he was running short on ideas by the time it came to making this film ? Anyway , it won't surprise many people to find that the plot focuses on the Mexican legend of ' The Crying Woman ' . We follow a Cowboy and his sidekick Crazy Wolf who comes across the mystery of the Crying Woman while investigating an attempted murder in an almost deserted Mexican town . The duo soon learns about the mystery behind The Crying Woman and attempts to get to the bottom of it . The film mixes elements from horror and westerns in more ways than just the fact that the central character is a cowboy . The bar room brawl is one of the action centrepieces , and is of course a staple of the western genre . The film features a decent atmosphere emanating from the nearby swamp , and this helps to implement the horror tones . Surprisingly , the film is shot in colour , although unsurprisingly , it looks very grainy and cheap . The plot can feel a bit dry at times as there isn't a lot of it , and the film never really capitalises on the ' Crying Woman ' theme that made The Curse of the Crying Woman such a delight to watch . The acting ranges from over the top to completely unenthusiastic , and this gives the film more of a trashy feel . When the plot starts to unravel it does feel kind of disappointing , and while fans of Scooby Doo may be happy with how it all turns out , I reckon many people will feel a bit cheated . Overall , this film may be of interest to people who were impressed by other Casa Negra releases , but I certainly wouldn't recommend stating with this one !
Disappointing Hammer thriller	Hammer studios were obviously most famous for their horror flicks , but they did produce some work in other genres ; and the thriller genre was one of their strongest outside horror , especially during the sixties with films such as Paranoiac and A Taste of Fear . I had rather high hopes for this one going into it despite its poor reputation simply for the fact that Hammer produced it and they have produced some good thrillers ; such as those mentioned , but unfortunately it would seem that the studio's success in this genre didn't continue into the seventies as Crescendo , despite some good moments and positive elements , is a largely lacklustre thriller . The plot focuses on a young girl who goes to stay at a house in France to help her with a thesis . The house used to belong to a famous music composer but is now owned by his wife and son after the composer's death . The girl soon gets to meet the family as well as the staff and soon it becomes apparent that not everything is as it should be ; mostly because everyone in the house is a weirdo ! The film's main problem is that it largely fails to be interesting ; the story is derivative and not all that interesting anyway , and this isn't compensated for by the characters ( who are also largely uninteresting ) so we end up with a film that doesn't fit the ' thriller ' bill very well . Most of the film takes place in an old , large house ; although director Alan Gibson doesn't really make best use of this in terms of atmosphere . The director would go on to make the latter two films in the popular Dracula series - the fun Dracula A . D . 1972 and the disappointing Satanic Rites of Dracula and both of these lacked atmosphere too . Crescendo was apparently made for TV and this is pretty obvious as it's all quite tame ; there are actually a few murders in this film but we never get to see much blood and they're not very brutal . Nobody in the cast particularly stands out either ; Stefanie Powers is the biggest standout in the lead role , though not particularly for her performance . There is a twist at the end which comes as something of a surprise , but as the build up to it is quite dull ; the twist doesn't come off all that well . Overall , I can't say I enjoyed this film much and I'd only recommend it to Hammer Horror completists .
The third Blinddead film doesn't live up to expectations	I went into this third showing of Amando de Ossorio's Blinddead series with relatively high hopes after seeing the first two films ; but unfortunately , these high hopes weren't met . I love the way that the director has decided to relocate the series away from the small community seen in the first two films , and while the 16th century galleon that provides the backdrop for the movie is suitably creepy and morbid looking , the film falls down because , oddly , there isn't enough of the series ' stars ; the Templar's themselves . The previous films did a great job of ensuring that the creepy zombies were in as many scenes as possible , but this entry in the series sees more time being spent on the characters , and since none of them are particularly interesting ; that is its downfall . The plot behind the film sees two young women travelling into the middle of the sea on a publicity stunt . However , the Templar's have somehow managed to make their way onto an old galleon in the middle of the sea , and our heroines soon find themselves on board . Soon after , a troupe of people goes out looking for the lost girls . . . The atmosphere of this film is , on the whole , better than the previous ones . The boat provides an absolutely great horror location , and one that is far better used than in sea horror adventures such as the recent ' Ghost Ship ' . The Templar's themselves are once again morbid and disgusting , and the scenes where they do appear are striking and provide good horror . The cinematography goes a long way towards ensuring that this is a quality slice of Euroshock cinema , as it's crisp and clean and is a pleasure to view . However , despite all of its aesthetic positives ; the film can't match it with substance . You can't expect a lot of substance going into a Spanish zombie flick from the seventies , but the characters could have been better . Only the professor really stands out , and he mostly just serves in being annoying . The film has a good idea involving another dimension , which makes the action claustrophobic and terrifying , but it's never really explored ; and despite scenes that see boats disappear and a huge trawler that can't see our heroes , it's never properly explored . I can still recommend this film to fans of the Blinddead series ; but don't go in expecting something on par with the first two .
An omnibus without much merit	What we have here is a made for TV omnibus horror film . If that doesn't fill you full of confidence , the fact that the trio of tales are directed by highly successful horror directors John Carpenter and Tobe Hooper might , although I cant say it did for me as I don't rate either of these two as highly as many . The title of the film is ' Body Bags ' , and this is reflected in the wraparound story , which features egomaniac John Carpenter as a coroner inspecting dead bodies . His bit part in the film smacks of " look at me , I'm John Carpenter " ; and I dare say he added this in just so people would get to know his face . Anyway , the film takes off with the everyday ( in this sort of film ) story of a serial killer . We follow the tribulations of working at a gas station , as a young girl has to deal with someone trying to murder her as well as a bunch of difficult customers . This tale isn't bad , but it's not very good either . Carpenter builds the suspense , but it's all very empty and the fact that it's the first tale doesn't disguise the fact that it feels like an afterthought . Carpenter also directs tale number two , which is the best segment of the film . This part takes horror from human vanity , and we follow Stacy Keach as he worries about going bald and ends up at a hair replacement clinic , where he gets more than he bargained for when he applies for their treatment . Stories about someone's body rebelling against them are always more frightening than men with knives , and although tongue in cheek , Carpenter keeps the horror coming as we are drawn into the subject's plight . The ending is good , and shows a little bit of ingenuity in a film that seriously lacks it . The third and final tale is helmed by Tobe Hooper ( maybe Carpenter couldn't be bothered ) , and for me is the weakest of the bunch . We follow a baseball player who becomes the unfortunate victim of a car accident . After losing his right eye , he is given the chance for a new one ; but it means having the eye of a dead man transplanted into his eye socket . . . I'm sure you can guess what's coming , although it is worth noting that this film predates Jap horror , The Eye , by almost a decade . Hooper's section is just too dull to be an effective horror tale , and the way that he injects religion into the tale just doesn't work . Mark Hamill ( of Luke Skywalker fame ) takes the lead role , and watch out for Roger Corman as his doctor . The film features quite a few famous names , actually , including Wes Craven , Sam Raimi , Twiggy , Debbie Harry and Robert Carradine in bit parts . I can't really recommend it though . . . Body Parts is just too forgettable .
Above average Rollin	I've seen a handful of Jean Rollin films , and the only ones I liked were his zombie flicks The Living Dead Girl and The Grapes of Death ; which is pretty ironic when you consider that ninety percent of his filmography is made up of lesbian vampire films . Well I must be a glutton for punishment having seen this film after seeing so many Rollin films that I didn't like ; but to my surprise it would seem that four decades of lesbian vampires has actually taught Rollin something , and while The Fiancé of Dracula suffers from most of the same problems as Rollin's other films ; it is actually surprisingly good ! As you should expect , the plot is completely made up of nonsense and focuses on some Van Helsing wannabe and his dopey assistant as they go around hunting " parallels " ( hot lesbian vampires , basically ) . Their investigation leads them to a strange convent ( via a circus dwarf ) and the pair soon discovers that the nuns are harbouring a young woman who just so happens to be the fiancé of the almighty Count Dracula . . . Naturally , the film is completely incoherent and nothing after about the first fifteen minutes makes a lick of sense . . . but Rollin films generally aren't meant to , and he does at least get the ambiance right . Most of the actresses used are stunningly beautiful - even more so when given lesbian vampire roles and Rollin makes good use of them ; in particular Rollin stalwart Brigitte Lahaie who has an interesting role as a ' wolf woman ' . It soon becomes easier to just take the film scene by scene rather than trying to enjoy it as a whole and the film features plenty of interesting scenes - one that involves a young girl eating a baby is a highlight . Given that Rollin made most of his films between the late sixties and early eighties ; it would be reasonable to assume that The Fiancé of Dracula is merely an imitation of his earlier works , but actually that's not the case and this film appears to be as ' true ' to Rollin's style as anything he made earlier on in his career . There's not much point talking about the ending because it makes just as much sense as the rest of the film ; but while this film isn't brilliant , it's better than most of Rollin's stuff and his fans should enjoy it .
Visually stunning , shame about the singing .	I know a little about " Sweeny Todd " , but I haven't seen any other films / TV Shows or read any books based on the legend , which makes this my first experience with it ; and I'm highly disappointed . The disappointment grows further because this story and Tim Burton's directorial style are clearly a match made in heaven - but for some reason , a terrible decision was made on how the film would work and it's spoilt something that could have been great . I would write a song about this film's main problem - but I'd prefer to clearly state that it's the musical elements that spoil it . The plot is rich with horrific elements and should be a great base for a gory Gothic horror film . We focus on Benjamin Barker ; better known as Sweeny Todd , a barber returning to London for revenge against all those that have wronged him . Upon his return to the capital , he meets Mrs . Lovett , the owner of a pie shop where " The Worst Pies in London " are made . If I made the worst pies in London , I'd keep my mouth shut about it - but she sings songs instead and unsurprisingly her shop isn't doing very well . Anyway , Sweeny Todd opens up a barbers shop upstairs and his lust for killing soon combines with her need for meat to put in pies . I have to say that the film looks great . Tim Burton has his own directorial style and it translates to the screen very well here and aesthetically , every scene is a joy to behold . The good points continue with the cast ; Johnny Depp is always a pleasure to watch and he clearly relishes this role , while Mrs Tim Burton ; Helena Bonham Carter , does well starring opposite and the director has also done a good job recruiting some good British talent to fill the supporting roles . The film is also rather graphic and Burton provides the viewers with some real nasty sights including a spate of throat slashing that result in blood spraying everywhere , a succession of corpses falling through a trapdoor and hitting the ground with a brutal thud as well as a machine that grinds Sweeny Todd's victims into pie meat . This is all well and good but it all comes down to the execution , and the musical elements really spoil it . Many reviewers have said that the horror and musical elements bode well in this film ; but for me it really doesn't work . It comes off as being almost cringe-worthy in places and constantly forced me to ask myself WHY they made this a musical ( I know there was a musical version of this story , but there's also several none musical versions ) . Another problem with the music is that it all sounds very similar and the songs are not very diverse . The first hour or so is really rather boring anyway and the constant singing soon starts to grate . Things improve massively towards the end and despite a couple of songs ; the final half hour is really quite good . Overall , I love the atmosphere and the gore of this film - but I can't get on with the musical elements at all , which unfortunately means that a film which could have been a masterpiece is sadly not much better than passable . A shame .
Style over substance - but the style is good !	Before Peter Weir went on to make ' A ' class films such as The Dead Poets Society and Witness , he had a rather unsuccessful stint as a B-movie cult flick director . Despite the fact that he's become better known for his critically acclaimed films , his lesser cult films show much more imagination and are far more fun to watch . The Cars That Ate Paris works from a delicious premise . A small township in Australia named ' Paris ' causes car accidents and salvages valuables from the wreckages . The town's currency is radios , clothes etc and this lucrative business is doing well for the town . When someone survives a crash , they usually end up mentally disabled , which is good for the town as it stops them from being caught by the pesky insurance investigator . This is all well and good until George and brother Arthur drive into town . George is killed in the crash , but Arthur survives it ; pretty much unharmed . Nobody has ever left Paris before , which prompts the Mayor to take the young man into his family home . This is something that will go on to have massive repercussions on the township of Paris . . . Peter Weir deliciously blends several elements into the plot line . On one hand , we have the incredibly surreal idea of a whole town killing people for their valuables . This blends with the whole crazy cult idea , and this in turn mixes with the idea of the things that people will do to survive . Weir has speckled the movie with loads of great imagery , such as the old women who's job it is to take the valuables from the cars stuffing clothes down their top , and the devilish cornerstone of society , the Mayor , overseeing all the horror . Despite all the film's good elements , however , Weir has failed to make the film a complete whole . It may be down to inexperience , but while he's busy creating his atmosphere ; the characters have been forgotten about , and this makes it difficult to care for them , and the story beyond an aesthetic level . There is much to like about this movie , and it's definitely worth seeing for the imagery alone ; but it's hard to really love it , and that stops me from giving the film a high rating . I still recommend the movie , however , as it's well worth seeing .
Slightly better than you might expect . . . but still dross at the end of the day	Going into Hellworld and complaining about having seen a bad movie is like sticking your hand in the oven and complaining about being burnt . This doesn't change the fact that this is a bad movie ; but if you go in with the right expectations , there's more fun than you might expect to have with it . The plot line is typically silly for an eighth instalment , and follows the idea of Hellraiser being brought onto the internet . Director Rick Bota spits in the face of fans of the original ( i . e . me ) by introducing the idea of Hellraiser being a franchise , in the film . This only reinforces the way that the once mighty Pinhead has become a posterboy for the legions of modern day horror fans , and his appearance in this film does nothing to change that idea . In fact , it only reinforces it . The plot does , however , have a little more about it than you would expect , and if you ignore the fact that none of the lead characters look or act like the sort of people that would become obsessed by an online game called ' Hellworld ' , the plot of them going to a heavy metal ' Hellworld ' party at some old house is easy enough to buy into . Lance Henriksen sums up much of the film with the line " it's like something out of a bad horror movie " . Speaking of Lance , I sincerely hope he was rewarded with a huge pay packet for putting his name to this . I was surprised , and pleased , however to see that his role is much more than the cameo that the bigger stars without much work usually give to films like this . Henriksen pretty much stars in the film . A forgettable cast of good-looking youngsters joins him . It gets on my nerves how all these modern day horrors are packed with teenagers . It makes the film very hard to take seriously , and older actors tend to give performances that are much more interesting than the nobodies that always get cast . What really bugs me about the descent of the Hellraiser series is the fact that the filmmakers aren't even trying . This straight to video release has clearly been made just to make a few bucks on it's release ; but if the filmmakers would just part with a bit of cash , they could make a film that is actually good , get it a cinema release and make more money ! If anyone involved in making these new Hellraiser films happens to be reading this . . . why not make a serious Hellraiser film next time ? On the whole , this film is better than Inferno and Bloodline . It's probably better than Deader and Hellseeker too , but I haven't had ' the pleasure ' of seeing those yet . Really , though , there isn't much reason to see it . Unless you really like direct to video rubbish , or sequels that laugh in the face of the original's fans . . . leave this one alone .
More of a " spooky mystery " than a Giallo	Murder Mansion is reputedly a Giallo , but I would call it more of a lacklustre mystery film . There are certainly elements of Giallo here , but it never really feels like that is what directors Francisco Lara Polop and Pedro Lazaga intended , and indeed the film is more Scooby Doo than black gloves and leather . Murder Mansion was released in 1972 , namely the Giallo heyday so I suppose it deserves some respect for not doing what some films released around the time were guilty of doing - namely , being just another murder mystery , but on the other hand - this film isn't very good , so it shouldn't get too much credit ! The plot focuses on three people who find themselves broken down somewhere in the countryside . They happen across an old graveyard , and after deducing that there is likely to be a civilisation near to a graveyard , they decide to look for it . They traverse through the thick fog until they finally come across an old mansion , and since they don't have a lot of choice , they decide to stay there for the night . I have to give credit where credit is due ; the thick fog gives the film a lot of atmosphere and this is hugely beneficial to the plot line , which needs spookiness in order to work . However , the budget limitations are obvious and the sets look extremely cheap , and aren't very effective for it . It's obvious that the filmmakers couldn't afford good actors either , as most of the performances in this film are stale and really quite boring , which doesn't help things ! The plot moves slowly , and the Giallo traditions of nudity and blood don't really feature , so things can become more than a little bit turgid at times . I have to say that I wasn't all that interested in the mystery plot , which is shame because I was a fan of Scooby Doo when I was a kid and it might have been nice to see a film that adequately capitalises on that show's basic plot line . The conclusion to the film isn't too bad - if just a little bit silly and although I think that the bad elements of this film more than outweigh the good , I can see why some enjoy it ; though it's not really recommended to Giallo fanatics .
Simple thriller dressed up in impressive technical details	It's been eight years now since Steven Spielberg picked up a ' Best Director ' Oscar for Saving Private Ryan , and a massive thirteen since he snagged ' Best Picture ' with Schindler's List . I'm sure that Spielberg had these things in mind when he decided to take on Munich ; as it becomes obvious while viewing this film that so much time has been spent on trying to ensure that everything is professionally done , that Spielberg has forgotten to actually make a film . Munich is about the tragedy at the Munich Olympics , which saw eleven Israeli athletes lose their lives to Arab terrorists . This plot , obviously , is very relevant these days with all the hype surrounding terrorism ; and Spielberg has made a film with the central idea being that ' violence breeds violence ' . This is an admirable base for any film , especially given the fact that this film follows a plot that is grounded in real events ; but in order for the story to carry any weight , the audience really needs to be involved in it . And this is where Munich falls flat on its face . By making the central character a terrorist , Spielberg puts us at the centre of the action . The director tries to make us believe that the lead is a complete character , by showing us scenes where he's blowing people up , as well as sequences with his wife and new born child ; but this is far too black and white . Thrillers have got by with far less characterisation , but if you're going to make us believe that your lead is more than a cardboard cut-out , you're going to need to do a better job that that . At its base , the film is a list of assignments that need to be carried out by the Mossad agent at the centre ; but these are caught up in far too much waffle , and while the murder sequences themselves are beautifully stylised - tension is stripped from the film by the way that the plot goes from exciting to achingly boring . As mentioned , technically the film has no problems at all . The cinematography is great , as is the direction and Eric Bana , as ever , does an excellent job of leading the film ; but like Schindler's List before it , Munich just feels like nothing more than an attempt to win an Oscar . Personally , I'd rather see the award go to ' War of the Worlds ' . It might not be as critically friendly , but at least it sees Spielberg doing what he does best .
Largelly lacklustre Carrie clone	I would guess that this uninspiring little film was probably inspired by Stephen King's book ' Carrie ' , and possibly even Brian De Palma's film adaptation , as while this film was released in the same year ; I'm sure that there was more than enough time to write the script and make the film with what was left of it . Spiders are common throughout horror cinema , and big tarantulas are a fear of many people . Adding to this theme is the tried and tested formula of a young female outcast getting her revenge . . . so really , there's not many excuses for this film not being better . Kiss of the Tarantula hasn't gone on to achieve much acclaim and it's rather unknown , which doesn't surprise me at all . The film focuses on a young girl who likes spiders . Her mother doesn't share this arachnid appreciation , however , and after continually telling her daughter off for playing with spiders , the young girl decides that enough is enough and ends up putting a spider in her mother's bed , which leads to a heart attack . Some years later , the girl is still disturbed ; and decides to use the spiders to get revenge on her current enemies . The fact that this film was shot on a low budget is clearly shown through the use of the spiders ; as it can't have cost much to round a few up for filming , and this is pretty much all the film has in terms of horror imagery . The spiders are about enough to pull it through , but the film is otherwise lacking ; and I find it hard to believe that everyone except the central character is scared of them . The plots surrounding the spiders isn't too interesting either , with only the idea of the young girl being an outcast for her ' hobby ' and a plot involving her uncle and her mother having an affair providing distraction from the central theme . The fact that the film is set in a funeral home is a positive element , as mortuaries often provide an interesting location for horror films , and that works well here . As you might expect given the type of film , the acting is largely diabolical , and I'm not surprised that this was the only film role for Suzanna Ling . Director Chris Munger never made another film after this one also , and overall ; Kiss of the Tarantula is almost worth seeing , but you wouldn't be missing anything by not watching it .
Should have been better	Get Over It tells the heartbreaking story of a young man , dumped by his one true love . Ben Foster is said young man , and man ; is he put through it . The poor lad first has to go through the horrors of being dumped , and not just by anyone ; but by his high school sweetheart , and his pain doesn't stop there ; salt is added to the wound when his ex-girlfriend gets a new boyfriend . Fair enough , you may think ; until you realize he's a petty , leather pants wearing nancy boy , who's in a boyband no less ! Things aren't looking up for our hero . In a final , desperate attempt to win back the girl of his dreams , Foster joins with the theatre school , who happen to be putting on a musical performance of " A midsummer night's dream " , and to help become a better actor , he enlists the help of his friend's sister , Kirsten Dunst . Yes , I don't blame him either . Naturally , romance ensues where ' you least expect ' ( or not ) , and that is the major plot point of the film . I didn't have particularly high expectations going into this movie , but Get Over It managed to fall short of them anyway . You cant go into a teen comedy expecting great things , but this movie has so many things going for it that it really should have been towards the top of the genre . First of all , it has a great cast . Kirsten Dunst headlines it , and rightly so . Her performance in this movie isn't one of her best , but she is sweetness personified ; and that's all she needs to be . Ben Foster is the backbone of the movie , and his performance is great . Not great in the Robert DeNiro sense of the word , but for what it is ; his performance is good . Excellent support is given to the two leads by Melissa Sagemiller ( whom you might remember as the true star of Soul Survivors , although hopefully not ) , Shane West , who is campy but fun and also Martin Short , who is hilarious as the director of the play . Get Over It also has a decent enough script , but it suffers due to the high concentration of teen comedy clichés . We've got an overly hormonal dog , various people being hurled around in the air , overly silly characters etc ; and it devalues the film . Had it have pulled away from the pitfalls of teen comedy , and more into a teen drama such as Kirsten's other 2001 film ; Crazy / Beautiful , it would have been a far better movie . That being said ; Get Over It is worth watching if you're after 90 minutes of entertainment . It has more than enough funny moments , and there's a good sense of fun overall . It's just a shame that it wasn't better .
This Dentist 2 is a lot like the film that spawned it	Even though Brian Yuzna's 1996 ( almost ) hit , The Dentist was a pretty good psychopath flick that excellently capitalised on the fact that dentistry is a much feared profession ; what we really didn't need was a sequel . It's safe to say that this film is pretty pointless ; but to its credit , it's not real bad . Perhaps not even as bad as you might think it will be . This sequel reunites original star Corbin Bernsen with director Brian Yuzna . Sequels are always better when the people involved in the original return ; but unfortunately , people from the original aren't the only things making themselves at home in the sequel , as the first film's plot has been re-recruited as well . Just like the first time , we get to witness everyone's favourite dentist degenerate from slightly odd perfectionist to out and out nutcase . Like the first film ; his psychosis is triggered off by infidelity , and the only real thing that's different is the dentist's surgery . The fact that he's just escaped from a mental hospital doesn't figure in the plot , as it's not long before Dr Feinstone is dishing out his own form of dental hygiene to the local population of a town called ' Paradise ' . Corbin Bernsen was the main reason why Yuzna's original was any kind of success . His sinister performance fits the character perfectly , and it's hard to imagine anyone else playing this role . His performance here is just about as good as it was in the first film ; although it loses plaudits due to the fact that it's basically just a re-run . The scenes of gore are disgusting in that they mostly take place in the mouth , but the way that the film sets up these scenes doesn't work as well as it did in the original , as it's clear that the plot is only moving along so that the doctor can mess someone's mouth up . Yuzna has implemented a sub-plot , which harks back to the original and sees the dentist's long suffering , tongue-less wife hire a private detective to find him . Even this feels like it's just been thrown in to remind the audience of the better original , and although I found this film somewhat fun to watch on the whole ; the fact that it's too much like the original never fails to bring it down . I can't really find a good reason to recommend this flick , as even if you really liked the original , it still isn't really worth seeing .
Dull zombie tedium	Well , you can't expect anything original from a film like this , so I didn't . I just wanted a fun zombie flick that would entertain me for its duration and nothing more . Did I get it ? No , because Flesheater features a serious lack of interesting scenes , and the way that it plays out with barely a lick of humour means that it isn't much fun either . Obviously the main inspirations for this film are George Romero's classic zombie flicks ; principally Dawn of the Dead , but there's clearly things lifted from other entries in the series ; not to give anything away , but the ending is a direct lift from Romero . As you can imagine , there is very little in the way of plot and the film is mostly made up of zombies eating people ; which is OK , but really it needs some sort of story to go with it , or at least something else to keep the audience interested . The film starts by focusing on a group of kids who comes across the grave of an old man . It's not long before he comes back as the flesh eating living dead , and after some of the kids are bitten , things start to get out of control . Considering there's not really a plot , you have to expect some decent gore . . . but Flesheaters even disappoints on that front . There's a fair amount of gore in this film , and it's not badly done ; but it's boring and unimaginative , which fits the rest of the film but doesn't do anything for Flesheaters ' credibility ! Many post-Romero zombie flicks feature some sort of tribute to the master , often ham fisted stuff like calling a character " Romero " , but this film goes a step further and not only does it cast Bill Hinzman - the first zombie from Night of the Living Dead - he's cast in a pivotal role ! They might as well have just slapped a big banner over the cover saying " Romero Rip-Off " and had done with it ! Most of the film takes place in a country setting , which is probably a result of the crew not being able to find a better place to film . . . still , it's one of the better things about this film . The film just kind of drones on for most of the duration - if you thought zombie flesh eating couldn't be boring , you'll reconsider after this . The ending is a real none-event too ; overall , I'd recommend skipping this one !
Yet another Italian Exorcist rip-off	After the release of The Exorcist in 1973 ; ripping that film off became so popular in Italy that " the Exorcist rip off " almost became a genre . It turns out that Italian filmmakers were still at it six years later and Rings of Darkness is one of the later rip offs . It seems that director Pier Carpi was not happy just to rip off William Friedkin's film , however , and this one also features elements from other Satanic classics such as The Omen and Rosemary's Baby . I have to give the film some credit actually for the plot , as it does feature one of the more interesting ones ; although it is rather messy . The basic plot focuses on three women that made a deal with the Devil . However , the Devil has decided to target their young daughters instead ; prompting the women to fight back against their master . Unfortunately , it has to be said that this film is something of a missed opportunity and nowhere near as good as it could have been . The atmosphere is really rather good , and while the music is a bit too over the top at times ; it does work well . The plot soon becomes indecipherable , however , and unfortunately this means that the film quickly becomes boring . In my experience , most of the Exorcist rip off's are rubbish and this isn't one of the better ones . I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to find a copy .
Bad , even for an eighties slasher	This is one odious movie . The dialogues are terrible , the delivery is even worse , the cinematography is poor in the extreme and the film is about as original as any other serial killer flick from the eighties . You may be wondering why this film isn't rubbish , then ; and if you are , you're wondering up the wrong tree as rubbish is exactly what this is . That being said , its entertainment value lies in its crappiness , and although I can't justify saying this film is good ; there is some fun to be had . The main murder weapon is my personal favourite - the chainsaw ! However , it really isn't used very well as every murder basically features some guy revving a chainsaw , then we cut to a scene of some flesh being cut and then a little spurt of blood may follow afterwards . The fact that the film merely lumbers from one of these scenes to the next doesn't do it any favours either , as every scene inbetween killings is soaked in a sense of indifference . The plot follows a serial killer who decides to cut bits off women on a university campus in order to put together a human " jigsaw " . All we are offered in explanation for this behaviour is a scene at the start of the film that sees a little kid doing a naked woman jigsaw . . . Pieces has a serious problems where logic is concerned . First of all , we have a professional tennis player who is brought in undercover as a tennis trainer on campus by the police . I can only assume that they didn't have an officer as good as her . . . and I can also only assume that it didn't really matter if her cover gets blown as some kid from the school is told of the plan pretty soon after . The film also takes place in the town with the worst newspapers in the world . . . as it takes the press an eternity to get wind of the campus killer . And , just when you think the film can't get any more ridiculous - the police decide to bring one of the students in to help them with their investigation ! Their reason ; he can do their job better than they can . . . The film seems to take influence from the Giallo formula , probably in an attempt to cash in on the successful Italian imports , with the music score and black gloved killer . The mystery element in the film is pretty much nonexistent , and I really can't think of a good reason to recommend Pieces . The film fits into that ' really bad ' category of films along with the likes of Zombie Lake . . . so I guess the only reason to see this is if you don't mind watching absolute rubbish .
My Little Eye Saw Cube already	If you want an idea of what House of 9 is like - just imagine Cube , mixed with a little bit of Saw and My Little Eye ; sprinkled with a thick coating of horrid , forced British accents that couldn't sound more ridiculous if the Queen herself was putting her voice to every character . As if the mess you're no doubt imagining isn't already bad enough - you'd best find time to imagine that the script was written by a retard and a couple of monkeys ; because I know one thing , if I was trapped in a house with a bunch of complete strangers ; I'd try and get out . If that didn't work , I'd try again and if I was still unsuccessful , I'd try again . One thing I definitely wouldn't find myself doing is drawing straws as to who shares which room with who and bedding down for the night ! The plot is one of the most simple and overused in cinema history ( but more so nowadays due to the popularity of reality TV ) , in that it follows a bunch of strangers thrown into a situation together . We follow them as they try to work out what to do , and get to watch as the group develops . It really isn't as interesting as it sounds . Scriptwriter Philippe Vidal may think that he's the next Ingmar Bergman , but I can assure him that he's not . Aside from featuring no end of illogical instances , the characters hardly develop above what they are in the first place ; and this isn't good considering that this is supposed to be a character orientated film . The plot is divided between two parts . Early on , we've got the introductions to the clichéd characters and some scenario building , and then after a very boring stretch that features two horrible songs ; the film becomes what people turned up to see as the characters start killing one another . The second half of the movie is no doubt better than the first ; but it's only the lesser of two evils , rather than being a great climax to the film . The cast list is unimpressive , with only two names standing out . Dennis Hopper is ineffective as a priest . If you're going to have Hopper in your movie ; make the most of it , don't give him a role like this . The other name belongs to Kelly Brook . I wasn't aware that British model was an actress . . . and it would seem that , actually , she isn't ; despite appearing in the film . To be fair , this isn't all bad ; as it's never boring for too long , and certain scenes are well implemented ; but really , there's not enough here to warrant giving up ninety minutes of your time .
Decent , but hardly great anthology	Trilogy of Terror features the original idea of having all three stories lead by the same actress . The actress in question is Karen Black , and while I've never been a big fan of hers ; she is good in horror films , and she definitely does well here playing a range of different roles . Black is , however , the best thing about this film ; as while the stories aren't bad , they're rather shallow and you don't really feel like you've been told a story by the end of each segment . The first story isn't bad , but it's not great either - and this becomes even more disappointing when you realise that this is actually the best of the bunch . The first tale sees Karen Black as a teacher at a high school . A young man sees , and instantly wants , her ; and pretty soon the two of them are forsaking the school rules by going to a movie together . The second half of the tale plays out well , and while the twist towards the end should really be predictable - it caught me off guard . It's not very frightening , but after nearly twenty years of watching horror movies ; I don't really expect to be scared any more . The second tale really should have been a lot better , as it features the classic creepy idea of siblings ; one being good and one being evil . The way that the story splits the action between the two sisters is really good , and ensures that the final twist comes as a surprise . This is the meatiest role that Trilogy of Terror has for it's lead actress - and generally speaking , she makes good of it . The third story is the one that most people like the best ; but to be honest , I found it rather dull and empty . We follow the age-old theme of an inanimate object coming to life , this time in the form of a tribal doll . We watch as the doll terrorises its woman owner . This tale isn't all bad ; and the chase does provide some scares , but the doll comes to life for no reason and the fact that it's been done many times before doesn't help . This movie was made for TV , and that seems apt , as this is very much a television release . However , I think it would work much better as a mini-TV series , with each segment providing an episode . There isn't enough about the three stories to lump them together , whereas each would adequately provide twenty-five minutes of entertainment individually .
Robert Louis Stevenson would be proud ! . . . . or not .	I got my introduction to Seduction Cinema a couple of weeks ago with the decent ' Sin Sisters ' , and while it was a long way both from being brilliant and from the hardcore pornography I'm used to ; it was just about good enough to warrant seeing another . Dr Jekyll and Mistress Hyde is very much along the same lines as Sin Sisters in terms of style and plotting , although as the title suggests ; the film takes it's backbone from the Robert Louis Stevenson classic novel ' Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde ' . The film puts lesbian sex at its forefront ( nothing wrong with that ) and probably took about two minutes to write . Stevenson's classic easily lends itself to a sex film , and here we focus on Dr Jackie Stevenson ( nice name . . . ) , a female scientist that has developed a drug to do . . . something . . . to women . After trying it on herself , she develops an alter-ego - except this time the alter ego doesn't turn to murder , it turns to having sex with the sultry Misty Mundae , whom Jackie meets at a bus stop . From there , we follow the bizarre love story to its unexpected final twist . The film looks like it was shot with a video camera and probably cost just a fistful of dollars to make . The performances are terrible , with the female leads looking great while delivering awful lines of dialogue in a horribly wooden way . This doesn't matter , of course , as the whole point of the film is simply for its male audience members to enjoy themselves , although it doesn't deliver too much on that front either . Like the performances , the sex is wooden and fake looking and while the initial seduction between Misty Mundae and Julian Wells is rather nice , the rest of the film just sort of rolls on . However , despite its many shortcomings - Dr Jekyll and Mistress Hyde is a real fun film to watch . It's all so stupid that you'd have to be completely humourless not to have a laugh at it , and watching the female leads go at each other is nice even though it's not very well done . Mundae and Wells bode extremely well together as they're polar opposites , and it's obvious that director Tony Marsiglia knows that . The ending feels incredibly tacked on ; but given all the lacklustre ways they could have ended it , the conclusion isn't too bad . Overall ; this film is OK with me .
Mundane re-run of Two Thousand Maniacs , less the gore	Population 436 was a point of interest for me because of its main plot line . The idea behind the film is definitely intriguing , and I've got to say that I did want to discover the mystery behind the film ; but the plot is also the film's biggest problem . Writer Michael Kingston seems too content to let the film simply wallow in it's central idea rather than building it up , so what we're left with is a movie with a rather dry final third , as it soon becomes obvious that it's not going anywhere it hasn't gone already . The plot is fairly original in itself ; but the handling isn't , as most everything about the film reeks of Herschell Gordon Lewis ' classic ' Two Thousand Maniacs ' , only without the bloodshed . The plot focuses on Steve Kady ; a man that works for a census-taking agency . He is dispatched to a small town called ' Rockwell Falls ' in order to investigate why their population has been at 436 for the last hundred years or so . While there , several instances transpire and our man soon finds out that the town of Rockwell Falls isn't quite right ; and the reason why the population stays the same is more than a coincidence . At first , I thought the reason why the residents of Rockwell Falls have opted to keep their population at 436 was so they wouldn't have to change their painted sign , and actually ; the real reason isn't too far away from being that drab . The film starts off with a woman giving birth , inter-cut with a scene that sees a man killed in a car accident . I guess this would be a pretty good indicator for most people as to why the population stays at 436 right from the off , and the film makes a habit of not keeping it's cards close enough to it's chest as heavy hints are dropped often and by the time it gets to actually finding out the mystery , you already know . However , in the film's favour ; it does feature an amiable lead performance from Jeremy Sisto . Sisto made his best film with ' May ' , and since then has also starred in that Dead and Breakfast rubbish , and some American TV shows . Population 436 is directed by Michelle Maxwell MacLaren , a director that has only worked on TV shows prior to making this ; and it shines through , as the movie never feels any more ambitious than your common TV movie . Overall , Population 436 is not essentially ' bad ' - but it's not very good either . Feel free to skip this one .
Pretty standard Giallo fare , but still a decent watch	Spanish Giallo's don't tend to be as good as the bona fide Italian ones , and this film supports that fact . The top of the range Spanish Giallo's include the likes of A Dragonfly for Each Corpse and Seven Murders for Scotland Yard ( both starring prolific Spanish horror star Paul Naschy ) , but The Killer Wore Gloves is pretty much your standard Giallo fare , and was obviously made to cash on the popular style of the day . However , in its own right - The Killer Wore Gloves is not an especially bad film , though the plot isn't exactly original and it could have been carried better . The film begins with a man getting his throat slashed by an unseen assailant with a razor blade . His girlfriend , Peggy Foster , later learns of his disappearance and is drawn to an old abandoned airport , where she is shot at but manages to get away unscathed . Things take a turn for the more mysterious when the lodger she took in turns up dead - and also happens to be an impostor when the real lodger turns up ! The fact that the plot is complicated isn't a problem at all if you ask me ( quite the opposite in fact ) as I love a good complicated Giallo - but despite it's complexity , the plot here isn't all that interesting . This is unfortunately matched by some lacklustre cinematography , which is a real shame as this is one of the things that makes the Giallo genre as a whole stand out , but it's not capitalised on here . The acting is typically standard stuff , but Gillian Hills ( who was a part of the influential ' Blow-Up ' ) at least makes for an engaging lead . The film takes place in London , and unlike a lot of Giallo's that take place outside of their native country - this one is actually shot on location , which is nice . The plot moves steadily throughout and at just eighty five minutes , The Killer Wore Gloves doesn't really have time to get boring . It all boils down to an interesting conclusion that just about justifies the film that came before it and almost wraps everything up . Overall , I can't say that this is a must see Giallo , but it's not terrible and Giallo fans are likely to get something out of it .
Unfortunately disappointing movie , based on a good idea	British drama The Mind of Mr . Soames hasn't exactly gone down well in the annals of cinematic history ; given the fact that it has been pretty much forgotten since its release almost forty years ago . I'm not surprised really ; despite an interesting premise , the film is not all that memorable and the idea is not handled as well as it could have been ; plus , there are better movies on the topic . The movie was apparently made by Amicus , who of course were most famous for their horror anthologies , and the film is really not what I have come to expect from the UK's number two horror movie producing studio . The plot focuses on Mr Soames ; a man who was somehow born in a coma and has been in one ever since . He is now thirty years old and has lived all his life in a hospital where he is cared for , despite not being aware of it , by the doctors and nurses . There is a medical breakthrough and finally it is possible to awaken Mr Soames ; which happens in a public operation . After he is finally awakened , he's subjected to a scheme to make him mature into a man . . . but things go awry when he escapes . The idea that this film is based on is undoubtedly interesting , though probably not possible . There's many ways that a plot like this could be handled , and while in this film it is handled much better and more skilfully than in , say , 1973's The Baby , the result is still disappointing . The film is slow to start and not a great deal happens for the first half of the movie as we get to watch the central sleeping and then learning and not much else . The most interesting part of the movie comes in the second half when the man / child escapes into the real world and this is also the most disappointing part of it as it doesn't resolve anything and we don't get to know much about the central character's condition . The film is largely well made ; Alan Cooke could have implemented more suspense but his direction is assured and Terence Stamp is convincing enough in the lead role . It all boils down to a very unsatisfying climax as the ending does not resolve anything which really is a shame . Overall , this is not a completely bad film ; but I can't say I enjoyed it much and I don't recommend going out of your way to track it down !
Unfortunately , just a taste of excitement	What we have here is a sort of crossover between a spy thriller and a Giallo . Both the film's titles - ' A Taste of Excitement ' and the over the top ' Who Would Want to Kill a Girl Like You ' would lend themselves excellently to a stylish Italian thriller , so it's not surprising that the film is a lot like a Giallo . The main influence for A Taste of Fear would seem to be the Hammer Horror classic ' A Taste of Fear ' , as the films have similarities both in plotting and execution . I went into this film expecting more of a horror movie , but the film couldn't be much further away from what I was expecting ; this is pretty much just a spy thriller . The film focuses on Jane Kerell ; a young woman who decides to spend her holiday in France . It's not long before she has become the victim of a series of attacks , and after becoming involved with a local man ; it turns out that she is unwittingly carrying around evidence of an international crime network . Naturally , representatives from the network want to get their hands on this evidence , and so do Scotland Yard . Had this film have been tackled by someone like Alfred Hitchcock , I don't doubt that it would have been great . Hitchcock excelled with films like this , and indeed all the elements needed for a top quality thriller are present . Not that I'm putting a slur on the name of Don Sharp ; Sharp went on to direct the criminally underrated supernatural thriller ' Psychomania ' as well as a couple of Hammer Horror's best films ; Kiss of the Vampire of Rasputin : The Mad Monk before this , but he's not so great at working with this sort of material . The characters presented aren't all that interesting anyway , and Sharp doesn't succeed in putting any meat on them . Furthermore , the action is never thoroughly interesting and I have to admit that I found myself getting a bit bored on numerous occasions . The film really just plods along without a great deal of direction for the most part , and there isn't a great deal of standout moments . Discovering a forgotten film like this is always a treat , and so it is with great disappointment that I say that A Taste of Excitement isn't really worth tracking down .
Better than a lot of horror sequels . . .	As sequels to decent eighties horror films go , it has to be said that Pet Semetary 2 is a rather good one . The film , of course , has nothing to do with Stephen King , but the sequel has retained the director of the original , Mary Lambert . For this film , the action has shifted in tone ; from brooding and mysterious , to silly and comical - but the film manages to be entertaining throughout , as elements from the first film are blended with new ideas to create another tale of the ills of messing around with nature . To be honest , the main reason I saw this film was because I'd heard that it's really gory ; however , it may just be me ; but aside from a couple of grisly scenes involving rabbits and kittens , there really isn't anything that shocking about this film . The plot follows a young lad whose mother , an actress , is electrocuted while making a movie . So , he goes to live with his dad ; a vet in the same town from the first ' Pet Semetary ' . While there , the kid meets another young lad , who faces tragedy when his dog is killed by his nasty stepfather - but death isn't permanent when you live near an Old Indian Burial Ground ? Edward Furlong obviously enjoyed his first movie role , the lead in Terminator 2 , so much that he decided to make another sequel to an eighties film for his next movie . His role here is actually a lot like that in Terminator 2 , as Furlong plays an insecure kid that lacks good parenting . Earlier on I said that this movie isn't as gory as some say ; but Pet Semetary's sequel does have a distinct aura of unpleasantness about it at all times , and this becomes more potent given the fact that the story is centred on a couple of children . The horror comes largely by way of blood and people being killed , but director Mary Lambert has an eye for horror , and imagery involving the dog that is brought back to life towards the beginning of the film is actually quite frightening ! The film doesn't do a very good job with atmosphere , however , and there isn't a great deal of suspense in the movie , as things just seem to spring up from anywhere most of the time . For some reason , most scenes have a pop music accompaniment ; which varies from decent to not so good . The plot is slightly disjointed , but this actually works in it's favour as it makes the film less easy to predict and the way that it gets down to the conclusion that we know is coming right from the off is well worked . On the whole , this is hardly great horror - but Pet Semetary 2 is better than you may expect and comes recommended to fans of the original .
Takes too much influence from Last House on the Left , and doesn't do well with it	You'll probably never see a review of this film that doesn't make reference to Wes Craven's classic ' The Last House on the Left ' , and there's a good reason for that ; as this film has basically the exact ( and I mean EXACT ) same plot , only instead of a couple of young girls being raped , beaten and humiliated in the woods , they're raped , beaten and humiliated on board a train . Of course , I knew that this was the case before I began watching the film ; but I was honestly expecting the two to differ a lot more than they actually do . I do sometimes wonder about my mental health when I purposefully track down and enjoy films like this one and The House on the Edge of the Park ; films that are famous purely for relentless violence , but I can rest easy with this one as it really isn't all that enjoyable . The plot follows a couple of young women that decide to take a train ride in celebration of the holidays . However , their bad luck is in when it turns out that a trio of lunatics have also decided to ride the train that day ; and the meeting between the two parties is pleasurable for one side only ! The main problem with this film is the fact that the first hour is unbelievably dull and there isn't a lot going on in the way of plot or violence . The early scenes set up the movie - but they go on too long , and the film even descends into political discussion on several occasions - and I may be on my own here , but that's not what I want from an exploitation flick . What I do want from an exploitation flick is violence , and the film doesn't completely deliver on that front either . There are unpleasant scenes aplenty in the final third , but one sequence aside ; they're not all that shocking . The saving grace of Night Train Murders is director Aldo Lado's attention to detail . He makes good use of his mobile setting , and the train always seems a claustrophobic and unpleasant place to be . Ennio Morricone's score isn't one of his best , and merely goes along with the common exploitation beat . Anyone who has seen The Last House on the Left will know how it all ends , but it fails to pack a punch because the characters are so hard to care for , and Lado doesn't manage to make the audience really hate the villains . Overall , this film isn't very good ; but there are a few positives , and exploitation completists may get a kick out of it .
Worthwhile Mexican zombie flick	This fairly unknown Mexican zombie movie may not be the most original horror film ever to be released , and clearly takes a lot of influence from many successful American movies in the same vein ; but in it's own right , this is an extremely fun little romp that I'm sure wont be a disappointment to most people with an inclination to track it down . The plot is halfway between a zombie movie and a psycho slasher flick and focuses on a killer who a professor believes may have come back from the grave . Enter a bunch of kids who decide that it would be a good idea to read from a strange old book and resurrect the dead ( to impress some girls , naturally ) . It's not long before the killer has come back as a zombie - bringing the rest of the cemetery with him and the dead have eating the kids ' flesh on their minds . If you've seen more than a handful of zombie flicks , you'll have seen everything included in this film many times before . But that's not to say that Cemetery of Terror is not worth a look . Director Rubén Galindo Jr does an excellent job of creating a thoroughly fetid atmosphere to surround the cemetery at the centre of the film and there's a fair bit of gore included too , most of which is well done . Naturally the acting is nothing to write home about , but everyone approaches their roles with gusto and the film remains entertaining for the duration . Overall , this is not brilliant ; but it's a more than worthy Mexican horror entry and I would say that it's worth seeing .
Rosemary's ( extra-terrestrial ) Baby	Rosemary's Baby meets Alien , Brian Yuzna style ! Actually , this is a surprisingly restrained effort from the man behind such gory classics as Bride of Re-Animator and The Dentist , though we do still get some nasty styled gore . The film is rather well put together and the acting is not bad ; the only real criticism I have of the film is that it's not very ambitious . The whole film revolves around the central plot point and despite being at least interesting throughout , it doesn't really go anywhere once it reaches its conclusion , which is a bit of a shame . The plot focuses on husband and wife Craig and Sherry Burton . They've been trying for a baby but not had much luck ; although their luck changes one day when Sherry discovers that she has finally become pregnant . However , this happens shortly after a strange night where the couple , during sex , both had a blackout . As time moves on Craig increasingly begins to suspect that there's something wrong with the baby and begins to question what happened during the blackout . The film takes obvious influence from films such as Rosemary's Baby , although the plot is much shallower . There's plenty of ways that Brian Yuzna could have taken the story but it's never really developed beyond the immediate ideas . The immediate ideas are good however and the film features plenty of decent set pieces - most of which are reminiscent of what actual expecting couples would have to go through ( e . g . an ultrasound scan ) . The central cast is good with Arnold Vosloo and Jillian McWhirter convincing as the central couple and receiving good support from Brad Dourif as a doctor . The film is not particularly gory but we do get some inventive alien effects courtesy of Screaming Mad George . The aliens themselves are not seen all that often but we do at least get a general idea . The film might have been better had it been a bit more expansive and not focused solely on the pregnancy ; but even so the ending is decent enough ( if a little muddled ) and while this film is not great ; it is at least worth a look for horror fans .
Decent creature feature	Razorback marks one of Australia's only successful forays into the horror genre , but it's certainly not without it's critics . It's negative reaction isn't unfounded , as Razorback is badly acted , has a trite script , utilises any number of clichés and has an overall ' deja vu ' sort of feeling ; but in spite of this , it still succeeds in being a fine piece of entertainment . A wild boar isn't the first animal you would think of to star in it's very own creature feature ; but the idea actually works quite well , and it makes a nice change from the usual barrage of sharks , crocodiles and whatnot . This feature is also notable for it's special effects , which certainly aren't groundbreaking - but it ain't half bad either . In films such as this , it's usually shabby effects that end up letting it down ; but the creature in this movie is surprisingly realistic ! The plot is a familiar one , and it basically follows a gigantic wild boar that's on the loose somewhere in Australia . It's not exactly intelligent stuff , but it's a lovely premise for a fun ride . The film is directed by Russell Mulcahy , and it was made a year before he would have his big hit with Highlander . His direction is solid enough , and it's notable for the way that he captures the locations within the Australian outback . Some of the shots are truly breathtaking , especially the atmosphere ones that are filled with smoke . One thing you will notice about the plotting of this movie is the way that it swaps through different characters for it's main protagonist on numerous occasions . This is both a help and a hindrance to the movie as , on one hand , it ensures that the film stays lively and exciting ; it also restricts the viewer from placing their confidence in the character as we don't get to spend a lot of time with them , which hinders it when it comes to the tension building sequences . This also makes the plotting of the movie inconsistent , which certainly isn't a good thing . One thing I love about Australian cinema is the way that it captures the accents and dialect , and this film is no exception to that trend . It's a lovely tongue to listen to , and that helps to make this movie more of a pleasure . On the whole , this film won't win any awards ; but there's worse ways to spend ninety minutes of your life .
Dumb and cliché-ridden . . . the Netherlands ' successful attempt at making a slasher !	Well , Sl8n8 isn't exactly original horror ; but it does a good job of taking the common slasher clichés and moulding a fun and gory little horror film out of them . The film reminded me a lot of the direct to video crap-fest " Curse of the Forty-Niner " as it features supernatural themes , a mine and some dumb teenagers , but luckily the similarities end there . The slasher film is more associated with the US than the Netherlands ( which I generally don't associate with films in general ) , but it would seem that the writers of " Sl8n8 " have watched enough American films to see how the slasher works . The plot is frankly ridiculous , and starts with a car crash in which a girl's father is killed . She then goes on a road trip with her friends , and stops at his office to recover some stuff . They end up getting roped into having a tour of an old mine where a murderer who the girl's father was researching met his end . Naturally , things soon go wrong and the kids decide that it's time to experiment with a Ouija board , which turns out to be a big mistake as now the murderous spirit is on the rampage . . . The good thing about this film is definitely the fact that it's gory . Writer-directors Frank van Geloven and Edwin Visser obviously realise that the lack of brains can easily be masked with a lot of nasty gore scenes , and it has to be said that this works well as the death scenes definitely do make the film a lot of fun to watch . The film does take a short while to get going , and not much happens in the first half ; but once it shifts up the gears , Sl8n8 becomes a relentless and engaging little flick , but I don't suppose I'm going to remember much of it in a few weeks time . The main thing that annoyed me about the film , however , was the flashy cinematography ; which sometimes made it near on impossible to tell what is going on . Other criticisms include the title - I'm not a fan of the whole substituting numbers for letters thing ( cough Se7en cough ) , and " Sl8n8 " really is a poor title . I suspect it will be changed when / if this film gets a US release as in English that title comes out as ' Sleight Neight ' ! Overall , this film is fun enough and I'd certainly recommend it for an hour and a half's entertainment .
A disappointing third act for the sisters	The first two Ginger Snaps films set themselves apart from many other horror movies because they mixed the elements of the werewolf legend with a coming of age story and the result was an original take on the classic tale . For this prequel , we go back to the beginning of the story , and the action has moved to 19th century Canada . Unfortunately , in the move from suburbia to the 19th century , the themes that made the first two such great films haven't remained and what we're left with is a simple horror story about a trader's fort that has to fend off a bunch of savage werewolves , Night of the Living Dead style . Quite why the same two characters from the other two films are in the nineteenth century is never actually explained , and that's one of the film's downfalls . Don't get me wrong , I'm all for innovation in a series ; but not when that innovation sees the characters from the first film in a setting that takes place 200 years earlier without an explanation . The only thing I can think of is that the producers wanted a third film , and didn't want to risk making it without the stars of the series . . . but that isn't a good reason really . The script was one of the best things about the other two films . Their scripts were intelligent and witty , and it was a delight seeing the actors deliver it . The script here is sloppy to say the least . It's half old style English , but then we've got a pretty big dose of new language and one-liners in there too , and it doesn't really blend together very well at all . The film does feature some nice action and horror sequences , and the wolves themselves look better than they did in the other two films ; but it was the smart script and the interaction between the characters that made the first film what it was , and as I said ; this film doesn't deliver in that department . This film was shot back to back with Ginger Snaps Unleashed , and almost comes across as an afterthought . Even the two leads don't impress as much as they did in the previous two films . The sexier of the two sisters , Katherine Isabelle , didn't get a lot of screen time in Unleashed , and I was looking forward to seeing more of her in this one ; but she doesn't get to do a lot with the screen time she has here either . In fact , she isn't nearly as sexy in this film and I'd even go as far as to say that Emily Perkins surpasses her there . The last two films had great endings , and I was hoping that this one would redeem itself and deliver on that front , but alas ; it didn't . It seems that the Ginger Snaps series will end on a disappointment instead of the high that it could have done . I warmly recommend the first two , but this one should be viewed by die-hard fans only .
Aren't mobile phones BRILLIANT ?	Aren't mobile phones brilliant ? I mean , there's just so much you can do with them . You can ring people , text people , play games , connect to other devices via bluetooth , send pictures and videos to people , solve crimes . . . yes , that's right ! The latest mobile function is the ability to solve crimes . Not directly , of course , but as Cellular shows ; mobile phone technology can be adapted in all sorts of ways in order to thwart the bad guys . Aside from being an exciting , if really silly thriller ; Cellular is also a ninety minute mobile phone advert , with much of the action focusing on the problems with mobile phones ( battery , connection etc ) and the Nokia logo on the front of the most-used one . Mobile phones have pretty much become a part of modern society ; so I guess it's only fair that they get their own tribute movie . The plot follows a woman who is kidnapped , seemingly for no reason , by a bunch of nasty looking blokes . Not content to just sit there and wait to be rescued , our heroine decides to get her own back on the kidnappers by phoning mobiles and running them up a big bill . She connects to a fun-loving surfer type , who agrees to spend his afternoon trying to save her . Cellular is quite clearly aimed at the MTv , mobile phone-loving audience ; and this is shown by the huge amount of plot inconsistencies . These range from the small things , such as the gold fish that survives five minutes plus out of water , down to the bigger lapses of logic , like the fact that mobile phones cant get a connection if they're upstairs in the local police station . However , despite being really silly ; Cellular offers a good time to it's audience , and if you can turn off to the lack of logic ; I'm sure that you'll enjoy this film . Cellular benefits from a good cast that includes Kim Basinger as the hostage , and Chris Evens ( unfortunately not THE Chris Evens ) as the unfortunate mobile phone owner . Jason Statham joins in the fun and impresses in the role of the nasty leader of the kidnappers , and William H . Macey completes the line-up as the unlikely police hero . The cast all seem to know how silly the film is ; but like the audience , have a good time regardless . This is just the sort of film that will be forgotten quickly , but as far as forgettable , silly films go ; you could do a lot worse than Cellular .
Not enough plot to fill the running time	The Tell-Tale Heart is one of the best known of Edgar Allen Poe's works ; and I was surprised that I had not seen a film based on it . The original story is just a short story , and while there have been many versions of this tale committed to screen ; most of them are only shorts themselves ; thus making this film one of the few feature length editions of the story . Well . . . after having seen it , I have to admit that I'm not surprised there aren't more feature length versions because really there isn't enough plot to stretch to such a long running time . Thus , most of the story of this film has no relation to Poe's original story . We focus on a man named Edgar ( a bit of a ham-fisted reference if you ask me ) ; a quiet man that lacks experience with women . When he notices a young lady named Betty in a house across the street ; he resolves to romance her and asks his close friend Carl for advice on how to speak to women . He and Betty are getting on well ; until he discovers that Carl and Betty are also getting on well , and so Carl is murdered . The film is shot in black and white and looks really cheap throughout . Director Ernest Morris appears not to have the resolve to elevate the film above the mundane and also fails to get a good performance out of his any of his ( relatively ) unknown cast ; which renders the whole production rather bland . Of course , the whole film is just build up to the inevitable situation whereby the murderous central character is haunted by the echoes of the beating heart from the man he has killed , and this leaves most of it feeling rather pointless . To the film's credit , however , it does handle Poe's actual story well and things do become much more interesting once we reach the main part of the film . This version of The Tell-Tale Heart never really gets into the psychological side of Poe's original story ; and the reason for that really just goes back to the characters , which aren't interesting enough . Overall , this is really a lacklustre effort and I wouldn't recommend tracking it down ; this story is more suited to a short film anyway , and I'm sure that at least one of the many short film versions is superior to this effort .
Nothing special but worth a look for fans of Vincent Price	Every Vincent Price film is a must see for me ; being a big fan of the classic horror actor . Shock often flies under the radar compared to some of Price's better known work , and that is fair - as this film really isn't all that good . Shock runs for 69 minutes , and that's hardly surprising as there really isn't a lot of plot in this film . The film follows the common psychological horror formula , and much of the plot stems from what the characters are thinking . The atmosphere is always mysterious and threatening , but much of the plot ( despite the short running time ) continually revolves around the same things , and it's not long before it all starts getting more than a little monotonous . The plot follows a young woman who goes into shock after witnessing her neighbour , an esteemed psychiatrist , brutally murdering his wife with a candlestick . The people who find her decide to call the local doctor ; and of course , it's our esteemed psychiatrist who's on hand to take her to a sanatorium . When she comes out of shock , she recognises the doctor as the murderer , which puts him in a difficult situation . Probably the main problem with Shock stems from the performances . Neither lead star is given much to do , and therefore there isn't a standout . Vincent Price is dark and ominous in his murderous role , but he's also sleepwalking . Price's later , and earlier , performances show how great he can be in this sort of role , but he seems to approach every scene here with apathy and we never really get a chance to see inside his character's head . Prolific actress Lynn Bari stars alongside him , and , like Price , fails to make a big impression . Her performance isn't bad at all ; but since many scenes are similar , it just seems like she's going through the motions . The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes director , Alfred L . Werker , takes the director's chair and does a solid job . He creates atmosphere well , but there's a serious lack of tension - and even when the doctor approaches his big moral decision , it's hard to really care what the outcome will be . Despite its faults , Shock is still an entertaining melodramatic thriller and worth seeing for people who want to see Price's early stuff - but it's not great , and I can't recommend going out of your way to see it .
Some good ideas ; but unfortunately not carried off well	Martyrs is the latest in a long line of gory French horror films that have included the likes of Switchblade Romance , Sheitan and Inside . Martyrs certainly aims high and tries its best at getting there ; but unfortunately the film fails in spite of the heavy gore and several attempts to shock the viewer . The central theme is retribution and the film goes about this in the most violent way possible . I really have no problem with this in theory ; but unlike the violence in , say , Inside ; the violence here constantly feels like it's over the top just for sake of cashing in on the new French wave of horror . The plot focuses on Lucie ; a woman who , as a child , disappeared for over a year and was later found traumatised and with numerous injuries . Over time , Lucie began to recover and formed a strong bond with a girl named Anna during her rehabilitation ; although she is still haunted by a strange female figure . Fifteen years later , Lucie has resolved to get revenge on her abusers ; and sets out with Anna to do just that . . . The film feels very cold throughout and this extends to the characters ; ensuring that the audience has no real reason to care for any of them ; which is not good when you consider that the plight of the characters is often the main focus of the film . It's obvious that director Pascal Laugier wanted the film to make an impact ; and the violence is carried off with a pumping pace from almost the word go . However , a lot of it is done with flashy photography and quick edits , which lessens the effect ; as well as the fact that many things ( such as the idea of the lead's tormentor ) are just thrown in there , seemingly at random . Martyrs really is a film of two halves ; and the two are joined together by a twist halfway through the film . This is intriguing at first and left me wanting to find out where the film would go . . . but unfortunately the film soon sinks back into the cold atmosphere that carried it up to the twist , and I found it hard to care about anything that happened in the second half of the film . Which is a shame really as the twist is actually quite inventive and original . Overall , I have to say that I'm highly disappointed by this effort ; especially considering the great horror films to come out of France in the last few years .
The Paris Chainsaw Massacre	France has really been setting the horror genre on fire these last few years with several excellent genre entries ; and it's for that reason that I went into this film with very high expectations . In fairness to it , my expectations were probably a little too high ; although I think it has to be said that Frontiere ( s ) is not as great as some of the other modern French horrors . The main influence on this film is clearly the Tobe Hooper masterpiece The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and it takes influence to the point that they're almost the same film , only with different characters and murder scenes . This is the main thing that disappointed me about this film ; I've come to expect some originality from the French and there's really not a great deal of that here . The start of the film , which involves riots in Paris after a political election seems to allude to the film providing some sort of social commentary , although whatever commentary there is gets lost under a bucket of gore . We follow the fortunes of a group of young people fleeing Paris after robbing a bank . They look for somewhere to stay and unfortunately end up in a hotel ran by a family of Neo-Nazi's . The film begins with plenty of fast moving camera angles and action scenes ; and I did hope it wouldn't remain like that for the duration . Things hot up a little bit once the first twenty minutes are out of the way , but it's not long before the film makes where it is going obvious and the appeal starts to fade . On the plus side , however , the film does a very good job of portraying complete dismal hopelessness ; the atmosphere is very dark and tense throughout , which really does create a fascinating place for the film to take place . Xavier Gens delights in portraying the violence and the film certainly isn't short on it . There are several scenes of extended torture ; and the band saw scene towards the end stands tall as one of the best death scenes filmed this side of the millennium . This is all well and good but the invention shown on the gore front doesn't translate to the story and the film becomes routine far too quickly , which really is a big shame because when a film is this happy to show violence and gore ; I almost feel guilty for not heaping praise on it . I am sure that Frontiere ( s ) will bag itself plenty of praise once it is given a release state-side , but for me it's a missed opportunity .
Sorry , but I don't really care what happened to Aunt Alice . . .	I went into this film with fairly high expectations given all that I'd heard about it , but the simple fact is that What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice did little for me . Given the fact that the title is an obvious rip-off of Robert Altman's 1962 film What Ever Happened to Baby Jane , I was expecting this to be more of a comedy , but despite the fact that it's extremely camp ; there's not a great deal of ' fun ' to be had with it . There were a lot of horror films released during the sixties that featured a strong female lead , and while many of them ( Altman's film and Lady in a Cage spring to mind instantly ) were very good , this one is surprisingly lacking . The plot follows a woman who loses her fortune after the death of her husband . She decides to start taking in housekeepers and then dispatching them in order to steal their savings and rectify her financial situation , but after ridding herself of her latest housekeeper ; she doesn't realise that the new applicant , an Alice Dimmock , was a friend of the old housekeeper and has taken the job with the intention of investigating the mysterious disappearance . Director Lee H . Katzin doesn't do a very good job of creating atmosphere , and the film feels like it should be really be a comedy . The plot is very thin , and despite attempts to bulk it out with a number of sub-plots , the film still feels like it needs a little more impact than it has . The film relies on its female leads ; Geraldine Paige and Ruth Gordon , too much and despite the fact that both give nice performances , neither one has enough to completely carry the film . The decision to film it in colour was a bad one as well - it gives the film a really cheap feel and I don't doubt that it would have been a hell of a lot better in black and white ! The story flows quite slowly overall , and this is something of a nuisance as the attempts to build interest with plots involving a dog and a few other things don't provide enough of a distraction when the film starts to drag . It's all pretty tame until the part towards the end when the two leads finally have their battle . . . but even that is disappointing and while the twist at the end may please some , I was left rather unfulfilled . Overall , What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice was a huge disappointment for me and therefore I don't recommend it !
Sordid and sleazy . . . but not really up to much	Well , it's safe to say that The Curse of Ursula isn't the greatest Giallo ever made , but there's plenty of sex and sleaze , and the whole thing is at least enjoyable . The Curse of Ursula came rather late on in the Giallo cycle - in fact , it had pretty much dried up by the time this film came along , and as such ; it would seem that writer-director Enzo Milioni was extremely keen to put as much sex and nudity into the film as possible to ensure that people would watch it ; and while this sort of stuff isn't really what I watch Giallo for , it doesn't go amiss in a film such as this , which has little in the way of a plot . As the title suggests , the film focuses on a woman called Ursula . Along with her sister Dagmar , she finds herself at a hotel , where the sisters are looking for their mother , believing she has a right to some inheritance left by their father . However , a vicious psychopath , who uses a dildo to murder his ( female ) victims has also taken up residence at the hotel , and begins dispatching of everyone who has sex . . . I had heard that this film was particularly sordid , and while I can certainly see why that is said , I have to say I was expecting more from it . . . though admittedly , I probably do watch a bit too much of this stuff ! Sex fuelled Giallo's got more common towards the end of the cycle , which is unfortunate as the style of the earlier films was lost . As well as the sex , this film also features some pretty gruesome death scenes , which is nice but it does seem like director Enzo Milioni ( with his first feature ) is trying to force the film down the audiences throats a little bit as everything is completely over the top . The plot takes a backseat to the sex and gore , and typically it is a rather dull affair . There isn't much to it after the foundations are laid down , and while the twist ending isn't too bad ; I have to say I didn't really care about it . There is some style in the film , the way we only see the killer's eyes , for example , shows some attempt to build atmosphere , but overall ; if you're looking for a great Giallo , you really shouldn't track this one down !
Weird mix of a crime flick and Frankenstein-style horror	What we have here is an example of what happens when a crime film meets horror - it's a bungled heist , and the result is not jail time or dead gang members , but a transplanted head ! Yep , that's the premise of Juan Fortuny's weird little horror film that features the talents of the ever-popular Paul Naschy as the lucky recipient of a radical new operation . Obviously the major inspiration for this film is Mary Shelly's all-time classic horror story ' Frankenstein ' as we've got a mad scientist , a ' monster ' and some new medical breakthrough . The main story focuses on the fortune of Jack Surnett , played by Paul Naschy . He and his gang decide to pull a jewel heist , but when one of them cocks up , the alarms start ringing and the cops turn up . This is bad news for Jack as he gets shot in the head and it looks like his time may be up . However , his gang aren't ready to just sit back and watch him die so they take him to their own doctor and soon it transpires that the only way to save him is a brain transplant , and the only brain available used to belong to " The Sadist " . . . It's probably obvious from the plot summary , but Crimson really is a bizarre film . Quite how anyone thought these elements could come together well is beyond me , but actually the result isn't as bad as thought it might be ; although it's not really as fun either . It's clear that this film was never really meant to be taken seriously and it's a good job it doesn't take itself seriously . The best thing about most of Paul Naschy's films is Paul Naschy , although that's not really the case here as he spends most of the film lying in bed . However , when he finally does get up the film really takes a turn for the better as we get to watch Naschy with a bandage round his head running all over the countryside getting up to no good . The film isn't especially gory , but there's a fair bit of that cheap looking bright crimson blood to keep horror fans happy . It's clear that the film is never really going to go anywhere , and it really doesn't . . . but I only saw this for a fun time and it just about delivers that much . I wont call this brilliant or a must see , but its decent stuff and I can recommend it .
Comedy that isn't hilarious and horror that isn't frightening	Eighties horror cinema produced a lot horror comedies , and House is one of the most quintessentially eighties films that I've seen . That , however , doesn't mean it's one of the best . The film fuses horror with comedy , but in doing so ; doesn't manage to spearhead either one . The film is amusing , but never hilarious ; and the horror is so laughable that it's impossible to be frightened by it . The special effects fit the film in that they're jokey ; but again they don't help it any when it comes to the horror side . It looks like the filmmakers couldn't really be bothered , and it that doesn't fill me with love for the film . Parts of the film are made up of Vietnam flashbacks ; and if there was an award for ' worst representation of Vietnam ' , this film would run away with it for the ridiculous scenes here . The plot follows a Vietnam veteran turned horror writer who retreats to his dead aunt's house for some solitude while writing his new novel . However ; his aunt must have hung herself for a reason , and this was also the house in which his son disappeared and his marriage broke up . Going back there might not be a wise move . . . This film pans out something like a less outrageous version of Evil Dead 2 . Several things that Sam Raimi would utilise a year later are present in this film - from a severed hand with a mind of its own , to a moving wall ornament ; but the film is nowhere near as good as the later surreal fantasy , mostly due its lack of finesse . The film is directed by Steve Miner ; a man behind a couple of Friday the 13th films and the same one who will direct the Day of the Dead remake . Sean S . Cunningham , a man better known as ' that guy who directed Friday the 13th ' has a producer's credit . The lead role falls to William Katt . On the whole , the acting in this film isn't too bad ; but Katt isn't wholly believable as the linchpin of the movie . He's fine during the scenes where his character is being driven insane ; but he just doesn't look like a Vietnam veteran , which makes it very hard to believe his character , and the film loses more credibility for that . George Wendt gets the best role , and as most of the comedy comes from him ; he steals every scene he's in . I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this film to people that love eighties horror ; but as I love eighties horror myself , be warned that this isn't a film that eighties fanatics are guaranteed to love .
Sleazy and nasty . . . but not very good .	Well , it's safe to say that Reflections in Black isn't the most interesting example of the Giallo genre , but it has more than its fair share of sleaze and the short running time ensures that the film doesn't really have time to run of steam . One of the most nauseating things about this film is the cinematography . Director Tano Cimarosa doesn't really seem to care about the sets and colour schemes that set Giallo apart from the thriller genre on the whole and goes for a grisly look and feel to the film . This does , of course , blend well with the film's sleazy nature . . . but it's not very easy on the eyes . The sleazy plot line focuses on the brutal slashing of a number of women . After interviewing a few suspects , it soon becomes apparent that the murderer is focusing on the friends of Leonora Anselmi . Leonora is married , but that doesn't stop her from having numerous relationships with other women ? Director Tano Cimarosa seems keen to keep the focus on sleaze and savagery throughout , and if we're not witnessing a woman being slashed open with a razor blade , we're watching two of them getting it on . Normally , a film like this would get a high rating from me ; but because the cinematography is so painful , none of it is pleasing to the eye and that ensures that it's all rather uninspiring . The cast features two recognisable names , those belonging to John Richardson , the star of a number of Italian films including Bava's Black Sunday and Lenzi's Eyeball , and Dagmar Lassander ; who also appears on a number of cult cast lists . Neither really has room to impress here . Despite putting more focus on sleaze , the plot is actually quite complicated ; and is made more so by the fact that all the characters are wafer thin and it can be difficult to work out their motives because of that . The ending doesn't come as much of a surprise , although I wasn't really expecting it to . Overall , Reflections in Black really isn't a good film ; but I hesitate to completely condemn it as it's a great exercise in crappy film-making , and it does at least do some of the things that you want a Giallo to do .
A mediocre offering with a good finale	This offering in Hammer Horror's Dracula series is often touted to be a lesser one , and for good reason ; but all in all , I still enjoyed it . The film has a contemporary setting , with most of it taking place in and around a high-rise apartment block . This sets it apart from most of the rest of the Dracula series as the story usually takes place in a more proper period setting . I'm not sure if I'm completely at home with it moving settings ; on the one hand , it's original and that's one of the things I like best about Hammer horror ; but then on the other hand , it doesn't fit the classic story and it also gives it a low quality feel . Anyway , the story follows Larimer Van Helsing , an ancestor of the original vampire hunter , who finds that the evil Count Dracula has been reincarnated and is secretly planning to unleash a fatal virus on the world . It's very kitschy , but it has potential . This film's main problem is that it's poorly plotted . The first half of the movie is relatively dull and little happens , but then it picks up in the second half , which leads up to a good finale . Although it's good once you get past the halfway stage , it isn't good as a complete piece of work because of the poor first half . The first half doesn't feature many moments of horror either , which is irritating seeing as you're watching a horror film . There's lots of gunplay , but that's massively out of place in a vampire film and to be quite honest , I don't know what the script writers were thinking when they wrote that in . At the halfway point , we are treated to a nice sequence in a cellar that involves some female vampires , and that's one of the best parts of the movie . The great Christopher Lee vowed to never play Dracula again if the script wasn't faithful to the original novel , and this film pretty much shows the reason for that decision . It's a shame that this movie isn't very good because it also features Peter Cushing , which pretty much makes it a big waste of two great stars . Cushing approaches his role with relish and almost looks like he's having fun at times . . . but this is still a mediocre offering . Like I said , it isn't all bad ; it picks up after the halfway point and the ending is very good . . . but I would only really recommend this to Hammer completest .
Interesting short film from the Hellraiser creator	Salome is one of two short films that horror writer Clive Barker directed before he went on to make the cult classic ' Hellraiser ' . While you cant go into a short film expecting the likes of Hellraiser , Clive Barker does deliver an interesting spectacle with this film and , like many director's pre-hit short films , you can see some early signs of the man's later work in this film . Salome only runs at about twenty minutes , and it has no dialogue ; so the plot is non-existent . This doesn't matter , however , as it is the imagery and atmosphere that is important ; and Clive Barker , even with only twenty minutes to play with , more than succeeds in impressing on that level . The action takes place in a dank abyss , and through the dark atmosphere and empty surroundings , Barker is able to show this . While this film doesn't have enough about it to aptly call it ' good ' , by the same standards ; it's not bad either . Fans of Hellraiser will enjoy the film for it's style , and fans of atmosphere will find lots to like also . Salome isn't worth going out of your way to see ; but if you come across a copy , it's well worth seeing .
Fulci's disappointing final western	Lucio Fulci will probably always be best known for his gory zombie movies ; but he also directed some of the best films in the Giallo genre as well as a few other gems elsewhere . Fulci only directed three films in the popular Spaghetti Western genre ; and I for one am thankful for that as it was clearly not his strong point . His first attempt at the genre , Massacre Time , was an above average western , if not especially brilliant . Four of the Apocalypse was well made but frankly dull , which brings us on to this film ; which is more exciting ( slightly ) than Fulci's last effort , but too sappy for a western and too lacking in important areas . The plot is very typical for a Spaghetti Western and focuses on a man who , as a child , witnessed his father being killed . He grows up to become a bounty hunter going by the name of Silver Saddle and naturally he wants revenge and starts plotting once he finds the people behind his father's death . However , he ends up coming across the young son instead and after thwarting an assassination on the boy , sets off for his revenge . The music is generally a very important element of the Spaghetti Western ; and again it's a place where this one is seriously lacking . The score is , simply , horrible . What we get is a singer droning on about the plot of the movie and it will do nothing but make you cringe ! Ennio Morricone , this isn't . The film seems all too keen to shy away from the stuff that usually makes this genre so great - namely , violence and action , and instead decides to put its focus on the relationship between the central bounty hunter character and his enemy's nephew ; a young and irritating blonde haired kid . This relationship may be interesting for some ; but personally I found it very boring and it wasn't what I went into this film looking for . There are a few action scenes but nothing particularly startling and the way the film moves is rather boring far too often . Prolific Spaghetti Western star Giuliano Gemma takes the lead role and is one of the film's few saving graces as he puts in a believable performance . The ending is rather decent too and wraps things up nicely ; but this is not a great western unfortunately .
Not too sleazy by genre standards	Even though I don't consider myself a very big fan of the bizarre nunsploitation genre , I do often find myself watching them . I still haven't seen a true masterpiece of the genre ; but while this one isn't that Holy Grail either , it's slightly more professionally done than the majority of its ilk , and may even appeal to those who don't watch films just see naked women and random sleaze . Joe D'Amato's name is synonymous with sleaze and nudity , and so it's rather odd that this film appears to focus more on characters and the implications of the plot rather than God-fearing women stripping off for one another . Joe D'Amato , the director of my favourite nunsploitation film so far ; the completely over the top ' Images in a Convent ' doesn't give this film the same handling , but once again sleaze makes up the backbone . After being raped by her own father , a young woman named Suzanne is sent off to a convent for ' her sins ' . Naturally , she isn't very pleased about this chain of events ; and it's not long before she wants to forsake her vows and leave the convent ; only her fellow nuns are none too pleased and argue that she has become possessed by the devil . The film does feature several nude scenes , although there isn't anything too ' bad ' in this film . One scene which sees the central character have holy water forced through a certain orifice is liable to offend and please fans of this sort of film , however . It's clear that the film was made on a low budget , although the talented D'Amato masks this brilliantly with some crisp and clear cinematography and a lack of sequences that may show his budget restraints . The central story is actually well used , although personally I found it a little too dry as I really don't have much of an interest in the way that convents are run and the methods they use to keep their personnel in check . D'Amato seems to have wanted to make the film a bit more deep than the usual nunsploitation , and this is shown by the way that the central character is made out to be a martyr , almost in the style of the likes of Joan of Arc as she wrongly becomes the victim of sins she hasn't committed . Overall , I won't say that I'm a big fan of this film ; but of the few nunsploitation films I have watched , this certainly isn't the worst .
Focuses on the man more than his crimes	Despite being one of the better known American serial killers , I have to admit that I don't know too much about Jeffrey Dahmer ; but I have been reliably informed by someone who I saw this film with that the events depicted in it are fairly accurate . The film focuses on the crimes committed by Jeffrey Dahmer , but clearly the main point of the film is to show Dahmer as a person ; and director David Jacobson somewhat succeeds in doing that through the use of a fragmented narrative that constantly shows the audience events that took place earlier in the lead character's life . We are introduced to the lead character early on ; he's a fairly good looking chocolate factory worker with a secret life on the side ; which involves picking up young men , then drugging and killing and / or having sex with them . The film begins with a scene that sees Dahmer entice a young man back to his apartment on the promise of free shoes . . . Obviously a film like this puts a lot of responsibility on its lead actor ; and Jeremy Renner does a fairly good job of portraying the serial killer . He is involving enough so we care somewhat for him , but also cold enough to believed as a serial killer . This film has been labelled disappointing by many , and it's not hard to see why . Dahmer was a serial killer that committed a number of atrocities including murder , rape and necrophilia ; yet the film only just touches on these things and not a great deal of it is actually shown . I appreciate what the director was trying to do , but going into a film like this ; I really was expecting something a bit more brutal . I wouldn't say that the film is completely captivating and a number of things about the character are left unexplained ( something that wouldn't have been a big problem had the film featured some graphic gore ) . However , despite that ; this is certainly an interesting take on the infamous serial killer and is at least worth a look .
Shame about the first two thirds	The Ice Harvest received an incognito release , and that's fitting - because this is a very incognito film . The last time someone put a crime comedy on ice , the resulting film was Fargo ; but don't be expecting anything even close to the quality of the Coen Brothers ' film here . The film reunites Pushing Tin stars John Cussack and Billy Bob Thornton for a tale of stealing money at Christmas time . As a crime caper , The Ice Harvest doesn't work too well ; and as a comedy , it's even worse . The first hour doesn't feature a single laugh , and although it picks up for the final third , there is never enough to allow the film to fully redeem itself . The plot is largely character based , and it follows gutless Charlie Arglist and his plot with the brainless Vic Cavanaugh to rip off $2 million from the boss of Kansas City . They've got twelve hours to get it all sorted and skip town , but in the cold icy atmosphere of Christmas ; skipping town might not be too easy , as everyone from a dim-witted policeman to Charlie's drunkard friend seem to have an interest in what's going down . I like John Cussack a lot , and that was my main reason for seeing this film . His persona fits his character in this movie , but I've seen much better from him . Billy Bob Thornton isn't given much to do , but again ; he fits the role given to him . Oliver Platt , an actor whom you'll recognise from the film ' Three to Tango ' , if you've seen it , stands out in his over the top role as Charlie's drunken friend . Randy Quaid makes a splash towards the end , and the cast is topped off by the beautiful Connie Nielsen . The film is written and directed by Harold Ramis , whose film credits include Groundhog Day and Analyse This , and this film is pretty much what you'd expect from someone with those credits in terms of quality . The script is very uneven , and it's hard to care about anything that goes on in the first hour . The characters become more prominent in the final third , but by then it's too late and it feels like an afterthought . The comedy is supposedly black , but I'd say it's more nonexistent and Harold Ramis would be better off sticking to the over the top comedy that we're used to seeing from him .
Cold and lifeless vision of the future	I have to admit that I've not read George Orwell's original novel ' 1984 ' ; but everyone knows the story and many elements of it have made their way into popular culture . Since I've not read the book ; I can't comment on whether or not this film version is faithful to the literature , but apparently this is one of the more faithful movie versions . Director Michael Radford takes the subject material and uses it to paint an incredibly bleak vision of the future ; one so bleak that all the warmth of the movie is thoroughly drained from it and we are left with is incredibly lifeless and hard to get on with . Our main character is a man named Smith . Smith works in a people intensive environment where he is charged with the task of rewriting history . This future society has been divided into three parts ; and we focus on Oceania , of which London is the capital . The state is ruled over by ' Big Brother ' and thinking outside of the box is against the law . Smith falls in love with a woman named Julia ; which is of course against the rules of the totalitarian society . The movie takes more time instilling the situation of the future than it does on the actual characters ; so while we get a chilling portrait of how this modern society is ran and the rules that govern it ; we are unfortunately not given much in the way of reasons to care about our main characters ' plights . The story itself has some very interesting points to make , however ; and depending on your stance , you may well believe that modern society is moving ever closer to the ' Big Brother ' of this film ; here in the UK we are already being threatened with the prospect of ID cards , security cameras and ISP's spying on our internet connections , so maybe Orwell's vision is not such a distant possibility . Going back to the film ; it does have to be said that it is well made . The acting is generally very good and the cinematography very much fits the style and atmosphere that the story demands . Some say that this film is terrifying ; though the disengagement from the lead characters made it less so for me , and this is definitely the main problem . I haven't seen any other versions of this story , however ( unless Brazil counts ) and while I'm not overly fussed with this film ; it is at least worth a look .
Better than expected . . . but still rather silly and dull	The original Vacancy was a rather simple but also rather effective and well done little horror film ; and while it certainly wasn't brilliant , I did at least enjoy it . I do have to say that I never really thought the film needed a follow-up , and after finding out that Vacancy 2 would be a direct to video release , I did abandon all hope . . . but to my surprise , the film is better than I thought it would be an almost qualifies as being a decent horror film . Naturally I was expecting this film to be more or less the same as the original ; but actually it does take a ( slightly ) more unexpected route . This film is actually a prequel to the original . The plot begins with a seedy motel where the employees spy on couples having sex and then sells the tapes to a marketer who gets rid of them on the black market . Things are turned upside down one day when a man arrives with a prostitute , and kills her . The hotel owners then hatch a plan with the murderer to make snuff films instead of sex tapes . The film attempts to explain how exactly the staff of the motel in the original film got into the business of killing people ; but due to the bizarre plot decisions spread throughout the film , Vacancy 2 actually creates more questions than it answers . For a start , why set it a different motel all together ? Also , I don't remember seeing ANY of the characters of this film in the original . The saddest part is that most of these changes are put in place because of the ending , which could have been a lot neater if only the filmmakers were a bit braver ! Still , on its own merits ; the film is entertaining , if shallow and silly , entertainment . The victim characters are just your average horror film fodder and neither invokes any emotion towards them nor do they really provide any interest . The team of killers is slightly more interesting . . . though not much more . Still , it would be silly to go into this expecting anything more than just a throwaway ninety minutes and the film was at least more entertaining than I thought it would be . I'd say it's just about worth a look if you liked the original .
Nice acting and direction , but lacking in some important areas	The ventriloquist dummy is a popular horror prop ; ever since Dead of Night in 1945 , the ventriloquist dummy has popped up in a number of films ; and Magic is one of the most classy and high quality . However , it's not necessarily one of the best ; as while the acting is good and Richard Attenborough manages to create just the right tone and atmosphere for the film ; something about it severely lacking . The tagline bills it as a ' love story ' , and this would appear to sum up Magic's problems - it doesn't really know what it wants to be ! The relationship between the ventriloquist and his dummy is build up as antagonistic until the very end , and by then it feels out place . The plot focuses on Corky ; a magician who isn't all that good . But when he teams up with a wooden dummy named Fats ; the crowd begins to love him . However , the fame starts to go to him and he soon finds that he can't turn the dummy ' off ' . He goes and finds his high school sweetheart , and the two start to get on well ; but it's not long before his fame comes looking for him , and the dummy shows its murderous side . Anthony Hopkins is clearly one of the acting greats ; and while this film came earlier than his more memorable performances in movies such as The Silence of the Lambs and The Elephant Man , it's still obvious that Hopkins is a master of his trade . The film comes across as a high quality piece , but somehow this doesn't apply to the plotting , as there are some very questionable character actions and events , and while this may be OK in another film ; the fact that this one obviously wants to rise above the low quality horror films means that it's hard to ignore . Magic isn't particularly nasty ; there are a couple of death scenes , but the blood is kept to a minimum , and again this seems like Attenborough was trying not to make the film seem cheap and tacky . Most of the horror comes from the dummy ; Anthony Hopkins does Fats ' voice and it's not far from being the most piercing and haunting horror vocal of all time , which is the film's main credit . Overall , Magic certainly isn't a bad film ; it's worth watching for sure , but unfortunately it's not as great as it could have been .
Hugely disappointing thriller from Argento	Dario Argento is my all time favourite director . Upon the release of this film , I choose to try and ignore the negative comments surrounding it as much as possible , mostly because I didn't want them to be true . Although the film isn't as bad as I thought it could be judging from the comments I've heard , it's not very good either ; and it's a far cry from the director's best works , such as ' Profondo Rosso ' or ' Tenebre ' . The film primarily lacks the elements that make Argento great - there isn't a lot of inventiveness on display , the score isn't up to the high standard that Goblin set and , most notably , there's only one real death scene in the film . And when you consider the body count of the rest of Argento's oeuvre ; that's pretty meagre . It's a shame because the idea behind the plot isn't bad , and you can definitely see why Argento thought this would make a good movie . We follow policewoman Anna Mari , as she tries to stop the local madman ( who's calling himself ' TheCardPlayer ' ) murdering women by playing a game of poker with him for their lives . Oh , and Argento shows that he's moving with the times by placing the game online , and having the murders happen on webcam . The lead actress doesn't carry the film with the usual panache that we've come to expect from the Argento protagonist . Her acting is mostly terrible , and her character isn't much better . Furthermore , much of the violence isn't shown on screen and we're either given an obscure view , or simply nothing at all ; and considering that gore is Argento's trademark , this isn't good at all . There are two murders that are shown on screen , and although one of them is up there with Argento's best in terms of style , the other is really lacking . The film does feature several good ideas , but many of these are poorly executed and for every good idea in the film , there's at least two bad ones . In my opinion , this film would have been ten times better if Argento had discarded the webcam idea and gone for a standard game of poker . Although the webcam presents a degree of claustrophobia and it's good because we can clearly see the victim's suffering , it's a bad idea because we hardly get to see anything when they're murdered , and it looks very cheap indeed . The poker scenes themselves are suspenseful in spite of the fact that we don't care for the characters ; but most of the tension is diffused by the way that Argento loads the scenes with far too much screaming ! Giallo isn't well known for making complete sense , and this film certainly doesn't . When the murderer is finally unmasked , it's hugely disappointing and we don't really care anyway as we haven't been able to identify with him due to the fact that we never see him doing the murders . Argento has also taken more than a little bit of influence from his own film - Bird With the Crystal Plumage - regarding the way that the murderer is found out as well . And that pretty much sums this up - a weak retread of what used to make Argento great . After he followed up his disappointing 1990's with the magnificent ' Sleepless ' , this Argento fan thought the master director was finally back on track . Judging by this ; he isn't .
A miss from John Woo	This is decent popcorn fare , but I cant help feeling it could have been great had it been handled better via a better script , a better lead star and more coherency with the plot . The story is a fairly original and intelligent one , which is based on a short story by Phillip K . Dick , the brains behind the stories that spawned better Sci-Fi films such as Blade Runner , Minority Report and Total Recall . In this movie , Ben Afleck plays a computer expert that is paid to do a job , and then have his memory erased , usually because these jobs require him to partake in illegal activity . All is going well for Ben ; as he says himself " it's a good life " , until he gets a job offer for a three year job that will make him ' rich beyond his wildest dreams ' . That's where the trouble starts . Ben Afleck's character is poorly developed , and all we really get to know about him is that he's greedy and likes money , which we already know after the first few minutes anyway , rendering the rest of the movie devoid in the character development area . The development in this movie is a far cry from Dick's other stories , such as Blade Runner and that is a real shame as the audience isn't made to care or feel anything about the guy ; and that ultimately costs this film . The supporting cast isn't much to shout about either , as their roles require them to be little more than ornaments for the plot . This unfortunately includes Uma Thurman's character , who feels the brunt of poor writing more than anyone else , and even comes across as superfluous for the majority of the film . Still , Uma can at least take pride in the fact that she was in one fairly good movie last year after the lamentable Kill Bill . However , despite the writing , as with all John Woo films , the main star of the film is the action sequences , of which this movie has plenty ; most notably the motorbike chase , which is very nice indeed . However , good action sequences alone are hardly enough to completely carry a movie , and they aren't enough here either . The film has a relatively good first forty-five minutes , which null you into believing that you're in for a movie that is a lot better than this one actually is . The first forty-five minutes , despite script problems are intelligent and doused with a strong sense of anticipation as you watch Ben Afleck wonder exactly how he has found himself in the situation he's in . However , as previously mentioned ; this is , unfortunately , short lived , and it doesn't take long for the movie to descend into the realms of rubbish . If all you want is to be entertained for a couple of hours , you can certainly do a lot worse than Paycheck , but on the other hand you can do a lot better also . It's entertaining enough to narrowly avoid being a bad film , but it's only narrowly and I would recommend watching something else overall .
One of the less notable made for TV seventies horror flicks	I've found , after seeing a dozen or so of them , that made for TV seventies horror flicks are generally good for seventy minutes of entertainment . This one looked really good considering the comments about it , so I hoped that I'd be in for one of the better ones ; however , that wasn't the case . It's not that this is a bad film , but it's not all that good either and certainly isn't one of the better made for TV movies from the seventies that I've seen . The plot is interesting enough , and focuses on a small town where a bunch of old people are dying . There are certain similarities between the deaths , and it leads Sheriff Dan Barnes ( Alan Alda ) to investigate . The plot plods along at a relaxing pace , and there's not a great deal of suspense or interest , which is a bit of a surprise since director John Badham would go on to make the very suspenseful thriller ' Nick of Time ' . . . though that was twenty two years later . The small town setting provides a good place for the film to take place , but this isn't taken advantage of to any notable extent , and the film simply boils down to a simple ending . Overall , this film isn't terrible ; but it's not great either , and I can't really recommend bothering to track it down .
Rubbish , but in an entertaining way	By 1992 , pretty much everything that Stephen King had ever even breathed on had been adapted to the screen already , so filmmakers had to start raiding King's catalogue of unpublished stories . One of them came across a story called ' Sleepwalkers ' , and obviously thought it would be a good one to adapt . I don't really know if it was a good idea or not ; as while the story itself does have massive potential , this film doesn't realise it . Having not read the unpublished work , I cant say whether this is the fault of the author or the filmmakers ; but given the lack of quality in most King films that doesn't translate to the books - I don't think I'm being unfair in blaming the filmmakers . The story has all the elements to make a great horror , and follows the incestuous relationship between a mother and son . There's more , however , as they're both ' sleepwalkers ' . The last of their kind , these sleepwalkers are like vampires only more feline . They're afraid of cats for some reason , and they need to suck the life from humans in order to survive . . . and mother hasn't eaten in a while . To be fair , this film isn't a complete dead loss . It is entertaining , and although many opportunities are missed ; some aren't , and they make the film better . Personally , I just can't get over how great this film could have been . We have an incestuous relationship at the centre , which is as disgusting as it is intriguing . Furthermore , these two have only one fear ; the normal domestic feline , and these animals surround their home . Add the pessimism of the fact that they may be the last of their kind , and a whole new breed of monster into the mix and you've got a film that should be garnering universal praise . The makers of this film were clearly more bothered about making a quick buck than a good movie , and that is shown by the fact that the movie is resoundingly low quality , and it features a large number of genre cameos - which serves as an obvious draw for horror fans . I really can't find a single good reason to recommend this film . I won't lie ; I did enjoy it , but that was more because of my strange love for rubbish films . If you're a King completist , you can get away with seeing this by using the " it was unpublished ! " excuse . . . but I suppose there's worse films about if you do want to waste your time .
Some good ideas in a rather dull film	This film is often considered to be a rip off of The Omen and / or Rosemary's Baby ; however , I think it's unfair to label it as such as while it does focus on similar themes and both films may well have been an influence ; if you were to consider this film a rip off , then you'd pretty much have to consider every film about the birth of the anti-Christ to be a rip off of The Omen and / or Rosemary's Baby . That being said , I don't want to give Damned in Venice too much credit ; as while it has some ideas of it's own , they're mostly not very good ones ! As the title suggests , the film is set in Venice ; although this doesn't really have a lot of influence on the plot , but it is always a nice setting . The film focuses on Mark ; a blind boy who begins having strange visions that seem to point to a looming disaster . Naturally , nobody believes him ; including his sister who also happens to be his carer . Even when people start dying the kid is not believed , but things take a turn for the worse again when the man from his visions turns up and impregnates his sister . . . This film features a very odd brother and sister relationship , which is even worse considering the brother is blind . The brother is extremely vulnerable , and the sister ( his carer ) not only seems not to care , but it appears as if just spending time in the same room with this poor kid is a chore ! Not that I can blame her though . . . he is seriously irritating . Some of the acting actually isn't bad ; but the film does really suffer from some extremely poor dubbing . The brother and sister's voices especially are very irritating and it makes them difficult to care about . The main problem with the film is that it's rather boring . There certainly are some good ideas on display , but it's just too slow and the first hour especially is boring . Thankfully , the film starts to pick up a bit in the final third ; although by then it is just a tad too late . We do get treated to a few good death scenes , however ( one in particular that really stands out ) and the final twist is fairly clever . Overall , this is not a great film by any means ; it has a few good moments but not enough to warrant tracking it down .
A bunch of aliens clowning around	When it comes to silly movies , they don't get much sillier than this one . The title says it all , and its clear going into a movie called ' Killer Klowns from Outer Space ' that you're not exactly going to be in for a serious ride . To be honest , I can't say I was overly enthused with this Sci-Fi spoof , but it's not hard to see why it's got a cult following . The film takes in the idea of clowns being eerie and frightening , and fuses it with the common theme of aliens coming down from space ; thus giving us aliens that look like clowns . For what it is , the film is actually quite inventive ; and while much of the action is clichéd and / or samey , it's the little things that ensure it doesn't get boring . As mentioned , the plot follows aliens from space that look like clowns . When their spaceship ( a tent ) lands in the forest , two kids rush to the police headquarters to tell the law that their town is being invaded . If someone gave me that story , I'd definitely believe it ; but the law in this town is slightly more sceptical , and while the kids aren't being believed ; the clown population is growing . One thing I do like about this movie is the special effects . Rather than simply having the clowns being played by men in make-up and baggy clothes , director Stephen Chiodo has opted to make actual suits for the villains . The special effects are a lot like those seen in Tim Burton's Beetlejuice in the same year , and bode well with this absurd plot line . The style of the movie is consistently clown themed , and parts of the film such as the climax on the alien spaceship look great . The acting is typical B-movie , but the movie does benefit from several good performers . The young cast perform well enough with energetic performances that , like the rest of the movie , aren't delivered too seriously ; but the standout is veteran actor John Vernon , who is great in the role of the sceptic police officer . The ' horror ' in this movie is hardly potent , as much of it is sapped out because of the fact that it's all a big joke - but ideas such as people being cocooned in candy floss or eaten up by a shadow puppet are surreally frightening . Overall , this isn't a favourite of mine ; but it offers ninety minutes of good fun and there's no real reason to hate it .
Decent , if lacking , Sci-Fi thriller	Philip K . Dick novels have had quite a good history with regards to movie adaptations . Blade Runner is a classic , while Minority Report and Total Recall were both good examples of film-making also . However , Paycheck wasn't exactly a great piece of film-making , and neither is this film . While Imposter , like Paycheck , isn't a complete dead loss ; it never really impresses either and despite some nice special effects , you always get the impression that the movie is happy to simply sit on the sidelines and just be an OK film . Despite being made on an obvious low budget , the high-tech special effects look good and are the best thing about this otherwise low-key movie . The film stars Gary Sinise as a government worker accused of being an alien spy by the organisation he works for . The film takes place in a time in which the Earth is under attack from an alien species that is genetically superior to the human race , and we are , therefore , losing to them . I've never been a fan of Gary Sinise ; like this movie , he just isn't interesting . His face is memorable , but his screen presence is zero and if you're watching a film with him in the lead , I've found that it's a solid bet that the film won't be very good . He was probably cast because he was the best actor they could get for the budget ; but that doesn't do me any favours while I'm watching the film . The paranoia in the film is one of it's best elements , as it depicts a society constantly under threat from a life form that is more intelligent and more developed than they are . The future is depicted well in the film , and the stylistic approach given to the grim setting that the movie portrays is a big plus for the movie . The plotting is rather scatty , however , and at times it can veer off in directions that aren't all that relevant to the plot , which is most probably a result of the fact that the film is based on a short story . I would recommend this film if you've got nothing better to do while it's on , but otherwise I would say watch something else .
Decent enough witchcraft yarn	Well , I didn't go into this film expecting anything great ; I was really just hoping for a decent timewaster along the same lines as Wes Craven made for TV opus ' Summer of Fear ' , and that's more or less what I got ; though it cant be said that this film isn't as good as Craven's . The film is a mix of two very basic and very common horror themes ; namely , the insider who works their way into a family unit , and of course the idea of witchcraft . After the first fifteen minutes , I feared the worst because = the way that the plot is set up is very messy ; and that's never a good sign in a simple film like this one ! However , it soon settles down and once I got an idea of what to expect , I found that the film became easier to enjoy . The film starts with two sisters in 1963 that get split up . One of them goes off with a relative who passes onto her a strange curse via a kiss . We then cut to twenty five years later , and the other sister has died in a car accident ; leaving her husband and daughter behind . Then onto the scene comes the cursed sister , who wants her niece to bear her curse . . . It has to be said that this film could have been better if have handled by someone more adept , and if it had a better focus . The plot soon becomes predictable , and there are several things about it that don't make sense , and the film often veers off on a tangent with certain things that aren't really relevant . The Kiss seems to have taken a bit of influence from The Omen with regards to the way that the death scenes are carried out ; mostly excessive and random , but also quite imaginative : the death scene on an escalator is well done . . . though the clues preceding it spoil the surprise . None of the characters are particularly interesting , which is a shame considering that the main one is a conniving witch . However , the film never becomes too boring . The special effects aren't over-used , but what we do get is generally quite realistic ; the only exception to this rule being an aggressive cat , which looks like a stuffed toy . It all boils down to an exciting and explosive finale , which also happens to be the best ten minutes of the film . Overall , I won't be going round recommending this film to people ; but there's worse ways to spend ninety minutes of your life .
Nonsense isn't always a bad thing	Most people that see this film use the word ' nonsense ' to describe it and it's not hard to see why . The Reincarnation of Isabel utilises the age-old horror plot line of a witch being brought back to life ; but unlike other films of it's ilk , this one jumps straight in at the reincarnation stage ; thus forsaking any explanation as to why the witch was exterminated , and why there are people that want to bring her back . These things are explained somewhat a bit later on ; and it's these scenes of ' explanation ' that really highlight this film's problem . It's practically impossible to differentiate the flashback sequences from the main action , and if it wasn't for the fact that the woman about to be burnt at the stake was called Isabel , the audience would be none the wiser as to what is actually going on . The film features many scenes that appear to be completely random - some of them may be flashbacks explaining the story , I don't know ! However , one thing that I do know is that this isn't a story based film - and when it comes to pure Eurotrash , this film excels ! The film features a very gritty European style , and every scene looks great . The lighting is superb , with several sequences seemingly existing only so the director can show off his impressive lighting techniques . The score is suitably creepy , and this is flanked by some excellent set design . The scenes involving the black magic rites themselves are particularly great because they seem to exist in dreamscape . These scenes look fabulous , and even though they're not making much sense , they still allow the film some credibility . No Eurotrash flick would be complete without gore and nudity , and this film features plenty of both . Beautiful girls wearing little or nothing are plentiful , and the gore tends to be of the ' realistic ' kind , meaning that it's not gratuitous ; but it looks real , and is all the more shocking for that . The film runs at almost 100 minutes , which is a bit on the long side considering it doesn't really have a plot to speak of . I recommend this film to anyone who likes films to look nice . If you're someone that sees a coherent plot as an essential element for a successful horror movie , then there's a good chance that The Reincarnation of Isabel is not your thing .
Lesbianism ( with a hint of vampires )	From the title - ' Vampyros Lesbos ' - it isn't very hard to deduce what this movie is about . If you're hoping for vampirism and lesbian in equal doses , however , you're in for a disappointment as it quickly becomes clear what Jess Franco's intentions were with this movie . . . and they went to make a horror film . The porn element of the movie is abundant , and this comes at the expense of everything else , including story , horror and atmosphere . The plot itself is very weak , and really just a podium for Franco to show some girl on girl action . It follows a young woman who dreams of being seduced by a sexy brunette . After benefiting from a minor inheritance , our heroine travels to a small island , where she just so happens to meet the woman of her dreams . As you might expect , this gives Franco ample opportunities to film interactions between these two women , and much of it is actually very enjoyable . There's a sub-plot about an occultist who wants to be a vampire thrown in to help bulk out the running time ; but really , this movie is just about lesbians . One of my favourite aspects of this film is the ultra-sleazy undertone . From the euro-styled musical score to the suggestive way that Franco builds up to his love scenes ; the film just breathes sleaze throughout ! One of the film's main problems , however , is that the lack of plot ensures that it gets boring far too often , and while the porn will be enough to keep people who are into this sort of thing happy ; it isn't porn all the way through , so don't be expecting a roller-coaster ride . The pornographic sequences aren't always all that interesting in themselves anyway , as Franco fails to generate any kind of interest surrounding the scenes ; so they can comes off as being a bit cold ( seriously ) . The master of sleaze has made a lot of movies ( bit of an understatement there ) , and the vast majority don't seem to have any point to them at all , apart from the obvious moneymaking one . This movie is no different in that respect - but then again , if you're tuning into this ; you probably wont be bothered about substance anyway . Well . . . not the deep and complex kind .
Interesting enough low budget seventies exploitation	It must have been hard to imagine in 1973 that the director of this low budget shock flick would go on to make one of the very best crime films of the nineties with LA Confidential , but indeed that was the case . Anyway , this was his first attempt at directing , and it's a rather lukewarm film . I never go into films like this expecting too much ; generally these film were made with the intention of getting as many people into a theatre as possible and that isn't usually the best base for a great film . This one focuses on Eddie Collins , a disturbed man who gets into murdering women after one unsuccessful encounter and then ends up not being able to shake off the urge to do so . The film was obviously made on a shoestring budget and it does look very cheap . There's also rather too many sex scenes in the film which were obviously included to help sell the film , but actually end up making it all the more boring . Naturally the point of the film is to see the lead character butchering some women rather than any kind of character study , and that's really all we get . Still , Sweet Kill is not a total dead loss ; it makes for an interesting watch and fans of low budget seventies exploitation will probably get a kick out of it .
A lot like Un Chien Andalou	L'Age D'or is French surrealist director Luis Bunuel's second film , and is often paired with his early surreal short Un Chien Andalou . The film is basically more of the same ; with a load of seemingly unrelated shots being mismatched together , only this time there's something of a story at the core - that being the idea of a young couple trying to get it together under the watchful eye of everyone else . Personally , I do respect what I've seen of Bunuel's work , although with the exception of The Exterminating Angel , I can't say I enjoy it too much . There may be a point to this film , but whatever it is ; I can't see it , and to me L'Age D'or is just what it seems ; a mismatch of striking visuals . The visuals themselves are rather good , and it's obvious that the director has an eye for cinema . The fact that it doesn't make any sense to me means that I can't give it a high rating , although I'm sure that this art film will appeal to fans of classic French cinema .
Debbie might have had fun , but I didn't .	The original Debbie Does Dallas is somewhat considered a classic in it's own right ; it's one of the entry level porn films , and I would assume that most teenage boys will have discussed it at some point or other in their school career ; but the same cant be said for Debbie Does Dallas 2 , or at least I don't think it can ; I'm not really sure because the version I saw was cut down to seventy minutes and had a big oval blob in the middle of the screen every time there was a sex scene ! I guess I got hold of a copy of the prudish version ( thanks , BBFC ) . Of course you may wonder what I was thinking watching a porn flick with all the good bits cut out . . . and to be honest , I struggle for an answer to that question . Anyway , the plot has a lot of room for plenty of sex , and focuses on a brothel . Debbie ( Bambi Woods reprising her role from the first film ) goes to stay with her aunt who runs this brothel , and naturally wants to become one of its employees . From there it's basically country music and sex scenes ; some of them looked like they may have been decent , I'm not really sure for the reasons already mentioned . I'll give the benefit of the doubt since the version I saw was chopped . . . but I probably won't bother tracking down an uncut version .
More hardcore than Lewis Carroll intended . . .	This film is a musical hardcore porn version of Lewis Carroll's classic story ' Alice in Wonderland ' , and so as you can probably imagine , it's a little bit strange ! That being said , Carroll's Wonderland is ripe for fusing with a ' sexual awakening ' plot line , and really I'm surprised it took until 1976 for someone to make a film like this ! Bud Townsend's film was obviously shot on a very low budget and the film has to rely on it's numerous distractions in order to stay interesting ; and these range from the silly costumes , even sillier songs , and of course ; a few hardcore sex scenes . The film is not too far removed from the original story really and naturally we focus a young girl named Alice . She's care-free and dresses below her age , much to the dismay of her boyfriend . It's not long before a rabbit turns up and she follows him down the rabbit hole ( after drinking a shrinking potion ) and ends up in Wonderland , where she meets the usual assortment of characters ; although in this film , they're all a bit more interested in sex than they were in the original story . The film really is very unprofessional and the effect is not too far removed from a school play . The costumes are ridiculous and the acting is terrible throughout . The film also features a plethora of songs that are very silly and helps to increase the ridiculousness of the film . However , despite all the problems ; this version of Alice in Wonderland does have a lot of charm and is at least a fun viewing . There's a fair few hardcore sex scenes ; but the focus of it actually seems to be more on the plot line , and all the sex is entwined in the story , with Lewis Carroll's characters the inspiration for most of it ! The film apparently underwent some cuts during its lifetime and the version I saw professed to have put everything that was cut back in ; although the film still only runs at about eighty minutes and fifteen of them are taken up by the final sex scene ! Overall , this is certainly an interesting film that will no doubt be a target for most fans of cult cinema ; but it is a very amateur production and even rated purely as a hardcore porn film ; it falls down compared to others in the genre . Still . . . I don't regret seeing it .
Decent high concept movie	Jerry Bruckheimer and his ' high concept ' movies never push any cinematic boundaries and don't exactly give your brain a workout , but they can be respected in their own right as they often provide two hours of entertainment , and that's what you get for your money with this film ; National Treasure . The film stars Nicholas Cage as a treasure hunter who goes on the trail of some rumoured treasure that has been hidden in the United States of America for centuries . To find the treasure , he must decipher a series of clues , each one leading to another clue , which in turn leads to another . This theory of the buried treasure has been in Cage's family for decades and our hero hopes to be the one to finally find it ! As you might expect , the movie isn't entirely serious but , to my surprise at least , it does attempt some form of intelligence . The film plays out like something of a history lesson , and the central theme of both the British and the Americans hunting for the treasure echoes the war of independence . That , coupled with a tour of the USA's landmarks , makes this one very pro-American movie ! The way that the plot plays out is very silly , and the backbone of this silliness comes from the idea of the characters stealing the declaration of independence . The idea of this is stupid , but the way that it transpires is even more so . However , it would appear that the film knows that it's ridiculous , and so it just has fun with itself . Unlike many films of this type , the jokes entwined in the plot are actually funny , and certain moments in the movie will no doubt make you laugh out loud . The action is generally well staged , with a car chase taking the central stage where that is concerned . Nicholas Cage has proved his ability to lead a film on numerous occasions , and he shows us why he's a good choice again in this film . While his performance in the movie isn't great , you've got to remember that he hasn't been given great material to work with ; and he does make the best of what he's got . The rest of the cast is rather forgettable , with the exception of a nice little turn from Harvey Kietel . On the whole , National Treasure won't be making cinema history ; but as no brains , big budget action movies go - this isn't a bad one .
Italian Vietnam movie rip-off	The Last Hunter is Italian director Antonio Margheriti's take on the Vietnam flick - and as you would expect , it goes straight for the jugular and removes all the soul searching stuff found in films like Apocalypse Now and The Deer Hunter and the result is . . . entertaining , but underwhelming . Any depth is replaced by an array of violence and bloodshed , and that means that the film entertains on the surface but doesn't do much more than that . . . although I can't condemn it too much since I'm not the biggest fan of the ' great ' Vietnam movies anyway . The plot is just as flimsy as you would expect and we focus on an American soldier . He's been given a mission to go deep behind enemy lines and destroy a radio transmitter that is sending out demoralising messages to the American soldiers , telling them words to the effect of ' go home and give up fighting someone else's war ' . He picks up some allies along the way and of course gets involved in more than his fair share of fighting . The film stars David Warbeck who does well as the grizzled American soldier at the centre of the film . It's clear that he wasn't the most important thing as far as Antonio Margheriti was concerned , however , as he's far more interested in packing as much violence as possible into the film , and he does a good job with that ; as shown by the many fight scenes . Every fight scene in the film is full on and very bloody ; and the special effects are fairly realistic also , which adds to the credibility of the film . However , it all comes down to the fact that the film doesn't have much of a point . Of course sitting through the action is entertaining but there's no reason to really care for it and the film drags on numerous occasions as a result . It all boils down to an ill-advised and really rather silly twist at the end . . . but hey , I can't say I was expecting anything clever . Overall , The Last Hunter might be of interest to anyone who enjoys low Italian rip offs and / or war movies , but anyone hoping for a great Vietnam flick is in for a disappointment .
Could have been better . . . but still , not too bad . . .	Mel Brooks is a writer-director that I don't rate . Often with his movies , it seems that he can do better ; but he continually falls into the childish humour trap , and it spoils everything . Take this movie for example ; a spoof of Dracula . Bram Stoker's classic story is ripe for having fun made of it , and while Brooks does implement some scenes that are very funny ; much of it is squandered by childishness , and not the good kind . I'm not saying that I'm ' too grown up ' for this sort of film , but the simple fact of the matter is that it's just not funny . Adding to that is the fact that even the moments in the film that ARE funny are squandered by the rubbish humour surrounding them . To Brooks ' credit , he has moulded the story well around his jokes . He's changed certain elements , but never enough to veer it completely away from the original material . The plot will be familiar to anyone who wasn't born five minutes ago , and follows Bram Stoker's classic Dracula story . Of course , it follows it with a load of gags . . . but the central plots are still there . Leslie Nielson isn't the actor that you would immediately connect with the Dracula role , but he is the one that usually stars in spoofs ; and he does do quite well with the material . Thinking about it , Leslie Nielson isn't a million miles away from the character . Bela Lugosi , the best man to ever play Dracula , is a camp actor and Nielson's mannerisms , while over the top and silly , are a bit like Lugosi's . Mel Brooks stars alongside Nielson as the vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing . His performance is as you would expect it to be , but he does hold the audience's attention rather well and I would say he did a pretty good job . As mentioned , and as usual for Brooks films ; for every gag that works , there's four that don't - but I guarantee that even the most hardened Brooks hater will laugh a couple of times during this film . One scene that sees Dracula using mind control on two women springs to mind for being amusing . On the whole ; this certainly isn't a must-see , and I don't doubt that I'll forget I ever saw it soon enough - but it's not Brooks ' worst effort .
Bava has done better	Mario Bava is a great horror film director , but this is not one of his best works . The plot of this movie is along similar lines to that of one of his masterpiece's , " Bay of Blood " , in that it revolves around money and a murderer . It follows the story of a wealthy industrialist that invites some of his friends to his remote Mediterranean island for a weekend of relaxation . It later transpires that one of the friends has a formula that has the potential to make a lot of money . What follows is a crescendo of murders as one by one the friends start turning up dead and the remaining survivors then don't know who amongst is the killer and therefore who to trust . Unlike a lot of Bava's other work ; this film features little in the way of suspense or atmosphere , and the music isn't always as good as Bava's fans have come to expect . It also doesn't have a lot in the way of ideas ; Mario Bava is known for being creative , his movies usually bear this trademark and he is responsible for influencing many great horror movies , but this one doesn't cut it in that respect . The only really creepy part that this movie does have , in fact , is the spectacle of seeing the film's characters strung up in a meant freezer , but other than that it's pretty routine . By the time the film reaches it's climax , it doesn't really matter who the murderer is , as the intent is obvious from the start and the characters are largely samey and therefore uninteresting , and that's not a good way for a movie to keep the viewer's interest . This film isn't especially bad , but it's very average and doesn't meet the high standards that Bava has set for himself with his earlier ( and later ) works . A year later , Bava would create Bay of Blood ; I recommend seeing that instead if you're not a Bava fan , this one is for completists .
Pre-Dirty Harry , but still a lesser Italian crime film	I've been watching a lot of these Italian cop flicks recently , but unfortunately ; Violent City isn't one of the best . The film was released before Dirty Harry ( unlike the rest of the genre ) , so it does deserve some credit for originality . That's not to say it's bad by any means , but this Charles Bronson vehicle doesn't entertain on the same level as a lot of the rest of the genre . There are certainly a lot of good things about this film ; but unfortunately , there's also a lot of bad and the film features long stretches where little or nothing happens , which certainly isn't to its credit . It's a shame really as this has the basis to be one of the best of the Italian crime films just because of the fact that it stars the ' man of few words ' Charles Bronson . The plot is pretty standard stuff , and focuses on a hit-man that is double crossed by his friend and girlfriend . After getting out of jail , he decides to take revenge on those that wronged him . However , some way into his revenge ; he begins being blackmailed by a powerful crime boss that wants the hit-man in his organisation . Charles Bronson has a lot of screen presence , despite the fact that this role doesn't really suit him . His character is called ' Jeff ' ( it's really hard to imagine the grizzled Charles Bronson being called " Jeff " ) , and it's also rather difficult to imagine him having the women after him . . . The film's positives are , luckily , enough to save it from being a complete loss . The opening car chase is really good , and provides the perfect opening to the film . From there , we are treated to a handful of good action scenes , including plenty of shooting ( a given , since the lead character is a hit-man ) . The sequence at the end is the best part of the film , as it's both exciting and inventive , and provides the perfect way for our lead character to get his revenge . The support cast isn't great , and features Telly Savalas , who is decent enough and Jill Ireland , who looks nice throughout . However , the plotting continually gets in the way and the fact that the film doesn't run smoothly greatly hinders it . Overall , Violent City certainly has its moments ; but it's not one of the best crime films to come out of Italy during the seventies .
An interesting idea	This film , that received an incognito release back in 2001 , isn't actually as good as it's minor cult following would suggest . That's not to say that it isn't good , however ; it's refreshing to see something a little different and although the film is flawed , it does succeed for that reason . The story follows a reclusive man that lives in the woods and witnesses a murder while searching for his cat . The film doesn't have any dialogue , and is told in chapters . This makes the film different from the outset as it leaves the audience with only their own thoughts as to what's going and nothing is ever really explained . Other films , such as the worst film ever made ; The Blair Witch Project , have tried similar ways of developing a plot and most have failed . This one doesn't really succeed , but it's probably the best example I've seen yet . The film is almost completely set in the woods , and there aren't many people other than our central character shown on screen . This gives the film an intense feeling of loneliness and isolation , which is always unsettling . The film also seems to have taken some influence from true cult classic ' The Evil Dead ' in the way it is shot . The way that the camera moves through the woods is reminiscent of the ' Raimi-cam ' that was introduced in said movie . In spite of having no dialogue , and moving relatively slowly ; Soft for Digging never becomes boring and the scenes where we are allowed to brood with the main character are kept alive by what the audience thinks as we see him trying to continue with his life . The film features some very unnerving nightmare sequences , which are the movie's best moments and also come as something as a surprise in a movie of this nature . Nothing , however , can prepare you for the ending , which is as ambiguous as it is disgraceful and I almost guarantee that it will shock , repulse and surprise you . There's not really enough of this film , and what there is isn't really good enough to call it ' good ' without lying . However , this is an impressive first feature from director J . T . Petty and I look forward to seeing better things from him in the future .
Not as bad as you might expect	This film kicks off as I thought it would go on , in that a mental patient slays his doctor with the business end of an axe . However , considering that was included on the Video Nasty list in the 80's , it isn't very gory . I fully understand and agree with the idea that buckets of gore does not make a movie great , but when I'm watching a shocking , previously banned Video Nasty ; call me old fashioned , but I generally expect to see gore . Still , the film does have other redeeming features . The acting isn't one of them however ; when watching a film like this , one doesn't go in expecting to see great performances , but some of the acting in this movie was so unbelievably below standard that at times even I , a fan of shock horror with bad performances , cringed . The old woman that later has her tongue removed is a particular cause for concern on this film's acting resume ; I know that the roles of the mental patients are meant to be fairly quirky , but this one was downright insulting . The rest of the bad performances come from unknown actors , most of which would never go on to make another film , or at least another film of note ; and that is quite fitting really . Another feature of the film that isn't redeeming is the way it is filmed . If I said that it was unprofessional , I'd be right ; and I am right , the movie is unprofessionally filmed . Because of this , the whole piece stinks of amateurs at the bottom of their craft . I know that you cant expect fabulous cinematography from a film such as this , but the fact that it is bad makes sure that the film faces an uphill struggle from the start ; it looks bad , and for some that will mean it is bad . However , despite all said so far ; this film really does have some redeeming qualities . The characters for one ; they're not particularly well done ; they certainly aren't deep or fleshed out , but they do make sure that the film creates the right atmosphere for a sanatorium ; they're a mixed bag , and although I've never been in a nut house , the one in this film is what I'd expect one to be like . Also of note is the way that it's fairly well plotted ; there's always something going on to keep you entertained and it doesn't tie itself up with lots of meaningless plot details , which is definitely to it's credit . The twist towards the end should have been seen coming a mile off by me , but it wasn't , and I think that is to the film's credit also ; it catches you by surprise . By the end , it becomes obvious as to exactly what is in the basement , but by then it doesn't matter because the film is nearly over anyway . Overall , Don't Look in the Basement is one of the better Video Nasty's that I've seen , and I've seen a few from that illustrious list . What it lacks in certain areas , it makes up for in others and although it's not very gory , certainly not by today's standards ; I'd still recommend this to fans of shock horror cinema .
Low budget women and zombies in prison	The Women in Prison genre was once saturated by the sleazy films of the likes of Jess Franco and Joe D'Amato ; but has all but died out since then and all we are left is the residue ; which includes Shadow : Dead Riot . The film is something of a coming together of the aforementioned Women in Prison genre and the zombie genre ; although by only giving fleeting glimpses of both , it fails to really nail down either one , and what we are left is a rather silly mess ; although it is a sporadically entertaining mess . The film begins with execution of a prison inmate who goes by the name of Shadow . Shadow is apparently a mass murderer with voodoo powers ( and just to give you an idea of the overall quality of the film ; he's played by Tony Todd in a ridiculous wig ! ) . Anyway , Shadow is killed and his death triggers some sort of curse on the prison . Years later ; the prison has become a woman's prison and is welcoming a new arrival in the form of a chick called Solitaire . Solitaire apparently has some link with Shadow and her arrival triggers his second coming . . . The film is obviously very low rent and anyone going into it is liable to know that ; so it would be a bit pointless to say that the acting is atrociously wooden and ridiculous . My main reason for seeing this film was undoubtedly the presence of soft porn star Misty Mundae . She's bad in this film even by her own low acting standards ; and her role is made even more disappointing by the fact that she's not in it for long . The only other name on the cast list likely to be recognised by horror fans belongs to the aforementioned Tony Todd . . . who picks up his pay cheque . The plot is always silly and ridiculous ; but there are a couple of good ideas in there that keep things interesting . There are plenty of coincidences and plot holes too . . . so , as is often the case with films like this , it's best to turn your brain off before the film starts . The central plot involving the new prison inmates is actually one of the less interesting parts of the film , however , which brings it down . All in all , this is a decent way to kill ninety minutes and while film critics won't be impressed ; if you like low budget trash , you might like this .
Home improvement , horror style !	I've heard a variety of things about this film ; from it being a classic to it being ' dull and boring ' . I've never been a big fan of haunted house movies ; stuff like Amityville and Poltergeist bored me to tears , and I can't really think of a single one that I really enjoyed . I have to say that I am siding more with the ' dull and boring ' side on this one really ; although despite it's flaws , Burnt Offerings is not as bad as I thought it might be , and I did quite enjoy it . The title ' Burnt Offerings ' suggests some kind of devil worshipping plot to me ; though the title is , in fact , entirely misleading . The film focuses on a mysterious house . Oliver Reed and Karen Black move into the house with their son and elderly aunt as caretakers over the summer ; the catch is that they also have to care for the elderly woman upstairs who doesn't leave the house . And that is not the only catch ; as the house is evil ! The difference between this film and other films like it is that when this house takes its victims , part of it rejuvenates . . . The best thing about this film is undoubtedly the cast as it features cult stars Oliver Reed and Karen Black , as well as classic actress Bette Davis . All three of these have their place in horror history , and all of them give great performances ; particularly Oliver Reed who is more down to earth than usual but still manages to provide a gripping performance . The film reminded me of a less eventful version of The Shining , though the book came out a year after this film so I can't say it's a rip off ( but perhaps the reverse is true . . . ) . It's true that not a lot happens in this film ; and at 110 minutes , the film certainly is overlong . This is a problem , though it never grinds to a complete halt and there is a handful of strong standout moments . The film also features a good foreboding atmosphere , which gives the haunted house plot credibility . One of the problems I had with the film is that the house itself should have a character ; but it doesn't , and director Don Sharp doesn't make good use of it . He does make good use of the swimming pool , however . Overall , Burnt Offers is not a classic film ; though it's not as boring as some say . Worth a look !
Interesting , but highly flawed	William Friedkin started his career with a bang , directing films such as The French Connection and , more importantly , The Exorcist ; but since then has done very little of note . Bug , an adaptation of a play by Tracy Letts , is his return to the horror genre . . . and it's been hit by mixed reviews . That's not surprising either ; as while the film has some good ideas ; the confusing nature of the way they are put forward and the strange narrative will put many people off . The plot focuses on a woman named Agnes , who lives in a hotel room . Agnes is a waitress and has suffered tragedy in the form of losing her son . Her lesbian co-worker , R . C . introduces her to a man named Peter ; a war veteran with a rather strange demeanour . Peter believes that everyone hates him ; and is surprised to find that Agnes is not one of these people . The pair starts to get to know each other inside the hotel room and eventually have sex . Not long after , Peter finds what he believes to be an aphid in the bed and things quickly spiral out of control . The best thing about this film for me was undoubtedly the claustrophobic atmosphere . The vast majority of the film takes place inside the hotel room and director William Friedkin does a very good job of isolating this location from the outside world , and even changing it with the characters as the film moves along . The central cast is small but interesting and well acted ; and everyone within it has a vital role to play . It has to be said that the film is slow to start but the build up to the main plot is always intriguing and we are lead to believe that the film is going to go somewhere . This is my main problem with the film ; the pay off does not justify the promise and build up . The main themes of the film once we get into the main part of it are paranoia and control and some very interesting questions are posed . . . but not answered . The film does a good job of building up ambiguity since we never know whether the characters ' thoughts and feelings are delusions or real , but at the end of the film , I found myself not caring either way . I would say that this is just about a film worth seeing . . . but I've also got to say that , considering the premise , it should have been a lot better .
Some very weird religious rites in HG Lewis ' splatter " masterpiece " !	Herschell Gordon Lewis has a lot of things to be proud of himself for with regards to this film . Aside from being the oldest film on the BBFC's " Video Nasty " list , Blood Feast is also the film most often credited as " the first splatter flick ever made " . Technically , the movie doesn't have a lot in it's favour , as it's just as inept as most HG Lewis films ; but at least it proves once and for all the British Board of Film Classification doesn't have a sense of humour , as this movie is more likely to make you cry tears of laughter than deprave and / or corrupt . Seeing as this is the first splatter film , HG really deserves a lot of credit , as he was pretty much walking new ground with this film ; and the gore , as ever , is filthy and disgusting ; and would have took a lot of guts on the directors ' part to dare release this film back in 1963 . The plot takes in the classic idea of other society's codes of conduct , and follows an Egyptian caterer who offers to put on his own special ' Egyptian Feast ' at the Birthday party of a young girl . However , he forgot to mention that he's been murdering women and stealing their body parts in order to resurrect his goddess . . . It's clear that the Godfather of Gore isn't too concerned with realism . The murders and the reasons behind them are expected to be silly , but the director packs the film with further ridiculous details , and it all helps to make this film the fine piece of trash that it is . Things such as the policeman discussing the case details with his girlfriend , the newspaper headline that reads " Legs Cut Off ! " and my personal favourite ; the fact that the murderer is working from a book titled " Ancient WEIRD Religious Rites " make this the film that it is . Herschell would go on to make gorier films ( such as The Gore Gore Girls ) , but this one is still pretty gritty , especially for it's time . We see guts cut out , tongues pulled out and more . The actor in the role of the Egyptian psycho , Mal Arnold , really does look hilarious with his blue hair and polished appearance ; but perhaps best of all is the fact that he's doing a ( bad ) Christopher Lee impression ! Every scene in the film in almost completely inept , with atrocious acting featuring throughout . . . but hey , it's all in good fun and so long as you aren't too bothered about technical details , Blood Feast is a must see film .
Manic Japanese nonsense	This film's audience appears to be split into two camps ; those who thought it was great , and those who thought it was nonsense . I've got to say I didn't hate the film ; but I'm fitting in more to the latter camp . The film doesn't have a plot exactly ; it's more of a premise and involves a man who sticks metal to his body . He is later killed in a car accident ; and for some reason , this leads the man who killed him to begin sprouting metal on his own body . The pace of the film is manic and some call it " live action anime " . Having not seen any anime , I've not idea if that is true ; but there is a sort of comic book styling to the film . The film can only really be appreciated as a visual feast and director Shinya Tsukamoto does at least provide some interesting visuals over a largely techno-influenced soundtrack . The film is possibly trying to make some sort of point ; but I've really got no idea what that might be and frankly don't really care . I would say that this film is worth a look if you're into this sort of thing ; and while I found parts of it interesting , I wouldn't call myself a fan .
Sick and sleazy exploitation flick	This bizarre slice of " Drive-In " cinema takes obvious influence from films such as Psycho , and handles the graphic and unsettling themes of incest , rape , torture and necrophilia . The film wallows in its sadistic nature , and it's rather unsurprising that Schoolgirls in Chains has suffered banning in several countries , including the UK ( although it's not an official Video Nasty ) . It has to be said , however , that it really isn't all that good ; as while the themes comes across in a way that is as sick and as sleazy as possible ; the whole piece is actually rather boring on the whole . If you go into this film expecting something along the lines of The Texas Chain Saw Massacre or The Last House on the Left , you will no doubt come out disappointed ; as Donald M . Jones ' film is as good as neither notorious film . The plot follows the antics of two deranged brothers who take delight in holding schoolgirls captive by chaining them up in their basement . However , they're not content with merely holding the girls ; as the brothers ' sick and sadistic nature means that they have to subject the girls to a number of humiliating games . As you would expect from a film with a title like " Schoolgirls in Chains " , the atmosphere is very sleazy ; and shots that see the young , innocent girls wearing a collar pretty much sum the film up . Director Donald M . Jones ( probably a pseudonym ) stays away from making the film overly erotic , however , and it's probably a good thing that Schoolgirls in Chains doesn't depict the actions of its lead characters in a favourable light . Jones ' direction is solid , but since this film was made for the drive-in , you can't expect any directorial brilliance - and this film doesn't have any . The acting is similar in that it's nothing to write home about , although both Gary Kent and John Stoglin get to have fun in their absurd roles . Stoglin plays the retarded side of the pair of brothers , but it's Gary Kent who wins most of the plaudits where the acting is concerned for his portrayal of the more subdued side of the pair . The locations are well used , and the house in which most of the film takes place is suitably rural and isolated . Overall , this film isn't bad and will no doubt appeal to exploitation fans ; but it's not as great as similar seventies genre efforts such as The Last House on the Left and House on Straw Hill .
Low key , but creepy little horror flick	Scarecrows shows what you can do with a very flimsy plot line and a low budget . Rather than concentrate on characters or story , the film leans more towards aesthetics ; as the tale is portrayed within a very creepy atmosphere , and the central monsters of the title capitalise well on their natural scare factor . Like clowns , scarecrows are eerie creations and it's clear that director William Wesley knows that , as their dark and foreboding image makes up the backbone of this tale of terror . The only real theme that is put on display in this film comes from the idea of greed , as it is that very thing that gets all the central protagonists into life-threatening danger . The film follows a bunch of soldiers that have stolen a lot of money . They take a pilot and his daughter hostage and force the pair to take them to Mexico ; but the ride has a hitch when one of the crooks decides that he doesn't want to share the money , and parachutes out of the plane with the loot . His partners in crime are soon on his tail , but the story has another twist when it turns out that the field they've jumped into is infested with scarecrows that want to do more than keep the birds off the crops ! This film isn't very well known and it's not hard to see why . Scarecrows is very short , running at about seventy minutes when you don't include the credit sequences . The film also feels very low-key , as the focus is more on the atmosphere than anything else , which can leave the film lacking at several intervals . Scarecrows is basically a glorified zombie movie , and pretty much plays out like one as the characters are picked off by their unworldly adversaries . The fact that the entire film takes place in what appears to be real time and in only one location ensures that it benefits from a claustrophobic tension , which benefits a film like this greatly . There isn't a lot of gore here , as the killings don't tend to be very bloodthirsty , and most of the violence takes place off-screen . The killings aren't bad , however , and I was impressed with the way that the film handled the scarecrows ' victims after they had been savaged . Overall , this film certainly won't win any awards , and you won't really be missing much by not seeing it ; but any horror fan that gets the chance to see Scarecrows probably won't be disappointed .
Decent piece of trash	Back in the day , there was a film director that had a penchant for making films about the most unbelievably cool things imaginable . After making a film about CHAINSAWS in 1974 , Director Tobe Hooper would go on to make a movie using another hardly used , yet immense , horror asset ; crocodiles ! Retaining the mental redneck theme from his earlier success ; Eaten Alive is another trash horror highlight . While not nearly as good as Hooper's smash hit predecessor ; it gain's notability for it's malignant undertone and uncompromising violence , not to mention the low budget styling and the aforementioned reptilian . The story this time follows a hotel owner that , for one reason or another , enjoys battering his guests and feeding them to the crocodile while they're still alive , which isn't a bad premise for a movie at all in my opinion ! The film is easily categorised under the sub-genre of trash horror , and on an objective level there is no doubt that this feature is a bad movie . However , as it's uncompromising and has immense cult value ; horror fans will no doubt find lots to like about it . The location of the film is in a swamp , and this makes for a great horror location as it's atmospheric and gives the film that foreboding feel that has made other films in the genre so good . The presence of Robert " Freddy Kruger " Englund adds to the cult value of the movie , and this is a decent early performance from him . The acting on the whole is largely bottom drawer and over the top , but when it comes to this sort of film ; what does it matter ? I cant give this movie high recommendations , but I can safely say that trash horror fanatics will like it , and anyone that enjoys The Texas Chainsaw Massacre should seek this out too .
Makes for an entertaining hour and a half	Films starring Ben Stiller tend to be funny , and that's what this is . You cant go into a film like Dodgeball expecting much more than a good time and a few laughs - so the fact that it's no masterpiece won't disappoint , and the fact that it delivers exactly what you want it to ensures this further . Dodgeball is at least somewhat original because it follows a sport that ( to my knowledge ) hasn't been done before , or at least not recently . Prior to seeing this movie , I had seen Dodgeball being played ' professionally ' , and it's easy to see why the filmmakers here decided to base this comedy on that sport . It isn't quite as ridiculous in real life as it's portrayed as being here , but seriously - it's not all that far off . The film follows two rival gyms - the huge Globo Gym , and the small-scale local gym - Average Joe's . Joe's is owned by Vince Vaughn , who finds himself in trouble with the bank when it turns out he hasn't been paying his bills . He owes $50 , 000 , and after his friends ' idea to wash cars fails miserably , they find that the only way to pay off the bank and keep the gym open is to enter a dodgeball competition , which has a first prize of $50 , 000 ( mere coincidence ) . However , the owner of Globotech wants Average Joe's for himself . . . and enters the competition to make sure that happens . I'm not exactly Ben Stiller's biggest fan , but it's impossible to deny that he has a talent for comedy . He's shown in his recent films that he has a great range - from the very straight Starsky , to his average kind of role in Meet the Parents ; all the way to his role here , which sees him as the maniacal fitness freak turned dodgeball player . He stars along with Vince Vaughn and wife , Christine Taylor . Vaughn has shown his comedy talent a lot recently , and even though his role here is merely as an average kind of guy ; he does it well . Stiller's wife definitely is hot - I don't like blonde's as a rule , but every man who doesn't would have to make an exception here . She steals all of her scenes . Many of the jokes come as a result of Stiller's over the top character , and the general silliness of the game ; dodgeball . It doesn't take a highly trained eye to notice that this is Ben Stiller's film - and it's him that you're going to remember most after seeing this film , and that is testament to his comical abilities . Some of the humour is a bit grating and doesn't really work ( like the awkward romance between some ugly woman and a dorky kid ) , but on the whole - this is suitably silly , and is sure to sufficiently entertain most people .
Great cast in a cheesy sixties sci-fi	Queen of Blood is a low budget sci-fi flick that is often seen as an inspiration for the classic ' Alien ' . Whether or not the film was an influence I don't know ; although the two films do share some similarities . The film actually reminded me of a sub-par episode of Star Trek ; yet in spite of that , there are some good ideas on display here and for what it's worth ( which admittedly isn't much ) , Queen of Blood is not a bad little sci-fi flick . The film has an obvious low budget which is a hindrance but it overcomes this with an interesting plot line . The film takes place in the future ( actually 1990 ) and follows a plot that starts with scientists receiving a distress call from a space ship that crash landed on Mars . Naturally they decide to send another team in on a rescue mission and when they arrive they discover only a single survivor - a green skinned female alien ! They decide to bring her aboard the ship and after trying to help and talk to her , they find their efforts to be abortive . The alien's actual intention is revealed when she begins drinking the blood of the crew . It's actually a shame that this film wasn't better as it features a mouth watering cult cast ! John Saxon is excellent as always in the lead role and he receives good support from the likes of an aging Basil Rathbone and a young Dennis Hopper . Queen of Blood is clearly not an actor's film , but it's still nice to see these actors on screen together . The budget impacts most on the special effects and we're treated to some shocking space scenes , as well as an alien that is just a woman painted green . The film fails at delivering anything that looks even remotely futuristic and that does distract from the plot line more than just a little bit . The film is apparently put together from a couple of different sources and that would make sense as the plotting is often uneven and sometimes doesn't make a great deal of sense . Still , it would be silly to go into a film like this expecting a masterpiece ; and even though I generally don't like low budget sci-fi , I was still mostly happy with what I got . Overall ; this is not a must see film , but it's decent enough and I can recommend it .
Not bad . . . could have been better	I went into this film with some hope as the plot certainly sounded like it could be a springboard for a good , and largely original horror film . As it turns out , the film is somewhat original and it's fairly interesting ; but its not all that well handled and what we end up with could be described as a near miss . One of the most curious things about The Deaths of Ian Stone is the fact that it's directed by Dario Piana ; a name that will mean nothing to most people , but Giallo fans might remember his previous film ( released over twenty years ago ) ; the surprisingly good , Too Beautiful To Die . Anyway , the plot focuses on Ian Stone ; a regular guy . . . except for the fact that he keeps waking up in strange new lives after being violently killed . It's not long before Ian starts being able to piece together why this is happening to him ; although he is constantly being chased by a strange unseen force seeking to murder him at every turn . This film was released as one of After Dark's " Eight Films to Die For " and is often seen as one of the better films of that series . I wouldn't disagree with that . The film does get off to a good start and we are made to wonder exactly what is going on . The film doesn't make its audience wait long before beginning to reveal the reasons behind the title character's predicament , but unfortunately this is where the film begins to fall down as the explanation isn't as intriguing as I was hoping and the film soon starts to feel like it could be an episode of Doctor Who . There are plenty of plot holes and unanswered questions too , and that doesn't exactly help things . The film was clearly made on a low budget and unfortunately is heavy with CGI effects that look rather cheap . The acting is serviceable , and Mike Vogel leads a capable cast . Once we reach the final third , things start to become really messy and it becomes hard to care about what's happening . Despite its problems , however , The Deaths of Ian Stone is at least worth a look ; but I wouldn't recommend busting a gut trying to find a copy .
Fulci's Haunted House	The plot of House by the Cemetery follows the story of a young family that move into an old house that used to be occupied by a mad doctor , Dr Freudstein . The only trouble is , that Freudstein hasn't moved out , and he's currently hiding in the basement in the house and committing grisly murders on whomever dares to stay there . . . House by the Cemetery is Lucio Fulci's take on the haunted house genre ; but obviously , since it's Fulci , this film is much more gory than your average haunted house horror . The film was actually praised by the BBFC for its restraint , but it still features beheading , throat ripping , a bat attack , impaling , a knife through the head and several other gory set pieces . However , despite this ; the film is rather slow to build up , in fact , after the initial gory opener ; the film doesn't really get going again for about an hour , and although once it does getting going it is pretty good , during the build up to it , it's not so good . And that's not good because the build up takes up the majority of the movie . House by the cemetery also features one of the most hideous children that I've ever seen in a movie ; Giovanni Frezza . He would later appear in the excellent Lamberto Bava films , " A Blade in the Dark " and " Demons " , but he's got a lot more screentime in this movie , and he is , therefore , much more annoying . It's a shame that his character is so hard to identify with due to him being so annoying because Fulci creates most of the tension in the movie from this kid , but because he's so irritating , I almost guarantee that you'll be cheering for Freudstein . The film also features Katherine MacColl , one of Fulci's favourite actresses , and a lady he also cast in two of his other gorefests ; The Beyond and City of the Living Dead . Katherine is most definitely the best actor of the movie , and she's also very beautiful , so it's not hard to see why Fulci would continue to cast her . The film also features Paolo Malco , who would later appear in The New York Ripper and Ania Pieroni , whom horror fans will recognise from the Dario Argento masterpieces " Tenebrae " and " Inferno " . The acting is not great in this movie , but Italian horror films aren't known for their great exhibitions of acting , so it doesn't matter . The villain of the piece ; Dr Freudstein is said to be one of Fulci's most famous zombies , but this is probably more down to the fact that the others are mostly the same as each other , whereas Freudstein is different . The creature itself is very disgusting and makes for a great baddie though , so I'll give Fulci credit for that . My only criticism of it would be that the monster doesn't get a lot of screentime , which is a shame . Overall , House by the Cemetery is not Fulci's best work , but it's an interesting film with a few redeeming features . Fulci fans should like it .
Decent thriller , but lacking	First of all , I have to say that my copy of this film is poor in the extreme and so I might not have got ' the full effect ' . But even so , Freddie Francis ' The Psychopath is a rather mundane thriller that takes most of its influence from superior works such as those of Alfred Hitchcock , and doesn't particularly do anything new . The plot focuses on post-world war 2 revenge , and follows the murder of four men . The men were involved in the murder of a German millionaire , and the only other clue that Inspector Holloway has to go on is the fact that small dolls were found next to each corpse . Are the murders something to do with a doll maker and her son ? Freddie Francis made a lot of the best films that Amicus had to offer , and although this is both an Amicus and a Freddie Francis film ; it's not a high point for either . The plot has just about enough about it to hold the audience's interest for the film's duration , although it does drag at times and I think I'd have enjoyed this film more if it was a little more streamlined . The dolls are what ties the film to the horror genre , as they're eerie looking and creepy ; but otherwise , this is more of a by the numbers thriller with only a couple of twists thrown in . The Psychopath is rather difficult to come by , and since it's not all that good ; I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to find a copy .
Third time unlucky for female samurai	Okatsu the Fugitive is the third film in the " Ohyaku / Okatsu " series , which sees a female sword master getting revenge on people . Like the second entry in the series , this one is basically just the same idea as the first film with a different storyline . It doesn't follow on from the other two films in any way and indeed the plot line is entirely different in this film than it was in the other two and the only similarity is the lead character's name . It has to be said that this is the weakest of the three films too ; as while the first two provided entertaining stories in their own rights ; this one is far too muddled . The plot once again focuses on Okatsu ; a " tomboy " who is good with a sword . Her father has found her a man to marry and actually she doesn't seem too upset about the situation . At the same time , a bunch of farmers are being slaughtered by a corrupt group running a tobacco smuggling ring . They're being investigated by a man who is documenting their crimes and when they find out about it , they torture him for information but get none . It's not long before he and Okatsu's mother wind up dead and she sets out for revenge . The plot has a lot to it , although it's not really a good thing because the film feels like it doesn't really have time to get through everything . To its credit , the plot of this film is more different to the plot of the first film than the plot of the second film was , but even so ; it could have done with being a bit better thought out . On the technical side of things , this is definitely a very good film however and is probably the best filmed of the lot of them . The cinematography is beautiful and the locations are all captured nicely . Director Nobuo Nakagawa also delights in showing us some great surreal shots towards the end . There's a fair amount of violence in the movie ; although I would say it's not as bloodthirsty as the previous entry . Still , the blood flows and there's plenty of action . The final revenge sequence is really good and just about justifies watching the rest of the film to get there . Overall , this is still a decent film and definitely a must see for anyone that enjoyed the other two films in the series ; although it is the weakest of the trilogy .
The truth is , this film isn't everything it wanted to be	I was hoping this film would live up to the high standard set by the first two Atom Egoyan films I'd seen , The Sweet Hereafter and Felicia's Journey ; but unfortunately , Where the Truth Lies is a film with bags of style , but almost nothing in terms of substance and despite a focus on characters ; the film feels very flat and pointless by the time the conclusion to the sophomoric mystery plot is finally revealed . The film focuses on the partnership between Lanny and Vince ; a pair of comedians that were a huge success back in the fifties ( kind of like a smarter , American version of Ant and Dec ) . Their partnership ended fifteen years ago , and sexy female journalist Karen O'Connor decides to research the life of one of the partners , and get to the bottom of the mystery surrounding the death of a young girl whose body was found in the bathtub of the partners ' hotel room on the night after a big TV show that the couple were doing . This film isn't a complete loss , and that is thanks to the way in which it is filmed . Atom Egoyan seems to have been trying to capture a classic film noir style , and he succeeds somewhat ; although the dark picture has been discarded in favour of beautiful bright colours . Egoyan relishes in capturing the beauty of his lead actress Alison Lohman , mostly through the movement of her lavish head of red hair . She is joined by the insanely talented Kevin Bacon , who isn't forced to give his best performance ; but adequately gets through the film . Colin Firth rounds off the central cast , and does a good job of capturing the sleazy nature of his character . The old-fashioned style of the film is interesting at first , but this isn't kept up until the end , and I was getting more than a little tired of it before the film ended . The ending is something of a non-event , and the film feels like it should have a far more sophisticated conclusion considering the nature and style of the production . Where the Truth Lies has a number of memorable sequences ; the ( underdone ) lesbian sequence chief among them , but there isn't enough positive elements to ensure that Where the Truth Lies will be remembered as anything other than an interesting failure .
Decent enough road thriller	Many films - from classics such as Dual and The Hitcher , to lesser known gems like Hitch-Hike and modern thrillers such as Roadkill - have shown cinema audiences that the road can be a great setting for a movie , but while Roadgames certainly has it's moments ; it has to be said that isn't as good as some of those that have gone before and come after . Director Richard Franklin ( ' Psycho II ' ) does a good job of implementing the loneliness of the road on the audience by way of keeping the focus on the main character - a weary trucker , and ensuring that we are drawn into his plight . The lead role is taken by Stacy Keach , who fits into the role of Pat Quid nicely . Quid is driving a truck across Australia , along with his pet dingo . He picks up various hitch-hikers along the way , and at one point stops at a hotel ; where he witnesses a man take in a girl he saw on the road earlier . She soon disappears , and this coincides with reports on the radio of a serial killer stalking the same roads that Quid is driving . However , that isn't all Quid has to worry about ; as the police are beginning to suspect him of the crimes . . . My main problem with this film is that it takes too long to get going , and once it does finally get itself into gear ; the plot isn't overly interesting , and it all feels rather underdone . There are a number of small things that bring the overall rating of this film up ; things such as the fact that the main character has a pet dingo gives Roadgames some extra character . The lead performances are good enough , with the previously mentioned Stacy Keach carrying the entire film on his shoulders for most of the duration . Keach is an underrated actor , and it's always nice to see him in films - even underdeveloped ones like this . Jamie Lee Curtis is his co-star and is decent enough in her relatively small role , while no one else is given the screen time to impress . The score is a little bit too playful and annoying for my liking , but it's not enough to spoil the movie . Roadgames does have a number of good set pieces and the way that the director builds the mystery is good - it's just disappointing compared to other similar films . I would , however , say that if you enjoy films of this nature ; Roadgames is well worth a look .
Sentimental love story misses all three strikes	Sam Raimi has made something of a name for himself in modern cinema for his comic book styled movies . The Evil Dead Trilogy was , of course , his first masterpiece ; but other good comic book styled movies in his oeuvre include Darkman , The Quick and the Dead and more recently , the Spider-Man films . For some reason , he decided to make a shift from comic book to drama in 1998 , with the excellent thriller A Simple Plan . I'd have been happy for him to go back to what he does best after that , but he wasn't - and he went on to make this film . For Love of the Game is a film that mixes sporting action and romance , and tries to parallel to the two through it's central character , played by Kevin Costner . Simply put , the film doesn't manage to do what it sets out to do . The romance and Costner's love for the game are no doubt touching , but the film lacks the fundamental element of inspiring feeling for the characters from the audience , and this is why it falls down . This sort of film only works if you can tap into the character's thoughts and feelings ; and the screenplay for this movie ensures that you cannot . As this movie stars Kevin Costner , it is very cheesy . Most movies with Costner in them work in spite of him , but since this movie doesn't work anyway ; his presence doesn't hinder it . I'm still unsure as to why he continues to get roles , however ; he's so false it's impossible to do anything but snigger when he's on screen . This film features many moments of cheese - especially the ending - so Costner is right at home here . An awfully sentimental musical score runs throughout the movie as well , which again hinders it . The characters on display are largely cold , and it's hard to feel for them because of this . None of them develop and the messy way that the film is plotted doesn't help matters either , and as we continually jump into moments of the protagonist's past , we become less connected with his plight rather than more so as it should be . The worst thing about this movie is the final thirty minutes . To say that they drag would be a vast understatement , and this mixed with far too much fake sentiment make it a very painful climax . Don't get me wrong , this film isn't a total dead loss as some of the scenes and ideas are good ; but there isn't enough ' good ' to ensure that the finished piece is such .
Not up to Price's usually high standard	I'm a big fan of Vincent Price and all of his films are a must see for me . Normally , this endeavour leads me to see some of the finest horror films of the fifties , sixties and seventies ; but every now and again , it will turn up a lesser entry in the great man's filmography , and unfortunately - this is the case here . Based on stories by Guy de Maupassant , Diary of a Madman is a film without much to differentiate it from a number of similar films , and so to someone like me who has seen a great many horror movies ; this one does fall a bit flat . Other bad elements include a rather long running time , which ensures that the flimsy plot always feel far too drawn out . The plot follows judge / sculptor Simon Cordier , a man who goes to visit a man put to death in his cell . He was put to death for various murders that he committed , and which he claims were under the influence of evil spirit Horla . However , after the death of the murderer ; the evil spirit has nowhere to go , and so decides to take up residence inside the judge . . . It's a seriously good job that this film stars Vincent Price , as with almost anyone else in the lead role it would have been a complete dead loss . Price doesn't excel himself here ; but even an average Price performance is great to watch , and the great thespian continually saves the film from tedium . Price is the only real star of the film , and that's not a problem in a way as he has more than enough to carry a film on his own ; a film like this could really do with a few more distractions . The locations look nice , however , and the Technicolor cinematography excellently captures them . There's not a great deal of actual horror in the film ; sequences that see Vincent Price's mirror reflection disappear , and a few where he has green eyes are about as horrific as it gets . The idea of an evil demon possessing someone isn't exactly original , but the basics of the story get good handling here ; so it's a shame that the rest of the film wasn't better . Overall , this has it's moments I suppose ; but aside from Price's performance , there isn't much to recommend it for . Interesting fact , though ; a quote towards the start of the film was used by Rob Zombie in his song " The Return of the Phantom Stranger " !
Not very perverse , but still a half decent Giallo	This film is yet another example of the annoying alternative title trend that plagued Italian cinema in the sixties and seventies - the film goes by the name ' Perversion Story ' , which is also an alternate title for Lucio Fulci's masterpiece ' One on Top of the Other ' , as well as Fulci's period drama ' Beatrice Cenci ' - and all three films were released in 1969 ! This gets even more annoying when you consider that this particular film actually has an excellent title as one of it's alternates in ' Trumpets of the Apocalypse ' , yet it most commonly takes the title given to two other movies from the same year ( which doesn't make sense by the way ) . Madness ! Anyway , what we have here is a little known Giallo , and I'm not really surprised about that as the film doesn't stand up too well against other genre entries . The film starts with a sequence that sees someone fall out of a window screaming , right in front of a copper . It turns out to be a music professor . The death is ruled as suicide and soon another follows . From there , we follow an investigation into the murder carried out by the brother and roommate of one of the victims . The film is set in London and the style of it could be summed up as ' sixties swing ' . Director Julio Buchs , more experienced as a director of westerns , also implements a psychedelic feel into the movie which isn't badly done in itself , but doesn't add much to the story . The film features most of the Giallo trademarks , such as murder , an investigation red herrings etc although the plot doesn't flow very well which does the film no favours . There's not a lot of tension or suspense in the film and it does get boring on more than just a couple of occasions . The plot is very surreal even for a Giallo but whatever point it was trying to make doesn't come through very well . The plot focuses on a musical score , ' The Trumpets of the Apocalypse ' and the film has a musical feel all the way through ; although Umberto Lenzi did the musical Giallo ( slightly ) better in 1969 with Orgasmo ( a . k . a . Paranoia ) . The ending comes as something of a surprise - though in truth I wasn't all that bothered who the murderer was by the end , but at least it mostly makes sense . I wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to get a copy of this film . . . but it's a decent enough watch if you can find it .
Pornography - still the saviour of high school kids	Being a big horror fan , I spend a lot of my time watching what you might call ' wayward cinema ' but , believe it or not , even the very worst of those films pale in comparison to this little teen flick when it comes to misplaced morality . Here , we have a film that not only shows high school kids in the middle of the porn industry , popping ecstasy pills , stealing things and just generally sticking two fingers up where the law is concerned ; but it shows them doing this in a positive light , with a great big smile on it's face ! However , I'm not one to complain about such things and , again ; believe it or not - this is actually a damn good film ! The skewed morality can be off-putting , but it's fairly obvious that this film is meant to be more of a spoof than a serious coming of age tale ; so it's better to simply go with it rather than worry too much . The film is in the vein of American Pie , and it follows a young man who is lucky enough to have a porn star move in next door to him . After being caught spying on her undressing , she takes him for a ride and , as you might expect , the two hit it off instantly . However , being a porn star has it's drawbacks , and hers comes in the form of a nasty manager by the name of Kelly . The plot of The Girl Next Door is entirely predictable , but there's always enough side stories and gags to ensure that the action always remains interesting . The film is never side-splittingly hilarious , but some of the sight gags are genuinely funny . Jokes involving a lap dance , and another that sees two high school kids pretending to be porn directors are the best among them . The soundtrack features a lot of good songs , but it can be annoying when they're being played over nearly every scene . One thing that worried me before seeing this film was Elisha Cuthbert . Like most people , I've been used to seeing her in the best American TV show of all time , 24 , and didn't think that she'd be able to pull off the role of pornstar . She's a good-looking actress ; but I wouldn't consider her to be ' sexy ' . However , surprisingly enough she does really well in the role . Her co-star , Emile Hirsch , looks about ten ; but he does a good job of getting the audience on his side , so even though it's impossible to believe that a sexy pornstar would go for him ; he doesn't ruin the movie . On the whole , while this isn't anything like a great movie ; it's a more than solid entry in the teen comedy sub-genre , and if you want a movie that will entertain for a couple of hours with caring about political correctness - this one should do it .
The Hound of the Basker . . . err . . . The Undying Monster	The Undying Monster was apparently a second feature ; and that's not really surprising as there's nothing particularly great about it and the running time is also very short . The film takes more than obvious influence from the classic Arthur Conan Doyle novel ' The Hound of the Baskervilles ' in that it focuses on a family curse ; but the style and execution of the film is also very similar to the 1939 film version of said classic novel . The story featured is actually really good ; it has several interesting themes and director John Brahm provides a foreboding atmosphere ; but unfortunately the suspense is constantly abated via a very unwelcome dose of humour . The film takes place in Wales and focuses on an aristocratic family plagued by an ancient curse ; which takes the form of a monster that prowls around their property at night and has already claimed the lives of several family members . After the latest incident , it is decided that there is reason to call in Scotland Yard ; and a young detective and his assistant begin to investigate . The film is really good for about the first twenty minutes and it looks like it might build into something special ; but when the detective and his assistant are introduced , things start to go downhill . It's obvious that the pair of them are there to add some comic relief to the proceedings ; but the problem is that it's really not needed . Occasionally , some slight comic relief will come in to help even out a film with some real scenes of trauma ; but here the trauma amounts to a shot of a dead dog , and the humour is all encompassing . It's not even very funny either and I barely cracked a smile at all . Once the detectives come in , the film takes on more of an investigative approach and the plot is not as interesting . The clues given to the detective's don't leave much to the imagination either ( a scene that sees the detective realise that a room has been recently entered by the way of the huge set of footprints down the centre of the room being case in point ! ) . The ending does come as something as a surprise as the film felt like it was going to head in the same direction that Conan Doyle's novel did ; but it's not enough to save it and overall I have to say that I'm really disappointed considered that I had heard good things about this one !
23 , what a villainous number !	A thriller doesn't necessarily need a great plot in order to be thrilling ; the execution tends to be more important , but when your lead villain is a two digit number , the film in question is likely to have some big problems on its hands . Rated purely on its structure and thriller elements , The Number 23 is actually not a bad film ; but every time I stopped to think about what it is actually happening , it was impossible not to think about how ridiculous this film is . The plot focuses on Walter Sparrow , a man who finds himself being dragged into a nightmare after coming across a book called ' The Number 23 ' . The book , written by the enigmatic ' Topsy Krets ' , soon has Walter believing that it's all about his own life . It's not long before he realises that the number 23 is actually all over the place ; his name adds to 23 , his birth date includes the number 23 , his house number is 23 . . . etc etc . We then follow Walter as he develops his obsession and tries to get to the bottom of the mysterious book . I can only speak for myself , but personally I wouldn't be too concerned if I noticed that a few things in my life added up to the same number . The silly plot could have been forgiven more easily if there was some underlying point to it all ; and while it's somewhat explained at the end , overall I have to say that this film is both silly and pointless . That being said , the film is therefore unintentionally very funny , and despite the fact that it's very silly ; The Number 23 is at least rather entertaining . Jim Carrey was great in The Truman Show and good in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , despite the film being rubbish and he's not bad in this ; but the actor is clearly more suited to comedy , and I was a bigger fan of him before he started taking on ' serious ' roles . The rest of the is very much secondary to Carrey , but I always enjoy seeing Virginia Madsen and Danny Huston is solid as usual . The much needed ' wrap up ' ending doesn't really come ; though we do get some explanation for it all . It doesn't make a lot of sense , which isn't a big surprise but in spite of all the problems ; I can't hate this silly film too much .
Short and sweet , but underwhelming and unambitious	What we have here is a film that could have been a fascinating slice of classic B-movie cinema , but unfortunately relegates itself to the mundane thanks to some extremely uninspired handling . The film features the usually fascinating themes of voodoo and ancient curses , and it's given an extra dimension of intrigue thanks to the idea of shrunken heads , which provides the film with a lot of its more unpleasant moments . The film is hardly shocking nowadays , but back in 1960 , I don't doubt that the scenes featuring severed heads were distressing for the audience . These scenes are brilliantly offset by the fact that most of the film is very old-school , and wouldn't have been out of place with a release in the 1930's . The plot follows the Drake family ; who were lumbered with a curse after one of the ancestors decided to kill a bunch of Indians on the Amazon two hundred years ago . The film isn't on for long , lasting only 70 minutes , but that's actually a shame as while the film we do have is never entirely fascinating ; with a better script and a bit more ambition from all concerned ; The Four Skulls of Jonathon Drake could have been a great film . None of the actors are particularly worth mentioning ; but the ensemble performance does fit the movie in that nobody is willing to go that extra mile . Overall , I would say that this film is just about worth seeing ; but it's not a major priority , and there are certainly a lot of better horror flicks from the same period .
A lesser entry in the Frankenstein saga	The Horror of Frankenstein shouldn't be considered as an official part of Hammer Horror's excellent Frankenstein series as it doesn't star the series ' stand out actor - Peter Cushing and by all accounts is really just a re-run of the classic Mary Shelly , which Hammer already did with The Curse of Frankenstein some thirteen years earlier . This fact alone ensures that the film is never going to be as great as the other films in the series as , simply put , we've seen it all before . What made Hammer's Frankenstein sequels so brilliant was the way that they played around with the base story and created something fresh and exciting ; whereas here it's just the base ' Frankenstein creates a monster ' story . This was great in ' Curse ' as we had an amazing Peter Cushing performance to delight over - but here we only have Ralph Bates to keep us entertained . Bates definitely is one of Hammer's better smaller stars , and he offers a worthy interpretation of the character for sure - but Peter Cushing is a hard man to follow , and Bates ' just hasn't got what it takes . One thing Bates does try his hand at , though , is the side of Frankenstein that Cushing did best - the egocentric confidence ! Seeing Bates take the Mickey out of a number of people is always entertaining and his lines are surprisingly well written . Ironically , it's when the monster is introduced that the film really trips over as in the first two thirds , we've always got Bates ' humour to revel in , but once the monster is introduced that all fades . Adding to the woe is the fact that the monster is really terrible , and doesn't even nearly compare to any of the monsters seen in the ' real ' Hammer Frankenstein movies . It's surprising how much influence the Hammer Frankenstein movies have given Stuart Gordon's brilliant Re-Animator , and it's influence is evident in some parts of this film . While this movie isn't Hammer's best by a long shot , it's still definitely worth a shot as it features many elements that Hammer are famous for and , despite the fact that it was made in the 1970's , Hammer's eccentric camp style is still omnipresent . Not great . . . but certainly not all bad .
95 % porn , 5 % horror	My only experience with sleaze master Jess Franco's lesbian-vampire films before this one was the brilliantly titled ' Vampyros Lesbos ' ( which I happened to see just before I saw this ) . While I liked the movie for it's sleaze and sex scenes , I found it disappointing on the whole because the story was incredibly weak and too many of the sex scenes weren't erotic enough . While the story side seems to have gotten worse with this movie ; the eroticism side has improved massively ! The seductively sexy Lina Romay leads the film , and although she doesn't have any lines in the movie - she still manages to put in a great performance ! Her role in the movie is very much a physical one ; and she makes the best of it on numerous occasions . Every scene with her in it is a delight ; and the fact that she often appears with nothing but a belt on certainly has a lot to do with that . As usual for Franco , the plot is very brief and this one has something to do with a vampire countess who is unlucky enough to have wander around having sex with people shortly before killing them . . . Jess Franco has made a lot of films , and that is evident on numerous occasions throughout this film , as it would seem that Franco has only put about ten percent effort into it . Many of the scenes appear out of focus and the production values are so low that if it wasn't for the vampires , this could easily be mistaken for a homemade porn movie . For an example of much Franco cares about the film ; take the sub-plot involving an investigation into the murders . " What investigation ? " , you say ? Exactly . Still , it doesn't matter because , let's be honest , if you're watching this ; you're only here for the porn anyway , and the movie certainly delivers on that front . I've mentioned it already , but it's worth repeating - Lina Romay is incredibly beautiful , and if it weren't for her assets ; this movie would pretty much be a dead loss . As a horror movie , this film definitely is a dead loss ; so don't tune in if horror is all you want , but as a weirdo voyeuristic porn movie ; there is something to like about this film .
Too gory for Aussie TV	My knowledge of Australian horror cinema isn't exactly encyclopaedic , but apparently , this is the first Oz horror film . Night of Fear was originally intended to be the first episode in a twelve part Australian TV horror series , but because Australian censors deemed it ' too gory ' , it never saw the light of day ; until its DVD release some years later . The film definitely is nastier than your average TV show , and it's not really surprising that it never got shown on television . There is no dialogue at all in the film , although this is masked by a barrage of tense and macabre scenes that our young heroine terrorised by a madman . While the film does well in the violence and gore stakes , I personally don't rate it as a masterpiece simply because there isn't all that much to it . The film only lasts for fifty minutes , so you can't expect too much - but the unrelenting pace can become monotonous . You've got to respect writer-director Terry Bourke for attempting to bring horror to Australian TV screens and having his attempt dismissed for featuring too much horror , but personally I'd rather have seen him put his efforts into a more ambitious feature length film instead , and I'll endeavour to see his later efforts such as ' Inn of the Damned ' .
Absurd sick comedy	Lucio Fulci is one of the leading names in gore-soaked horror cinema , and Touch of Death certainly does that reputation proud ! Fulci's films started to get worse as his career progressed ( with the exception of the hilarious Cat in the Brain in 1990 ) , and as this film was released in 1988 ; you can count on it not being as good as his previous output . In fact , with films like Don't Torture a Duckling and The Beyond in mind ; Touch of Death is one of Fulci's weaker efforts , but even so - there's plenty here to delight the man's fans . The film is clearly meant to be something of comedy , but the comedy is more of the absurd , over the top variety than one that will have you in stitches . Fulci's use of music helps to instill the absurdity of the film , which sees lonely widower / gigolo Lester Parson taking women home and putting them to use . He likes to mutilate them in horrible ways , such as beating them with a stick and chopping them up with a chainsaw ; and just to add to the proceedings , he eats them too . Fulci also installs a subplot about the investigation into the murders , and the murderer's descent into madness . This film is something a prelude to Cat in the Brain , and it's obvious that Fulci had Touch of Death in mind when he made his self-starring vehicle , as many of the gore scenes from that film are taken from this one . The scenes of gore are really quite nasty , but their impact is lessened by the comic tone . The first scene of gore sees our ' hero ' going to work with a chainsaw ( surely horror cinema's finest weapon ) , and then putting the remains of his victim into a meat grinder . Then we are treated to a beating scene ( which features some of Fulci's trademark eye violence ) , a nasty sequence involving a car , a corpse having it's feet cut off and several other scenes along the same line . The film is really dirty ; with the poor cinematography adding brilliantly to the overall unclean feel of the movie . The acting is typically low level , but the actors portray their ( mostly silly ) characters with gusto , and the result is a film that people will like more it's fun value than its credibility . Being a Fulci fan , I am more susceptible to this sort of trash ; and I cant really say that non-Fulci fans will get much of a kick out of it .
And it's a shame that this isn't very good !	This period horror movie has all the right ingredients to be a success . It's got atmosphere , nice sets , Peter Cushing , an experienced horror director , a severed hand with a mind of it's own . . . but despite all this , it just doesn't work as it should . The principle reason for this is the plotting . It's slow , very slow , and there aren't a lot of things going on in the film . In fact , the film is so slow that even when there is something going on ; it feels like there isn't , and this doesn't do the film any favours at all , as it feels like you're stuck in a time warp while watching it . It's a shame this isn't very good , as the cast and crew are experienced in the horror genre , and these guys together should have ensured a better film . I mean , we've got one of the legends of the genre ; Peter Cushing , along with two of the smaller stars ; Patrick Magee and Herbert Lom , and these guys are directed by one of Hammer Horror's big guns : Roy Ward Baker . How could the resulting movie end up so tragically miserable ? You wouldn't think it could , but it did . The plot follows a house that is under a curse due to some wrongdoing in the past . When the master of the house moves his virgin bride in , she starts experiencing various forms of horror . Like ghosts , severed hands , pregnancy . . . stuff like that . The first half of the movie is dismal ; hardly anything happens , and the stuff that does isn't very interesting . Thankfully for the movie - and the audience - things pick up in the second half when a silly haircut wearing Peter Cushing enters the fray . He doesn't inspire the plot to do anything exciting and / or interesting really , but his screen presence is vast and it's hard to be bored when he's on screen , even if the rest of the movie sucks . The atmosphere and the sets are nicely done however , and this ensures that the dull plot has a nice area to inhabit . It's something of a waste , though , as a better story could easily have moulded around this setting ; but at least the movie has some good points . None of the credible actors impress really , and it's more than evident that Cushing is on autopilot . But then again , that's all he needs to be on . If you have a desire to see every horror film ever made , I recommend this movie . Otherwise , it's maybe best to skip it .
Ilsa , with tigers in Siberia	The Ilsa series apparently has something of a cult following , which is unsurprising as sleazy stuff like this is often well liked . I can't say I'm a part of that following and in fact have only seen one Ilsa film ( Jess Franco's Ilsa , The Wicked Warden ) and dint like it much . I can't profess to be a big fan of this entry either , although I do have to say that I enjoyed it more than my first taste of Ilsa . The thing I liked most about this film is the way that it doesn't follow the familiar sleaze plot line . Initially it feels like it might do as we focus on a Russian prison camp in which the prisoners are treated badly and often killed at the hands of it's warden . Things go wrong for Russia in the war and the wardens flee to Canada , where Ilsa starts up her own brothel and later comes back in contact with one of her rivals during the 1976 Olympics . The film is hardly genius , but I get fed up of seeing people brutalised in sleazy prison camps so the change of setting seen in this film is certainly very welcome . Director Jean LaFleur does not exactly go easy on the sleaze , however , and the film does feature some really gory moments - including several scenes of death and torture , most of which are quite inventive and the fact that the film features actual Siberian tigers is to its benefit also . There's nothing included in this film that hardened sleaze buffs won't have seen many times before ; but this is better than a lot of similar films at least .
Night of the Dem . . . errr . . . nuns	The horror genre is undoubtedly more diverse than any of cinema's other genres , and while that does mean that there's a lot of different and original horrors ; it also means that any good idea liable to be done more than once . This has become a big problem for the modern genre with the recent wave of remakes . The Convent isn't a remake by name ; but it could easily be a remake of the eighties classic Night of the Demons as the basic plots are more or less identical - but at least enough of it has been changed to ensure that it gets away with being a different film . This is how remakes should be done ! Anyway , anyone that has seen the aforementioned eighties horror will recognise this story instantly . The film begins with a cool sequence that sees a young girl brutally execute a bunch of nuns with a shotgun . Fast forward fifteen years and a bunch of school kids are planning to break into the convent where it all happened to see if it really is haunted by the dead nuns . . . It has to be said that this film isn't a piece of high quality film-making . The acting is largely ridiculous and the special effects are so bad that they make the majority of the cast look on par with some of the greatest performances of all time . However , the film was clearly never meant to be seen as great horror ; and thankfully it does work as a fun , trashy horror comedy . There's always plenty going on and the film never really has time to get boring , which is certainly to its credit . The majority of the characters are rather dull , and this is not helped by the fact that the most interesting one is killed off towards the beginning ; but the loss of her presence is somewhat made up for the appearance of a couple of bumbling ' Satanists ' that provides the laughs . The film also features a few cameo appearances ; we've got rapper Coolio and Bill Moseley as a couple of coppers ; and even better Adrienne Barbeau as motorcycle riding demon killer . Overall , I really wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to see this film ; but it's fun enough for what it is and people that enjoy this sort of film surely wont be too disappointed .
Stupid but fun eighties trash	It's silly , not very original and about as far away from ' high quality ' as you can get , but all that stuff aside ; Trick or Treat is at least an entertaining piece of crap , and I wouldn't have asked for more going into it . The film seems to take influence from ' outsider getting their own back ' films such as Stephen King's Carrie ( among many others ) , as well as Wes Craven's popular modern classic ' A Nightmare on Elm Street ' as it features an evil entity being brought back from the dead via unusual means . This is all mixed in with a heavy metal soundtrack and themes coming from the insanely silly case involving Judas Priest about records harbouring secret messages when played backwards . The plot focuses on Eddie Weinbauer ; a heavy metal loving outcast who is devastated when his favourite rock star dies tragically in a hotel fire . Not content to just let it go , Eddie begins playing one of the dead rockers records backwards , and soon realises that he can communicate with him through said record . It's not long before Eddie is using his new found powers to get revenge on all those that wronged him . . . Naturally , this film has all manner of plot holes ; but you can hardly fault it for that as Trick or Treat makes no attempt to be a ' serious ' horror film anyway , and the film is much more fun to watch if you forget about any plot problems . It's clear that director Charles Martin Smith has a sense of humour ; this is shown best during a hilarious sequence involving Ozzy Osbourne and a cameo as an anti-heavy metal priest ! I cant really say that this film is ' about ' heavy metal , but the music style at the centre does play more of a role than simply being a backdrop for the silly story ; though if it's trying to make any sort of point , I'm not really sure what it is as the film pokes fun at those that condemn metal ; but then features a heavy metal singer as the lead villain . Anyway , it's not too important . The film does feature a few good and interesting set-pieces , though there is a lack of blood and gore as the director seems to prefer dodgy eighties special effects . Anyway , this is hardly a great film and I doubt I'll remember much about it in a few weeks time ; but its fun enough and I did enjoy it .
A routine made for TV thriller	Larry Cohen has made some good films over the course his career . The films are mostly within the realms of the low budget horror sub-genre , but his films tend to be a cut above the norm . The likes of It's Alive and Maniac Cop stand up as the best films he's made to date . As his career moved on , however , it's evident that he didn't find it as easy to get work , hence this film ; a made for TV thriller calling itself ' As Good as Dead ' . No , it's not a description of the director's career at the time that this was made , but a thriller about a woman who , after loaning her insurance-less friend her medical insurance card , finds herself in trouble when said friend dies on the operating table . This puts our protagonist in a lot of trouble as she is , by all intents and purposes , dead to the world . However , it would seem that there's more to this story than meets the eye , and so she decides to take the identity of her dead friend while she gets to the bottom of the life-ruining riddle put in front of her . After about twenty minutes of boring character building ( boring because the characters are boring ) , the film really starts and despite it's poor quality - and obvious TV fodder - production values , the film actually isn't that bad . It's rather routine , and although it's categorised as a ' thriller ' , the film low on shocks and thrills ; but the plot moves nicely and engages you enough so that you care what's going to happen ( which is more than what can be said for some highly acclaimed films ) . It's obvious throughout that the film was made for TV , and that's not a good thing as it gives it a very low quality feel . The acting isn't very good , but it's not terrible either . Crystal Bernard is fine at first , but as her character encounters change ; she looks out of place . This is good on one hand , as that realistically expresses what her character would be like that situation ; but on the other hand , it doesn't make for very good viewing as far as the audience is concerned . It's obvious that Judge Reinhold rates himself higher than he should be rated , and there's an underlying arrogance to his performance that shows that . Traci Lords doesn't get to do much , but as you'd expect for a porn star ; she looks good doing it . On the whole , this isn't really worth seeing - but if you do catch it , at least it isn't awful .
Keach goes mental in decent psychological thriller	This obscure expose of insanity stars Stacy Keach as a small town sheriff with a penchant for murder . Rather than being a film about an insane madman , The Killer Inside Me focuses more on the psychological elements of insanity , and thereby provides a murderous movie with a hint of some brains behind it . The film is well written and the plot , while slow , remains interesting and engaging almost throughout . However , the plot does become a bit too slow at times , and despite a well timed performance from Stacy Keach , The Killer Inside Me sometimes becomes a little too slow and the film ultimately suffers because of it . The film is based on a book by Jim Thompson . I've never read the book that the film is based on , but the plot follows a small time sheriff who discovers that he has a murderous urge inside of him after the arrival of a prostitute upsets the balance between him and his childhood sweetheart . The sheriff then goes from all round nice law enforcement guy to brutal , cold-blooded killer as he murders his way through anyone that stands in his way . The problem with the plot is really highlighted by the fact that it takes so long to get to the first murder . The film takes time to build the central character , thus making it more shocking once his schizophrenia does finally show through - but the build up to it is too slow , and that's not good when a film is claiming itself to be a ' thriller ' . The Killer Inside Me also has a ' made for TV ' aura about it . As far as I know , it wasn't made for TV ; but the way that everything is very subdued and the support acting is nothing special gives it that sort of impression . The film really is held together by Stacy Keach , who gives it his all in the lead role . This actor really is underrated , as he often turns in memorable and assured performances , yet the cult star never gets the recognition he deserves . John Carradine is the only stand-out name from the rest of the cast , and he makes an appearance that is little more than a cameo . On the whole , as this film is rather obscure ; I really can't see the point in purposely seeking it out . The Killer Inside Me is worth a watch if you do happen to stumble across a copy , but it's not a tragedy to miss it .
The first of the ' mondo ' films	As a big fan of cult cinema , there's usually at least one film I like in each of the main genres ( with the exception of Nazisploitation ) , and although this is only the second ' Mondo ' film that I've seen ; I doubt I'll ever have a favourite in this one . Surprisingly , there was actually quite a few of these films made ( I could never see them having mass market appeal , but I'm wrong apparently ) and Mondo Cane was the one that kicked it all off . These films would go on to try and top each other in terms of shock value as more and more were made ; but since this was the first one , it's not as shocking as some of the later ones . The Italian word ' Mondo ' literally translates into English as ' world ' and that is actually quite fitting as this film could be described as a visual representation of various things that go on in both the animal and human worlds . The film takes a documentary approach , although it couldn't really be considered a documentary as not all of it is exactly real , with several obviously fake sequences getting mixed in along with the real stuff . The film is not very strong , shock-wise , in terms of gore or nastiness ; but it is an entirely bleak film . Just about everything in it paints a bad picture of the world ; we've got tribal men taking revenge on a shark , turtles baking in the sun , people gathering up shark fins off the beach etc . A lot of the footage shown in the film is fake , and unfortunately most of is obviously fake too . This is a shame because a lot of what the film has to say is interesting ; it's just hard to take seriously . I can't say I'm a big fan of documentaries in general , but rated as a documentary ; this film falls down again . There's a voice-over that runs throughout , and is actually quite entertaining and informative , but there's no real narrative to the film and it does feel a lot like the filmmakers just filmed a load of stuff on a similar topic and then just stuck it all together - and to be honest , I reckon that probably is what happened . There's not really very much to recommend this film for and I wonder who it was actually aimed at ; but it's interesting for the fact that it's the first ' mondo ' film and some of the things in it are worth seeing . . . even if they are fake .
Much better than expected	I have to say I'm surprised . After all I'd heard , I was expecting Evil Senses to be a truly diabolical Giallo effort , but as it happens ; the film is not too bad . Evil Senses was included in the excellent Giallo reference book ' Blood and Black Lace ' , but personally I wouldn't call this a Giallo at all . It's more a thriller along the same lines as Body Heat ; we get some steamy sex scenes and a love story that make up the base of the plot , and a story which revolves around a hit-man getting away from the mob , though the latter seems more like padding - it's not a story that makes me think ' Giallo ' anyway . The plot focuses on a contract killer named Manuel who happens to be in possession of some documents that incriminate some people high up within a secret organisation . Naturally , this organisation doesn't want this sort of thing becoming public knowledge so they seek to kill him . He takes refuge at a brothel ran by Nicole ; an ex-lover , but it isn't until he happens across an intriguing prostitute named Victoria that he takes an interest in life . . . The film is directed by Gabriele Lavia , who previously worked with ace directors Dario Argento and Pupa Avati , though doesn't seem to have taken much influence from either . The film opens promisingly with a sequence that sees Manuel ( played by Lavia ) shoot a fellow hit-man impersonating a cab driver . Then we move straight on to a credit sequence that also features some terrible eighties pop trash . . . so it's clear that Lavia didn't take much from Argento on that front . The plot runs rather slowly - which is why the film has generated a lot of negative comments from various people . It can't be said that this is entertaining all the way through ; plus the dialogue is trite and the way it's delivered is often ridiculous , but the film never really becomes boring and its shortcomings didn't make me hate it . Thee are three twists in the film ; the first comes near the middle and is something of a surprise , the twist towards the end can be seen coming a mile off - but at least the film manages a decent , and downbeat final turn in the story . Overall , I won't recommend that everyone rushes out and tries to find a copy of this . . . but it's better than I thought it would be .
Decent enough for what it is	Well , it's blatantly obvious that this film has absolutely nothing to do with the Black Emanuelle series and is just a cash in on the name since it stars the great Laura Gemser . However , that should not be held against the film too much as Gemser is cast in a slightly different role as the all-powerful ' Divine One ' - the Goddess of a camp of free loving hippies , and I'm not going to argue with anyone who puts Laura Gemser in that elevated status ! Despite not being an official part of the series ; Divine Emanuelle is still a more than decent little film with plenty of sex and nudity as well as an interesting , though not particularly original , plot line . We focus on a group of hippies ruled over the by The Divine One . They preach free love but really it's only a front to make money in the form of ' donations ' , which people give for sex . Things are shaken up when the daughter of a powerful US senator is inducted into the group because she fancies the slimy blonde cult leader , who is more a pimp than a preacher ( and looks a bit like Owen Wilson ) . The film benefits from a style that suits the breezy nature of the free love ideal . We've got a soundtrack decked out by catchy jingles , the film is full of beautiful people making love in beautiful locations and we even get a few strange dance sequences . Laura Gemser is the standout , of course , and this role requires something a little different from usual from her as unlike most of her characters ; this time she's the one completely in charge . It doesn't suit her as well as playing Emanuelle , but it's a change and seeing Laura Gemser on screen is always good . The plot is stronger than what Emanuelle fans will be used to and this is a benefit to the film . There's still plenty of sex and nudity but it's not overused and the plot does actually seem to be coming first ! The film moves along at a steady pace for most of the duration and the ending contains no real surprises , although we do get treated to a hilarious fight sequence . Overall , I would quite categorise this film as ' good ' , but it's not that bad and there are certainly a lot of worse examples of films like this !
Naschy hunts down witches in a lacking Spanish horror movie	Inquisición was written by , directed and stars Paul Naschy . I would imagine that he was starting to get tired of starring in the often less than brilliant Spanish horror films that he made a lot of prior to 1976 and decided to make something a bit more serious ; probably taking influence from Vincent Price in the excellent Witchfinder General , and this film is the result . While the film is of a higher quality in terms of acting and content than most of Naschy's filmography ; it's also rather dull and unfortunately has nothing on the earlier Vincent Price film . The film takes on a period setting and , as the title suggests , focuses on the Spanish Inquisition . The Inquisition is out hunting witches ; and Bernard de Fossey is leading the hunt . However , a local girl takes offence at him and his compatriots hunting down the local townsfolk and decides to take action by hooking up with Satan himself to make the leader of the Inquisition fall in love with her , and thus leaving the leader with a personal crisis to negotiate . As mentioned , Paul Naschy takes the lead role ; and as usual , he is one of the best things about the film . Naschy obviously enjoys playing the lead role in his own film ( actually this is the first one he wrote and directed ) and the role is somewhat different and more involving than his previous ones . One of my main problems with the film is that the style of it is very bland ; Spanish horror is more famous for its stunning Gothic locales and this film is severely lacking in this area . The plot moves very slowly and there is little in the way of distractions from the lead character's plight ; which in truth is not all that interesting . To the film's credit , it does feature some very good torture scenes , some of which are quite nasty ; a nipple removal scene is a highlight in that respect . Naschy does take tentative steps to lift the film by showing us pictures of some of Satan's minions ( apparently the Dark Lord has quite a hierarchy set up ! ) but not enough is made of it . Overall , this film might be of interest to Spanish horror or Naschy completists ; but I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to track it down .
As the title suggests , it's murders at a clinic !	Murder Clinic is one of the lesser known Giallo's that has yet to be brought into the spotlight like many of the better examples of the genre have been already . In my opinion , this is a film that will never get the shiny DVD release ; and the reason for that is simply that it's not all that good . That's not to say that it's a terrible film ; clearly director Elio Scardamaglia has an eye for Gothic visuals ; the sets and atmosphere bode well with the plot line and the film does emulate the classic Universal horror style very well . . . but there's really not enough of the film and what there is of the plot is very clichéd and since most people that bother to seek out this film will be hardened horror veterans ( like myself ) , no viewer of Murder Clinic is likely to find anything they haven't seen before . As the title suggests , the film focuses on murders at an English clinic and the story takes place in the 1870's . Basically , a bunch of the clinic's vulnerable residents are being picked off by a razor-wielding maniac and we get a handful of possible suspects . The plot actually doesn't play out too badly ; we get treated to a few murders before being introduced to the ' monster ' of the story and the back-story behind that monster ( which is actually fairly interesting but could and should have been handled in a much better way ) . However , the film does have a tendency to run into the melodramatic and while Elio Scardamaglia's direction is sound , the film was clearly shot on a low budget and he doesn't ever manage to make the film look anything more than a cheap affair ( although in fairness , the VHS copy I saw does the film no favours ) . The film only runs for about eighty minutes and that's a good thing to be honest as it definitely would have started to get boring if it were any longer ; although the runtime we do have only just keeps the film from becoming boring . The way that Murder Clinic handles red herrings is good and we get four main ones and to the film's credit , it's not immediately obvious who the killer is before it's revealed . Overall , this is not a great Giallo by any means and only hardcore genre fans should check it out ; but it's a decent watch at least .
Humphrey Bogart and a load of dead prostitutes . . . you've got to love Giallo !	Despite the fact that this Giallo is often lambasted , I actually had rather high hopes for it ; just due to the sheer number of cult names on the cast list and the fact that the more convoluted Giallo's are often the best . However , while this film does have a vast array of ideas on display , director Ferdinando Merighi isn't able to round everything up into one coherent plot line . Furthermore , not many of the genre trademarks have made it into the film ; as it's not very colourful , the mystery is obvious from the beginning and despite the fact that the plot focuses on a brothel ; there isn't a great deal of nudity . The film gets off to a good start , and after the first half hour I was really expecting a more than decent Giallo . We are introduced to Antoine Gottvalles ; a customer at the aforementioned brothel . He's in love with prostitute Francine ( the gorgeous Barbara Bouchet , whom I'm in love with ) and after her murder , he becomes the prime suspect while the real killer manages to escape . It's not long before the murders continue and police inspector / Humphrey Bogart look-alike Inspector Pontaine gets on the case . The cast list is among the most impressive of any Giallo . The most exciting element for me was the fact that Amuck co-stars Rosalba Neri and Barbara Bouchet were reunited , even if the latter does only last a few minutes . ' Killer Nun ' Anita Ekberg gets a supporting role alongside ' Dr Orloff ' Howard Vernon , while the film introduces the lovely Evelyn Kraft . The film is rounded off by a bizarre performance from professional Humphrey Bogart look-alike Robert Sacchi . Quite why the Inspector looks like Bogey is never actually explained ; my theory is that it either has something to do with the alternate title ( Bogeyman and the French Murders ) , or director Ferdinando Merighi really wanted Bogart in his movie , but couldn't get him . . . for obvious reasons . The problem with Sacci in the lead is that , unfortunately , he can't act . . . and he doesn't look that much like Bogart anyway . The plot manages to move along without getting too dry despite being highly derivative , and the film does have a number of standout death scenes ; even if they are extremely unprofessional in their handling . The Parisian setting is good and provides a little beauty to offset the mundane plot . The ending is a little obvious . . . but it's fun enough to watch and overall , I won't say that The French Sex Murders is a great example of the Giallo . . . but it just about qualifies as a decent one .
Aims high and hits low . . . . but Will Smith entertains	This isn't really my kind of flick , but for a silly , savvy date movie - Hitch isn't all that bad . It's obvious that if it wasn't for Will Smith , this movie would never have been made - but he is clearly cut out for roles like this , and even while sleepwalking ; Smith proves that he can still entertain . The film tries to leap over it's obvious layer of ' entertainment ' and deliver a message that has far more substance than the film does - namely , that love is blind , anyone can fall in love with anyone , love knows no boundaries blah blah blah . To incorporate this message into the plot , the film has had to smother itself in sentiment , and this is what ultimately brings it down . When will filmmakers learn that to make people care , you have to stay away from sentimentality ? The scenes that see the characters open up their hearts are largely painful , and this takes away from the film . Hitch does have a surprisingly large amount of things going for it , mostly springing from the performances , but this all falls flat when it starts trying to deliver it's message . . . with all the subtlety of a sledgehammer in the face . The plotting can , at times , make Hitch hard to enjoy . Some plot points are either left out or not explained very well initially , and this means that the viewer has to try and piece the story together themselves as the film moves on , which can be very annoying . The film is also a good twenty minutes too long . Writer Kevin Bisch obviously wanted this film to be more than it is , and that is shown through the aforementioned ' message ' and far too many scenes that go on too long . Still , the writing is actually quite good - and scenes in particular that see Will Smith and Eva Mendes bound dialogue back and forth are good and will please the film's target audience . This film is clearly aimed at the casual movie going public , so it's probably a little unfair to criticise this against it's more serious counterparts , so I wont bother . Will Smith may not be one of the best actors of all time ; but he's quite clearly a star . Even from his early days in The Fresh Prince of Bel Air , Smith has stolen scenes and enforced himself throughout , and really ; if it weren't for him ; this film would have failed .
Good intentions , but poorly handled .	The first attempt since the millennium to resurrect the Giallo was Dario Argento's hugely successful Sleepless , which not only goes down as a successful attempt to resurrect the genre but also as one of the best genre films period . This attempt by director Pierfrancesco Campanella came a couple of years later and , despite being heavily flawed , does at least somewhat count as a noteworthy genre entry . The director obviously has some affinity to the genre for his willingness to cast some of it's stars ; people such as Florinda Bolkan ( Don't Torture a Duckling ) and Franco Nero ( The Fifth Cord ) and he's also served up a plot straight out of the Giallo playbook . We focus on a block of flats that has come under attack from a killer who slaughters his victim with a set square ( of all things ) . The police find a girl murdered and it's not long before another body turns up , although the detective on the case is not happy to link the murders together despite the similar modi operandi and it soon becomes apparent that there's more than one psycho on the loose ! The film's main problems are , without doubt , the script and the acting . The dialogue is extremely trite and at times positively stupid ; while the acting is sometimes so wooden that it's almost unbelievable and not only does this bring the quality of the film down , it also harms the credibility as it's hard to really care about the characters . It's a shame too because the plot here is really well worked and clever and could certainly have made for a good Giallo with better handling . The director does seem keen to make the film as sleazy as possible and we've got some very bloody sexual violence as well as a lesbian subplot . The cast is mostly made up of females , and a strange casting choice comes in the form of Eva Robin's ; a transsexual who some may remember as having a small part in Argento's masterpiece Tenebre . The main point of interest for Giallo fans will be Florinda Bolkan , who is actually rather good as a weird artist . Franco Nero's part is small and I'm thankful for that as his character is not good to say the least . It all boils down to a good conclusion and while the film's problems are simply too much at times ; this is still a film worth seeing .
Another so-so film based on one of Stephen King's books	Stephen King is often cited to be the father of modern horror , and this view isn't wholly unfounded . King's stories have had a large impact upon the horror genre , and many of them are very good stories in their own right also . However , when it comes to translating King's words onto the screen ; many filmmakers have proved that they are not up to the task . I haven't read the book , ' Children of the Corn ' , but I'm sure it's better than this movie . While the film isn't especially bad ; it's hardly a tour de-force of horror cinema either , and like many Stephen King films ; this one could have been a hell of a lot better . Actually , this story isn't one of King's better efforts ; it follows a small town whose children murder their parents on the instructions of a mysterious preacher ; a little kid calling himself Isaac . The story picks up three years after this terrible event when a young couple drive into town for some reason . They find the village completely devoid of adults and it isn't long until they discover what's happened and seek to put an end to it ! This film has missed several opportunities , the most glaring of which is the subterranean manifestation that dwells beneath the soil in the cornfields . We get several glimpses of this creature , but we never get to see it properly ; and because of this , the monster is about as threatening as a bunch of little kids . Oh wait . Anyway , the film draws parallels with other evil kids films such as Village of the Damned in the way it plays out , but it never really gets out of first gear . While the atmosphere of the town is foreboding and well done on the whole , the plotting isn't very exciting and there's very few moments of real tension or suspense , which ensures the film isn't as engaging as it could have been . The cornfields and the corn that inhabits said field's makes for an unlikely horror prop , and some scenes within the fields are genuinely creepy . The kids themselves are rather well done also , with both of the main ones having good screen presence . If you were to pigeonhole King's films into ' good ' and ' bad ' , this one would firmly be in the latter side . On it's own , however , it's not all that bad , and if you're a fan of King's work , you'll no doubt find something to like here . Or you might hate it for not living up to the book , one of the two .
Very mundane . . . . not a hidden gem - simply more of the same	I love horror movies , and low budget eighties ones are especially well liked by me . I'm not a massive fan of slashers , however - but nevertheless ; I went into this film with high expectations . Suffice to say , the film didn't meet them - and despite a nice , shiny new DVD presentation ; Just Before Dawn is merely an average little slasher flick . In fact , I would even go as far as to say that if it weren't for the backwoods ambiance , this would be a bad film . For the slasher fan , this probably isn't bad . All the common elements are in place - lots of teens , a bit of gore , some deranged killers etc etc . . . but for me , that was exactly the problem . I've seen all this stuff before - and when a film lacks originality , and isn't all that entertaining with the ideas its borrowed - I really do have a hard time liking it . The story will be familiar to anyone who is familiar with this sort of film . It follows a bunch of kids in a van that , despite harsh warnings from the park ranger and a local man who's drunk , persist in going up the mountain to camp on the land that one of them somehow ' owns ' . They should have heeded the townsfolk's ' warnings , however , as it isn't long before they're being butchered by the not so friendly local inbred rednecks . You can't go into an eighties slasher expecting much in the way of brains , but even so ; I was shocked by the lack of characterisation , plot building and back story presented here . The film basically just chucks a load of dummies into a situation and somehow expects that it will all work out all right ! Seriously , it's even worse than Friday the 13th , brains-wise . The fact that it's set in the backwoods gives it a seventies exploitation kind of feel , which is nice ; and goes a long way to me not rating this as a complete failure . The fact that there's not a great deal of blood will no doubt offend many people who see the film - and I was disappointed too , after the first real gore sequence - which sees a man have a machete stuck through his abdomen , only for it to come out the other end - wasn't followed up with another one . There's a twist mid-way through , but seriously ; it's so mundane that I wasn't even aware that it was ' the twist ' until the end . On the whole , I'm not saying this is an out and out waste of time . Just Before Dawn does have one or two nice sequences and a lovely atmosphere that runs throughout - but unless you're a serious fan of slashers , this film is best left on the shelf . The likes of Stage Fright , The Hills Have Eyes , Friday the 13th and even Scream offer far more than this .
Seventies-style eighties trash classic !	Trapped was actually released in the late eighties , although it's every bit the seventies exploitation classic ! While not as great as some of the more popular films of the genre - stuff like The Last House on the Left and House on the Edge of the Park , Trapped is still an enjoyable slice of violent entertainment from the director of the surprisingly good ' House by the Lake ' and the Psycho-inspired Funeral Home . The film focuses on the idea of people in the deep south of America taking the law very much into their own hands . The main culprit is Henry Chatwill ; a man who is spotted murdering someone by a bunch of college students . He quickly decides to put his cronies to use in tracking down the college students ; one of which , a kid called Roger Michaels , just happens to completely against violence in all forms . The first half hour or so is fairly torrid , as it can be difficult to tell exactly what's going on since it's not pieced together very well . However , things really pick up in the final two thirds ; and it all builds to a fantastically entertaining ending , which features a couple of rather original death scenes ! Naturally , Trapped isn't particularly well acted or directed - although William Fruet's work behind the camera isn't too bad considering the obvious budget limitations . Once you get past the first half hour , there's a lot of fun to be had with Trapped , and it comes recommended to trash fans everywhere !
Not as good Blind Dead , but a decent slice of Eurocult	Amando de Ossorio is definitely more famous for his excellent ' Blind Dead ' series , and while this film is nowhere as good as that series ( overall ) , The Lorelei's Grasp certainly has its moments and the film is mostly fun to watch , although it has to be said that it's a rather long way away from brilliant . The film is very much in the Eurohorror style ; although the plot seems to take more influence from classic monster films of the UK and USA ( Hammer Horror's The Reptile sprang to mind for me ) . The story is actually quite a good basis for a horror film and follows the idea of a beautiful woman that turns into a horrible monster known as ' The Lorelei ' when the moon is full . She has been living under the Rhine in Germany for centuries , and hunting for human blood at night . However , when The Lorelei decides to kill one too many young girls at the local boarding house , the authorities decide to hire a hunter named Sirgurd to track down and kill the monster . It's obvious that this film was made with a low budget , but even so ; the director manages to create a fabulous Eurohorror atmosphere , and not even the special effects are all that bad . There's a fair amount of gore , and while the monster itself looks silly - that is both to be expected , and kind of fun in its own way . The plot itself is a little choppy , and the film definitely isn't very well paced . Certain plot points seem forced , while others seem more than just a little bit silly - the section with the scientist , for example . I have to say that this film could have been better ; I'd have preferred something more along the lines of a Giallo style monster movie . It's odd , considering the nature of the plot , that the film appears to be pretty much humourless ; but its serious tone only really comes off as being inappropriate when it comes to actually showing the monster . Overall , The Lorelei's Grasp is a good cheesy little horror film , and comes recommended to Eurohorror fans . . . just don't go in expecting too much .
70's exploitation movie . . . could have been better . . .	There were some great exploitation flicks made in the seventies ; but unfortunately , Frightmare isn't one of them . That's not to say it's terrible , or even really bad ; as the film definitely does have it's moments , but it's also very talky and the plotting is far too slow , which isn't what you want when you're watching a film that has supposed to have been made to entertain the gore fanatics of it's day . If the entire movie was as good as it's last half hour , I'd be on here praising it to high heaven right now ; but for some reason , director Pete Walker has seen fit to make us sit through a sometimes interesting , but more often that not tedious first hour ; which doesn't do anything that couldn't have been done in half the time . The plot follows murderer and cannibal by the name of Dorothy , who is sent to an asylum along with her devoted husband Edmund . They are released after fifteen years ; and this proves a problem when it seems that the couple's daughter , Debbie , has inherited her mother's lust for killing . Step daughter Jackie tries to sort things out with her father , but that doesn't stop the mother and daughter team getting seriously into cranial DIY . . . The atmosphere of the film is superbly sleazy , with the couple's isolated living place taking on the foreboding role of the film's central location . Insanity often makes for a theme that allows a film to present a great atmosphere , and Pete Walker has capitalised on that . Another thing he's capitalised on is power tools . Power Tools would come to great uses again in films such as The Driller Killer , The Toolbox Murders and , of course , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ; and it's obvious why they continue to get used in gory exploitation flicks . Things get very messy when you've got a deranged lunatic brandishing a power drill , and this serves as one of this film's main talking points . Walker makes best of the ' insane granny ' theme too , ands he gets his lead actress to show how good she can be in that respect several times in the film . In the final half hour , the film really starts to come together and as the gore increases , the tension mounts and that is when this movie is at it's very best . When the film has to rely on it's script for intrigue ; it falls down , and that pretty much sums up the first hour . I'd like to like this more ; but just so you know , once the first hour has elapsed ; you're in for a treat !
An exploration of the modern relationship . . . ?	I'm a big fan of French director François Ozon , and every film he releases automatically becomes a must see for me . 5x2 is the story of a relationship told backwards in five stages , from the divorce proceedings to the initial meeting between a couple . Given the way that this story plays out , it's clear that 5x2 isn't exactly a romantic film ; as we always know that the relationship is leading into oblivion . The main talking point of this movie is the fact that the story plays out backwards . This type of plot has been used with great success in films like Memento , but despite being seen before ; Ozon makes good use of his plotting , and it provides a refreshing take on the common romantic film . There isn't really a plot to speak of , and the focus is kept on the central relationship between the husband and wife . This ensures that Ozon is allowed to develop his characters without being bogged down by plot details , and it ultimately benefits the film as it's potency all rests with the characters of Marion and Giles , both of which are played to perfection by Valeria Bruni Tedeschi and Stéphane Freiss . A film like this asks a lot of the performers , and as he's done several times before ; Ozon ensures that both are up to the task , and he manages to pull great performances out of both the lead stars . The pair goes through a range of emotions , from happiness to hope and down to despair as the relationship falls apart . These days , it's more common for couples to split up ; and this ensures that 5x2 is almost like Casablanca for the modern age . It's a very cynical film , but Ozon is not wrong in his depiction of a doomed relationship . The film is made more complicated by the inclusion of a child between the couple , but as each of the five sections of the film is relatively short in length , not everything is able to be explored and this is the film's main flaw . 5x2 is very French in its style and execution , and it's obvious that the director loves his home country . François Ozon is obviously gay ( looking at the rest of his filmography ) , and even though this film is about a heterosexual relationship , the way that a gay couple is incorporated into the proceedings is very ham-fisted , and doesn't really fit . Still , this is a good film about the destruction of a relationship and overall , a success for the talented director .
The street that Jack built	After having seen a few low budget zombie movies a while back , my love for the genre faded and nowadays knowing that a film is both low budget and a zombie movie is liable to put me off seeing it ; the reason being that while these films often show great enthusiasm , they can be seriously lacking in creativity . Well you could of course argue that this is not a zombie film as the central monsters are strange rat creatures rather than the classic zombie monsters . . . but it's basically just the same difference , and arguing that this film is not a zombie film would be as futile as saying the 2002 zombie film ' 28 Days Later ' is not a zombie film . Anyway , what we basically have here is just your average zombie outbreak idea and we focus on an apartment block on ' Mulberry Street ' . It turns out that there's something funny going on with the rats under the apartment block and all hell breaks lose when a man is bitten and starts showing signs of . . . turning into a giant rat . The infection quickly spreads , leading to a fight for life for the survivors . The film is very short at only eighty minutes and was obviously set on a limited budget ; thus meaning that it doesn't have a great deal of scope and we basically just focus on the central characters . This makes for decent enough entertainment , but the film is lacking in several areas and a lot of it feels rather thin . We don't get any details about the actual virus ; which isn't that disappointing when you consider the usual reasons behind a zombie outbreak ( a virus , radiation from space etc ) , but since this film has dared to change the formula a little in having people turn into rats ; it would be nice to have some sort of reasoning behind it . The film has plenty of action , gore and horror images ; but the problem is how it's portrayed . Director Jim Mickle has unfortunately opted to go down the flashy MTv-style photography route , and the result is that it's very difficult to see what is going on , and this kind of kills the film in terms of entertainment value . However , Mulberry Street does at least have enough good points to make it a worthwhile viewing and zombie fans should find something to like .
Could have been interesting , but lacks focus	Death Knocks Twice is a somewhat interesting thriller that is often considered a part of the Giallo genre , despite putting much of its focus on other areas of the plot ; which shows in a nutshell just how meandering this film is considering that a murder plot makes up the backbone of it . The film was made in 1969 ; just before the Giallo genre would gain popularity and Italian directors would go into overdrive making them . This one was actually a co-production with West Germany ; thus further calling it's credibility with the genre into repute . The plot focuses on Francisco di Villaverde ; a talented artist who has a deadly hobby , which involves strangling girls after having sex with them . He strangles a girl on the beach and this is witnessed by a couple of body guards , who just so happen to work for a local gangster who just so happens to want to buy a piece of property owned by Francisco di Villaverde . This story is then fused with a love story between the artist and the gangster's wife as she can't resist his charms in spite of his murderous nature . The film gets off to a good start as we witness the central character murdering a woman on a beach . . . but from there it just peters out as we descend further into the plot . It loses focus as it goes on and the film quickly gets boring . In its favour , the film does have three of the best stars of Italian cinema in its cast list . A young Fabio Testi takes the lead role and hints at the kind of performance that the charismatic actor would go on to give . The beautiful Anita Ekberg also appears as does one of the most underrated actors of cult Italian cinema ; the excellent Adolfo Celi . The film is directed by Harald Philipp and while he does capture some nice looking locations ; his direction in general is nothing fascinating and certainly not a patch on the likes of Dario Argento who would go on to make some of the best films of the genre . It all boils down to a decent conclusion ; but by then I couldn't really care what happened to be honest which is a bit of a shame . This is not an easy film to come by and I don't see any reason why that would change as it's not a particularly memorable entry .
Grisly and sleazy - but not all that good	Anyone that knows anything about this film knows that it's grisly and sleazy - but to be honest , up until about the hour mark ; I feared that I may be in the wrong film . Don't get me wrong , I love a good slice of disgusting sleaze ; but not when the resulting film is boring . The first two thirds of the film focus mainly on sex and police procedure , with just a little blood thrown in for good measure . These sections of the film really drag , and don't give credence to the opening shot that sees a young man being repeatedly stabbed in the crotch . However , you've got to expect this sort of poor plot pacing from Eurotrash cinema , and to this film's credit - it gets a lot better as it goes on , as the death scenes get nastier and the plot gets more interesting . The first major plot point sees the police find the bodies of a young couple ; he has been stabbed to death , and she has drowned and then had her body taken out of the water . We then follow police inspector De Pol , as he questions several people , some of which turn up dead themselves . The two sides of the plot ; those being the murders and the resulting investigation , don't bode well at all - and Giallo a Venezia feels very disjointed as neither one compliments the other , meaning that the film isn't very thrilling overall . By keeping the focus on the unpleasantness and sleaze , however , director Mario Landi makes sure that it's always obvious exactly what the point of the film is . Indeed , even the usually beautiful Venetian canals look sordid in this film , and while that helps the look and feel of the film ; it doesn't do much for the aesthetics . Jeff Blynn is ineffective in the lead role , and looks like he accidentally stepped off the set of Starsky and Hutch . The violence is extremely misogynistic , and almost every woman in the film ends up being violated in some way . The scenes of gore are mostly good , and see such delights as a man being shot and set on fire and the butchery of a woman on a table , who promptly turns up inside a refrigerator ! The conclusion to the film is the best element , and Mario Landi somehow managed to make this messy sleaze flick make sense . Overall , I can't say that Giallo a Venezia is one of the best Giallo's I've seen ( not by a mile ) ; but it has its positives elements and may delight fans of morbid sleaze .
Short and sweet tale of rape and revenge	Torched doesn't reach feature length at only 44 minutes , but it's 44 minutes well spent if you like this kind of thing as director Ryan Nicholson starts the film off nasty , and manages to carry this on throughout . Right at the start , we witness a nurse being raped and from there she decides it's time for revenge , as someone else tries to attack her , but she manages to get the better of him with a stun gun - and then the fun starts ! The film takes obvious influence from the classic seventies crop of ' rape and revenge ' films , such as I Spit on Your Grave . The film also takes influence from this new wave of modern day Video Nasties , which includes films such as Murder-Set-Pieces and August Underground . Nicholson gives the film a hard rock score , which works rather well when it's put against a backdrop of grisly and vile torture . There isn't very much of this film , and what there is of it is unlikely to make anyone want to stand up and applaud ; but Torched is a more than decent way to spend three quarters of an hour for fans of sick and twisted horror movies .
As Exorcist rip-offs go , this one isn't bad	Spanish horror director Amando de Ossorio will always be best known for his Blind Dead series and rightly so because they're good films , and also because most of the rest of the stuff that he directed isn't up to much . Italian and Spanish filmmakers would often make their own versions of popular American films , and it's not surprising that Exorcist rip-offs almost became their own sub-genre after 1973 . The Possessed is clearly yet another copy of Willian Friedkin's groundbreaking horror hit , and while it's not very good and has nothing on the earlier classic ; to my greatest surprise , this film is both not bad and definitely one of the better Exorcist rip-offs . The plot focuses on the daughter of a politician who becomes possessed . Sometime earlier , an old woman suspected of being a witch is accused of kidnapping young children and kills herself by jumping out the police station window . The politician's daughter later has an encounter with a strange woman who gives her a necklace . It's not long before the girl is speaking foreign languages and turning her head round one hundred and eighty degrees . . . Despite being a rip-off , this film actually has a few good ideas of its own . The idea of the girl being possessed by a witch rather than some demonic force actually works quite well and the film has a couple of subplots , such as the one that sees the token young priest being chased by a girl against his wishes . This plot doesn't have much to do with the film's central idea , but it's interesting and amusing . It also seems like director Amando de Ossorio was trying to have a swipe at the church through a lot of the events in this film - including the subplot with the girl and the priest . The film was obviously made on a shoestring budget and as such there isn't much room for anything spectacular . The special effects are largely inept and unconvincing and the acting is matched by some truly atrocious dubbing . The only real notable cast member is Marián Salgado , and she is only notable for the fact that she was cast in the film because she was the Spanish dubbing actor for Linda Blair in The Exorcist ( a nice touch in my opinion ) . Overall , The Possessed is lacklustre , but it's not a bad way to spend ninety minutes and it is one of Amando de Ossorio's best films outside of the Blind Dead series .
Sometimes inventive , always uneven	I haven't seen a great many of surrealistic director Luis Bunuel's films , but what I have seen I don't really like - and I don't like this film much for the same reason I'm not keen on the others - it lacks backbone , and while some of the visuals are nice and stick in your mind ; the film feels like it's been put together by some lunatic whose been in a window-less garage full of empty paint cans for too long . The film doesn't follow a set plot structure , and basically is just comprised of a number of surreal set pieces , which follow on from one another . While some of these set pieces are highly inventive and offer startling images that you wont forget easily , others are just purely stupid and don't capture the imagination or the interest and serve only in slowing the film down . Sequences which are good include a backwards dinner party where the guest sit on toilets and occasionally retire to eat food , and a couple that invite a lot of other guests at a hotel back to their room , only for the woman to begin whipping the man . These scenes are good because Bunuel startles the viewer , and this ensures that the images on screen will stick in your mind long after the film is over . He's not able to make this stick all the way through , however , and scenes involving childish policemen and a ' missing ' girl just don't have the same verve and vitality as the good scenes , and they bring the film down . If Bunuel could have succeeded in making the entire film memorable , he would have been onto a winner ; but he hasn't and this film is therefore worth a look ; but not a masterpiece .
Samuel L . Jackson and CGI snakes on a cliché-ridden plane	Well , you can't go into a film called ' Snakes on a Plane ' expecting anything other than a fast paced fun romp , and while the film isn't quite as exciting as I'd have liked it to be , it has to be said that it pretty much delivers on it's promise . The film harks back to the B-movie features that were so popular back in the eighties , and that is respectable ; although modern influences and a need to make the film appeal to a younger audience ensure that Snakes on a Plane isn't as effective as it could have been . Obviously , a film with a plot line as thin as this one needs a whole lot of filling out ; and this is done through the passengers on the plane , which are all clichéd and paper thin . . . but hey , we're here for the snakes . The film begins with a murder being committed by a vicious gangster named Eddie Kim . The murder has a witness , and of course the police plan to protect him so that he can testify . Copper Neville Flynn boards a plane going to LAX with this witness and everything seems to be going well until it turns out that Kim has hatched a plan to bring the plane down . No , it's not a bomb - he's filled the plane with poisonous snakes ! The only ' name ' actor in the film is Samuel L . Jackson , and as you would expect ; he's the centre of attention at all times . Jackson is a definite asset to the film , and it has to be said that if he wasn't on board ; Snakes on a Plane wouldn't have been nearly as much fun . The snakes are mostly , if not all CGI , and for me this really ruined the effect as the way they move in this film doesn't really seem threatening because it's so overdone , and the film doesn't even implement them very well as aside from one scene that sees a man constricted by a giant snake , the snakes mostly just bite . I'm guessing that the snakes in this film don't reflect those in real life , as while I'm not an expert on snakes , I highly doubt that this sort of situation is even possible , pheromones or not . Of course , you have to suspend your disbelief while watching a film like this . . . but in my opinion , the film doesn't give the audience quite enough distraction from analysing the actual situation . However , I suppose it's a good thing that a film as silly as this was able to be made as it gives me hope that more silly and over the top ideas will be given cinematic treatment , and eventually we might be blessed with a good one . Undemanding film fans will certainly enjoy this ; but it's merely OK if you ask me .
More stylish confusion from Jose Mojica Marins	I can't really say I'm a fan of José Mojica Marins and his Coffin Joe character - I did like his first two films , but the two I've seen since then ( The Strange World of Coffin Joe and The Awakening of the Beast ) were torrid viewings that I didn't enjoy much . To his credit , however , at least the actor / director was willing to try out different things with his character and I can give his subsequent films plaudits for that . The Bloody Exorcism of Coffin Joe is yet another departure from the themes of the first two films ; and this time features the actor playing himself for most of it . As the film begins , director Jose Mojica Marins is being interviewed about his next film , " The Demon Exorcist " , and tells the press he is going to spend Christmas with friends so he can mull over what this imaginatively titled movie will be about . However , during his stay strange things start happening and the director learns that his own creation , Coffin Joe , may be at the heart of it . Plenty of actors / directors with a cult following have made self-referential films ; Lucio Fulci did it in 1990 with Cat in the Brain , recently Bruce Campbell did it with My Name is Bruce - and I'm sure many others have done it too . José Mojica Marins has always come across as a man with a high opinion of himself ; and that comes through in this movie too , with all the action focusing on the actor himself and there's even time for him to compare his character to the most famous character of Arthur Conan Doyle ! The Bloody Exorcism of Coffin Joe is filmed in the normal Coffin Joe style - namely , cheaply , although the style certainly does benefit the film and is the most striking thing about it . The film also carries on with the completely confusing style that plagued all the four previous Coffin Joe movies and that's a bit of a problem . It is possible to simply enjoy the movie because of what you're seeing on screen ; but the film does start to get a bit boring before the credits finally roll . Overall , this is at least slightly better than the two Coffin Joe movies that went before it ; but it will only really appeal to Coffin Joe fans , and I'm not one of them .
More Halloween . . .	I don't rate the original Halloween very highly , so quite why I keep seeing the sequels is anyone's guess . This sequel , however , is definitely the best of the bunch and I would even go as far as to say that I like part 2 slightly more than the original film . The original bored me because a lot of the running time was spent on building the story ( which was neither interesting nor original ) and Michael Myers ' stalking ' people . This time , we get thrust straight into the film - and although it still isn't that great , at least most of the running time isn't spent waiting around . This film's major talking point is the fact that the story takes place immediately after the events of the first film . Most sequels pick up some time later , but the fact that this one picks up where we left off is good because it allows the audience to get straight back into it , and is also slightly fascinating in a " what happens next " kind of a way . As you might expect , the story is wafer thin and it follows boring serial killer Michael as he slashes his way through town in search of Lawrie Strode , from the first film . John Carpenter didn't direct this film , and that can only be a good thing . Rick Rosenthal steps into his shoes and creates the same atmosphere as the first film , only without the egotistical score soaking that John Carpenter does with all of his films . Jamie Lee Curtis steps back into her role from the original and is given practically nothing to do once again . It's really hard to care for the victim when they have no character at all - no wonder Myers wanted rid of her ! Also reprising his role as Myers ' doctor and biggest fan is Donald Pleasance , and like he would go on to do in ' The Return of Michael Myers ' , spends a lot of the running time bigging up his dull mental patient . Of the big three slasher series ' , Halloween is definitely the worst and a lot of the reason for that is because of the serial killer . Some people think that the emotionless way that Michael stalks his victims is frightening , but I only found it boring . Myers represents a distinct lack of imagination on the parts of writers John Carpenter and Debra Hill , and I won't be joining in on the pretence that he's anything but dull . On the whole , if you like the first one ; you'll like this . If you didn't , there's no point in seeing any of the sequels .
Does more than the usual slasher fare	Spain has produced a number of good horror films over the last two decades , with directors such as Alejandro Amenabar , Álex de la Iglesia and Jaume Balagueró making some truly standout films . School Killer stars one of the main players of seventies / eighties Spanish horror films in the form of the great Paul Naschy ; but overall I'm not surprised that this film doesn't get mentioned alongside the likes of Tesis , Rec and Day of the Beast as one of the better modern films to come out of Spain as despite some good ideas , there's far too many things wrong with it . The plot is not particularly original and focuses on the common horror film ideas of a bunch of kids getting into trouble and an old abandoned building harbouring a maniacal killer . The kids decide to go to the old school building , where one of their dads stayed twenty seven years earlier , for a party but it soon becomes apparent that there's something strange going on inside the building and they soon learn that the boy's father was the only survivor of a massacre the night that he and his friends stayed there . The best thing about this film is undoubtedly the atmosphere and director Carlos Gil succeeds in creating a truly foreboding feeling that suits the film very well and excellently compliments the plot and the building at the centre of the story . I went into this film expecting a slasher ( and thus without any high hopes ) but to the film's credit , it actually tries to be more than that and it could be argued that the film is more of a psychological thriller . This certainly gives the film an extra element of interest and it manages to take a mysterious plot and blend it well with the gore you'd expect from a slasher . Paul Naschy is obviously the main standout of the cast and he still has a good screen presence despite his advanced years and provides an extremely effective villain . As mentioned , the film does feature some good gore and although it doesn't feature all the way through ; what we do get works well within the context . The film is rather slow to start and it doesn't really get interesting until the final third . However , despite this ; the film doesn't end very well and there's too much left unexplained for this to be an effective film overall . Still , School Killer is better than a lot of modern horror films and is at least worth a look .
Dull trash thriller	Well , most people would probably go into this film with low expectations ; but I was actually hoping for something decent from Impulse , not because of anything suggesting it would be good ; but simply because I often enjoy stories of murderers and savvy children ; with the likes of The Stepfather , Julie Darling and Michael Winner's masterpiece Scream for Help being good examples of films like this one that I have enjoyed . Impulse certainly had the potential to sit alongside the aforementioned films on a list of enjoyable flicks of this nature ; but unfortunately , something just doesn't work and most things about this film are a disappointment . The plot focuses on Matt Stone , a conman who makes a living through seducing lonely women and having them lose all their savings by way of ' investing ' in his inheritance scheme . Stone is a broken man , owing to an incident involving his mother and a boyfriend of hers , which we see at the start of the film . Problems start for Stone when the irritating daughter of his latest victim begins to become suspicious of what he's doing with her mother . . . Impulse stars William Shatner , who , of course , is most famous for his role in the popular series Star Trek . I was never a fan of Star Trek , but I do like Shatner's work on cult films such as Kingdom of the Spiders and , more importantly , The Intruder ; which mean he should be well cut out for a role like this . He actually does rather well in the lead role ; giving it just the right amount of sleaze to work . The rest of the cast isn't bad either ( with one or two exceptions . . . e . g . Oddjob ) , but the film falls short on numerous other areas , which masks the decent performance . The film is actually rather boring , which is quite a shock considering the plot and the fact that Shatner gets seen in a range of ridiculous outfits . It's really pretty standard fare ; The Stepfather had a lot to set itself apart from just the central plot , whereas this film doesn't have much at all . It all boils down to the sort of conclusion you would expect too , like the rest of the film ; there aren't many surprises . This isn't a complete disaster ; it has its moments , but I cant really recommend that anyone goes out of their way to find it .
Should have been great , but unfortunately just a disappointment	Feast has achieved a lot of acclaim among horror fans , so I don't think it is unreasonable that I went into it with very high hopes . The fact that the film dashed these high hopes is very unreasonable , however , as while Feast is not essentially a ' bad ' film , it's not the fun filled gore fest that I was expecting . I have heard it said that the plot featured in Feast is ' original ' - frankly , a ridiculous claim . Assault on Precinct 13 features a plot line very similar to this one , and 1994's Lurking Fear features one that is nearly identical . Perhaps it is due to the execution that people say the film is original ; but it is the execution that spoils the film . The plot itself is very simple , and in more capable hands could have lead to a horror classic along the same lines as The Evil Dead . Basically , what we have is a bar filled with a motley assortment of characters . They're drinking / pool etc is disrupted when a man covered in blood bursts in , telling a story of monsters and making it clear that the monsters are on the way to that very bar . . . The film suffers from the same problem as many modern horror films - namely , editing that is too fast . It's nigh on impossible to see what is going on during the monster attacks and while someone obviously thinks that this kind of editing makes films more exciting - for me it just makes them boring . The monsters attacks are the best parts of the film , however , and the set pieces are fairly well executed in spite of the fast editing ; but the parts of the film where the monsters aren't attacking are a major problem . All the characters get introduced in turn along with a few lines of information about them , and they're not developed much beyond that . . . so you can imagine how interesting the interplay between them is . The order that the characters die in at first seems quite random , though as the film progresses it soon becomes apparent who is going to live and who is going to die , and that makes the film predictable - something that Feast clearly tries its best not to be . The film only lasts for eighty minutes , which is definitely a good thing . It has its moments and it never becomes completely boring ; but I was clock watching towards the end and that shouldn't happen during a fun gorefest . The cast is made up by an assortment of mostly TV actors ; the only cast member worth a mention is Krista Allen , who does look good . The gore is plentiful , but it's also MTv style , which put me off quite a bit . Overall , it's a shame but Feast is not the film it could , or by rights should , have been . Two sequels are on the way . . . hopefully at least one will really take advantage of the basic idea .
Has nothing on Hellraiser , and not even as good as Nightbreed .	Clive Barker may well be one of the best horror writers that modern literature has to offer - but his feature debut aside , he really should stop adapting his books to the screen . Hellraiser is a brilliant horror film ; forsaking all that makes most horror successful , Hellraiser is an endearing masterpiece , and one of the best films ever made . Barker showed promise as a director then , but Nightbreed was seriously lacking ; and this film , Lord of Illusions , does nothing to get his credibility back on track . We kick off with a very trashy sequence that sees an illusionist get murdered , and I feared the worse ; but after that , the film picks up into a sort of mystery plot , and things were looking up . This feeling of euphoria doesn't last long , however , because as soon as you realise that the mystery is one of the most poorly plotted ever ; it becomes all too easy to get bored . The uneven plot has something to do with an illusionist who gives some power to someone called Swan and then gets killed by a young girl . Thirteen years later , a private detective is hired for some reason and we then stumble into a story about a rather odd cult . Basically , this movie is seriously flawed . Aside from the extremely messy plot , Lord of Illusions is also overlong , poorly acted and hard to follow . However , I cant give this a real low mark simply because I love the style that Barker has injected into the piece . We are constantly treated to a morbid atmosphere , which plays well with the plot - even if it is messy . The world of magic and illusionists hasn't been shown on screen too many times , and the film also gains credibility on the originality front for that . Nods towards Hellraiser , including the skin pealing from a man's bone , are well done and the film does actually feature quite a few memorable scenes . The special effects offer much in the way of good imagery , too . It's just a shame that the writer-director couldn't implement more of the good and less of the bad , as then this would really be a movie worth seeing . Casting Scott Bakula in the lead was a terrible idea as he has zero personality , and this makes the messy plot even harder to follow as sympathy for the main character is seriously repressed . Overall , Barker fans might find something to like here ; but I have to say that this is one mundane flick .
Makes malaria look like a common cold !	You don't have to watch Mosquito Man to know that it takes heavy influence from David Cronenberg's classic film ' The Fly ' , but I liked said film a lot and so decided that I would be happy if this film merely offered a fun retelling of it . I'm pleased to say that while Mosquito Man is silly and redundant , it is at least lots of fun and therefore offers enough as far as I'm concerned . I have to admit that I find insects fascinating , and this is a good thing given how many insect related horror films there are to choose from . Mosquito's don't really interest me , and the film doesn't really delve into their life cycle much . . . but luckily , it doesn't really matter . The film bases its plot on the idea of a virus that is working its way through the human population . A couple of scientists have found some sort of cure involving mosquitoes , but this backfires when a convict set to be used as a guinea pig escapes and causes an accident in the facility . His DNA is then merged with the mosquito DNA and he becomes , you guessed it , a human-mosquito hybrid with a mission to mate with the female scientist who has suffered the same unfortunate fate . Director Tibor Takács made a minor splash back in the eighties with cult hits The Gate and I , Madman . This film is unlikely to remembered with the same affection as the latter two films , but it features the same kind of nonsense , yet well worked plot line . The special effects are important in a film like this , and despite being a film that is unlikely to ever amount to anything - Mosquito Man does feature great special effects . The central monster looks cool enough , and this is matched by some great gory scenes that will please anyone with a mind to see it . As mentioned , the plot doesn't delve very deep but it does at least focus on the important elements and remains interesting for the duration . The acting is surprisingly decent also , with the hot Musetta Vander providing the eye candy ( both for the audience and for the title monster ) , while Corin Nemec is good in the opposite role . It's not hard to guess where it's going at any point , but the film races towards the inevitable conclusion with style , and the director chucks in a nice gore sequence every time things start to dry up . Overall , I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this trash to anyone looking for a fun flick , and it's nowhere near as bad as it could have been .
Intriguing horror drama	Based on a true story , The Exorcism of Emily Rose is quite a different breed of horror film from what modern film fans are used to . Rather than concentrating on shocks and scares , the film puts the focus squarely on the mystery surrounding the plot ; and it does so by setting the majority of the action in a courtroom setting . The result is a movie that's not a full-blown horror film , but rather a mixture of courtroom drama and horror elements . Modern horror cinema really needs all the innovation it can get , and the fact that this story is handled in such a way makes it both original , and interesting ; and so I don't hesitate to label The Exorcism of Emily Rose as one of the best horror films so far this decade . The plot follows the arrest of Father Moore for negligent homicide regarding the death of Emily Rose . Doctors diagnosed her with epilepsy , but the Reverend saw Emily's condition as something more , and so advised her to stop taking her medication and have an exorcism performed instead . . . on his case is ace-lawyer Erin Bruner , who wants to win the case as much as Father Moore wants Emily's story told . The debate between religion and science has gone on for centuries , and it's that same debate that makes this film so fascinating . The court room battle between the priest and the doctors fits snugly into that debate ; and the way that the film presents the facts and almost lets the audience make their own mind up ensures that the film gets you thinking . The performances are truly first rate , with an excellent Tom Wilkinson impressing in the role of Father Moore , while Laura Linney does the strong woman thing that she's got so good at ; and Jennifer Carpenter brings Emily Rose to life . The obvious film to compare this one to is the seventies classic ' The Exorcist ' ; but apart from the two films having the same ritual in the title , they really aren't similar . The Exorcist was a more gratuitous , personal tale ; while this one is mystery on a much bigger scale . They do both , however , have excellent exorcism scenes ; the one here being the best part of the movie , and really making the adrenaline flow . On the whole , ignore all who say bad things about this movie . It's not masterpiece like it's seventies counterpart ; but it's definitely one of the best horror films this decade , and will impress all the right people .
Not quite as bad as you've heard	A good werewolf movie is a rare thing . In fact , there have only been a handful of good werewolf movies , ever , and unfortunately ; Wes Craven's effort doesn't do anything to change that . This film has been universally lambasted on all fronts , and while it's clear why it has been greeted by the reaction it's got ; it's also hard to rate this as a complete failure . There are several amazingly stupid moments in this film , and there's at least as many laughable lines ; but if you can look past that , and the sizeable amount of teen flick clichés that this film seems all too keen to incorporate , what we have here is a decent take on the werewolf legend . Kevin Williamson had one success with the surprisingly good ' Scream ' , and everything else since then has been poor in the extreme . This film doesn't represent anything near a success for him , and if it weren't for the fact that the werewolf legend itself is intriguing ; this film would have been a complete failure . One good thing about his script is that it doesn't try to change the legend . He sticks to the common werewolf story , and that's what I liked best about this film . Christina Ricci isn't great at deciding which films to star in , but you can always count on a standout performance from her . Her acting isn't great in this flick , but with her big eyes and long dark hair , she makes all of her scenes a delight . The rest of the cast aren't worth mentioning , as Craven seems to have picked them all up from the set of one of those dull TV shows that Americans make . It doesn't matter , though , because this isn't an actor's film anyway . The special effects are a big reason why so many werewolf films fail , and this one has gone for the lazy CGI angle . The change sequences are terrible and pale in comparison to the likes of An American Werewolf in London and The Howling , both 25 years Cursed's senior . Too many ideas in this film - the whole ' gay ' thing especially - are just stupid and even when you consider that Williamson was probably trying to cash in on the success of slasher spoof ' Scream ' , it's still easy to cringe through them . The first twenty minutes set the film up like it's going to be a lot better than it is . Still , if you don't go in expecting too much ; Cursed isn't too bad a way to spend ninety minutes .
Interesting British attempt at making a Giallo	Assault is apparently a British attempt at emulating the popular Italian Giallo sub-genre . If that is indeed what the filmmakers were aiming for , it has to be said that they've done a rather good job , as Assault incorporates many of the common Giallo trademarks . We've got a killer on the loose , a number of victims , a police investigation , an eyewitness , lots of red herrings and an unknown assailant , among other things . I'd even go as far as to say that if I didn't know better , I might have thought this was an Italian production , set in the UK . It's unfortunate , then , that director Sidney Hayers wasn't able to take the script and craft an exciting mystery out of it , as the film features far too much talking and not enough action , leaving it caught up in boredom for most of the running time . The plot follows the murder of a young girl in the woods outside of her school . When another is found dead in the same way shortly after , the police are brought in . Their only witness is a young teacher , who says the killer looks like the devil and puts herself on the line to catch the psychopath . One common element of the Italian Giallo is a silly plot , and that has been copied for this film also . The idea regarding the capture of the killer is preposterous , and the murderer would have to be a complete and utter fool to fall for it . The film doesn't seem too keen on keeping itself away from complete farce either , as the climax is very silly and it's often hard to keep a straight face while watching the film unfold , and that's not what you want from a thriller that handles themes of murder and rape . The cast is distinctly British , and Derbyshire-born Giallo star Suzy Kendall , who has also worked with the likes of Dario Argento , Sergio Martino and Umberto Lenzi on Giallo thrillers , takes the lead role and is joined by a host of tea-drinking co-stars . Sidney Hayers ' direction is a little turgid at times , although scenes such as the one in which we get an early glimpse of the murderer are well shot . The conclusion to the mystery is disappointing , as the identity of the killer just sort of comes out of nowhere . Overall , this film isn't all that good ; but it may appeal to Giallo fans for the fact that it's a Giallo , but it's not Italian .
An uncharacteristic disappointment from Russ Meyer	Russ Meyer's career got raunchier as it went on and his ' more serious ' early films as well as his comical later efforts both have their plus points . Cherry , Harry & Raquel comes almost in-between the two sides of Meyer's career and almost feels like a dress rehearsal for the likes of Up and Supervixens , as we get all the raunchiness of Meyer's latter day films but it's incredibly poorly strung together and unfortunately , unlike the later efforts , the result is a film that has a handful of interesting scenes , as well as a bucket load of rubbish and boring ones . At times it feels like Meyer shot a load of footage and just stuck it together . As the title suggests , the plot focuses on three main characters - unsurprisingly called Cherry , Harry and Raquel . Harry is a police sheriff with a sideline in drug smuggling , and a local apache has got wind of this , leading Harry to track him down . Harry also has an eventful love life , with no less than two luscious and buxom beauties to choose from - there's Raquel , a prostitute , and Cherry ; a nurse . Despite not being among his best work , Cherry , Harry and Raquel does feature Meyer's trademark style . We've got plenty of sex and nudity , as well as some fairly vicious violence , some good dialogue and Meyer's trademark fast editing . Most of the film takes place in the desert and this provides a good setting for the movie , and also helps to give the film it's most memorable moments - namely , Uschi Digard posing naked against desert backdrops . This is the first Russ Meyer film to star Charles Napier - the memorable actor who would go on to steal the show in Meyer's 1975 masterpiece Supervixens . He's not as good here as he was in Supervixens ; but the performance is something of a landmark as Napier was one of the first men to do a full frontal nude scene . Naturally , Meyer doesn't let his audience down with his choice of actresses ; Larissa Ely and Linda Ashton are both great ( especially unclothed ) and their screen time together is one of the best moments of the film . Meyer often tried to give his films a point and it usually serves only in making his films sillier and more bizarre - and that is the case here too ; although the ending monologue will provide some laughs . Overall , this is probably the worst Russ Meyer flick I've seen so far and despite some positive elements - there really isn't much to recommend it for .
Not one of Hammer's finer hours	The Witches is really not the sort of film that I have come to expect from Hammer . The studio is best known for its colourful and fun and usually inventive horror films , and while this isn't a bad one ; it doesn't deliver what I hoped it would . The Witches is something more of a ' serious ' horror film , and it's also of the slow burning variety . The film is intriguing at certain points ( most of which come during the first half ) , but it doesn't keep this up for the duration , unfortunately , and it does have to be said that the overall film is really quite disappointing . The plot focuses on a teacher who did her job in Africa up until the witch doctors in the village decided to lead a revolt , which ended up with her leaving Africa and bearing a constant mental scar . She is offered a job teaching at the local school in a quiet country village , and promptly takes it . However , shortly after her appointment strange things start happening , and unsurprisingly enough , all of them point to certain members of the town being involved in witchcraft . . . The plot we get here is similar to the one in Robin Hardy's 1973 masterpiece ' The Wicker Man ' , the only difference being in the execution . ' The Wicker Man ' is a title that intrigues the viewer as it sounds ominous , yet we don't really know to what it refers . This in turn makes the film intriguing as we're constantly wondering what is going to happen - " The Witches " , however , does not have the same effect . Before you even put the DVD in the DVD player , you know that there's going to be witches in the film , so all the build up is mooted as it's always blatantly obvious where it's going ! Anyway , the build up itself isn't too bad ; it's never interesting enough to propel the film into greatness , though the first hour is at least interesting . Once the " twist " ( not sure if you'd really call it that ) is revealed , the film really comes apart at the seems . Witchcraft is a strong horror theme that has lead to a lot of great genre films ; but this one never capitalises on it , and the finale doesn't do enough . Overall , I won't say that this is an overall bad film ; but it's certainly not one of Hammer's better efforts .
Had the potential to be much better	I went into this really expecting to see something special . The plot description sounded like it would lend itself brilliantly to a classic of trash cinema . . . although unfortunately , the only kind of trash that this film is , is the kind that you'd want to throw out . The film features a few different characters and ideas ; and this is basically where it falls down ; as nothing is really explored properly meaning that what we are left with feels extremely underdone and disappointing . The plot focuses on a young girl named Molly Stewart , who also goes under the alias ' Angel ' . Molly is a straight A student and at the top of her class ; but once night falls she's Angel ; an underage prostitute who goes around town turning tricks for sleazy male clientèle . However , she's not the only one prowling around town as it just so happens that there's also a serial killer going round hacking up the girls . After one of Angel's friends is killed inside her apartment ; our heroine gets some unwanted police attention , and aside from keeping her out of the killer's way ; a copper decides to help her with her personal life . The main plot revolves around Molly and her tragic life , as well as the idea of the police officer trying to get her off the game . This takes up a sizable chunk of the movie , which leaves the serial killer by the wayside and feeling rather pointless . There's a fair few distinctive characters in the film and while most of them serve a point ; again there's not really enough time to give them a justifiable piece of the movie . Lead actress Donna Wilkes is really rather poor and does not convince in the lead role either and her performance feels extremely forced , which brings the whole thing down a bit further . To the film's credit , however , the way that so many things happen does mean that the film doesn't really have chance to get boring . It's clear that the plot wasn't meant to be taken completely seriously either ; there are a few funny moments , with the fight between a transvestite and a Hare Krishna being one of the most memorable . The film is also not very sleazy , which is a shame considering the obvious potential . Overall , this film is not a complete dead loss ; but it's not as good as it could have been and there are better films with similar plots ( e . g . Crimes of Passion ) .
A slight cut above most eighties slasher trash	This film is everything most slashers are - i . e . redundant , pointless , silly and all the rest of it . However , unlike the majority of the sub-genre ; this one isn't all that bad . The plot is hardly original in it's fusion of the haunted house tradition and eighties slasher trash , but at least it gives the film a slight edge over it's less imaginative counterparts . The plot sees a group of four high school ' kids ' having to spend a night in a creepy old house as an initiation ceremony for the fraternity they want to join . However , this isn't just a creepy old house and by way of a super-camp story telling sequence , we learn that the master of the house killed himself , his wife and three of his four horribly deformed children . This , of course , means that one survived ; and that one , is course , rumoured to still be hanging around the creepy old house . That is , of course , a rumour that turns out be true ! What then follows is the usual slasher sort of stuff , with the kids inside getting sliced and diced along with the ones outside , who were just trying to make their new frat-mate's stay a little scarier . Linda Blair , now all grown up since her role in The Exorcist , takes the lead role and does pretty much what you would expect the heroine to do . There's some nice murder sequences in this film , but the gore is never over the top . I actually like over the top gore , but despite not having much of it , it never really harms this film . The murders are stylishly shot , and the way it portrays them allows it to be shocking without the need for a lot of bloodshed . In a sub-genre that is primarily concerned with bloodletting ; this is actually quite admirable . The sets are one of the best things about this film . The Gothic mansion gives it that great atmosphere that is usually reserved for haunted house movies . The movie doesn't always make best use of it's settings , however , with too many scenes being restricted to close-up's when a shot that takes in more of the surrounding area would have been better . The fact that the killer is deformed gives it a bit of an edge over the likes of Halloween because aside from there being a killer , you also want to see him to find out how badly deformed he is . It is a disappointment when he's finally revealed . . . but the wait holds some suspense . On the whole , this isn't all that good ; but it's not bad either . Slasher fans will find something to like .
Nice gimmick , but it can't completely carry the film	This isn't the first movie to be made recently despite the fact that it utilises classic silent movie methods . Dracula : Pages From a Virgin's Diary is the only other one I've seen , but I'm sure there's more besides . This adaptation of H . P . Lovecraft's classic story , The Call of Cthulhu is more faithful to the original works of the great writer than the likes of films such as Re-Animator and From Beyond ; but cinematically , it just doesn't work as well . Don't get me wrong , I love many classic silent movies ; but Lovecraft's work is too inventive to really be given a good adaptation in this style . The film follows the story of a man searching for a diabolical cult that worships the god ' Cthulhu ' . The majority of the film , therefore , follows a man reading up on the cult , and it isn't until the end , when the god finally turns up , that the film really becomes exciting . I respect The H . P . Lovecraft Historical Society immensely for having the drive to put this film together , as any kind of innovation in the modern horror genre is to be welcomed with open arms , but it's clear that the filmmakers didn't have enough budget , and the silent movie gimmick isn't enough to keep the entire film interesting - even if it is only 47 minutes long . This story would be better served with a modern adaptation , and I'm pleased to say that it's getting one in 2006 . On the whole , this silent version is worth watching due to the fact that it's tried to do something different and adapt the master's work ' faithfully ' - but it's not a great film .
A lesser outing for Maurizio Merli , and the genre .	I'm a big fan of the Italian Polizi flicks , and for me ; having made some of the most entertaining films in the genre , Maurizio Merli is much more than just a Franco Nero clone . . . but despite the title similarity to the great French-Italian co-production Fear Over the City , Fear in the City is unfortunately a lesser example of the genre . The entire genre owes itself to Don Siegel's masterpiece Dirty Harry ; although some of the films in it have taken some creative licence and made something a bit different out of it ; that is not the case with this film . The film focuses on Murri ; the token maverick cop . He is called in ( reluctantly ) after a bunch of criminals pull off a successful prison break and spend the night picking off various informers and people they don't like . Murri investigates ; hooking up with one of the criminal's nieces along the way . He uses his own methods ; which mostly involve breaking all the rules , and thus comes under a lot of scrutiny from his superiors who don't take too kindly to the cop's way of working . The main problem with this film is undoubtedly the pacing ; as we skip from one action scene to the next without much substance in between . Of course , it's the action scenes that make this genre what it is ; but the more successful films in it generally have something else to like , and this one doesn't . Maurizio Merli makes a likable lead as ever and it's not hard to see why he so often gets cast in these films as the roles suit him like a glove ; but even he doesn't have enough to make Fear in the City a success . Anyone who has seen more than a handful of these films will have seen everything in this one before and not even the action scenes are anything to write home about ; although there is an amusing motorcycle chase midway through the film which is well done . This is one the lesser known Polizi flicks outside of Italy and I'm not really surprised about that because there are so many better ones . Overall , I could perhaps recommend this film to hardcore fans of this sort of stuff ; but everyone else would do well to not bother with this film .
Not as good as Lang's , but not bad	Fritz Lang's original ' Metropolis ' is an enduring classic of cinema . The techniques used at the time that it was made were absolutely astounding and it is still astounding to consider the technical achievement that Metropolis represents even these days . This Japanese re-telling of the classic story doesn't follow the plot of the original film , but they are linked due to the way that they both utilise grand settings for their thrills and although it was a lot more impressive in 1927 , this version of the story is still a very decent film . I can't say that I'm a big fan of Japanese ' anime ' , but every time I see a film in it's style I tend to at least enjoy myself , and that can be said of this film . The plot has too many elements to be fully coherent , but it serves its purpose and is always second to the visuals anyway . The story follows two societies ; robots and humans , and comes together when a private investigator's nephew meets a robot girl constructed to rule the city . The script is somewhat taught , this may be because of the fact that it has been translated into English , or it may just be a bad script . It doesn't really matter though as , again , the sharp visuals are always enough to distract the viewer from the other areas of the movie . It's almost a shame that this movie isn't better when you consider that it has an absolutely great source of inspiration , but then again you can hardly expect it to rival Fritz Lang's classic . On the whole , I recommend this movie if you've seen Lang's and want some more , but otherwise I just recommend the original classic .
Disappointing Polizi from Sergio Martino	I'm a big fan of Sergio Martino , but it's quite clear that his main strength is in making Giallo's , not crime flicks . This genre is famous for high action sequences such as car chases and shootouts ; but this film doesn't deliver that , preferring a more political standpoint and the results are disappointing . There's not a great deal of action in this film ; despite some decent murder scenes early on , Silent Action soon becomes rather tedious as the story leans towards the central character uncovering a mystery and the mystery isn't all that exciting . The film starts by depicting the mysterious murders of various Government officials . The film then shows the central copper as he delves into the mystery , starting with finding a prostitute who is believed to be involved in the murder of an innocent man . However , the further he searches , the more it becomes apparent that the murders are all linked to a conspiracy that goes deeper than he first thought . . . The film stars Luc Merenda , who gives a decent performance despite the film's shortcomings . Merenda is one of my favourite Polizi regulars , having seen him in a number of these films , you can always count on him to do a good job , and at least the film doesn't disappoint in that respect . However , Martino doesn't do a very good job when it comes the atmosphere or storytelling . For a film to move at this pace , the story really has be interesting , but it doesn't really manage to hold the audience's attention . We never really get a good feel for the " corruption " element of the story either , and when we start to realise how ' deep ' it all goes , I just got the impression that it didn't really matter . Don't get me wrong , the film isn't all bad and it certainly has its moments ; but I've come to expect more exciting films from this genre , and Silent Action just didn't live up to that . The best part of the film is the ending , though it's debatable as to whether or not it's actually worth waiting for , and again don't be expecting any action ! Overall , I can't completely condemn this film ; but I didn't like it much , and there are much better Italian crime flicks out there !
Left me with a lust to see a better Hammer film	Lust for a Vampire is one of Hammer's lesser known films , and that's hardly surprising as none of their A-list stars were involved in it . Even so , this film actually features one of the more interesting vampire plots that the studio had to offer , although it has to be said that it isn't executed as well as it could have been . The film starts off slowly , and despite a brief period of interest around halfway through ? Lust for a Vampire is never overly exciting , and too much focus is put on mildly sensuous tones of the vampires ' lusts . It's clear that Hammer were being heavily influenced by the trashy films coming out of Europe by the seventies , and that's a shame as sex was never Hammer's strongpoint . The plot is something of a mess , and focuses on the common vampire theme of someone being resurrected . In this case it's Mircalla , formerly known as Carmilla ; a beautiful vampire countess . The home of the vampires is conveniently located right next to a finishing school , which just happens to be populated by beautiful buxom bisexuals with huge breasts , and teachers with a fascination for vampirism . The IMDb trivia section sheds some light on this production - the great combination of Terence Fisher and Peter Cushing had to drop out , and Ralph Bates and Jimmy Sangster were brought in at short notice . While Sangster is a capable director , and Bates has provided some great supporting turns for Hammer ; neither is up to the standard of the pair that dropped out . Ralph Bates does the steal the show , however , with by far the most memorable performance of the film . Yutte Stensgaard takes the female lead , and impresses constantly with her body and angelic good looks . The locations used are generally of a high standard and provide a good Gothic atmosphere for the film to bathe in . . . but all this style isn't enough . There's a complete lack of tension and the plot isn't intriguing enough to draw the audience into the film . The finishing touch is the rubbish Mike Raven performance , which just made me wish for Christopher Lee . This is part of a trilogy of films from Hammer studios that revolve around the Karnstein's , and it's by far the weakest . Not a patch on the great Twins of Evil or the good Vampire Lovers ; Lust for a Vampire is just about worth watching , but I wouldn't make it a priority .
Good premise , not very well executed	This Giallo benefits from an absolutely delicious , and really rather terrifying plot . Gregory Moore has just woken up in a morgue . To the world , he is dead . But inside he is still alive . His mind is working but he cannot move ; he's trapped inside his own corpse . We follow him as he tries to remember the events that lead up him being stuck in this situation . This Giallo is very different from most other Giallo's as it doesn't feature a black gloved killer , there isn't a lot of sex and it isn't as heavy on the style as we've come to expect from the sub-genre . This allows it to concentrate on the mystery side more , and present a very eerie atmosphere when we see our hero speaking from ' beyond the grave ' , but then on the other hand ; it doesn't make for very exciting entertainment . The plot also drags , and the middle of the movie slows down to walking pace on a number of occasions . The way it switches between the morgue and the mystery is good , but there's not enough of the creepiness from the morgue . The mystery isn't very intriguing either , and because the characters lack any real development , it's hard to care . This was Aldo Lado's directorial debut , and I think that this plot was too good for him to handle . Lado went on to make ' Who Saw Her Die ? ' which was a far more assured piece of work . I hate remakes as much as the next movie fan , but I think this is one that should be considered . If this premise was to get a better director on board , say maybe Dario Argento or even Michele Soavi ; it could become a classic of the genre , but it's safe to say that Lado squandered it . Don't get me wrong though , this film isn't a complete waste of time ; it's beautifully shot , and delights in taking the gorgeous Italian landscape , which is very aesthetically pleasing . As mentioned , it's also very eerie and these things save it . It does suffer from the common problems that Giallo faces , such as bad dubbing , very suspect acting and illogical sequences ; but those are staples of the genre so it's hard to fault the film for it . The film definitely ends on a high , but again it's ruined by the fact that we don't care for the characters . If they had some emotional support behind them , the ending would have been executed much better and may even have been rather frightening ; but it doesn't , so it isn't . This film is recommended to Giallo fans , but everyone else can stay clear . There are a number of films in the genre that are good enough to be recommended to everyone , regardless of whether or not they're a fan , such as Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling , most of Argento's oeuvre , Seven Blood Stained Orchids , Blood and Black Lace and The House With the Laughing Windows , but this one is for fans only .
Surrealist short	Luis Buñuel's short film , " Un Chien Andalou " is basically a series of surreal and shocking images , set to a great musical score , that don't appear to have any meaning or even any relevance to each other . The scenes themselves are shocking and at times even hard to watch . The best of these scenes , and the one that best fits what I've just said is the first one ; a sequence that appears to see a man slice a girl's eyeball in half with a razorblade . The scene is amazingly unrestrained , especially for a movie made at the time this was . It's also a classic example of how to show something , without actually showing it by mixing it in with other imagery . Other strange and dreamlike sequences include a man dragging two pianos across the floor with a dead donkey on top of them , ants emerging from a hole in a man's hand , a young man poking a severed hand in the street with a rod and a couple of others . After seeing this , you will wonder what it is you've just seen and whether or not you've just wasted fifteen minutes of your life , but I assure the answer is not . Although this film doesn't appear to mean anything , doesn't make any sense and by all accounts isn't really ' good ' , what it is that you've just witnessed is the film that has influenced just about every surrealistic picture made since . I don't recommend seeking this out ( unless you're a Buñuel completist ) , but if you ever get the chance to catch it ; make sure you do .
Decent enough entertainment	This is a variation on the Hollywood favourite ' Black cop meets white cop ' film , except this time it's hard nosed , professional cop meets annoying actor that wants to play a cop in his next movie . The underrated James Woods plays the professional cop , and really does a great job in making you believe that he'd rather be doing anything else than working with this annoying actor , who is also played to perfection by the very annoying Michael J . Fox . The rest of the cast aren't really very important , although the movie does feature a few stars that are well known for bit parts and co-starring roles in films , people such as Luis Guzman and Delroy Lindo , who are nice additions to the film . The plot of The Hard Way does well in blending several elements together ; you've got the central theme of the actor and hard nosed cop's relationship , and then you've got the main plot of a murderer , known as ' the party crasher ' ( Stephen Lang ) on the loose whom James Woods wants to catch more than anything else , and then you've also got the standard romance angle thrown in too . These elements are strung together without getting too complicated and messy and that is to the film's credit . The film also features a few nice set pieces that are entertaining , if rather predictable . Overall , The Hard Way is forgettable stuff , but if you just want to be entertained for a couple of hours , you could do a lot worse .
Decent enough drama , but it lacks bite	There's definitely the potential for a decent teen based horror drama here , but unfortunately this TV movie doesn't deliver on this and by the end , feels more than a little bit flat . Made for TV horror isn't usually brilliant , but I've discovered a few decent ones recently , although I wouldn't put Midnight Offerings among the best of them . The plot seems to take influence from Stephen King / Brian de Palma's " classic " Carrie , as we follow a couple of high school girls that have supernatural powers . At the centre of the story is David , a young man who's not the brightest bulb in the box , and who also happens to be going out with Vivian . Vivian is a witch , and uses her powers to help David out by murdering teachers that are failing him . However , he's bored with her , and when new girl Robin turns up at the school ; David's head is turned . The chances of there being two witches at one school must be pretty slim ; but that's what happens here as Robin also has supernatural powers and the two girls begin a struggle over David . The only film like this one , aside from Carrie , that I've seen is nineties horror ' The Craft ' . I actually have a higher opinion of that one than most , and I have to say that it's better than this film . Since it was made for television , Midnight Offerings is somewhat on the back foot from the beginning as it was limited by budget and the potential for special effects wasn't there , so it has to rely on it's performers . The acting from Melissa Sue Anderson and Mary Beth McDonough isn't bad , but it isn't great either and neither one really has enough screen presence to carry the film . There's not a lot of action , and the best scene - a battle of wills inside the school wood shop - is just OK . The film does well at building up the mythology around the witches , as we get details of what they can do and some information on the history of their powers ; but the film ultimately lacks any bite , and the ideas on display aren't enough to adequately mask this . Overall , Midnight Offerings is decent enough for a single viewing ; but it could have been a lot better .
Average thriller	I can't say I've ever been a big fan of Mel Gibson , and in fact I can't think of many films he's been in that I'm a fan of ; this one included . Ransom is a remake of a 1956 thriller that I haven't seen , so I can't compare the differences between the two ; and while this film does feature an interesting story and some good set pieces , there's too many things wrong with it for it to really be considered an effective thriller . As the title suggests , the film centres on a kidnapping . Mel Gibson is Tom Mullen , the rich owner of a successful airline . Naturally , this makes his son a target for kidnappers , and soon into the film ; his son is kidnapped by a group demanding ransom . Initially Tom decides to pay , but after a botched drop-off , it soon becomes apparent that the kidnappers have no intention of returning his son to him alive , and this prompts a change of tactics from Tom as he decides to turn the tables on the kidnappers , in spite of the advice of the police and his wife who fear for the boy's safety . One of the problems with the film is simply that it's overlong . The plot would have occupied ninety minutes well , but it's stretched to over two hours and there's not enough about it for it not to feel like filler . It also quickly becomes predictable , which takes the sting out of it . Gibson is really just his usual self and despite a couple of emotional scenes regarding the boy's safety , he never really needs to push his performance up a gear . Gary Sinise is , as usual , cast in the bad guy role and he's slimy as usual ; but again , he's nothing to write home about . It's clearly a Ron Howard film as it features his main trademark ; namely , it's well made but nothing special . The second half of the film is better than the first and once we reach the twist in the middle , things do start to liven up , which is just as well . The ending provides no real surprises ; the final half hour is entertaining enough , but don't be expecting a shock ending . Overall , Ransom is just about worth watching if you have nothing else to do ; but I can't recommend anyone going out of their way to see it .
Nothing special , but just about worthwhile Giallo	Cross Current features all the things that usually make Giallo's successful , but somehow it just doesn't gel together well and in spite of the gory murders and twisted plot , the film always feels like it isn't really going anywhere and that unfortunately harms it . Tonino Ricci directs with flair and style and this is a definite asset to the film . Cross Current has a lovely foreboding atmosphere and the way that the director keeps the focus on the lead characters helps to build claustrophobia and this helps to make sure that the film always remains interesting . The plot focuses on Marco , a boat racer who has an accident . He wakes up in hospital and finds out that he has to have brain surgery . After the operation , he begins recovering at home and is cared for by his wife Monica , his friend Tommy and a woman named Terry . Shortly into his recovery , people around his home start to get murdered ; beginning with the gardener who had previously requested a private meeting with Marco . More murders follow and the police get involved . . . It's a shame that this film wasn't better as some of the murders rival the best of the genre . The intestine spilling scene is excellent , while a slow motion sequence in which a woman is shot oozes coolness . But unfortunately it just doesn't gel together well and feels obvious that the director was trying to make a film that emulates the successful Giallo's of the time . The acting isn't bad , with experienced Italian film actor Philippe Leroy taking the lead role and doing well with it . Rosanna Yanni and Elga Andersen look nice as the female leads , while the always excellent Ivan Rassimov rounds off the central cast . The house in which most of the film is set dominates the atmosphere of the film and proves a good location for a film like this to be set in . It all builds down to a nice twisted ending which just about makes the rest of the film worthwhile . The final ten minutes are really well put together , and this may have been a classic if the rest of the film were as good . Overall , I can't really say that this is essential but , if you can find it , it's just about worth seeing .
Enjoyable ' seventies ' cop comedy	I've never seen the TV show ' Starsky and Hutch ' ( fortunately / unfortunately ) , so I cant comment on whether or not this film does justice to it ; but I have seen a lot of seventies cop films , which means that I can say that this modern update succeeds in capturing the over the top seventies style , albeit in a very jokey manner . Just about all film comedies coming out these days have a combination of Owen Wilson , Ben Stiller , Will Ferrell or Vince Vaughn in them , which makes this one unique as it features the talents of all four ! The seventies are a great period for contemporary comedies to be set in , as it's a very easy period to laugh at . The hairstyles , the clothes etc are all very funny by today's standards , and it's even funnier lately because all the rubbish they used to wear then is back in fashion ! Anyway , the film follows two maverick cops , namely Starsky and Hutch . These two are given to each other as partners after both men annoy the police captain . After being informed of a big coke deal by street informant Huggy Bear , the cops are soon on the trail of drug dealer Vince Vaughn . The entire cast of Starsky and Hutch clearly relish their roles , with the two leads doing particularly well with their characters . Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller don't show any real great acting ability , but the vivacious way they portray their characters , as well as their chemistry with each other , makes the film easy to like . Contributing massively to the likability of Starsky and Hutch is the good humour that runs pretty much throughout the film . Rather than just relying on a series of set pieces , as many modern comedies do ; this one derides humour from almost every situation encountered , and most of it is very funny . The cast aside from the two leads are well suited to their roles , with one exception ; Snoop Dogg . Snoopy Snoop Dog Dog Doggity Snoopy Dogg is a terrible actor , and I have no idea how he keeps getting cast in films . I realise that the majority of the films he's in are rubbish and not to be taken seriously ; but it really is painful to see him on screen . Sadly , he's only as good at acting as he is at making ' music ' . Some people should be forced to retire . Anyway , that casting blunder aside ; this is generally a very enjoyable movie .
Stupid and heavily flawed , but saved by the nostalgia value	Snuff movies are a proved source of interesting horror plot lines and many successful horror movies have used that basis ; The Last House on Dead-End Street and Tesis are good examples . Video Violence certainly has the capacity to be another excellent snuff movie based film ; but down to a lack of budget and a lack of talent , the film is unfortunately little more than a nostalgic slice of eighties kitsch . It's completely obvious what the filmmakers were trying to do here and despite the fact that the points the film tries to make never really get across ; the filmmakers do get some credit for at least trying to make a movie with a point . The plot focuses on a video store ran by a man named Steven . Steven is disturbed by the fact that all the locals seem to want to watch is gory horror movies ( though that's all he has in stock judging by the shelves ) . One day , he finds a blank tape in the drop box and after being convinced to watch it by his employee , he discovers that the tape contains a " real " snuff film and naturally decides to take it to the police . . . It would seem that the makers of Video Violence set out to make the film as long as it could be possibly be ; and ninety six minutes is quite a long time for this film to be on for ; especially considering that most of the running time is used by completely pointless filler scenes . The pace of the film is very slow indeed and there is literally no suspense at all throughout the whole film . The characters are impossible to care and that is mostly down to the atrocious script and acting . You would expect bad acting in a film like this ; but I can't understand why they clearly went out to cast the worst actors possible . I'm pretty sure you could drag a load of random people off the street and end up with a better cast . However , despite the many flaws ; there is something good about Video Violence , and that is the nostalgia value of it all . The idea of walking into a video store and coming out with a tape is practically unthinkable now and it's good to see a film focus on something that was once an institution ; seeing the films on the store's shelves and the posters on the wall is fun too . Anyone going into this film expecting a gory horror is liable to be disappointed as there's not much gore on display and what there is just looks cheap ; but if you can look past the catalogue of flaws , Video Violence is almost worth a look .
Disappointing performances in a lacklustre thriller	Night Hair Child has all the elements to be a disturbing and dark thriller ; especially considering the sick and twisted plot line . However , despite a few interesting ideas ; this film doesn't capitalise on them , and unfortunately it's only an average film that is nowhere near as disturbing as it could have been . The plot basically focuses on the idea of a ' problem child ' causing problems between his parent and a new significant other . The problem child idea has been done many times throughout cinema ; but a less common variant is a film like this , where sleaze take centre stage . However , such is the disappointment of Night Hair Child ; not even the sleaze is all that prominent . The plot focuses on Elise ; a beautiful young woman who has married older man Paul . Paul's wife apparently died in a strange bathtub incident and this has had a damning effect on her son Marcus , who unluckily for Elise , has returned home from school early and has took it upon himself to wreck their marriage by way of getting in between them with lies and bad behaviour . The main problem with this film is definitely the acting . A plot like this needs strong performances from the leads and it just doesn't get them . Britt Ekland has been good in other films where a great performance is not needed ; but she just doesn't have the talent for this role and despite looking nice , she doesn't deliver what is needed . Her opposite number is Mark Lester . I can completely understand the attraction of having the star of Oliver in a role as a twisted sex pervert ; but unfortunately , he's a terrible actor that never conveys any emotion at all and simply does not convince in his role . He's also very irritating and every scene he features in is a struggle to get through . The plot is nowhere near as interesting as it could have been either ; the exchanges between the central characters lack imagination , and only the scene where Britt Ekland strips for Mark Lester is really memorable ; and it's not as memorable as a similar scene in Lucio Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling starring Barbara Bouchet . Overall , it's a shame but I wouldn't really say that this film is even worth a look .
No Misery , but it's not bad	Dolores Claiborne is a very solid adaptation of a book by a man who is probably the king of modern horror literature : Stephen King ( I haven't read that many books , so I can't say for sure ) . I haven't read the original source material , but judging by this film it is safe to say that it wasn't meant to be horror-per say , as the film follows more of a psychological thriller pattern when it comes to plotting ; despite some blatant horror influences . The style of plotting is relatively exciting , and it shows both the current events , which it then intertwines with flashbacks of the past . This sort of film can easily get muddled , but you have to give credit to Dolores Claiborne as it successfully manages to keep itself on the straight and narrow with regards to plotting . The film follows the story of a housekeeper who has allegedly murdered her employer by throwing her down the stairs . The plot thickens when her daughter , who still blames her mother for the mysterious death of her father , comes to town to see what's going on with her parent . Kathy Bates , who impressed in the 1990 Stephen King adaptation of ' Misery ' , overacts here , it has to be said , but in spite of that she still brings believability and a relative degree of sympathy to her character , and it's very easy to see why director Taylor Hackford would have cast her in the title role . She is joined on screen by a woman who is one of today's most underrated performers ; Jennifer Jason Leigh . Leigh impresses throughout the film and although her character is definitely second to Bates ' in the film's hierarchy , Leigh still delivers the best performance in the movie . While the film is always good enough to be called interesting , it is overlong and had the action have been compacted , the resulting movie would have been far more thrilling and as it is a thrillers ' main aim to be thrilling ; shortening the movie down would definitely have been a good idea . While this movie isn't exactly a fine example of the genre , it's a solid thriller and if you find yourself with nothing better to do one night while this film is on television ; you could do a lot worse than watch it .
Sordid , but not too shocking seventies exploitation	Hitch Hike to Hell certainly can't be considered a ' great ' slice of seventies exploitation , and while this type of film has been a lot better ; there are far worse examples to choose from also . The film's influences are wide and largely obvious , with Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho and , of course , Wes Craven's The Last House on the Left standing out the most . It's also obvious that the film didn't have the greatest scriptwriter on board , as while the tacky dialogue can easily be ignored , the numerous coincidences and obvious plot devices stick out too much , and lowered my enjoyment of the film . For example , just how many runaway girls can one man run across ? Anyway , the plot focuses on Howard Martin , a weird shy man that drives a laundry truck . Beneath his harmless exterior , the man is a raving lunatic who is obsessed with his mother and can't stand to hear that a young girl is running away from hers . This leads him to begin killing the runaways by strangulation , but it's not long before the police catch on and begin hunting for the mysterious stranger murdering women on the highway . Hitch-hiking is a common theme within horror cinema , and has lead to some of the greatest genre movies of all time . The main problem with this movie , however , is that it gets a bit monotonous after a while . Basically , the central psycho picks up a woman , she tells him that she's run away from home - and then he kills her . It's clear that the film was shot on a low budget , and indeed ; it looks very , very cheap . But despite that , director Irvin Berwick manages to create a great country atmosphere , which is built up by the spacious locations and a relaxed soundtrack . There's not a great deal of violence in the film , and the style of the movie is such that we never really get the impression that the lead character is a bad man . He commits acts of violence , and then in the next scene everything seems OK . It's a rather odd tone for a movie like this , but the mean spirit comes in at the end with a climax that really is quite shocking , as well as being unexpected given what we've seen of the character earlier . Overall , I can't give this film a high recommendation as it really isn't all that good ; but in spite of that , it's worth seeing for the exploitation fan .
Unfortunately rubbish , but not a complete dead loss	Overall , I have to rate Terror Eyes as a shame , as it has so much going for it ; but unfortunately , most of it is lost under terrible plotting , which often reduces the film to merely a lot of death scenes strung together . Terror Eyes appears to take a lot of influence from the popular Italian Giallo sub-genre , and that is never a bad thing ; although the film still fits firmly into the slasher sub-genre , which often is a bad thing . The modus operandi of the killer here is rather odd , but it works rather well as we follow a biker dressed all in black leathers who enjoys going round decapitating various members of a night school , before dumping their heads in the nearest container of water . Naturally , all this carnage prompts a police investigation ; but the officers on the case are more interested in spurting terrible lines of dialogue than finding the killer , and so the murders continue . We are introduced to several red herrings along the way , although suspicion often seems to fall on the school's anthropology professor . My only reason for seeing this film is due to the fact that it was included on the DPP Video Nasty list back in the eighties . However , it turns out that this is one of the many films that don't deserve their place on a list of notorious films , as there's very little blood and even macabre incidents such as severed heads being thrown into fish tanks etc never seem very shocking . The film is directed by Ken Hughes , the same man responsible for both the James Bond spoof Casino Royale and , rather more shockingly , children's classic Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ! It's seems obvious that one of the film's problems is that the director isn't experienced in directing horror films , and this is shown through the almost complete lack of suspense and blasé attitude when it comes to the plot . The film doesn't feature any big name stars , although Rachel Ward makes a mark and the rest of the support cast aren't too bad considering the material they were working with . Overall , I'd like to have liked this film more ; the Giallo influences are good and the film has potential , but this is not realised and Terror Eyes is merely a mundane slasher flick .
Mundane Italian horror from the sixties	Upon discovering this film , I thought I may well have come across a hidden gem , but unfortunately , despite a sombre opening that looks so promising , Massimo Pupillo's film never lifts itself too far above the ordinary , and what we are left with is a film that falls short of what could have been . The plot takes in intriguing themes of messages from beyond the grave , the black plague and control over the dead , but the handling is such that the themes are never brought to the forefront , and Cemetery of the Living Dead seems content to remain in merely decent territory , rather than upping the ante as it could easily have done . The film begins by following an attorney who arrives at an estate following a letter from the head of said place of residence . However , he soon learns that the sender died a year ago , and after further learning that includes him finding out that the late estate owner had the power to contact the deceased victims of the bubonic plague which are buried around the house , the plot takes a turn for the more sinister . The main reason I saw this film was due to the inclusion of the great Barbara Steele . Steele has undoubtedly given a number of great performances in horror classics such as Black Sunday and Night of the Doomed , but she's ineffective here in a role that doesn't allow her to deliver what she's capable of . The rest of the support cast isn't very memorable either . The fact that this film is shot in black and white should mean that the atmosphere is a standout , but the picture is pale and far too bright , which saps any foreboding feelings coming from the cinematography out . The plotting is far too relaxed all the way through , and this helps to nip the suspense in the bud ; and that's not exactly what you want from a suspense film . Luckily , this film manages to claw some points back thanks to it's set design and Gothic styling's , as while he was forgetting to generate tension ; at least director Massimo Pupillo remembered to get the look of the film right . It all boils down to a completely rubbish ending and overall ; I'm a big fan of Italian horror , and not even I liked this . Skip it !
Incoherent but somewhat worthwhile thriller	Dream Lover is one odd little film . On one hand , it's a Neo-Noir style mystery romantic thriller , but for some reason ; supernatural themes are constantly hinted at through the tone , title and dream sequences featured throughout the film . I have to say that it really looks like director Nicholas Kazan wasn't really sure what he wanted the film to be , and what we've ended up with is a disjointed blending of a few different genres , which hasn't come out all that well . Still , Dream Lovers does manage an interesting story in spite of this ; and while I'm biased because I love a good mystery thriller , I'd say it's just about worth seeing . The plot focuses on Ray Reardon ( not the snooker player ) , a man who has just split with his wife . It's not long before he meets the beautiful Lena Mathers , whom he falls in love , marries and has kids with . . . before realising that he doesn't really know anything about her . Oops ! Around the same time , strange events transpire and it becomes obvious to Ray that Lena isn't who she appears to be , and so he endeavours to get to the bottom of who she is . James Spader takes the lead role and both acts and looks the part that he is playing . He is joined by the suitably sexy Mädchen Amick , who is both sultry and seductive in her role . The leads do have chemistry together , and while the film is in no way as sexy as Nicholas Kazan obviously thinks it is , there are no problems on the acting front . The plot really is all over the place , yet somehow it still manages to be rather predictable and despite being a mystery , Dream Lover soon sets itself into a rhythm . I don't like the title very much , as it gives the complete wrong impression of the film - and while it sort of makes sense given what happens , it could have been marketed better . It all boils down to a decent enough ending which , while not very clever , manages to make sense in spite of the fact that it's all a little bit silly , and the final sequence is by far and away the most powerful in the film . Overall , I can't really give Dream Lovers high recommendations , but it's enjoyable and I think the majority of negative comments directed against it are unfair .
Fun enough , but somewhat lacking	Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man may not be the most interesting film that Universal studios made in their horror golden era , but it's worth noting for the fact that it was the first of their films to merge the studio's popular horror characters into one film . There's no Dracula here , and it's actually the least famous of the three major players , the Wolfman , that takes the centre stage . Naturally , Lon Chaney Jr . has returned to play the doomed unfortunate with the curse , and as ever ; his performance is good , but not to the same extent that it was in the original Wolfman film . The film was released during the Second World War , and must have been intended as something fun to take people's mind off more important issues ; and it at least succeeds on that front . The plot is rather silly , and sees Lawrence Talbot ( a . k . a . The Wolfman ) being awakened by grave robbers . He doesn't like the fact that he's immortal and feels the need to kill people , so he sets out to find Dr Frankenstein for help . However , the doctor is dead ; and Talbot finds only a relative of Frankenstein's , and the Monster . . . It has to be said that there's a bit too much going on in this film , and the hour runtime isn't enough to cover it all . Aside from the main plot revolving around the Wolfman and his discovery of Frankenstein's Monster , we've also got threads involving Frankenstein's relatives , a gypsy woman , Talbot's own personal battle and the common angry / frightened villagers theme that Universal horror does so well . Frankenstein Meets the Wolfman is never boring , but if the plot line could have been streamlined ; the film would have worked better . The film features the only performance from Bela Lugosi as the Monster . Lugosi was , apparently , offered the role of the Monster in James Whale's original film ; and I'm glad he didn't take it , as he doesn't bring the same feel to the role as Karloff ended up doing . Series regular Lionel Atwill also makes an appearance , and I was pleased to see Dennis Hoey in the film ; an actor most recognised for his performances as the inept Inspector Lestrade in Universal's Sherlock Holmes films . Overall , I have to say that I preferred the later films , House of Frankenstein and House of Dracula ; but this one is still worth seeing .
Nothing like as good as the first , but amusing enough .	I wouldn't hesitate to name Sergio Martino as one of my all time favourite directors . His Giallo is second only to the great Dario Argento , and he's made a few other nice films in other genres too . Sex comedies were popular in the seventies Italy , and like most Italian directors ; Martino was happy to turn his hand to the current popular genre . Prior to seeing this film , I had seen two Martino sex comedies , both starring Edwige Fenech and both very good ; the films being Giovannona Long-Thigh and the first Sex with a Smile . I wasn't too hopeful for this sequel given how Italian sequels usually go ; and while it's weaker than the other two sex comedies that I've seen from Martino ; it still offers a decent ninety minutes of entertainment . The stories in this film don't follow on at all from those in the first , and the best one here isn't as good as the worst one in the first film ; but as I say , it's enjoyable enough light-hearted stuff , and it would be foolish to go into a seventies Italian sex comedy with any higher expectations than that . The stories are something of a mixed bag . The first one is a silly and fairly amusing yarn revolving round private detectives trying to prove to a husband that his faithful wife is unfaithful . It's a decent opener . The middle two tales are better ; the first of which is an Italian variant on Some Like it Hot . It revolves around a man who decides to dress up as a woman so he can replace the star player on the ladies football team . Naturally , most of the tale revolves around the shower and our hero also attracts some unwanted attention from members of both sexes . The third tale is probably the best and stars the beautiful Barbara Bouchet . It revolves around an unfaithful husband trying to hide his mistress from his wife , and losing out to a would-be thief . The final story is somewhat boring , and has something to do with a woman trying to cheat on her husband right under his nose , and not being very successful at it . The film is fairly raunchy throughout , but not really very sleazy . There's a bit of nudity here and there , but nothing to write home about . The jokes are decent and the odd comical situation is funny , but this is more an amusing timewaster than a brilliant comedy .
Surprisingly decent British horror flick	I have to say I was pleasantly surprised by this one ; I went in expecting nothing and actually found a more than decent horror movie . The film is directed by Michael Armstrong , a British man who would go on to direct the excellent ' Mark of the Devil ' a year later . The title is a bit misleading as it makes the film out to be a haunted house movie , when in fact it's closer to the slasher genre if anything . The film takes place in sixties ' swinging ' London and focuses on a group of young friends . They're out one night and looking for a party when one of them suggests that they go to an old house that is supposedly haunted . Their party turns sour when one of the friends gets sliced by an unseen killer and , believing they would be in trouble with the local bobby's if they come forward , they decide to dispose of the body themselves . I have to admit that the film is really quite predictable and even though it's a " whodunit " , there's never a great deal of mystery surrounding anything in the film . The film is very well shot , however , and the director does a good job of capturing the swinging sixties feel . It's also a very colourful film , which is nice . The acting is rubbish of course , but that's not too important and it all boils down to a nice little twist at the end . I can't say this is brilliant stuff ; but it's not bad and worth a look for horror fans .
A dark and brooding thriller	The Wisdom of Crocodiles is one of a new breed of vampire movies . Probably started by Abel Ferrera's " The Addiction " , vampirism has turned into a sort of curse that turns it's afflicted into brooding philosophers . Gone are the vampire bats , wooden stakes and crucifixes that once were the staples of the genre , and the vampire genre has been changed into a commentary on disease . However , I'm all for innovation , even if it's not always advisable innovation , and The Wisdom of Crocodiles is one of the better ' new wave ' vampire films . It actually seems to be taking more influence from George Romero's excellent ' Martin ' than ' The Addiction ' anyway . The Wisdom of Crocodiles ( great name , by the way ) stars Jude Law , in a tight performance , as a man afflicted with some sort of curse that forces him to suck the blood of women while in the act of lovemaking . To say any more than that would mean spoiling it , so I'll leave it there . The Wisdom of Crocodiles has gained itself something of a cult following , and the channel I saw it on even introduced it as a ' cult classic ' . I think this is an incorrect description of the film , as although it's not bad and certainly has it's moments ; it hardly has the same qualities as true cult masterpieces , such as the aforementioned ' Martin ' . The film benefits from a brooding atmosphere that is created by a brooding musical score that plays through almost the entire running time . This never gets annoying however , as the music is good and almost always adds to the images seen on screen . The film is slowly plotted , which might annoy some people and it's littered with philosophical ideas that Jude Law utters for a lot of the running time . This will probably irritate people that tuned in expecting a vampire movie , especially as there's little bloodletting , but some of the ideas put forward are fairly interesting , and keep the film alive . This film shouldn't really be in with the classic vampire films at all , as it's a completely different animal ( I suppose they couldn't really put it in with ' brooding cursed people ' , though ) . Vampire fans should take note of this , but even without the classic vampire thrills ; there is much to like about this British chiller .
The Last House in the Snow	Winter Heat clearly takes influence from the Wes Craven classic The Last House on the Left , and is basically just another rip off ( to add to Fight for Your Life , The House on the Edge of the Park etc ) only this time hardcore sex scenes replace the moments of prolonged terror . The plot focuses on a group of criminals ( three men and a woman ) who have nothing better to do than break into a house inhabited by a couple of women . They get in the house and then force the girls to have sex with them . The film was obviously shot on an extremely low budget , but in spite of that it does actually work quite well . The hardcore porn takes up most of the runtime and that's actually a bit of a shame because it gets old fairly quickly ; and the banter between the criminals is quite fun to watch . The acting is generally atrocious with most of the cast failing to convey any sort of emotion ; but the lead criminal does a good David Hess impression . The girls that are broken in on are the least convincing ; they don't really seem to mind being forced into oral and anal sex ! All in all , this is not a bad film ; it's short and sweet and not all that impressive , but roughie fans will probably get a kick out of it .
Well made but disappointing Italian chiller	A Whisper in the Dark is a very well made Italian chiller ; a million miles away from the cheap quickies that the nation is more famous for making . However , despite being a technically well made film ; A Whisper in the Dark misses out where the story is concerned . It's all of a very slow build variety and unfortunately the film doesn't manage to elevate itself enough to go above ' faintly interesting ' and the result is rather disappointing . The base of this story has been seen many times since this film - though not all that many times before ; however , influence was clearly taken from Nicholas Roeg's masterpiece Don't Look Now . The plot focuses on a boy named Martino . Martino has an imaginary brother named Luca ; and this is a worry to his parent as the child they lost was to be called Luca before its premature death . Strange things start to happen and before long the parents begin to believe that maybe there's something more to the ' game ' that their son is playing and seek medical help for the boy . Most of the duration of the film is spent on build up and as such I was expecting something pretty special by the end . Be it a clever twist or maybe even a shock ; but unfortunately that never happens . The film just builds up to nothing at all and that is the major problem with it . It's a real shame too because this could have been great considering the obvious effort that went into it . A Whisper in the Dark is a very beautiful film ; the decor and cinematography is mouth watering and the direction courtesy of Marcello Aliprandi is excellent . Furthermore , the acting is not bad ; with child actor Alessandro Poggi doing well in the lead role and getting capable support from the likes of John Phillip Law , Nathalie Delon and Joseph Cotten in what is little more than a cameo role . The events during the film are always mildly interesting but the only reason the film kept my attention was because I was waiting for something to happen . The ending is an anti-climax to say the least and it spoils what otherwise could have been a very good film !
Fun enough , for what it is	I've got to admit that I liked the original Species quite a lot , and even though this movie suffers from some terrible dialogue and an overall ridiculous plot ; for what it is , I've got to say that Species II is a decent sequel . Three stars from the first film return to their roles ; series pin-up Natasha Henstridge , Marg Helgenberger and , of course , the all-action hero Michael Madsen . A sequel to the original film really could have written itself as the door was left wide-open at the end , but instead of following on directly from the first film ; we've got a thread about a mission to mars thrown in to further things . Three astronauts go to mars , and one of them comes back infected by alien DNA . The supposed national hero lusts for the recreated ' Sil ' ( a clone , a bit like Ripley was in Alien 4 ) , who finds herself confined to a high security prison under the command of Dr . Laura Baker . However , when the astronaut begins killing women ; the government realise that some serious clean-up work is in order , and proceed to track down Press Lenox ; apparently the only man capable of helping to stop the alien . The film doesn't have a lot of depth as aside from letting us into the idea of the alien originating from mars ; it's pretty much just a spin-off from the original . Characters from the first film return in identical roles , while new blood such as Mykelti Williamson don't do much to make the film any more interesting on the character front . It's obvious that this film wasn't given big studio backing as it all feels very cheap , and this is mostly down to the rubbish CGI , which was also featured in the original film . In fairness , here it isn't used as often and the effects that don't use computers do look rather nice . There's not a lot of gore on display , but there's some inventive kill scenes and the alien , being based on a H . R . Giger creation , is suitably imaginative . It's a shame that original star Natasha Henstridge is so underused , as her role feels a lot like it's only in the film as a tie to the original ; and I'm sure that I'm not the only one who wouldn't have minded seeing more of her . Still , while this film really isn't very good ; you can't expect brilliance from a sequel to a minor mid-nineties hit , and I did enjoy watching it .
Enjoyable eighties trash	Chopping Mall is a generally well regarded little cult classic which delivers seventy odd minutes of fun trashy eighties style horror and not much more . It's obvious that director Jim Wynorski was happy for this to be the case , as the film has nothing in the way of characters or logic , but plenty in terms of cult value . First of all , we have very small roles for the likes of Eating Raoul duo Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov , as well as the memorable Dick Miller who was first noticed in Roger Corman's A Bucket of Blood way back in 1959 ; all of which take the characters that they had in their respective cult movies . The plot focuses on a shopping mall where a brand new kind of security has been installed . The security is in form of ' high tech ' robots , which promise to keep out intruders . However , it's not long before the robots malfunction and that's bad news for the sex hungry set of teens that have decided to stay in the mall after-hours . With all the night staff dead , the teens must battle the robots with anything they can find in the hope that they'll make it out alive . . . Everything about this film is pure eighties . The gore is typically trashy and over the top , while the robots themselves look about as high tech as a BBC computer . However , all this actually does the film a favour as while it is now heavily dated and really rather silly ; Chopping Mall works because of what can now be seen as a tribute to the age of low budget stupid horror movies . The plot takes obvious influence from George Romero's zombie masterpiece Dawn of the Dead with regards to the mall setting and focus on survival horror . The film works well as a tribute to Romero also , and the influence of course increase's its cult value . The female cast is nice to look at , with the only one who has any sort of reputation nowadays being Barbara Crampton - an actress famous for working with Stuart Gordon on Lovecraft adaptations From Beyond and Re-Animator . The nudity is only suggestive , and that combined with the silly gore means that this film won't do much for those gorehounds amongst us - but even so , Chopping Mall is an enjoyable slice of cheese and I enjoyed watching it .
Amusing sixties sex comedy	I wasn't really sure what to expect going into this one ; my experience of Peter Walker extends only to his horror movies , some of which are excellent ( House of Whipcord ) while others are terrible ( Die Screaming Marianne ) . School for Sex is an early Walker film ( actually , his first according to IMDb ) and it's his attempt at a sex comedy . The film doesn't exactly have a great reputation among the few who have seen it , and that's not really surprising - but all the same , I actually rather liked this silly little film . Naturally , everything in it is rather tame these days , and compared to other films like this from the late sixties - not all that lurid for the time it was released in . The film was obviously intended to be more of a comedy than a sex film , and doesn't go much further than showing it's female cast topless . The plot focuses on a man convicted for fraud . He decides to start up his own ' school for sex ' with the help of a local Duchess . There he teaches girls how to seduce men and get them to part with their cash . . . The plot was clearly not the main thing on Peter Walker's mind . The film is only short , running about seventy five minutes and the story neither goes anywhere nor has any real point . Obviously the main aim of the film was to show a bit of skin and make his audience laugh , and Walker just about achieved both of those aims . The comedy isn't really very funny , but it's all very light-hearted and the film has a sort of British charm to it which is nice . I can certainly see why the film doesn't have a great deal of fans ; aside from the reasons mentioned , this is never going to be a film that will appeal to everyone ; porn fans are likely to be disappointed at the lack of sex and nudity , while non-porn fans probably wont enjoy it much either . The central idea certainly could have lead to a much better movie too ; I have to admit that I enjoy movies about people being conned anyway , and showing young girls doing it to ' men who should know better ' could have been much more fun . On the whole , this is not exactly Peter Walker's best work , but for what is I enjoyed it , although I wouldn't recommend anyone going to great lengths to track it down !
Crappy , but fun eighties horror flick !	Believe it or not , Blood Beach actually surpassed my expectations . Of course , I didn't go into the film expecting a masterpiece ; but I decided if it was half as fun as the other beach related John Saxon film that I've seen ( Umberto's Lenzi's Nightmare Beach ) , then I'd be happy . Despite being a schlocky eighties mess of a movie , Blood Beach is a lot of fun to watch and the idea of monsters living underneath the sand of a local tourist beach is fairly original . The film takes more than its fair share of influence from the classic film Jaws , and I was actually surprised that it wasn't produced in Italy - given how adept the Italians are at making Jaws rip-offs . As mentioned , the plot focuses on a tourist beach , except this time the danger isn't in the water but in the sand . After several people disappear into the sand , it is up to the local law enforcement to keep people off the beach . There's also a rather superfluous sub-plot about a couple of long-lost lovers bumping into each other and rekindling their relationship . . . but you've got to expect a bit of filler with a plot this thin ! The film's main asset is undoubtedly the fact that it features a performance from prolific cult actor John Saxon . Unfortunately , Saxon isn't the star of the show , but he makes his presence felt in every scene he's in . The main roles go to David Huffman and Marianna Hill , and while neither impresses ; their performances at least fit with the film . The main reason why this film fails as a ' good ' horror film is down to the plotting - it's never really all that interesting , and it seems obvious that writer-director Jeffrey Bloom knows this as he continually throws in yet another sand death scene every time things are getting boring . Unlike a lot of eighties horror ; this one is practically bloodless , and while I'm not a big fan of that fan of that fact ; I have to respect the film somewhat for not throwing in a bucket of gore , which wouldn't have fit with the tone and theme of the movie . The ending doesn't really resolve much , and while the conclusion is typical of this sort of film ; it does at least work fairly well . Overall , Blood Beach is hardly a must see film - but it's certainly worth seeing if you manage to get your hands on a copy .
The Wizard , from the Godfather	The title of this movie alone is a good enough reason to see it ; the fact that it features buckets of the Godfather of Gore's trademark red stuff is another one ! It has to be said that this isn't a good movie by any stretch of the imagination , but there's plenty of fun to be had with it , and anyone who digs HG Lewis is bound to enjoy themselves . The plot is more than obviously an excuse for HG to get his bucket of red paint out , as the simple plot follows an illusionist who makes his audience believe that he's brutally murdering young women from the audience as a part of his act . The scenes on the stage make up most of the film , and Lewis delights in showing us every speck of blood from the horrific sequences . Seriously , this guy earned himself the nickname ' The Godfather of Gore ' for a reason ! Anyway , the plot thickens ( just a little ) when the girls he ' murders ' on stage begin turning up dead in the same fashion as his illusions - a TV presenter and her boyfriend soon get on the case , but as the bodies start to pile up . . . the show is allowed to go on , just so HG can think up even more gore scenes ! The effects are really quite silly , and look like they cost the director little more than a few pence . However , you do get the impression that HG Lewis really put his heart into this film , and that makes up for the crappy effects . . . even if they do make you laugh more often than they make you cringe . I'm sure that Lewis would have loved to have Vincent Price star in this film , but he had to make do with regular collaborator , Ray Sager instead . Sager's role is silly anyway , but his performance makes it even more camp than it should be . The rest of the acting is terrible as well ; but , to be honest , I wouldn't have it any other way . The plot revolves entirely around the stage show , which takes place in a tiny , dingy , little arena with about ten seats in it . Really , the film just hops from one gore scene to another ; and Lewis doesn't seem to know what to do with himself when there aren't any guts on the screen , as the ' filler ' scenes are really quite boring . It all boils down to a really stupid finale . . . but it's one that makes it obvious that HG Lewis made this film a smile on his face , and I've got to say that I really enjoyed it !
Lesser Chabrol effort	The more Claude Chabrol films I check out , the more I like the great French director . Prior to seeing this early Chabrol flick , I hadn't seen a bad film from him - after seeing it , I have to say that I still haven't ; but that doesn't change the fact that The Road to Corinth is a decidedly sub par offering from the usually solid director . Chabrol's best work tends to focus solely on characters - in particular the relationship between husband and wife - but this film focuses on more global events and the characters take a backseat . The plot focuses on a set of black boxes that have the ability to jam radar installations . Naturally there are people out to protect these devices and it's not long before an American agent is killed while trying to locate them . Despite the advice of a fellow American , his widow Shanny resolves to get on the same lead that her husband was following prior to his death , hunt down the black boxes and get revenge on the people that killed her husband . The film is rather strange as it lacks Chabrol's usual suspense and that is replaced by a sort of awkward comedy which serves only in offsetting what little tension there is since the comedy does not work . One of the major problems with this film is undoubtedly the plot line which doesn't exactly help the lack of suspense because it's really rather boring within itself and Chabrol doesn't give the audience much reason to care about the black boxes at the centre of the story . The film does have some saving graces on the style front , however , as lead actress Jean Seberg is very easy on the eyes and Chabrol's cinematography captures the locations used well . The first half of the film just sort of drones along with barely any excitement at all , but to the film's credit ; things do pick up a little bit in the second half of the film as the story draws to a close . In spite of this , however , The Road to Corinth does feel more than a little bit pointless and it's clear that Chabrol didn't really have anything to say with it . Overall , this is not one of the great director's better efforts and I would not recommend it !
Derivative but just about worthwhile slasher	I'm not the biggest fan of slasher movies , but this one was a point of interest for me due to its director , and the fact that I'm a big fan of Italian cinema . Body count is clearly very derivative of successful American slashers such as Friday the 13th , as it takes place in a backwater location and features a seemingly unstoppable madman murdering his way through a load of useless teenagers . However , Ruggero Deodato's film elevates itself above the barrage of rip-offs with some great scenes of slaughter and a fitting music score courtesy of former Goblin , Claudio Simonetti . The film takes in the common supernatural slasher themes , and focuses on a legend of an old Indian shaman that used to live in the woods where all the screaming takes place . Naturally , most of our main characters are dumb , horny teens that have made the silly decision of going camping in a van . It's not long before they meet a young kid from the army , and they decide to go stay over at his parent's house ; a couple who are having marital problems . Oh , and there's the small problem of a maniac in the woods . . . could it be the same Indian shaman ? Ruggero Deodato isn't a director that likes to leave you wondering what his films are about , and pretty soon after the film has started , we are treated to a delicious double murder scene . From there , the murder scenes are all memorable and although they're mostly committed with a knife , Deodato makes good use of the weapon and scenes that see a young girl coming through a door with a knife in her head ensure that this is slightly more than the usual eighties slasher . My only real complaint where weapons are concerned is the fact that there's a chainsaw in the film , which isn't put to best use . Body Count benefits from a great cast of Eurohorror regulars , including David Hess ; who isn't put to best use , Mimsey Farmer who has worked previously with Italian masters Dario Argento and Lucio Fulci , and cult luminary Ivan Rassimov as the sheriff . It's true that none of the stars are given roles that allow them to shine ; David Hess ' role even seems to be a parody of his usual strong performances . Body Count won't be a must see film for fans of Italian horror , but slasher fans shouldn't be disappointed and I rate this as a success for the overpopulated slasher sub-genre on the whole .
Decent TV horror fare	There were a lot of horror flicks made for TV in the seventies , a lot of them are fairly decent . This is another not brilliant one ; but it's not bad either . The film was apparently made as a part of a TV series named ' Thriller ' , which I've never heard of . The plot is fairly well strung together , and focuses on Satanism . After a horse accident , a headstrong young girl finds herself paralysed . Her saviour arrives in the form of a plump nurse named Bessy , and she's soon promising to get the paralysed girl back up and on her feet . . . but only at a price . At just seventy minutes , the film doesn't really have time to explore the plot in much detail , but for a little TV movie it's not bad . Diana Dors excellently holds attention as the sinister nurse , and makes the film worth watching on her own . The action is pretty good and the film features a few interesting set pieces . The interplay between the supporting characters is decent enough too , and it boils down a silly but somewhat satisfying conclusion . I can't say that this is a great film and there have been better films based on the same subject - but it's not terrible and I'd say that The Devil's Web is worth a look .
Decent enough sleaze , but could have been better .	I have to say I'm more than a little bit disappointed with this film . It's not that The Pleasure Shop on 7th Avenue is particularly bad for what it is , or that I was expecting it to be brilliant . . . but somehow , this just feels a bit too empty to be a film from the often proclaimed ' king of sleaze ' , Joe D'Amato . The film starts off well , with two would be robbers holding up a chemist , before finding out that it's under the protection of the local mob boss and scampering out the back door . The shenanigans continue when the bumbling thieves happen upon a porn shop being run by the mob boss ' girlfriend ! They then take her captive and make their way to Canada in order to escape the mob . The problem with this plot is that D'Amato doesn't take any advantage of the opportunities for a good thriller , or for humour and instead ; we get a barrage of sleaze and nudity , which is OK , but the film could have had so much more if D'Amato had been thinking outside the box . The sleaze on display isn't the most shocking Joe D'Amato fans will have seen from him , but there's a lot of stuff that is bound to please anyone with a mind to see this film . The Pleasure Shop on 7th Avenue isn't easy to track down , and I can't really recommend going out of your way as there are better trashy exploitation films out there ? . but of course , there's also a lot worse .
Good on the atmosphere , but lacking in action	Supposedly based on actual events that took place in Texarkana shortly after the end of the First World War . The film takes on a documentary style , which is shown through the rather corny voice-over and is mixed with footage of a man in a hood bumping various youngsters off . Given that the film is based on a true story , this actually turned out to be a good way to film it ; although those who are going into this film expecting a slasher along the lines of Halloween or Black Christmas are likely to be disappointed . The film plays out more like a profile of the serial killer , although since not much is known about the actual hooded maniac that terrorised Texas back in the forties , the film doesn't go too deep either . The film focuses more on the police and the local residents rather than the actual killer , and we follow the effect that the murder spree has had on the town , through both the residents ' actions and the baffled police investigation into the crimes . The main strongpoint of this movie definitely lies in its atmosphere , and director Charles B . Pierce does well at ensuring that the fear of the locals always shines through . These is shown by having the local people board up their windows and buy all the weapons from the local gun shops , which in turn ensures that the audience is aware of both the killer's actions and their implications on the local townspeople . The director also does well at presenting the southern style to the film , as all the people speak with thick accents and it gives the film an element of realism . However , all this is well and good ; but there's not enough action , and while this film stands out among real-life serial killer films thanks to the way that it shows the murders and their implications ; there's not enough action , and at times the film can feel rather flat . The film could definitely do with a decent release also , as the copy that I saw was too dark during the night scenes and at times it was difficult to see what was going on . There's an element of slapstick comedy in the film as well , which makes it more entertaining . . . but I can't help but think it's rather inappropriate . Overall , this film is definitely worth seeing for the cult horror fan ; but personally , I don't rate it as a classic .
Not great , but fun enough	You just don't go into The Punisher expecting to see anything like a great film , and it's a good thing because a great film this ain't . However , you can go in expecting some brainless fun ; and , living up to expectations again , the film definitely delivers on that front . Pretty much every Marvel comic book had been adapted already by 2004 , and I'm guessing that ' The Punisher ' was one of the few comic strips left . This one is different from the rest of the comic stories , however , because the central figure doesn't actually have any superpowers . The story has it's roots in film noir and the classic revenge thrillers , and it sees government agent Frank Castle on the warpath after a gangster whose son he killed takes it upon himself to violently dispatch his family in revenge . As Castle explains , the law is flawed and in order to expose those flaws , sometimes the law needs to be taken into your own hands . Cue lots of fight scenes , explosions , car chases and cheesy banter as Castle , now calling himself ' The Punisher ' takes grisly revenge on those who destroyed his life ! I've never seen the original film version of this story , but I'm pretty sure it's not very good just because Dolph Lundgren is in it . This film relies more on Thomas Jane's impressive form than acting abilities ; but that's no bad thing , as he really does look the part and does a good job in carrying the film . Much of the dialogue is the same trite , silly stuff that you would expect from this sort of film ; but on one hand , that's actually not a bad thing . It has become customary these days for films to try and avoid clichés ; and this is getting to the point where it's a cliché not to have any clichés , so seeing a true to style , cliché-ridden action thrill ride is sort of refreshing in an odd kind of way . John Travolta provides the movie with an ample amount of ' bad guy ' as the sleazy gangster responsible for killing Frank Castle's family . Travolta has a dark side that should really be tapped into more often , and while his performance here is hardly great ; it's good enough considering the material , and hints , as ever , that the actor probably has more ability than he's showing on screen . Overall , The Punisher isn't a great film . It's not going to change cinematic history and , to be frank , is probably going to be forgotten soon - but I enjoyed it , and most fans of comic to film adaptations will too .
Gory Italian Zombi flick !	Zombi 2 saw Lucio Fulci deliver a film that took huge influence from George Romero's zombie masterpiece Dawn of the Dead ( even though the great horror director claims to have been influenced by Jacques Tourneur ) , and Zombi Holocaust in turn takes influence from Fulci's Zombi 2 . Zombi Holocaust is more than just a simple rip-off , however , as prolific director Marino Girolami finds time to implement other horror themes such as cannibal tribes and mad scientists into the plot . The film takes place in the same location as Fulci's zombie flick , and sees the undead eating people on a Caribbean island . This film very much fits into the Italian zombie sub-genre , with such treats as bad acting , worse dubbing , a rather absurd plot line and plenty of blood and guts making it into the finished product . The plot sees a mad scientist on a tropical island experimenting with life and death and ending up turning a number of the locals into zombies . We follow an expeditionary group who land on the island as they come face to face with the zombies and cannibals that live there . If you're a fan of blood and guts , you're in the right movie . The gore is mostly comical , but it works due to the fact that it's so massively over the top . Scenes that see a zombie have its face mashed by a propeller , numerous slit throats and several sequences that see the living being eaten offer a gory treat for the horror fan . The fact that this is so much like Zombi 2 put me off a little , however , as it really does feel like you're watching a follow up rather than a supposedly original zombie film . Saying that , this film would have made a far better follow up than Fulci's own Zombi sequel . The atmosphere is well done , as the setting gives the piece an element of mystery that comes part and parcel with a lot of the Italian cannibal films . The zombie make-up is suitably disgusting and a lot of the monsters really do look like they haven't been among the living for some time . Interestingly , the central roles are taken up by Fulci collaborators Ian McCulloch ( Zombi 2 ) and Alexandra Delli Colli ( The New York Ripper ) , which seems quite fitting . Overall , I can't say that this is one of my favourite zombie films ; but its decent enough entertainment , and there's definitely something here for zombie fans .
Style over story	This film begins with a split-screen title sequence that features the catchy ' Windmills of Your Mind ' . We then move fairly swiftly into a bank heist , that is both thrilling and inventive . . . but unfortunately , the film never betters this opening twenty minutes . After those have elapsed , the film moves into a dull , sixties-set , pseudo romance / character study that is neither thrilling nor inventive . It's a massive shame that this film isn't great as it could have been a lovingly crafted tribute to the decade where it was socially acceptable to wear garish clothes and listen to hippy music , but instead it's just another Steve McQueen vehicle . The man himself plays Thomas Crown ; a millionaire bank robber that does bank heists for the fun of it . He is joined by Faye Dunaway , who is the police detective sent to investigate Thomas Crown . What then follows is the most boring game of cat and mouse ever filmed . . . The film falls down on the story side mainly because it's two leads have no chemistry together . Their romance comes off as forced , and some of their scenes together are excruciating for the viewer . Take the chess scene for example ; supposedly ' one of the sexiest scenes ever film ' , is actually incredibly boring . It's massively overlong , and this isn't helped by the fact that the two don't bode well together on screen at all . Individually , this isn't a good day at the office for either star . Steve McQueen has proved himself as a suave screen persona in many films , and you would think that this role would fit him like a glove ; but his performance is too understated and he looks bored . I've never rated Faye Dunaway anyway , and this film doesn't do anything to change that . The film seems all too keen to pile on the style as well , and with numerous split screen sequences , that are cool at first but quickly become annoying , this isn't a good thing as it comes at the expense of the story . As mentioned earlier , this could have been an interesting portrait of the sixties , but it fails . See Charade if you want to see something like what this film could have been .
Interesting early Kubrick	Stanley Kubrick's career really took off in 1956 , upon the release of his first masterpiece ; " The Killing " , after which he would go on to make many much loved cinema classics such as " Dr Strangelove " , " The Shining " and " A Clockwork Orange " , to name a few . This movie is , however , no masterpiece ; but that's not to say it's without it's plus points . First and foremost , this movie is admirable for it's directing , which is excellent . Of course Stanley Kubrick would go on to show himself as a genius behind the camera , and this movie is an early taste of that genius in the directorial department . Secondly , despite the B-grade cast , the acting is not bad at all . It's not marvelous , but considering the cast's accomplishments , previously and after this movie was made , it's better than one would expect . One of the movie's major flaws , however , is its lack of ideas . There are some nice ideas in the film , such as the part where Gloria tells her story to a backdrop of her sister doing ballet , and the Rear Window style way that the Gloria and Davy meet , but as the film is only 67 minutes long , it felt at times that Kubrick was spending too long on certain sequences , which is a problem if the movie is as short as this one is as it looked as though Kubrick was just dragging things out in order to meet an acceptable running time . That might be so bad in a longer film , but here it's not good . This movie is a nice , taut little thriller and is definitely recommended to people that want to see some early Kubrick and thereby see how he developed as a filmmaker , but it's not a great film and I don't recommend going into this movie expecting it to be one .
Nuns return for vengeance , gory deaths ensue !	The great Lucio Fulci made some great films in his career - Don't Torture a Duckling and Zombie Flesh Eaters to name but two ; but in his twilight years , his career took a bit of a downfall with the likes of The Door to Silence and Voices from Beyond ; but he did at least manage one decent effort towards the end of his career - and that is this film . The cover may suggest Demonia to be an attempted revival of the nunsploitation sub-genre , but in fact this is much more like the Fulci who earned himself the ' Godfather of Gore ' title and the film is more along the lines of The Beyond . The back-story focuses on a nunnery in which all the inhabitants were murdered . We pick up the story five hundred years later when an archaeological team decides to go digging , much to the dismay of the local townspeople that seem to have something to hide . The team decides to go through with their research anyway , but it's not long before strange things start to happen and Liza Harris - one of the team - starts to suffer from macabre visions . The film gets off to a rather slow start , but once things get going ; the film really picks up . Even though the film was made very close to the director's death ; he seems to have lost none of his enthusiasm for a gory death scene and indeed the film features some real nasty sequences which include a decapitation , a meat hook in the neck , some eyeball violence ( naturally ) and someone literally getting torn in half right down the middle ! It has to be said that most of the effects do look rather fake ; but it's also clear that a lot of effort went into bringing them to the screen , and Fulci delights his fans by ensuring that as much blood is shed as possible . The plot itself is rather decent and although the idea of a supernatural force coming back for vengeance has been used many times before ; Fulci does well in doing it again . It has to be said that the gore scenes are the main attraction , but at least the plot serves some relevance to the proceedings , Demonia is not one of the Fulci's finest achievements ; but it's a rather decent little gore flick and Fulci fans will surely find something to like .
Human drama with a lot of promise	The Human Stain is a comment on society . An incitement of the system of stupidity and illogical ideas , commonly known as ' political correctness ' . The film starts out with a great sequence in which Coleman Silk ( Anthony Hopkins ) is forced to quit his job , which later leads to the death of his wife , for using the word " spooks " to describe two students that haven't attended one of his classes yet . Of course , in that context ; he meant ' spooks ' , as in ghosts , but as " spooks " is also an ethnic slur , and these students just so happened to be black , Silk is hounded for racism . In this day and age , political correctness is more a hindrance to society , than a progression ; and this film sums that up perfectly . In the story respect , this film is good . On the whole , the film could . . . no , actually , the film should have been great ; but it isn't . One of the major reasons for this is casting . Anthony Hopkins takes the lead role ; and there is nothing wrong with the film there . Hopkins is an actor of such brilliance that even when he is miscast , he still brings much to the film . Towards the start , he is hammy ; but it is hard to imagine the role being played by anyone else , and that is testament to Hopkins ' talent . The big miscasting here is Nicole Kidman . Nicole is a great actress , there is no disputing that ; but she isn't at home here . Nicole is , frankly , too glamorous to play her character in this movie . Her airbrushed look just doesn't suit the character and the film loses credibility there . Of course , also in 2003 , Charlize Theron , another glamour-puss , took a gritty role that you wouldn't expect her to excel in and she won an Oscar for her troubles , but that same philosophy just doesn't work in this movie . The other two lead roles in the movie go to Gary Sinese , as a novelist and Ed Harris as Kidman's ex-husband and both do well in their roles , but as they are support , their screentime is too little for them to make a real impression . Wentworth Miller , the young man that plays Coleman Silk at an earlier age deserves some credit for his performance . He isn't show-stealing , but he still excels in a role that is integral to the film . The ' secret ' that Coleman Silk is harbouring contains another swipe towards society besides the one from the earlier scene mentioned . The film seems to be keen to comment on society , but it never really takes the bull by the horns . If the messages contained within were put forward to a better standard and in a more powerful way , then the film could have really hit home and could have became the masterpiece that it obviously wants to be ; but it didn't ; so it isn't . Overall , however ; The Human Stain is definitely worth a watch . It is obvious that there is a good film under there , and that alone makes it worth watching . But I just can't help but think that with better handling , it could have been really great . A shame .
Trashy eighties horror with Joe Spinell	The Undertaker is not very well known to say the least ; and I really can't say I'm surprised about that as the film is rather silly and lacklustre . In fact , if it wasn't for the fact that this is one of the last films of cult star Joe Spinell , I highly doubt that anyone would remember it at all . As you would expect from a low budget trash film such as this ; the plot is not particularly inventive and the writing is even worse . The film starts off with a rather amusing scene that features an attempted rape by a motorcyclist , and it really sums up what you're going to see nicely as the victim must rank as one of the slowest-witted of all time ! The plot focuses on an undertaker named Roscoe . He's a sick man and has decided to take his job into his own hands and has begun killing people himself . He slices up his victims and keeps them as his ' friends ' inside the funeral home he lives in . Naturally , it's not long before the police find out what's happening and begin to investigate . Joe Spinell is best known for his role in 1980's Maniac ; but anyone hoping for anything like as good as that is liable to be sorely disappointed . This film does feature a handful of murders ; but none of them are particularly violent or bloody and mostly we just get to see the killer and his dead victim after the event . I don't know if this was an attempt at ' less is more ' or ( more likely ) the budget constraints meant no gore could be afforded ; but either way it's disappointing . As the film is very hard to track down , the copy that I saw was less than great and looks like someone spread Vaseline all over the film stock ; but even so it's obvious that the film has a trashy look about it anyway . This does lend itself well to the plot , which is also trashy , but still the film is not very nice to look at . The Undertaker runs for ninety minutes , and even though that's an average running time for films like this ; it still feels overlong . The ending is serviceable , but not really worth the wait . Overall , I can't say that this film is worth tracking down , even for hardcore Spinell fans .
Could have been a lot better , but a fun watch in spite of the many problems	Back when I was a boy , my dad used to go to the ' video shop ' to rent a film for the family to watch . My dad had a talent for choosing the worst films in the shop , but when he came home with ' The Bite ' one night ; I seem to remember thoroughly enjoying it . I've revisited a number of favourites from my childhood since becoming a ' serious ' film fan , and have mostly been disappointed ; but with this film , I agree with my childhood self that it's an enjoyable and fun little flick . I'm not sure where the ' Curse II ' prefix comes from - I've not seen the original Curse , and even if this is a sequel , it still nicely stands on its own . I do , however , suspect that the prefix is a cash-in - and from now on I'll refer to this film as ' The Bite ' . The plot focuses on a young couple ; Clark and Lisa , who are driving across the desert for some reason . After breaking down , Clark's bad luck continues when he's bitten by a snake - and continues further when the snake turns out to be radioactive and the hand he was bitten starts to become a snake itself ! On his tail are a salesman / wannabe doctor and the county sheriff . This film has two main problems when it comes to the plot . First of all , it takes far too long to get going ; I have no problem with build-up , but this film verges on being boring too often , and the build-up fails to generate any interesting characters . . . so it feels rather pointless . Secondly , the plot base had a lot more to offer than what we got . I guess the film took influence from Cronenberg's masterpiece ' The Fly ' , as it features similar themes ; but the idea is never really explored , and while things such as the dog at the start get the imagination going , it's all very mundane for the most part . The acting isn't too bad , although J . Eddie Peck was miscast in the lead role . The Stepfather's Jill Schoelen is a pleasure to watch , while the likes of Jamie Farr and Bo Svenson do well in support . The gore isn't too bad either , and there are some suitably nasty scenes throughout the film . The ending is a highlight as it features the film's best stint in terms of atmosphere , and also gives a suitable climax to a macabre little tale . Overall , this is far from perfect ; but despite its flaws , The Bite is still worth seeing and I recommend it to my fellow trash fans .
Nice tension , but far too simplistically done	After a string of rubbish films , Wes Craven has taken his craft back to the bare bones , and the result is this exciting , but underdone little thriller - Red Eye . Having your films met by a negative critical reaction can't be much of a confidence builder , especially not when it's happened several times in a row ; and this film would appear to be a result of Craven's lack of confidence . Rather than try to do anything spectacular with the story , the focus is almost completely on tension throughout this film , and so a lot of it's success can be lavished upon Craven himself . It's really difficult to hate this film , and Craven has pulled out all the stops to ensure that nobody will . People go to see thrillers to be excited , and if that's all you want - you'll be pleased to know that Red Eye delivers . Adding to that is the fact that there's a streak of ' nice ' humour running through it ( mostly coming from Jayma Mays ' dizzy character ) , and so what we have here is a film that will excite and make you laugh . The plot follows a hotel manager that is seated on a plane next to a mysterious guy she met earlier in the airport . It turns out that this man wants more than the usual ' nice guy who buys you a drink ' does , and our heroine soon finds herself involved in a plot to assassinate a senator . Quite why this senator needs assassinating is never really explored ? The vast majority of this film takes place on an aeroplane , and this gives Craven a good base to create lots of suspense . He takes this opportunity well , and although at times the character actions become a little illogical , it is widely well done . Towards the end , Red Eye explodes into a frenzy , and the exciting climax nicely offsets the nail biting build up . This is all well and good , but there's something about this film that makes sure that it doesn't work quite as it should . That something is the fact that it's just so bare . The plot is thin enough as it is , and this isn't helped by the fact that the film seems content to just ignore the different directions that the plot could take and simply follows a straight formula instead . This makes the film predictable , and helps to kill off the suspense . The casting of Cillian Murphy as the psycho must have seemed like a great idea at the time , as he did brilliantly well in the blockbuster ' Batman Begins ' , but what Craven seems to have forgotten is that in the latter film ; he was the support - as he proves here , he doesn't have the charisma to lead a film . His co-star , Rachel McAdams ( who was the support in Mean Girls ) isn't much better , and since a lot of Red Eye depends on the acting - these two help to ensure that it doesn't truly succeed . On the whole , this isn't a bad film - but Wes Craven's simplistic approach hinders the film more than helps it . The likes of Switchblade Romance have proved that tension can be the star of a film - but not when the other elements are so lacking . The 12A rating is the final nail in the coffin where credibility is concerned , and what we have here is a decent film where a great one could have been .
Clint Howard : Lord of the Pigs !	Evilspeak is a somewhat ludicrous cross between a demonic horror movie and trashy eighties teenager flick . This film is one of the more surprising entries on the Video Nasty list as , while somewhat gory , it's all so silly that I can't believe anyone could take it seriously . The film takes obvious influence from Stephen King's Carrie as it follows the idea of an outsider getting their own back on their enemies . The film features the lead character contacting the Devil for his source of revenge - and the way he does it is the weirdest thing about this film . Yes , he contacts the Lord of the Underworld via computer in what looks like an early version of the message board system . Being a film about computers that wasn't made in the last five years , Evilspeak looks ridiculously dated , but unlike other computer horror movies ( e . g . Demon Seed ) , the effects here suit the jokey tone of the movie . As mentioned , the plot follows put-upon Coopersmith , a young lad at a military academy who finds himself the brunt of every joke going . However , his luck changes when he discovers an old basement with a computer in it . . . The film is notable for the fact that it sees cult character actor Clint Howard in the lead role . It's obvious that he isn't used to taking the starring role , as his performance is rather messy and most of the time he leaves the audience rooting for his adversaries just because of the fact that he is so annoying . But even so , he adds to the cult value of the movie . The central location ; that being the basement , really is a ridiculous place . Quite why a military academy would have a basement that looks like something out of a medieval castle is anyone's guess , and this is made all the more stupid by the inclusion of a computer down there . It has to be said that the film is rather slow , but it does feel like it's building up to something and actually , director Eric Weston does a good job of showing the audience the lead's situation . And the film does indeed build up to something ; a great gory climax that sees a sword wielding Clint Howard and a bunch of pigs taking their revenge on the bad guys ! The special effects are silly and dated , but not bad at all and it's easy to buy into the gore scenes . The music and atmosphere bode well , as it's demonic but never too serious and while this may be one of the weirdest inclusions on the Video Nasty list ; it definitely is worth a watch .
Faust meets The Wolf Man in arty Mexican horror	Rafael Baledón's The Curse of the Crying Woman was practically unknown until it received a DVD release from the now defunct Casa Negra ; and ever since has been considered something of a classic by the majority of horror fans that have seen it ; myself included . I didn't go into his earlier film " The Man and the Monster " expecting anything near as good ; and it's a good job really because while this film has its moments and is certainly a worthwhile slice of Mexican horror ; it's also rather flawed and borrows from a lot of better films . The plot focuses on Samuel Magno ; a failed pianist who , dismayed by his lack of talent , makes a pact with Satan himself . He gets to become the greatest pianist in the world ; but the catch is that every time he plays the piano , he turns into a monster . With help from his mother ( who is the only one that can tame him while he's a monster ) , he tries to break the curse by training a young girl in the art of the piano ; but an enthusiastic journalist threatens to expose the whole thing . The plot is fairly interesting and features enough different elements to ensure that there's always something going on . However , the film moves rather slowly and we're never really made to care about the central character , which can make plugging into his plight a problem . The central plot takes obvious influence from the classic ' Faust ' story ; but it doesn't work as well here . The fact that Satan makes the central character turn into a monster every time he plays the piano really just makes The Lord of Darkness seem petty since he's not actually getting any benefit from it ( unlike Faust , whose soul he bought ) . The make up effects are not great and look rather like an over the top version of the monster effects in The Wolf Man ; although I did actually find them rather easy to get on with . The film is rather artfully done and several sequences are really good ; the all-explaining flashback sequence being among the best of them . Overall , this is still a decent horror film and one certainly worth seeing ; but it's hardly among the best to come out of Mexico and I wouldn't give it high recommendations .
Poorly made and shabby , but fun , low budget zombie rubbish	If you don't like zombie movies , you'd be best off making sure that you never see The Dead Next Door . . . but if you do like zombie flicks , this might provide some amusement . While the film is never exceptional ( even in the low budget zombie sub-genre ) , it does have some positive aspects , which pull it out of the truly abysmal . Despite it's more than obvious low budget , it's clear that the producers of this flick wanted to do some things with the genre that haven't been done before . Of course , by 1988 ; zombie films had pretty much been explored to the max , but fairly original ideas such as the religious cult that want the zombies protected and the thing with half-human , half-zombie give this film some things to call it's own . The plot is a straight Romero-rip off , and it sees the world being plagued by zombies . We follow a team of government agents calling themselves ' Zombie Squad ' , whose task it is to , basically , kill zombies . Their job is made more difficult by a cult of religious weirdo's , who strangely think that the zombie is worth saving . . . On the technical side , everything about this film is rubbish . The script is ridiculous , and little gems like " I'm a zombie now " show this . The acting matches the script , and once again is a load of rubbish . Someone called Pete Ferry takes the lead role , and does his best impression of Bruce Campbell . He's not the king of B-movies , but his performance does ensure that it's obvious that this movie isn't to be taken seriously . The closing credit of ' you have just witnessed the awesome talents of : ' is a nice touch , and shows that the crew were only having a laugh while making this film . The special effects are gory and disgusting , but also very stupid and impossible to take seriously . Still , they beat lazy effects like those of Resident Evil ( the movie ) hands down . The way that a lot of the characters have been given horror director names , such as Raimi , shows that the makers are fans of this sort of film , and that fact might even be inspiring if this production wasn't so unprofessional . On the whole , there's no denying that this isn't very good ; but on the other hand , it's a decent waste of time and there's definitely something here for zombie fans .
Not one of Allen's better films	Sleeper is most certainly not among Woody Allen's best work . The film was made during Allen's pre-Annie Hall period , dubbed his ' funny period ' . This is my first pre-Annie Hall Allen film , so I can't comment on the period as a whole ; but if this film is anything to go by , then someone has got their dubbing mixed up . Don't get me wrong , this film certainly has moments that will make you laugh ; but for every laugh you get , there's at least four gags that didn't work . The film does feature the trademark Woody Allen sharp script , but it's not all that sharp , and certainly nowhere near Annie Hall ; but then lets face it ; what is ? No , actually , it's not the script that's the problem ; it is ' a ' problem , but it's not the main problem ; Allen's continual use of visual gags is the problem . It's obvious that he was having fun making this , but there's only so much laughter that can be had from Allen walking around doped up , or incessantly falling over Chaplin style ( both of which become supremely annoying after the third or fourth time ) . Allen's films work best when the laughs come from the characters and the script , and I don't think that Allen is the right type of comic to make slapstick work . The plot follows the story of Miles Monroe ; a jazz playing health store owner from 1973 , who wakes up to find himself 200 years in the future . That's something that's annoying about this film ; with such a delicious premise , and an obviously talented director ; this film really should have been a lot better . Anyway , while in the future he is forced to go on the run from the state because they believe that he is involved in a secret plot to being down ' the leader ' . Within the film is themes of politics never working out , and how leaders have a tendency to become tyrants ; but any message that the film tries to portray is lost under rigorous stupidity . Woody Allen's character is , as usual , Woody Allen ; a neurotic New Yorker with a penchant for saying witty things . As mentioned ; he's not that witty as usual in this film . He also has a large mane of hair , which looks ? rather silly really . Diane Keaton stars alongside Allen as his female counterpart . The two made a great pair in Annie Hall , but they're not so good here . The whole thing is too detached for the characters to really build anything anyway . Overall , Sleeper isn't a bad film . It does have it's moments and it's recommended to anyone that likes Woody Allen . As mentioned , a lot of the jokes don't work but the ones that do genuinely are funny ( Allen being caught in a sex machine by the police , for example ) . This is weak for Allen , but if you want a Comedy-Sci Fi , you could do a lot worse . Spaceballs , for example .
Dull Italian Horror	Michele Soavi , understudy of horror maestro ; Dario Argento , has began to make a name for himself in the horror genre . His films aren't usually as good as the majority of Argento's repertoire ( with the exception of the phenomenal " Dellamorte Dellamore " ) , but they're usually good examples of modern Italian horror film making . The Church , however , isn't . That's not to say that The Church is a bad film , it's just very lacking . Unlike in The Sect , the mystery presented in The Church isn't interesting and doesn't provoke a need to know in the viewer ; unlike Stage Fright , the effects here are very bad . Obviously they're of a different ilk but that doesn't change the fact that the creature effects here are laughable and not believable in the slightest , which really harms the power of the movie and ; unlike Soavi's masterpiece Dellamorte Dellamore , The Church totally lacks character . Italian horror films generally aren't known for plot coherency or good characterization , but this film doesn't feature any at all . The plot is also hugely inconsistent and doesn't make sense most of the time ; lots of questions are raised and they are nearly all " Why did that happen ? " or " What did he do that for ? " etc , and that's not a good thing . Of course these inconsistencies are common in a lot of Italian horror films , but then again ; a lot of Italian horror films have more going for them that this one . This film's main asset is defiantly the direction from Michele Soavi . As shown in his previous and later efforts , Soavi has taken a great deal of influence from Argento ; his use of the camera is fantastic , he's also obviously taken the Gothic style and lighting techniques from Dario and it helps this film in creating a creepy atmosphere . The music from the rock band " Goblin " is on time and eerie in this movie as it is in a lot of Argento's films . Overall , this movie isn't bad , but it's not good either . As a fan of Italian horror movies , I would be likely to find more to like in this than the average horror fan , but I couldn't find much . Therefore , I recommend this to fans of Italian horror cinema , and suggest for everyone else not to bother .
Decent enough comedy from the Farrelly brothers	For a film that only really has one joke - Shallow Hal isn't bad . However , it's not the laugh a minute comedy that was the likes of Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary and the reason for that is that the Farrelly brothers have seen fit to make it the message that's more important this time round , and that's not really what you want when you're watching a Farrelly brothers comedy . However , the jokes , while bordering on cruel , never delve into the realms of Mickey taking and the Farrelly brothers clearly know how to be funny without being harmful . Shallow Hal does feature many ' funny ' moments , but most of them are just funny , and not absolutely hilarious like 99 percent of Dumb and Dumber was . The plot follows Hal ( Jack Black ) , a man that judges women on how they look and not what type of person they are . After a meeting with a self-help guru in a lift , Hal is hypnotised into only seeing inner beauty . . . One of the film's major negative elements is that it suffers from the same affliction of it's central character - namely , it's shallow . The idea that all ugly women have great personalities and all good-looking girls don't is ludicrous and not really the sort of thing that a film professing inner beauty should profess . I admit that sometimes , maybe even fairly often , this can be true - but it's certainly not always , and Shallow Hal has a rather contained outlook because of that fact . The film benefits immensely from the presence of Jack Black , however . Black has proved himself a worthy talent on many occasions , and he does so again here . His comedy timing and delivery are impeccable and he constantly makes you believe in him , and feel for him , as he has such a likable persona . The Farrelly's aren't the greatest directing talent in the business , but kudos to them for giving Black the lead role here . Shallow Hal certainly isn't a great film , but it's good for a laugh and fans of this sort of comedy will like it . There is also a number of touching moments , not as many as I'm sure the Farrelly's envisioned , but at least some made it ? and that's nice .
Weird and perverse . . err . . . film	Generally I don't like to just regurgitate what everyone else is saying about any given film ; but you can't write a review for Thundercrack without stating that the film is weird . The closest movie I've seen to this one in terms of style is probably the Greek oddity Singapore Sling in that both films combine a classic styling with some real sleazy sex . However , even Singapore Sling doesn't come close to the weirdness of this film ; how and why this film ever got made is anyone's guess as on paper ; a two and a half long black and white film about a bunch of people engaging in perverted sex inside a creaky old house cant have sounded all that good . . . but while the film is not for everyone , it certainly stands tall as a very interesting slice of cult cinema . The film doesn't exactly have a plot , and starts by focusing on an old mansion where we are introduced to its insane owner . From there , we move on to a group of strangers who end up stranded at the mansion . The rest of the film features all the involved parties as they engage in a whole host of sexual activity . Curt McDowell's film almost seems to be a parody of classic haunted house horror ; only instead of ghosts and ghouls , we get sex and sleaze . I cant say that the film works particularly well on the whole as a film ; it's long and drawn out for a start and it can be hard to watch due to the fact that it's so weird . The copy I have looks like it was recorded with a video camera inside some grotty cinema so that didn't exactly help my viewing experience either . However , I didn't go into this film expecting easy viewing , and while I did have some idea of what the film might be like ; this is a film that you really have to see to have any idea what it's like . The sex features often and it goes a bit further than just the usual - adding to that is the fact that it's all so casual too , which helps to increase the potency of the strangeness of the film . I have to say that at two and a half hours , the film really it too long and I did lose interest a bit at times so perhaps the shorter two hour version would be an overall better viewing experience . All in all , Thundercrack is a film that has to be seen to be believed and it comes recommended if only for that reason .
All in good humour . . . or not	I can't say I've seen many of John Waters ' films , but I've seen enough to get an idea of what he's about ; and A Dirty Shame would appear to be a typical John Waters film . All of the jokes in the film come from sexual perversions , and it's not hard to see why a number of people don't like it - as if you thought Serial Mom was a difficult film to get along with , wait until you see this one ! To be honest , I'm not completely sure of whether I liked it or not ; on the one hand , I respect the director for daring to go further than many directors would dare . . . but on the other hand , it's amazingly silly and the central ideas behind the plot don't hold much weight . There are some really good one-liners in the film , however , and the surreal nature of the way the plot plays out is a delight . The story follows a prudish housewife named Silvia who hates sex , and the fact that her daughter is a sex symbol named ' Ursula Udders ' . However , after hitting her head one day ; she comes into contact with a man named Ray Ray , a ' sexual healer ' , and it's not long before she discovers that she is , in fact , a sex-addict . I'm sure that the main reason why John Waters has so many fans is because of his willingness to take risks . This film is full of risks ; some of which work . The cast list isn't typical , with popular American comedienne Tracey Ullman taking the lead role and performing well in the more lurid scenes . Selma Blair stars alongside an enormous pair of fake breasts , while there are support roles for the likes of Chris Isaak and Suzanna Shepherd . The biggest risk where the cast is concerned is undoubtedly Jackass ' Johnny Knoxville , who is a lot better than you would think . Waters has seen fit to have a lot of scenes play out to music , and this works well some of the time . The way that certain words ( such as ' Whore ' ) pan out across the screen is good , but personally I didn't like the use of CGI . The film gets off to a really good start , and I laughed more in the first half hour than in any film I've seen recently ; but it takes a bit of a downturn in the middle , and never fully recovers . The film is good because you never really know where Waters is going with it , and the full on orgy of the last twenty minutes is bound to divide audiences . Overall , this film is in extreme bad taste ; but it's also a great laugh . However , if you haven't liked whatever Waters ' films you've seen so far - I wouldn't recommend seeing this one .
Tight and entertaining little thriller	Well , I have to say that I don't have much interest in Tom Clancy , as the only film I'd seen based on his work prior to seeing this one was the 2002 film ' The Sum of All Fears ' , and all I can remember about it was that I found it really boring . Patriot Games is , apparently , the follow up to the 1990 film ' The Hunt For Red October ' - I haven't seen it , but to me this film stands up pretty well on it's own so I don't think that is a problem . Patriot Games is a pretty tight little thriller which holds up well despite some questionable plot points and some rather unbelievable goings on . The plot focuses on Clancy protagonist Jack Ryan , a former CIA man holidaying in Britain . He happens to be around when some IRA terrorists make an assassination attempt on some member of the royal family , and thwarts the attack by killing one terrorist and letting the other be apprehended by the police . The remaining man is Sean Miller , and he's not too happy about the death of the other terrorist as it happens to have been his brother . A personal vendetta is then sworn as the terrorist seeks revenge . The film benefits from a decent cast . Harrison Ford isn't the best actor of all time , and here he pretty much sleepwalks through the film ( as usual ) , but somehow he has great screen presence , and since this thriller doesn't exactly demand high quality acting ; he fits the role just fine . Sean Bean is his opposite number . Bean is an actor I've never really liked , but he does play villains well , and he manages to make the audience believe that he is hell-bent on revenge . The rest of the film is made up with good support turns from the likes of Samuel l . Jackson , Thora Birch , Anne Archer and James Earl Jones . Apparently , the film puts an untrue spin on terrorist groups ; but my advice with regards to that is just ignore it and enjoy the action . There's a fair amount of action too , as the film features car chases , shootouts and various fistfights . It does take a while for Patriot Games to get going ; about an hour in fact , but it's not boring at any point , and therefore makes for good entertainment throughout . Overall , Patriot Games is not ' brilliant ' by any means ; but it's a fun ride and my advice is ; just relax and enjoy it !
Camp Dracula returns !	Hammer studio's Dracula series comes second to it's far better Frankenstein series - that's obvious - and the reason for that is that the films tend to be very similar to one another . Of course , the same thing could be said about the Frankenstein series ; but at least the latter obviously tries to make each instalment a unique entry in the series . Dracula tends to take the easy route and go for the simple ; Dracula gets resurrected and kills some people shortly before getting defeated again , only to reappear in the next Dracula film . It has to be said that this entry in the series suffers from that affliction , but in fairness to it ; Taste the Blood of Dracula definitely sports one of the better plots in the series , and is probably the second best film - after the original of course . The story this time round follows a circle of three bored gentlemen who get duped into resurrecting the count by a young upstart ( Ralph Bates , in fine form ) who offers them an experience beyond belief . Havoc ensues . One of the principle reasons why this film works is that the campy Hammer style features in droves . You know you're watching a Hammer film when you see three straight-faced ( even slightly worried ! ) men in an antiques shop negotiating the price of a vile of Count Dracula's blood ! The campness continues throughout the movie , and it's always good to see . As usual , Christopher Lee appears for all of about five minutes and the acting is mostly left to a cast of unknowns , but they carry it well and every moment that Lee is on screen is delightful . The script is rather corny , naturally , with several unintentional comic delights that are sure to delight Hammer fans . Most of the Dracula clichés are present , and since we live in a world now where it's become a cliché to step away from clichés , it's nice to see a movie that has a lot of clichés in it . On the whole , this is a decent waste of time and I very much doubt that fans of Hammer horror , Christopher Lee , Dracula , Playboy magazine or even ham and pineapple pizza will be disappointed with it .
A nice little thriller that should have been a lot better	Wes Craven's take on the largely lackluster haunted house sub-genre is both an enticing and original piece of cinema . The plot follows a neighbourhood family that are about to be thrown out of their home by the nasty and uncaring landlords that own the property . However , there is a rumour going around about some gold that is stored in the landlord's house so , naturally , two guys a kid , lead by Ving Rhames ( in full-on Mr T mode ! ) decide to rob the landlord's house . However , there's something about this house . The landlords are the epitome of weird , and there's something strange living in the walls . It is when they enter the house that the fun really starts ; filled with traps and all sorts of nastiness , the house is a labyrinth of stuff that is just right to make a movie like this work ! The movie has an extremely profound amount of fun , and although the movie has a very dark and morbid core ( gimp chasing a kid with a shotgun , anyone ? ) , it's the fun that usually shines through and it makes for a very entertaining ride . Because the house is riddled with trap doors , hiding holes and secret compartments , the movie is able to present an atmosphere in which the audience can truly believe that anything can happen and , a lot of the time , anything does happen as the movie has almost a constant stream of surprises . Well , mostly anyway ? The first two thirds of the movie keep up this theme and pace that makes for very exciting viewing , but the movie loses its way in the final third . This is a great shame because , although The People Under the Stairs was never on course to become a classic , or even a genre classic ; it could have been a great thrill ride had it have managed to keep up what it had built in the first hour . It would seem that Craven got lazy with the writing by the time it got to the ending because it is then when lots of cheesy one-liners start to poke through and the ideas start to run out . It is also towards the end that the creatures in the walls are revealed , and to say that they are a disappointment would be a gross understatement . The film sets them up to be mysterious throughout , and this builds a great suspense as to what they are actually like - but all they turn out to be is nothing that you wouldn't see down your local skate park and that is totally weak dude , as they may well say . Speaking of things that are totally weak ; the ending . The ending of this movie has to be seen to be believed , and I don't mean that in a good way . After all that the movie has built , Craven has opted for a damp squib ending that is only fit to be laughed at . It's a great shame that this happened as this movie could have been great fun , but all may not be lost , as I don't doubt that this will be up for a remake in a few years time .
Entertaining Vincent Price ' haunted house ' movie	This film is a lot better than you might expect . It follows the story of a wayward million dollars that is believed to be hidden within the walls of an old house . The inhabitants of the house are a female writer and her crew of servants . . . . oh , and a prowler known as ' the bat ' , who evidently wants the fortune for himself . The Bat is notable for a great macabre atmosphere that creates a sense of claustrophobia , as the house is in the middle of nowhere . It's also notable for an early performance from Vincent Price , who appears as the doctor , Malcolm Wells . Price was better known in 1959 for the William Castle classic " House on Haunted Hill " , but ' The Bat ' is still an able entry in his list of acting credits . Price evidently grew as an actor throughout the 60's and 70's , but his early performances always have that x-factor that would go on to instill the man in the hearts of horror fans forever , and his performance here has that also . The story itself has lots of room for tension and intrigue , and it makes best use of it as the film is constantly intriguing , and many scenes , particularly the ones involving the menacing bad guy , are filled with suspense . The film is at it's best when ' the bat ' is on the prowl , and features several lovely shots of the fiend poking his arm through various crevices in the house . The house itself is riddled with various traps and secret passages in true haunted house style , and it adds to the inventiveness and effectiveness of the movie . The film gives the twist away far too early , however , and it kind of spoils the ending as it turns out that , logically , there's only one person who the bat could possibly be . It doesn't really matter though , as the film is always a lot of fun and if you're a fan of Vincent Price ( and who isn't ? ! ) , or just classic horror movies in general , I highly recommend this movie .
Well made and worthwhile psychological thriller	Blood Link is a German and Italian co-production ; although it was clearly made for an American audience . The film has got itself in with the ' Giallo ' style that had it's heyday in Italy during the seventies ; although the reason for that is probably merely down to the fact that it's directed by Alberto De Martino ; as despite some Giallo elements , I wouldn't call this film a Giallo on the whole . Blood Link is more of a psychological thriller that takes in themes relating to psychology and a psychic link between two people . Craig Mannings and his girlfriend are doctors trying to create a new way of exploring pain and dreams . Craig decides to test the new methods on himself but ends up finding a way into his presumed dead ex-Siamese twin brother's conscience . He discovers that his brother is living in Hamburg and murdering people ; but this doesn't stop him from going to Hamburg and tracking him down . When he arrives in Hamburg , the killings continue until the inevitable meeting between the two brothers . Michael Moriarty has had an interesting career ; the highlight of which for me is his role in Larry Cohen's excellent ' The Stuff ' . His performance here is not quite as over the top , but it is rather more impressive . Moriarty is not an obvious choice for the lead role in a film like this ; but he fits into it excellently and makes both characters he plays very believable . The film is interesting throughout and several good ideas are explored ; not least the idea of a psychic link between two brothers that used to share a physical link , but there's also some good ideas relating to the sexuality of the ' bad ' twin . There's a few murders scenes ; none of them particularly bloody or over the top but good enough and fitting within the movie . Cameron Mitchell's aging wrestler's character has a highlight scene in that respect . The film manages to stay interesting for the duration and it all boils down to a suitably dark and compelling conclusion . The premise of the movie is similar to David Cronenberg's later Dead Ringers ; and while the latter is the better film , there's lots to like here and Blood Link is certainly worth a look .
What if the sun turned on the Earth ?	The Midnight Sun isn't one of the best episodes of The Twilight Zone for me , but even lesser entries in Rod Serling's excellent Sci-Fi mystery series show great invention and imagination , and this is no exception to that rule . The plot follows the nightmarish idea of the Earth gravitating so far towards the sun that the water is evaporating and the climate has risen heavily . Typically , we focus on just one house , in which two women are the inhabitants . The attention to detail in this story is great , and director Anton Leader does a great job of ensuring that the situation is always present . Things such as the fact that the characters find themselves caked in sweat ensure this . This episode carries with it a real nightmarish feel , which is well placed in a tale that sees the world's life blood taken away . The Midnight Sun isn't as surreal or trippy as some of the other episodes in the series , and on the whole it actually feels quite down to Earth ; but the image of the sun burning in the sky is certainly indelible , and the way that the characters break down increases the potency of the world that they have found themselves in . The fact that each entry in The Twilight Zone is just twenty five minutes long and yet manages to set out a story that has more substance than a lot of feature length films is stunning , and I've got to say that I've been impressed with every episode that I've seen .
Good performances in a mostly successful drama	I don't usually bother with Oscar winning films like this as they tend to annoy rather than impress ; but I've got to give plaudits to Tim Robbins ' heartfelt drama , as the characters are strong and the film does a great job of separating the sin from the sinner , while putting it's audience in the precarious position of deciding which one they hate most . The film plays off its central characters throughout , so it's lucky that The Shawshank Redemption star was able to get two talented performers in Sean Penn and Susan Sarandon to flesh out the script . I've got to admit that I'm not a fan of either of these stars , but I always appreciate good acting , and both have come a long way . Sean Penn got his first big role as a stoner in Fast Times at Ridgemount High , while Sarandon was once famous for performing in the likes of The Rocky Horror Picture Show . Both actors ' gives performances over and above what you would expect from them given their early film roles , and under the direction of a man that is no stranger to dramatic roles ; the film really works . The plot follows a nun who receives a letter from a man on death row who wants to avoid his capital punishment . After meeting the man , she begins to show empathy for his plight ; but he is not the only one with a stake in his death , as after meeting the families of his victims ; she begins to feel for them also , and ultimately finds herself in the position of feeling both for the murderer and his victims . The film does a good job of fully researching its topic ; as it's easy to think that a murderer on death row deserves to be killed , but after meeting his family and learning the nature of his crime ; Robbins ensures that the death of his central protagonist is not a happy event . You've got to expect a fair amount of sentiment in a film like this ; and Dead Man Walking certainly has it , although it never completely wallows in these elements , and the film climaxes as it should . The relaxed country atmosphere bodes well with the feel of the film , and both the performers manage to fit into their roles . Overall , Dead Man Walking certainly isn't a favourite of mine ; but as these films go , this is a rather good one .
Surreal and nightmarish Italian horror film !	This largely unknown Italian horror movie encapsulates the best of Italian horror . We've got Giallo elements , supernatural elements , surreal ambiance and a dark , sinister plot . Despite a lovely murder scene that takes place in the middle of a load of bed sheets , the first half of the film is largely rather uninspiring ; but as the film moves on , it mutates into one of the most grisly assaults that I've ever seen from Italy . Many people that have seen this movie have labelled it a Giallo , and while the film does have it's Giallo moments in the first half - I'd put Spider Labyrinth in with the robust Gothic horror films such as Kill Baby Kill , Inferno and Suspiria before listing it amongst the likes of Solange and The Bird With the Crystal Plumage . The plot follows a professor who is sent to stay with a fellow professor for reasons that are always left rather vague . It's not long before his professor host ends up dead , and our hero is being plunged into a world of mystery and sinister cults , which all seems to focus around some strange ' fist-sized ' black balls . Italian horror is well known for not making a lot of sense and this film suffers from a screenplay that adheres to that ' rule ' . The intrigue is generated towards the start mainly because of the fact that the film is so difficult to follow , but once the film enters it's more satisfying second half , these problems are somewhat resolved . Even while the film isn't making a whole lot of sense , however , it still remains interesting by way of its atmosphere . Atmosphere tends to be more important in this sort of film anyway , so the fact that this one relies on it is largely to its credit . The beautiful Italian locations are well shot and the lighting in the scenes indoors gives the film exactly the right mood . The underground scenes towards the end represent the film's strongest location shoots , and are one of the main reasons why it ultimately succeeds . The special effects look extremely cheap and are mostly stop-motion . However , they're really disgusting also , and the final scene ; even though the ' monster ' is a doll , really is nightmarish . Overall , I could easily understand anyone that doesn't like Spider Labyrinth ; but it hit the nail on the head for me , and I definitely recommend it to my fellow Italian horror cinema fans !
Trashy but hugely enjoyable teen slasher flick !	Nightmare Beach may not be a very good film in the classic sense , but in terms of entertainment value ; the film certainly has a lot going for it . Nightmare Beach is known as a Giallo in some circles , but I think it's quite clear that the main inspiration has come from the overpopulated slasher genre . I'm not a big fan of this type of film , but Nightmare Beach succeeds where other slashers fail because it doesn't try to be anything that it isn't , and the focus is always on the dumb teens at the centre of the story and the over the top murder scenes . The movie seems to take a lot of influence from Lamberto Bava's ' Demons ' , as trashy eighties metal is mixed in with just about every sequence . . . and was that the logo for said film that I saw on the back of the biker's shirts ? The plot focuses on the annual Easter celebration known as ' Spring Break ' at a certain ( nightmare ) beach . A biker by the name of Diablo was put to death by electric chair after supposedly being framed for murder by the local officer , and now the authorities have a problem on their hands as the biker going round electrocuting people threatens the business boom . Umberto Lenzi's career peaked in the late sixties to early seventies with Giallo classics such as Seven Blood-Stained Orchids and several awesome crime flicks such as Almost Human . It's safe to say that his career went downhill in the eighties when he started to imitate the likes of Lucio Fulci and Ruggero Deodato with enjoyable yet trashy flicks such as Cannibal Ferox and Nightmare City . While Nightmare Beach is nothing like as good as Lenzi's earlier efforts , and certainly doesn't represent a return to form , at least this film is enjoyable throughout , and personally I didn't care too much that I know the director is capable of better . As you might expect , the acting is truly diabolical , with nobody except cult icon John Saxon coming out of the film with any credibility ; although Saxon does lift the entire production with hard man role . The electrocution style murder scenes are well shot , and while they don't all look particularly realistic ; and don't feature much in the way of gore , it's nice to see a slasher that doesn't just feature knife killings . The mystery surrounding the identity of the murderer is never too well explored , and by the end there really is just one suspect left . Overall , this film is bound not to please everyone ; but it's a lot of fun to watch , and if you can put with trash films - this one is well worth seeing !
Cheap and nasty eighties B-movie	The Beast Within is a delightfully trashy eighties B-movie based on a book by Edward Levy and taking obvious influence from the werewolf genre . The film has been sadly forgotten over the years ; partly the reason for that might be down to the fact that it is rather cheap and forgettable , but it's also possible that it was lost under the eighties ' two most popular werewolf films ; An American Werewolf in London and The Howling , as while this is not essentially a werewolf film ; it does feature a trashy looking change scene . The film begins with a sequence that sees a young woman mauled and raped by some strange and largely unseen creature . We then move forward seventeen years and the child resulting from the rape has grown into a seventeen year old boy , and is lying ill in hospital ; apparently due to an overactive pituitary gland . The doctors notice several strange things about the boy and the mother and father decide to try and find out more about the man who raped her in order to ascertain the problem with their kid . . . The film does have plenty of problems ; mostly owing to the story as huge chunks of it don't make a lick of sense . The film builds up slowly and we are given small pieces of information at a time ; which at least ensures that it's always interesting . Young actor Paul Clemens is good in the lead role and actually manages to make it believable ; which is quite a feat considering the likeliness of the plot . The mythology and reasoning behind the events of the film is good enough and as the film is not typical for a ' change ' movie , the reason behind our lead character's affliction isn't either . The reason doesn't make a great deal of sense like the rest of the film - but at least it tried to be a bit original ! There's a fair amount of death scenes and gore in the movie which is nice and the standout sequence is obviously the change scene that comes towards the end . It's over the top and gruesome , and wont be forgotten in a hurry ; but unfortunately it's also ended prematurely and we don't get to see a great deal of the changed character . Still , while this is a film with problems ; there's a lot to like about it also and I'd say it's a film worth seeing .
Lovely little tribute to old-school horror !	Even though Slither isn't completely successful in achieving everything it set out to , it's an enjoyable ride and certainly one of the better horror films of the last couple of years . Prior to seeing the film , I'd heard it was a rip-off of the eighties cult classic ' Night of the Creeps ' , and while I can certainly see why people would say that - the film features ideas from a range of Sci-Fi and horror films , and overall I would say it's better to simply enjoy writer-director James Gunn's imagination and inventiveness rather than worry about who thought of the various plot points and themes first . The film begins with a meteorite falling to Earth . Around the same time , the amusingly named Grant Grant is trying to get it on with his wife , but she refuses his advances and he goes for a walk . . . to the local pub . After hooking up with some chick he used to know , the pair go walking through the same field that the meteor landed in , and pretty soon Mr Grant has found himself with the alien life form inside him . It's not long before the entire town is feeling Grant's misfortune , when they all become zombies and various mutants ! The film features an excellent turn from the brilliant Michael Rooker ; a severely underused actor and one of my favourites . While he unfortunately doesn't get a great deal of screen time ; he's well used and a great choice to play the alien's unfortunate victim . The central cast are all pretty good , with Elizabeth Banks doing well in her role and providing nice candy alongside Tania Saulnier , and Nathan Fillion , who was the best thing about last year's Serenity . The special effects are something of a mixed bag , and mostly consisting of CGI . At times , it looks good ; but sometimes it looks cheap , the special effects on the worms being the main offender in this department . James Gunn does a good job at directing , and he might be someone to keep an eye on as he does well at creating terror and there are several sequences in the film that are really well executed . The film starts off slowly , and builds into something of a horror romp with a number of ideas coming off well . It does feel a little bit flat , however , and Slither could have been a masterpiece if it had a bit more bite . Still , I'm not complaining as this film is always good fun to watch .
" People eat fish , fish don't eat people "	Yes , in most cases ; fish don't eat people , people eat fish ; but the auteur of that quote clearly forgot about man eating fish , such as piranha ; and that reflects even worse on his brain power when you consider that , at the time of speaking , he was actually in a film called " Piranha " , which also happens to be about man eating fish ! Lots of ' em ! It's little delights like the one just mentioned that make Piranha what is - the script doesn't take itself seriously , and that blends with the shameless ripping off of many a creature feature , and both of those in turn provide the audience with a very camp movie experience indeed . Creature features have a long history of being camp , and Joe Dante's film will no doubt be a highlight for fans of the classic movies in this field . Joe Dante has made a lot of cheap , but good films , and while The Howling remains the best of his oeuvre and the ' best director ' awards certainly won't be winging his way soon , he's an underrated talent in the horror film industry and Piranha is certainly one of his better films . Joe Dante has put a good cast together for this movie , which equally weighs out the camp and action sequences in the movie in the same proportions that the movie itself gives out . Bradford Dillman takes the lead role , and while he clearly knows that he's appearing in a camp and very much ' B ' standard horror ; he still gives it his all and makes for a fine protagonist . The highlights among the ensemble are Barbara Steele , a regular in horror films , with performances in the likes of ' The Pit and the Pendulum ' and ' Black Sunday ' , and Dick Miller ; a cult star that Dante would go on to use regularly , but found his cult stardom in the Corman classic ' A Bucket of Blood ' . The pace of the film is good , and while the script shows some holes , the plot usually lasts out . It gets a bit hectic towards the end and Dante would have been better served with less carnage and more tension to give the movie a better finale . The effects are pretty much non-existent , as the movie just uses cuts of fish swimming and a bit of fake blood for most of it's shocks . Still , this is a very fun movie and one that people who enjoy a good time will enjoy .
Let down by a few things , but still well worth seeing .	All of Universal's Sherlock Holmes movies are well worth watching , and even though The Voice of Terror is a lesser entry in the series , it still captures a lot of what makes the rest of the series so brilliant . As usual , the performances are right on cue ; with the quintessential Sherlock Holmes , Basil Rathbone , once again bringing all the right cards to the table that make his performances as the great detective so brilliant . Nigel Bruce impresses once again as well as Holmes ' sidekick Doctor Watson . These two are always great to watch , and they could be investigating why paint dries and it would still be interesting . The plot takes on a different stance from usual Holmes mysteries , and this time sees him working for the British government after a series of mysterious broadcasts from ' the Voice of Terror ' baffle the country . Holmes is put in a situation where he's working for someone bigger than himself , and it puts something of a damper on the usual mystery plot . Because this film was made at the height of the second world war , it's social comments are a little out of date now ; but you can see how the plot may have been frightening to the people at the time that this was made . Another thing that lets the film down is propaganda . It's obvious why the film is patriotic , but it goes over the top sometimes and Rathbone's monologue in a public house is of particular , cringe-worthy note . Still ; this is a decent mystery and , like the rest of the series , is well worth seeing .
Interesting and well made TV movie	Sweet Hostage is another excellent example of a seventies made for TV movie . There were a lot of great TV movies made during what is probably the richest decade for great movies , although this one stands out a little from many as it is both feature length and feels every bit like a ' proper ' movie , not a made for TV one . The plot focuses on the idea of ' Stockholm Syndrome ' and we follow a young girl who is kidnapped by an escaped mental patient but ends up falling in love with him along the way . The film doesn't really appear to have any real point to make , but the way that everything plays out is always interesting and that is mostly thanks to the two lead performances which are excellent throughout . Martin Sheen gives a lively performance as the escaped mental patient and actually manages to make his character realistic in spite of the over the top script . Linda Blair is also very good as the kidnapped young girl and has a good chemistry with Sheen . The film is a little under ambitious and that's a shame as it does feel like more could have been made out of this plot ; but what we do end up with is an undoubtedly successful drama and I enjoyed this movie on the whole .
Interesting commentary on witchcraft	It really has to be said that Benjamin Christensen's witchcraft documentary is an amazing achievement , especially considering the time in which it was made . The film follows a documentary structure , but the Swedish director implements lots of different ways of telling his story , which ensures that the film never becomes dull or mundane and offers more than just a commentary on witchcraft through the ages . The subject of the documentary is no doubt an interesting subject for the horror fan , but as the film follows the story of ' real ' witchcraft , it's not a good idea to go into this film expecting buxom ladies casting powerful spells on all and sundry . Benjamin Christensen explores witchcraft from the strange and primitive ideas of the middle ages , all the way through the ( then ) modern society of the early nineteen twenties . The documentary follows the subjects of spell casting , witch trials and wrongful accusation , and while I can't say that I'm now an expert on witchcraft ; this film offers a fairly good education . I saw this film on a video released by Redemption films in the UK , which isn't the same version released by Criterion in the USA . The storyboards included in the Redemption version ensure that it's more like a silent film , although Haxan does feature a lot of visuals that are surprising given the time that the film was made . Christensen decorates his film with some great sequences , which include devils , skeletal horses and witches performing witchcraft and these aids help the director to fully implement the ideas of the plot . It's also clear that the director has a sense of humour , which comes through most potently in a scene in which a woman recounts desecrating on an alter while in the form of a cat ! The problem with the film is that it can be a little too slow in paces , and sometimes it feels like the points are being padded out and this isn't always interesting . For my money , the director also spends a bit too long on the witch trials ; and personally , I'd rather have seen more witchcraft . Still , this is a good documentary on its subject and an amazing achievement for 1922 .
Over the top and stupid , but still an entertaining action flick	If you go into Wanted expecting life-affirming brilliance , you will be disappointed ; but if you go in expecting an adrenaline-fuelled thrill ride , you should come out at least fairly contented . The film is apparently based on some comic book and is directed by Timur Bekmambetov , a name some may recognise as the director behind Russian vampire film Night Watch and its sequel . The film is style over substance in a big way , although it does at least attempt to have some substance by way of the basic idea of a normal man living a boring life being given the chance to fulfil his destiny by way of a much more exciting life as a professional assassin . His boring life is thrown into turmoil one day when he meets the sexy Fox and , after being saved from a hit-man himself , he is recruited into a group of assassins known as The Fraternity . He is taught how to use his hidden super powers ; which include the ability to slow things down , shoot bullets in a circular motion and drive rubbish cars really fast . Our hero then learns the reason he was brought in to The Fraternity and the destiny that awaits him . The film takes on a very ' MTv ' style and the action is continually paused , overloaded with CGI and / or quickly edited . Things like this usually annoy me , and with this film it does start to grate after a while ; but the director actually uses these tricks fairly well ( particularly in the first twenty minutes or so ) which is a credit to him and the film . Once the plot kicks into action , we basically get treated to one action sequence after another and calling them ' over the top would be a gross understatement . Most of the things that happen in this film are completely ridiculous , but it soon becomes obvious that the film is not meant to be taken seriously and it's better to sit back and enjoy the ride . The plot itself has a number of holes and doesn't make complete sense when you think about it ; but again , leaving your brain at the door is highly recommended . There's a couple of twists and turns along the way to keep the story interesting , and although the ending is not completely unexpected ; it wraps things up nicely and overall , if you're looking for a film to entertain and not be too taxing ; you could do worse than Wanted .
Flawed , interesting and controversial account of the life of Jesus Christ	It's well documented how Martin Scorsese toiled to get this film made . I'm sure that before , and during the filming of The Last Temptation of Christ ; the highly acclaimed director thought that this was going to be his masterpiece , but , of course , it hasn't gone down as such . The film does suffer from several flaws , and while much of it is very good ; it cannot be seen as one of Scorsese's crowning achievements because the flaws bring it down . I'm not a massive fan of crime films , and so I don't consider Martin Scorsese to be one of my favourite directors . It's a shame that so much of his repertoire is in the crime genre because when he's stepped out of it , the results tend to be quite good . Rather than making a film about the ' classic ' story of Christ , Scorsese has opted to base the film on the writing of Nikos Kazantzakis , from his book ' The Last Temptation of Christ ' . This story follows Christ as a much less admirable character , and we see him as he leads his disciples to Jerusalem . Jesus is tormented by the fact that he is the Son of God , and the story ultimately comes to him trying to resist the temptation of living the life of a normal man . Like all films dealing with Christianity , this one is controversial and has , and no doubt will continue to , annoy people . The Passion of the Christ had the Christian church up in arms in 2004 , but that was controversial for a different reason . Mel Gibson's film depicted an unrelenting account of Jesus ' torture and racial controversy over the saviour's murderers ; but Scorsese's film is arguably even more potent in terms of controversy as it strikes straight at the jugular of Christian ideology . Rather than being violent or racist , Scorsese's film attempts to defile the entire belief system surrounding Jesus , and presents Christ as more of a cult leader than the great saviour . Scorsese goes a bit over the top with the music at times , which can be irritating and William Dafoe , while no doubt a great actor , doesn't quite do the role justice here . His persona fits the personality that this story has given Jesus , but the actor just doesn't fit the figure and it doesn't come off very well . Harvey Kietel co-stars in the movie as Judas , and it feels like we're watching him in one of Scorsese's crime flicks for most of the movie . In spite of it's flaws , however , The Last Temptation is an interesting film and well worth seeing . Just don't go into it expecting greatness .
A giant white worm and Hugh Grant . Jolly good fun !	I'm a big fan of campy B-horror movies - especially one's hailing from the 1980's ( chief among decades of campy horror ) , and if it's so-bad-it's-good movies that you want ; The Lair of the White Worm shouldn't disappoint ! Don't get me wrong , there's no doubt that this is a bad movie , but it's so odd that it's hard to truly dislike . Perhaps the oddest thing about the film , and the thing that surprised me most about it , is the fact that it stars Hugh Grant . This role came about for him before he was famous , making it strange nowadays to see the star of cringe-worthy flicks such as Four Weddings and a Funeral , and Notting Hill being associated with a production such of this . Grant is teamed with director Ken Russell , who has a penchant for the bizarre , in this adaptation of a novel by Bram Stoker . The plot follows the discovery of a skull , seemingly from a worm of the Roman times , by a Scottish archaeologist . It isn't long before the cast of characters find themselves in the middle of an ancient cult that pledges its worship to the mythical ' White Worm ' ! The Lair of the White Worm , among other things , is strangely erotic . Amanda Donohoe is largely the reason for this ; and she looks great parading around in barely anything ( later , nothing ) . The fact that she's the leader of an evil cult only makes her more appealing as far as this viewer is concerned . A while ago , I took a vow never to see another Hugh Grant movie ; so I wasn't exactly pleased to discover that he was in this . However , it's only really the latter day comedies that make me hate him ; in this film , and Roman Polanski's Bitter Moon ( 1992 ) , he's actually quite good . Perhaps he could have had a career as a cult movie star ? Who knows . A lot of the film is made up of bizarre dream sequences or scenes involving Amanda Donohoe and her latest victim , and it isn't until the end that we get to see the star of the show - the white worm itself ! The effects when it does turn up are woeful , but it suits the movie just fine - and either way , it's a million times better than that CGI rubbish . Overall , this is hardly a great film ; but it has a lot of cult value , and fans of cult films will no doubt want to track it down .
Someone's been watching Rear Window !	I've heard some really good things about this film , so it didn't surprise me that it didn't quite live up to expectations . Someone's Watching Me is an early TV movie from so-so director John Carpenter and it was released in the same year that his biggest hit - slasher flick Halloween - was released , so I'm guessing that a lot of the praise for this film comes from John Carpenter fans . This would appear to be Carpenter's attempt at a Brian De Palma-style Hitchcock tribute , and the main influence here is obviously Hitchcock's masterpiece , ' Rear Window ' . Naturally , the film has nothing on Hitchcock and could really be described as a poor man's impression of the classic film ; but thankfully , Carpenter doesn't just copy and the result is an interesting take on an already well done theme . The plot focuses on a female TV director who finds herself being watched through a telescope by a man in the block across from her . Not to content to just watch , the man also terrifies her by calling her up . She tells the cops , but as usual there's nothing they can do - so she takes to investigating herself , along with her new found boyfriend and a lesbian who works at the same TV station . I have to say that I'm not the biggest fan of John Carpenter's body of work ; but this film actually represents one of his biggest successes . The film works thanks to the way that the writer / director manages to keep things at least mostly interesting throughout , and while the film doesn't boast too many real biting sequences , it at least never stagnates to the point of tedium . The Rear Window influence is felt throughout , and one pivotal sequence is pretty much lifted from the earlier film . However , most of the movie is original , and so I wouldn't go as far as to call this a complete rip off . The film was made for television in the seventies , but all this really means is that there's a lack of bloodshed ( which the story doesn't really need anyway ) as the production values and acting are decent enough for this sort of film . I have to say that I'd have liked this film more if Carpenter could have worked a bit more mystery into the proceedings , as the identity of the tormentor is never really important , and that's a shame as it could have added an extra element of interest if the director was willing to go a little further . Still , the film ends well ( if a little abruptly ) , and since it runs smoothly throughout , I have to give a thumbs up .
An excellent companion piece to the more famous 1931 Dracula film	Shot on the same sets at the same time as the more popular Bela Lugosi film of the title , this film ; often referred to as ' Spanish Dracula ' , makes an excellent companion piece to the famous Tod Browning horror classic . I'm not sure why Universal didn't simply dub the American version of the film for the European market , but to be honest I'm glad they didn't . The film runs at almost half an hour longer than the more famous film , but it doesn't really feature any more plot . The film does start to drag a little towards the end ; but this Spanish version makes more of the rivalry between Dracula and his nemesis Abraham Van Helsing , and the story of Mina is better fleshed out , which is nice . The film works from the same script as the Browning version , and hence the story is the same . It follows a man named Renfield , who travels to Dracula's castle in Transylvania in order to complete the lease of Carfax Abbey . However , Dracula has more sinister motives , as he turns Renfield into a raving lunatic and takes a boat back to England . . . Director George Melford does a really great job in the director's chair , as he ensures that the film gets the richly Gothic atmosphere that the story deserves . The atmosphere is thick and foreboding , and this helps to create an atmosphere of tension around the central characters . Carlos Villarías takes the lead role , and it has to be said doesn't do all that well with it . This film obviously depends greatly on the ability of its lead actor ; but Villarías ' facial expressions are not good , and his mannerisms make him seem like a poor man's Bela Lugosi . The supporting cast are all OK , but nobody particularly stands out . The fact that the film runs at around 105 minutes means that it's overlong . Over length is even worse than under length in my opinion , and I have no idea why this film needs to be as long as it is . On the whole , the Spanish version of Dracula is definitely worth seeing , as , for a start , it doesn't get much more ' cult ' than an unknown film , filmed at the same time as a major classic ; and secondly , this defiantly is a good film . I can't say that the Spanish version of Dracula is better than the Lugosi one , however .
Surreal and bleak	As other reviewers have mentioned , it's difficult to know what to make of this film - and I suffered from the same problem ! Go Go Second Time Virgin is as surreal and strange as its title suggests it is . The basis behind the plot is relatively simple , but I have no idea what the film is trying to say and that's what enforces the weirdness of the film . Go Go Second Tim Virgin starts with a rape sequence and from there we focus on two teenagers ; one of which being the girl that was raped . The pair of them are depressed , and the girl insists that she wants to die and asks the boy to do it , but he refuses , preferring a different solution to the problem . The film is stylishly shot ; most of it is in black and white although certain sequences are portrayed in colour . The bleak atmosphere is the main point of the film ; this film is extremely bleak throughout and not a great deal of fun , which might not please anyone going into this film expecting something more fun , considering the film's ' pinku ' origins . There's not a great deal of sleaze in the film - the rape scenes are not overly graphic and there's not a great deal of gore either . I won't name this film as a favourite or anything like that , but it's an interesting little flick that is definitely worth seeing , and therefore comes recommended .
Fun , but doesn't work as a satire	I'm a big fan of Sherlock Holmes , especially the classic films starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce - and I'm also a big fan of Billy Wilder , having rated all ten of his films that I saw prior to this one in the very top tier of rankings . However , I just could not click with this film ; I can see why others like it a lot , but there's just too much wrong with it for my liking . I go into Billy Wilder films with high expectations , because the man was a genius ; but I really don't know what happened here . I realise that this is supposed to be satire , and the idea behind the film is funny ; but at the same time , it's just not Sherlock Holmes . We are presented with a very camp and non-too clever character , which Wilder tells us is Sherlock Holmes . Ignoring the fact that Holmes would never ask Watson's permission to do anything , we are meant to believe that is the a ' funny version ' same character that Rathbone portrayed so well all those years earlier . Like I said , I know that this is satire and so you cant expect the film to play out seriously - but for satire to work , it needs a grounding in what it's making fun of ; and really , the detective in this film could be a completely original one , as he certainly isn't Sherlock Holmes ! Ignoring what I've just said , The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes still offers a solid two hours of fun . But this is what really annoys me - the film has got the plotting spot on . . . if only the satire had been concentrated on a bit more , this could have been really good . The film follows Watson's memoirs of some of the less successful missions he has accompanied Holmes on , and we see the duo travelling to Scotland and meeting up with all manner of things from dwarfs ( naturally ) , Christopher Lee and the Lock Ness Monster . The plot plays out well , and despite putting the focus on humour ; there's a fair amount of mystery here too . The acting really got on my nerves , as nearly everyone has been miscast . Robert Stephens makes a terrible Sherlock Holmes , and accounts for a lot of the reason the satire doesn't work . Colin Blakely is amusing as Watson , but he's not the actor I'd have cast - and the only really likable casting in the film is Christopher Lee , but that's more for the fact that he's Christopher Lee than because of inspired casting . You would be forgiven , having read this far , for thinking that I don't like this film . That's not true , it was a good time and I enjoyed it - but I wouldn't recommend going into it with the high hopes that usually come with Wilder films .
The Last House Left !	Well , Wes Craven's Last House on the Left sure was an influential film , as there's been a barrage of rip-offs released since 1972 , and this is one of them . The Last House on the Beach tends to get put down , and certainly isn't one of the better rip-offs to be released since Craven's masterpiece ; but still , I've got to admit that I have a penchant for films like this , and The Last House on the Beach hits the spot . The only real difference between this film and the rest of its ilk is that , as the title suggests , the action takes place close to a beach this time around . Director Franco Prosperi seems keen to capitalise on his film's only original element , as the beach setting is often sun-drenched , and the director has seen fit to implement several upbeat pop-rock songs into the mix . . . which actually works quite well . The plot is paper-thin as you would expect , and follows a bank robbery . On the run , the thieves decide to hide out in a nice house on the beach ; which just happens to be where a nun is taking care of a bunch of teenagers rehearsing a Shakespeare play . . . rape , torture and murder ensue . The main thing I like about these sorts of films is that the focus tends to stay on just one idea , which means that the audience is allowed to see into the situation . This film doesn't do it as well as , say , The House on the Edge of the Park , did ; but all the actors play their parts well , and considering that there's barely any character on display ; it is testament to their talent that we are actually allowed to feel for the characters . Then again , it's always going to be difficult NOT to feel for someone that is being brutally raped and humiliated . This film never received the notoriety of some of its counterparts , and that's hardly surprising as the violence is never particularly shocking and the rape scenes don't go on for long , nor do they occur often . The girls in this film are typically young , which gives it a lot more shock value ; but the real problem here is that there isn't a lot of invention , and it ponders along , which may annoy some . I do have to say that I enjoyed the relaxed style of this movie , however , and since I personally found the action interesting ; I am perhaps rating is a little above the rating that many exploitation fans would give it .
Entertaining comic book fare	Following on from the recent trend of turning comic books into movies is this offering - Hellboy . I've never read , or even heard of , the ' Hellboy ' comic before seeing this movie but it doesn't matter as the film pretty much explains itself anyway . Hellboy tells the story of a demon that was brought into this world by way of a very silly sequence involving a portal to hell , Rasputin ( yes , Rasputin ) and some Nazi's ( naturally ) . Instead of exterminating this demon , the American army decides to not only keep it , but raise it as a crime fighting superhero , whom they go on to use in the paranormal side of the FBI , which battles various monsters and stuff . Obviously . As you can probably tell , this isn't a film that takes itself seriously and should , therefore , just be taken for what it is - an enjoyable comic book movie . And when taken like that , it has to be said that Hellboy succeeds . Guillermo Del Toro is an obviously talented director . Cronos and The Devil's Backbone prove that without any further need for proof , but it's also worth noting both Blade 2 and Mimic , which weren't as great as the two films just mentioned , but were obviously helmed by a talented auteur . Hellboy fits in with the latter two films , unfortunately , and although Del Toro has no doubt made a good job of this movie , you can't help but think that his talents would be better served making more movies like Cronos and The Devil's Backbone . The CGI effects in the film are mostly rather good , and go some way to proving that CGI can work if done correctly . The film falls down when it comes to making the character of Hellboy into a well-rounded ' human being ' . The word ' cliché ' springs to mind immediately , and does so again when it comes to the dialogue that Hellboy has been given . Still , Ron Perlman makes an excellent job of the role , and although I've never read any of the comics ; his performance shows what I would expect the character of ' Hellboy ' to be . The film is not great , but it's a fun ride ; so the thumbs are more up than down .
Interesting and inventive fifties monster movie	I'm not a big fan of fifties monster movies in general , but this one is pretty decent . The film was directed by Riccardo Freda , although he was going under the pseudonym ' Robert Hamton ' in order to fool audiences into thinking that the film was an American picture . The film does take obvious influence from the American monster movies and is similar in style , plot and execution ; and actually credit does have to go to Freda in that respect as if it wasn't for the awful dubbing , one would have no reason to think that this wasn't an American film . The plot is rather well worked and focuses on the demise of the Mayan civilisation . We focus on a team of archaeologists studying some ancient Mayan ruins when they come across a cave which houses a lake . After diving into the lake , they discover that it is full of gold ; although things go a bit awry when they also find out that the lake is inhabited by an ancient blob-like monster . They end up taking part of the creature back to the lab where upon studying it , they realise it could threaten the whole world . . . It was unveiled that many of the films which Riccardo Freda took credit for were actually directed by his young apprentice , Mario Bava - and Caltiki is one of those films . I have no idea how much of the film was directed by Bava , but I'd hesitantly say that I think it was mostly done by Freda as the film does not feature much in the way of Bava's trademark styling's ; although in truth the filming style is all very by the numbers and there's not a lot of room for stylish visuals . The plot is well done , however , and is certainly more inventive than I thought it might be . The special effects are not particularly spectacular ; though they certainly are serviceable for the type of film and are used well . There are a handful of good ideas on display - the fate that awaits a particularly greedy archaeologist being one of the best parts of it . The film tries to a bit spectacular towards the end , and it does work somewhat , although many of the American pictures did the spectacular ending better . Still , this is a decent little monster movie and I'm sure fans of this stuff will enjoy it .
The best of the Tremors sequels	Strangely , many third sequels turn out to be prequels . Psycho did it , Hellraiser did it , Phantasm did it ; and now Tremors has done it too . Often , these fourth films tend to be worse than all three of their predecessors ; but believe it or not , Tremors 4 is actually a good film - and miles better than the two that preceded it . For a direct to video release , this film is surprisingly well put together . The dialogue is crummy , and the acting matches it ; but in the effects and story departments ( the more important elements ) , the film is very worthy indeed . Tremors 4 follows the risky premise of going back over one hundred years to the time that the Graboids first appeared in Rejection ( the settlement that would become Perfection Valley ) . I've no idea why anyone would think to call their settlement ' Rejection ' , but then again ; this film isn't completely sound where logic is concerned . The trouble starts in the local silver mine , when miners are killed by Graboids and the town's source of income is diminished . It is then that Hiram Gummer ; ancestor of Burt turns up and hires a gun to sort things out . . . The main reason why the original film worked so well was the way that it mixed the cool western themes with old-school monster horror . The previous two sequels lost that set-up somewhat , but this one gets it right on again . The film does a good job of enforcing its western elements early on , only for the horror to come along and shake things up . The special effects on the monsters are great , and prove that modern films don't need masses of CGI to look realistic . There is a little CGI here and there ; but most of the effects are ' real ' , and it benefits the movie immensely . Michael Gross is pretty much the ' hero ' of the series , and he takes the lead role in this one despite it being set over a hundred years earlier than part one . He plays Burt Gummer's ancestor , and , aside from a few silly moments ; generally does pretty well with it . The rest of the cast is made up of unknowns and , to be honest , they're all pretty terrible . It doesn't matter at all , however ; as nobody goes into Tremors 4 expecting Oscar worthy performances . This may not be one of the greatest modern horror films ; but it's better than you would think , and provides a nice end ( . . . ) to the Tremors series , as almost everything is wrapped up nicely .
Good early example of the cannibal flick	The Mountain of the Cannibal God predates the most famous cannibal film of all time , Cannibal Holocaust , by two years ; and , along with Deodato's earlier ' Jungle Holocaust ' , is a clear influence on that film , as well as the Italian cannibal sub-genre on the whole . This isn't your run of the mill cannibal flick , however , as Mountain of the Cannibal God sets itself apart from the rest of the tribe of cannibal flicks by way of it's plotting . Rather than simply being an excuse to show some sickening gore , this film is styled more in the way of adventure . In fact , the first half of the film is rather boring . There are a few animal slaughters , and the tension mounts ; but it isn't until half way through that cannibal fans get what they came for . The excuse to enter the South American jungle this time is that a professor's expedition has ended without him contacting civilisation , which leads his wife to enter the jungle along with her brother and one of her husband's acquaintances . They meet another rugged male on the way . . . and the scene is set for some brutal gore-soaked scenes ! This film benefits from a better cast than pretty much every other cannibal film ever to come out of Italy . There's only two ' names ' on the cast list - but that's two more than most ! Stacy Keach is the lead male , and does well in his rather slack role . Former Bond girl , Ursula Andress will be the stand out for many in her leading role . She doesn't do much for me to be honest ; but then I wasn't around when audiences witnessed her emerge from the ocean in Dr No . My main reason for seeing this film was that Sergio Martino is the man in the director's chair . This underrated Italian director made a name for himself within the Giallo genre , by way of such classics as The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh and The Case of the Scorpions Tail . It's safe to say that this cannibal flick doesn't reach the high standard of those films , however . Many will probably see this film for the gore ; and many will leave disappointed . As mentioned , the gore doesn't turn up until the end ; and aside from a castration scene , it's surprisingly tame ( for a cannibal flick ! ) . It also seems like it was added in at the last minute so as not to disappoint cinema viewers . Anyway , if you like cannibals ; you could do a lot worse than this little video nasty .
Overblown entertainment almost at it's best	Titled ' First Blood ' , but more commonly known as ' Rambo ' , this film tells the story of ex-Vietnam Greet Beret , John Rambo who starts his own personal war with a local sheriff after being picked up for vagrancy . The Rambo series has a reputation for being big , bold and stupid ; and there is a good reason for this , as that's exactly what it is . However , as no film fan worth their salt will go into this film expecting a deep and philosophical masterpiece ; the fact that it's entertaining is more than enough to stop it being a bad film . First Blood features more explosions , gun fights , fist fights and just general adrenaline pumping carnage than you could wish for , and it manages to keep up the high tempo that it creates towards the start for the duration . The film is rarely boring as the action keeps it ticking over , but it does start to get a bit samey after you've seen Stallone hammer another bunch of people with his M4 for the eight hundredth time . The action in First Blood is pure comic book stuff , and it does manage to go ridiculously over the top on several occasions , but it's all in the spirit of entertainment , and is , therefore , forgivable . Sylvestor Stallone is an actor that I'm not a fan of ; the way he speaks and his general demeanour is annoying , but he definitely knows his way around an action film . And let's face it ; that's all he's good for at the end of the day ( yes , I've seen Cop Land ) . The script is something in First Blood that could do with some work ; it's not bad on the whole , especially when compared with some of Stallone's other work ( e . g . Cobra ) , but it spends too much time focusing on Rambo's mentor telling the police that Rambo will kill them all blah blah , and it becomes dull and silly all too quickly . The way that it ' brings the Vietnam war ' home is a good idea , and I like that aspect of the film . . . although it was done to much better effect five years later with the Schwarzenegger masterpiece ; Predator . To sum up , First Blood is very good entertainment . There's plenty to keep action fans thrilled , and some of the ideas such as the commentary on the Vietnam war are good , but it's let down by a script that gets silly and too much of the same stuff . Recommended viewing if you want something to entertain you and aren't too bothered about depth .
Relentlessly gory Japanese splatter	After seeing The Evil Dead Trap , I'm not surprised at all that it has a rather strong cult following ; as despite the fact that the plot is rather ludicrous and the film isn't particularly well thought out , it makes up for these problems with a plethora of special effects and a bucket of gore ; and the result is a brilliantly fun piece of Japanese horror . The influence for this film is clearly far reaching , but the most obvious is probably the Cronenberg masterpiece Videodrome , though the oeuvre of Lucio Fulci seems to be an influence and of course the English title is a clear rip-off of a very popular early eighties horror film . The plot focuses on a late night reality TV show hosted a young lady named Nami . The show receives a videotape that includes apparently real snuff tape footage . This leads the team to go and track down the origin of the tape , and they arrive at an old warehouse . After gaining access to the facility , it's not long before the group begin being picked off by an unseen assailant . The film could easily be seen as a slasher flick , but actually it's much more ambitious than that . The snuff footage at the beginning of the film sets the tone for the rest of it ; the violence is extreme , but also rather realistic and that is carried on throughout . One of my favourite things about it was undoubtedly the atmosphere ; director Toshiharu Ikeda makes best use of the location and the fact that the central characters are isolated from the outside world . The violence is often shown and extreme and this is what makes the film entertaining . It's also rather inventive and the film offers much more than merely another man with a knife . The problems regarding the plotting and character are somewhat condemning ; I do feel that if a bit more time and attention were given to these areas then the film could easily have been a masterpiece . But even so , if you want a good gorefest then you really can't do better than this film ! I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to all horror fans .
Flashdancing Death	Lucio Fulci's Murder Rock is often lambasted by both Fulci and Giallo fans ; and although I can certainly see why , I've got to say that this film satisfied me personally and I won't hesitate to label it a successful attempt at blending the tacky eighties styling's of dance phenomenon's the likes of ' Flashdance ' with the familiar styling's of the popular Italian Giallo . I'm sure Fulci thought he was on to a definite winner back in 1984 with all these popular elements in one film ; and even though I'm not sure how they would have been received at the time , nowadays it stands up as an amusing slice of kitsch nostalgia . I think the director cared more about making a quick buck on this film than providing the mass with a piece of art , and this shines through in the convoluted , but not well put together plot line . As you might expect , the film centres on a dance academy . After one of the girls is found dead , the cops place everyone at the academy under suspicion and when the murders continue ; the police are given more leads to eventually track down the perpetrator . The main reason why this film isn't liked by many of my fellow Fulci fanatics is due to the fact that it's relatively bloodless in comparison to his other works . The likes of The New York Ripper and The Beyond show the director at his gritty , blood-dripping best . . . whereas the kill scenes in this movie hardly feature any of the red stuff . That being said , they are still rather sadistic , as the killer knocks his victim out with chloroform before puncturing their heart with , of all things , a hat pin . Still , it has nothing on the eyeball violence of Zombie Flesh-Eaters . The musical numbers are atrocious in true eighties pop style , while the dance scenes are rather boring and not what I tuned in for . Fulci does find time to implement some gorgeous visuals , and the blue tint that accompanies most scenes gives the film a certain sense of art . Even though many of the film's elements are not brilliant , I still rate this film as an overall success as it's entertaining and fun to watch , and even though there are too many filler scenes ; the plot plays out nicely . It's not a major highlight either for the genre or for the director , but Murder Rock is still worth seeing .
Excellent telling of a true story	Steven Spielberg made a version of this true story in 2005 in an attempt to win the Best Picture award ; yet in spite of his big budget and top quality actors , he couldn't top this little TV movie from 1976 ! 21 Hours at Munich may not be a great film , but it's an interesting and successful telling of the events of the 1972 Olympic Games , and despite the fact that it is lacking in a few areas ; it does at least get its point across . I have to admit that I'm not too familiar with this story outside of the film versions , so I'm not sure exactly how accurate this retelling of it is . The film focuses on a terrorist plot by a group of Arabs ( from the Black September organisation ) to free some of their countrymen from prison . They kidnap eleven Israeli athletes and refuse to let them go until their demands are met . They are not interested in money ; they just want their countrymen freed from jail . This leads the authorities to work hard to strike a deal with the terrorists in order to get the hostages out alive . It has to be said that the film is not exactly heavy on the action front and much of the plot is taken up by talking , but this is OK because the script is interesting enough for the film not to grind to a halt because of it . The fact that this is a TV movie probably doesn't help as it has obvious restrictions on the budget and exactly what can be shown . The acting is well above par for a TV movie too , and the film features an excellent performance from the great Franco Nero who stars as the head of the terrorist organisation . He gets the performance spot on and hits all the right notes as a terrorist with an obvious human streak . William Holden is his co-star and also gives a first rate performance also . The plot flows well throughout and the film keeps up a steady pace with enough things going on to keep the proceedings interesting . Anyone who knows how this story went down will know what to expect from the ending ; but it's a good conclusion and overall , this is a very good movie ; much more involving than Spielberg's version of it , and I highly recommend checking it out if you get the chance .
Well done eighties slasher	The eighties was a breeding ground for films like this - namely , overly simplistic slashers - and I am thankful for that ! These films are often rubbish , but worth seeing if only for the fun factor . This film has lots of the aforementioned factor , mostly due its buckets of gore and impressively high body count ! The first couple of murders happen off screen , and I was beginning to get worried that this might be one of those disappointing gore-free slashers ; but I should have expected more from Scott Spiegel ; a man who worked with Sam Raimi on The Evil Dead , and the film starts to deliver in surprisingly gruesome fashion as we get further into it ! Heads are chopped in half , hooks land in throats ; someone is crushed in a hydraulic press and more ! What the film has in gore is not matched by plot depth , as this film is about as simple as it gets . We get an opening sequence where a checkout girl's boyfriend causes some trouble in a local supermarket , and then it's all action as a maniac decides to start picking off the unlucky workers ! As mentioned , the film takes place entirely within the confines of a supermarket . This means that the locations aren't very diverse , but the place of shopping has enough different areas within itself to keep up the interest levels ; and the single location also allows the film to create a brilliant atmosphere ; full of foreboding claustrophobia . It's easy to say that this film is a load of rubbish ; as it's pretty much all gore and no brains , but in true Evil Dead fashion - the director makes good of it with some brilliant camera angles and photography . The way that the film is shot is great , and adequately shows the director's talent . The cast is made up of cult names that will be familiar to anyone who is a fan of eighties horror . Bruce Campbell puts in a two minute cameo at the end and , I'm sure will be most people's reason for watching . Evil Dead director Sam Raimi and his brother Ted Raimi also feature , while Pulp Fiction producer Lawrence Bender makes an appearance at the end . On the whole , Intruder is a quality piece of cult entertainment . The gore will please all the right people , and the way that the film has been put together deserves more praise than the film is ever likely to receive . Recommended .
Bava's comedy western	The great Mario Bava will always be best known for his Gothic horror and Giallo films , but he was a very versatile director ( like most Italian directors around the time ) that made many films in genres outside of horror , and Roy Colt and Winchester Jack is his attempt at making a film within Italy's popular Spaghetti Western genre . This film is not widely liked amongst Mario Bava's fans and it's not hard to see why - the film really doesn't feel like a Bava film at all as it features none of his trademarks and the plot also has a lot of problems and elements that don't work . The film takes obvious influence from the greatest of all the Spaghetti Westerns ; The Good , The Bad and The Ugly and focuses on the race to claim some buried gold . The main characters are a pair of outlaws named Roy Colt and Winchester Jack . They were once in a gang together , but Roy left to find honest work and ends up becoming sheriff of a small town . A bank owner there has some gold buried and after Jack and his gang steal the map , Roy heads out on their tail . A corrupt reverend and a devious Indian girl also join the party . . . The film is obviously not meant to be taken seriously and Bava packs it with comedy . It has to be said that a lot of it completely misses the mark and isn't funny - but there are some laughs , and scenes such as the one that takes place inside a Brothel in " Wimpy City " work simply because it's so surreal . As the title suggests , this is a character driven western and the leads are both well designed and well acted by American actors Brett Halsey and Charles Southwood . Their relationship is one of the key elements of the film and the way they interact with each other is generally entertaining . The biggest highlight of the film for me was undoubtedly the beautiful and seductive Marilù Tolo who plays the Indian girl and steals every scene she's in - I would even go as far as to say that this film would not have worked without her in it . The only character that doesn't work too well is The Reverend , who is more irritating than amusing . There's some good fighting in the film - plenty of gunfights and fistfights and at eighty five minutes , there isn't really time for the plot to get boring . Overall , on the grand scheme of things ; this is not a particularly good western or a particularly good Bava film - but it's entertaining enough and I did enjoy it .
Has it's problems , but still a very well worked and entertaining thriller !	The Devil Thumbs a Ride is basically just your classic 40's B-movie ; it's cheap and there are a lot of things wrong with it , but it's also fast moving and very entertaining , which makes it very easy to forgive all the flaws and just sit back and enjoy the film . It soon becomes clear that the film was made with little budget as it looks very cheap and most of the acting is terrible ; but we launch straight into the plot with minimum hanging around and the fact that the film is only an hour long means that there's no filler and the film sticks to the important stuff . The film focuses on a straight up but very naive guy who calls himself Fergie . Fergie is on his way home from a party , and makes a regrettable decision when he decides to pick up a hitchhiker in the form of Steve Morgan . Steve Morgan is a thief turned murderer and on the run from the cops . The pair stops at a gas station where they pick up a couple of broads , but not before Steve manages to insult the plucky young gas station attendant . The quartet continue their trip , and Steve soon realises he has to take steps to conceal his identity . The hitchhiker theme would go on to become one of the staples of the horror / thriller genre with films like The Hitcher being the best of them . I don't know the entire history of the genre ; but this film is surely one of the earliest examples . The film does have its fair share of problems , however . The script is at times ridiculous and the plot would have completely fallen apart if three of the central characters had more than a single brain cell between them . The comedy elements are also extremely misplaced in such a dark film ( although I guess they are there to relieve the audience somewhat as there weren't a great deal of films darker than this one around in 1947 ! ) . I know the thing I'll remember about this film longer than anything else is the central performance from Lawrence Tierney , who is excellent in the lead role . He cuts a truly imposing figure and really does put his supporting cast to shame ; in particular Ted North who doesn't manage to convince at all , particularly during his shouting scenes . Still , problems aside ; this is a thrilling and very entertaining little thriller that kept my interest for the duration ( even if it was only an hour ) and even manages a couple of well worked twists at the end . Check this one out if you can !
Hilariously bad - and hugely entertaining - rip off of The Terminator	As the title suggests , Lady Terminator takes influence from the eighties classic ' The Terminator ' . Successful American films often get cheap rip off versions made , but what is surprising about this one is just how much it shamelessly steals from James Cameron's famous film . It's not just the central premise - the thievery even goes down to whole scenes being taken and even certain mannerisms of the leading character ! Still . . . considering the quality of this film , I can't see James Cameron caring too much about it ! Lady Terminator really is a terrible film ; but it's also great fun for all the same reasons . The build up to the Terminator-style plot takes influence from any number of films in which powerful people come back to haunt later generations of a certain family . In this case it's the Sea Queen ; a woman who uses an eel to brutally kill any man who can't satisfy her . When one man thwarts her , she swears vengeance on his great granddaughter . Enter Tania Wilson : an Anthropology student who stumbles on the old lair of the Sea Queen while doing research and comes back as an unstoppable female in a leather jacket ! Lady Terminator really is pure trash , but at least its entertaining trash and there's certainly no shortage of gun fights , car chases and gory deaths . Pretty much everything in the film comes off as being stupid ; nothing more so than Barbara Anne Constable in the lead role . She looks quite cool walking round in her leather jacket and trousers ; but the image of her with a machine gun blasting everyone Arnie style is hard not to giggle at . There's some great dialogue in the film , and every now and again there's a little exchange or event that is sure to make the right kind of people erupt with laughter . There's also a fair amount of sex thrown into the mix too ; though it seems to be clear that the director wanted to focus more on the action . It won't be hard to guess where the plot is going for anyone who has seen The Terminator ; but that's not a big problem as where the plot is going isn't half as important as how it's getting there . The final ten minutes are a real blast , and the last thing that Lady Terminator rips off The Terminator is the best ! Overall , this is definitely stupid crap - but its awesome stupid crap and comes recommended to the right kind of people !
Sleazy rape comedy	Flesh Target : Rape is another hardcore Japanese Pinku movie . I have to admit that I've not seen a great deal of films like this ; to be honest , films about rape aren't really my cup of tea and thus I don't generally seek them out . However , I ended up with a copy of this and decided to watch it . . . and actually , for what it is , the film is fairly decent ; despite a running time that only just stretches to feature length and a complete lack of anything approaching a point . Bizarrely , it would seem that the comedy in this film is intentional ; which effectively makes it a ' rape comedy ' . I bet it's not the only one either . Anyway , the plot simply focuses on a man working in an office . He gets drunk at a party , says something stupid and gets the boot ; so resolves to go around raping all the best girls that work where he used to work . However , the next day he actually gets his job back ; but decides to just carry on with the whole raping thing anyway . Naturally the film is very sleazy and since most of it is made up of rape scenes , it certainly won't be for everyone . Despite not being able to show any full frontal nudity ; director Yukihiro Sawada approaches his subject material with relish and all of the rape scenes go on for a long time and are as rough and gritty as possible . There's some variety too , and the director shows some ingenuity with the situations leading to these rape scenes . The sleaze factor in the film is suitably high and this obviously suits the subject material very well . Running at around seventy two minutes , the film doesn't have a great deal of time to get into the characters ; but at least the runtime is used well . The comedy in the film is suitably black and flows well in the context of the film . It all boils down to a rather clever and unexpected ' twist ' at the end . Overall , I have to admit that I did enjoy this film , although I wouldn't go ahead and recommend it to everyone .
Good made for TV horror	What we have here is a made for TV horror movie from the eighties . There was some pretty good stuff made for the box during the 1970's , and it would seem that tradition was carried on , at least until the early part of the eighties , as Don't Go to Sleep is one of the best made for television horror films that I've seen . Naturally , given the fact that this film was made for television , it's not as graphic as most of the horror output in the eighties , and the obvious budget limitations mean that this can sometimes feel like a TV serial rather than a proper film , but still Richard Lang's film gets it's point across and manages to be entertaining for it's duration . The plot follows a family that move into a new home in the country after a terrible car accident that left one of the daughters dead . However , the remaining daughter soon begins hearing things at the new house , and it's not long before she's ' in league ' with her dead sister and carrying out her revenge - by picking off members of her own family one by one ! The film's main influences would appear to be the classic films , The Bad Seed and Psycho . Both of these films are massive favourites of mine , and while this one is nowhere near as good as either , the way that the plot takes influence from both is good in that it uses the influence well to come up with a somewhat ' new ' story . The characters aren't too badly drawn considering that this is a TV movie , and the director ensures that the family members do somewhat reflect real life , although it could be said that the characters are clichéd . The film features some decent performances from the central cast . Robin Ignico is the standout in her role as the demented daughter , and receives good support from Dennis Weaver in the role of her father ; although for me , Ruth Gordon was ineffective as the mother . The film succeeds overall due to the fact that it's always a lot of fun to watch , and thankfully it all boils down to a satisfying conclusion that justifies watching the film . Overall , compared to other horror films ; this one isn't brilliant , but it's a cut above a lot of direct to TV stuff .
Vampires , Orient style !	This lovely Hammer Horror blending of the traditional vampire tale with martial arts stars Peter Cushing as Professor Van Helsing . The plot follows Van Helsing , who is drawn into a plot involving a legendary seven golden vampires , the prince of darkness ; Dracula himself , the undead and a load of martial artists . Our hero must , along with his son and an escort of kung fu fighters travel to a cursed village somewhere in China to rid it of the vampire curse that holds it . One of the reasons why Hammer horror is so brilliant is that it isn't afraid to make a film that most other film studios would regard as stupid and then make it work . The main reason why Hammer horror does work is that the films , despite showing many macabre images , are always good natured and made with a lot of heart so they're easy to like ; and this one is no different . The Eastern style makes for a very different vampire film to what we're used to , and Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires seems keen to capitalise on that as it changes many of the traditional vampire rules to suit the east ( for example , the traditional cross to ward off vampires is replaced by the image of Budha ) . As usual with Hammer , the effects are hokey to say the least , the production values are low and everyone except Peter Cushing leaves a lot to be desired acting-wise . . . but without these traits , this film wouldn't be Hammer , so these things are not only forgivable , but welcome . Peter Cushing's performance in this movie isn't his best , but fans of his will still relish it . There's something about Cushing's persona that makes him very watchable , and every film with him in it is worth watching , if only for that reason . He also gets involved in some of the martial arts fights , which is nice to see . The fights themselves are very well staged , much better than I was expecting with this being a horror film with kung fu elements , rather than a full blown fight-fest . This is the fifth film I've seen by Hammer director Roy Ward Baker and although it's not the best , it's still a very solid offering from the man who was probably Hammer's finest director . This film is a lot of fun , and I don't doubt that it will delight anyone who sees it , and therefore it comes with the highest recommendations from me .
A monstrous mess ! But still amazingly entertaining . . .	Well , it has to be said that Monster Man is a huge mess of a film , but somehow multiple different genres and a clichéd plot come together to make one of the most enjoyable modern horror films I've seen in ages ! The two biggest styles that the film mixes are a ' Road Trip ' style teenage comedy and a ' Texas Chainsaw Massacre ' style redneck horror vibe , and while one gets in the way of the other quite often ; director Michael Davis manages to keep things moving thanks to the fact that the constant shift in tone means that we're never quite sure where the film is going to be taken next . Things start out worryingly as we're introduced to two characters , both irritating in different ways . Adam is a wussy virgin , while Harley is a fat big-mouthed " A-hole " . They're both driving across the desert to attend the wedding of some chick they both liked in high school . After a couple of strange events , they pick up a hitch-hiker , and then find themselves being chased by some maniac in a monster truck for reasons unknown . . . The idea of someone being chased by someone else in a bigger vehicle is hardly original , but the way the monster truck is used here is one of the film's biggest assets . The truck itself looks spooky because it's so haggard and rusty , and the fact that it bounces around the screen makes the unfolding action exciting and suspenseful . After a while , you begin to get used to the characters and once Aimee Brooks enters the fray , things start to look up . The teen comedy side of the movie actually works pretty well , as Justin Ulrich is always on hand to deliver some entertaining lines of dialogue and the scenes between the dorky virgin and the hot female hitch-hiker are interesting enough . Just when you think the film couldn't possibly get any messier , things take a turn for the weird in the final third . Without spoiling things , it has to be said that Monster Man features the sort of ending that couldn't possibly be seen coming , and along with the twist , is a big surprise . Some people may feel ripped off by the sudden turn at the end - but I actually thought it worked quite well as it fits the film in that nothing here really fits . . . Overall , this isn't a ' great ' film by any means - but if you're looking for some silly entertainment , Monster Man should hit the spot !
Another massacre from Fulci - this time in the wild west !	Lucio Fulci was obviously best known for his horror films , but like most Italian directors in the sixties , seventies and eighties ; he could turn his hand to other genres too , and this is one of the films that Fulci made before he started being worshipped by anyone who knows their horror ! The obvious film to draw parallels with this film would be Sergio Corbucci's Django , as Franco Nero plays pretty much the same character and the look and feel of both films is very similar . Both were released in 1966 - so it could be a case of ' great minds think alike ' - but given the Italians ' record for ripping things off , I wouldn't be surprised if production began on this one five minutes after the news came through that Django was a hit . The plot is pretty standard western fare , we've got Django . . . oops , I mean Tom Corbett ; a man who returns to his home town to find that a ruthless bloke named Scott has taken over everything . Along with his alcoholic brother , Tom decides that enough is enough ! And then goes and shoots everyone . . . As soon as this film starts , you know you're in Django territory . One of things that Corbucci's successful western was most famous for was its title song , and this one has one too ! In very much the same style , and once again it's very catchy ! Franco Nero is obviously the biggest standout where the cast is concerned , but he receives excellent feedback from George Hilton , who is sublime as the alcoholic brother and manages to steal every scene he's in ; and Nino Castelnuovo , who certainly makes an impression in his bad guy role . Unfortunately , my copy of this film is dubbed - and the dubbing really is terrible ! Nero's American accent is ridiculous . . . but luckily that doesn't make the film any less enjoyable . The most important thing is that all the western trademarks are present - the atmosphere is pure Spaghetti western , and the shootouts certainly pack a punch ! Fulci was a brilliant director , and this is shown best when the guns are blazing - the final climax is a major highlight . Overall , this isn't a boundary breaking western ; but it's a damn good one and anyone into this sort of film will want to take a look !
Very nice little Grindhouse-style movie	I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised by this little flick . Naturally I went in expecting it to be along the same lines as the classic ' girl power ' flick , I Spit on Your Grave ( ? . ) , and while the two share some common themes ; this film is certainly different enough for it not to be considered a rip-off . Recently , Quentin Tarantino tried to recreate the seventies Grindhouse style with ' Death Proof ' , but director Todd Morris actually succeeded in doing that over ten years ago with this film , as if it wasn't for the fact that I know that A Gun for Jennifer was made in 1996 , I definitely would have thought I was watching a seventies movie . The plot focuses on a group of man-hating ( probable ) lesbians who are tired of the way that men treat women and so decide to take the law into their own hands . The story really starts when they save a young woman from being mugged on the streets . They have her shoot the mugger and then allow her to join the gang . From there we follow the girls as they squabble amongst themselves and take down various male criminals in the city . . . In true seventies Grindhouse style , the film has a very low quality feel about . The picture is misty and the performances are all clearly delivered by inexperienced actors . However , this really adds to the film's overall quality - it's never overly clear whether or not the film is actually meant to feel like a seventies trash flick , but it does and that's what I really liked about it . The film also does a very good job of painting men in a very unfavourable light , and this benefits it because it makes the girls ' little tirade of retribution feel more worthwhile . The plot itself is fairly standard - for the first hour we basically just skip from one victim to another until eventually we find out who the real bad guy is and watch the girls go after him . The plot is thickened with some police involvement , though this isn't really capitalised upon . However , while the film could have been better ; I really do think that Todd Morris has done a good job with this film . It's not a brilliant masterpiece , but it's not bad at all and exploitation fans will probably get a kick out of it .
Decent Spanish Giallo	A Dragonfly for Each Corpse is a Spanish take on the popular Italian thriller known as the Giallo , and stars prolific Spanish horror star Paul Naschy . The Giallo was well established by 1974 , and it's clear that director León Klimovsky knew this ; as his film continually attempts to imitate the Italian films . . . but this isn't really a problem , as many of the actual Italian productions imitate each other , and it has to be said that the director hasn't done a bad job of making a non-Italian Giallo . The central plot theme has been seen in cinema many times before this film was released , and many times after ; in films like Dario Argento's Tenebrae , and popular American thriller ' Seven ' . We follow a killer who has taken it upon himself to clean up the streets , by picking off everyone that offends his eye . His trademark is a dragonfly , which is left at the scene of each crime , thus earning the killer the name ' The Dragonfly Killer ' . We focus on the police investigation into the killings , which is lead by hard-bitten copper Inspector Scaporella . By keeping the focus away from the murders and more on the investigation , director León Klimovsky has passed up on the opportunity of making a really interesting movie . The way that the investigation is handled isn't bad , and there's enough intrigue generated to see it through ; but the way that the film is handled takes the attention away from the murders . . . which is never good in a film like this . There is a fair amount of blood in this film , however , but it never reaches the highs that you'd expect it to given the splatter at the beginning . Paul Naschy manages to put in a good performance as the cop at the centre of the story , but some of the rest of the cast bring it down ; and the film suffers from far too many nuisances with the script , which gets a little too ridiculous too many times . By far the biggest problem with the film comes at the conclusion . Giallo's are infamous for not making a lot of sense and leaving things wide open . . . but there's barely an explanation at all here , and it's a shame because it could have been the highlight . But even so , this is entertaining enough ; and the hilarious roller-coaster getaway ensures that I won't be forgetting it soon .
Brothers . At War . In Korea .	I have become so dismayed at the recent crop of Asian films that I have taken to going into them expecting to be disappointed . You can imagine my surprise , then , when this film ; Brotherhood , actually turned out to be quite good ! Despite an opening that massively rips off Saving Private Ryan , and more than it's fair share of clichés throughout the running time , the film is an emotional account of war that works more because of the relationship of it's characters than the plot itself . The film centres around the Korean war , which sets it apart from other war dramas almost immediately because there aren't many that focus on this particular war . The main theme of the movie is relationship between the two characters ( hence the title ) . We have this central brotherhood , which is surrounded by the horrors of the Korean War . The way that the film plugs you into their plight is skilfully handled , and despite the fact that sometimes the film goes over the top a little with the sentiment ; it's usually well meaning , and since the character actions are well explained , it's easy to care for them . Despite , essentially , being a war film ; the actual war takes a back seat to the ' brotherhood ' . However , that doesn't stop director Je-gyu Kang from adequately showing the horrors of war . The action in the film is gritty and realistic , with some of the violent sequences actually managing to be out and out disturbing . Scenes that see prisoners of war brutally slaughtered stand out among the top of the disturbing sequences . The acting from the support cast is genuine and feels real , which helps to add to the overall realism of the picture . Of the two leads , Dong-Kun Jang stands out the most . He looks the part throughout his character ark , and his range of emotions impresses throughout the movie . Bin Won stars opposite him and gives a far more one-note performance . Of course , this could be blamed on the writing and the character ; but he overacts every emotion and , at times , it brings the movie down a peg or two . Most war films profess the horrors of war , but this film only does that in an indirect way . Brotherhood is more about how war changes people than the actual ' horror ' of it , and it's nice to see a different take . I wont close this review with any clichéd comments like " better than anything Hollywood have done , ever " or anything ; but I will say that it's good .
Entertaining enough , but lacking .	Bonnie and Clyde was a big hit in 1967 , and I don't doubt that Hollywood's great money-spinner , Roger Corman , had that on his mind when he decided to direct a film based on another of America's great crime legends . The story of " Machine Gun Totting Ma Barker " is a well known one ; I won't profess to know the ins and outs of it , but the basics are common knowledge . The film would only appear to be loosely based on the classic story , however , and Corman seemed keener to put the focus on the situation within the group rather than actually telling a story . The plot focuses on Ma Barker ; a strong matriarch with four sons . The story takes place within depression era USA and Ma and her sons find themselves with little to live on and so turn to crime . The troupe carries out robberies , commits murder and does other such illegal acts and it soon gets dubbed as a ' crime spree ' . However , more interesting than that is how the group itself works ; perversion is rife as we get to witness things such as incest and homosexuality within the group . The film is rather entertaining throughout , but for me ; something about it just doesn't work . Corman's directing style is very cold and despite excellent performances from the cast - the film fails to be involving and nobody really steps up to take the ' antihero ' role effectively . It's a good job , therefore , that the film is entertaining for most of the duration as there isn't much in the way of distraction when it comes to the less entertaining parts . Corman has got himself together a good cast of actors ; chief among them obviously being Shelly Winters . Winters looks decidedly less glamorous than in previous performances - but fits into her role here very well indeed and really convincing that she is the character she is portraying . The rest of the cast is fine too , featuring good performances from the likes of Don Stroud and Bruce Dern , as well an early performance from the great Robert DeNiro . There's not a great deal of highlights in the film ; but Pat Hingle's role is entertaining and it all boils down to a very well working final shootout scene . Overall , this is decent enough ; but I'm not surprised that it hasn't gone down as a great film and would only recommend it to those who happen across a copy .
Another success from Sergio Martino !	Many of the best Giallo directors tried their hand at the Dirty Harry-inspired Polizi sub-genre at some point , and The Violent Professionals is Sergio Martino's classy effort . The film isn't as good as Martino's Giallo efforts ( few films are ) , but it still stands up as one of the better Polizi films . Martino packs the film with all the elements that make this sort of thing successful ; we've got car chases , gun fights , fist fights , a headstrong lead character etc . Unfortunately , despite working from a script by ace writer Ernesto Gastaldi , The Violent Professionals does suffer from the classic Italian film problem of a confusing plot . The plot follows the murder of a police chief . Lieutenant Giorga doesn't take this very well , and decides to follow up the chief's investigation by going undercover in a local gang of low lives . His plan is to build up enough of a reputation for himself that will enable him to get close to the leaders of the group and learn their secrets ; but this foolhardy plan runs into a lot of adversity . . . Like many Italian crime flicks , this one takes place in Milan . I've never been to Milan , but I'm guessing that it was one hell of a sleaze den back in the seventies as these films don't exactly paint a pretty picture ! Sergio Martino does well at presenting a gritty urban atmosphere , and this hugely benefits the film . Martino's direction is solid throughout , and he can certainly take his place as one of the finest directors that Italy ever produced . Even when I wasn't completely sure what was going on , Martino keeps the tension bubbling and the film ticks over nicely all the way through . The standout moment takes the form of a car chase through the streets of Milan , and cinematic chases have rarely been better . The acting is strong also , and the film features a brilliant performance from Luc Merenda in the lead role , as well as film noir regular Richard Conte in support . The film lacks a good female lead , but other than that it pretty does everything you would want it to . Overall , The Violent Professionals isn't the best film of its type - but it's certainly a good one and gets high recommendations from me .
Cult icon Bruce Campbell delivers a very fun cult flick !	It's taken years for cult icon Bruce Campbell to get this project off the ground - but he finally has , it's here - and what a great piece of schlock entertainment it is ! Looking at the plot ; it sounds like two things . A great base for a very silly B-movie , and a shameless excuse for Bruce Campbell to what he does best - Evil Dead II style slapstick humour , and this film delivers on both counts . The Man With the Screaming Brain is comic book nonsense all the way through - but there's some really great scenes , and it's almost impossible to be bored with this movie . Bruce Campbell wrote , directs , produces and stars in this film - and while it's not quite Citizen Kane , it has to be said that this is an achievement for the man most famous for battling off his own hand in a woodland cabin . The plot follows American businessman William Cole on a business trip to Bulgaria with his girlfriend . The trip goes awry , however , when he , his girlfriend and his taxi driver end up dead ; thanks to the same woman . Mad scientist Stacy Keach is on hand to merge Cole and the taxi driver's brains into one ; and we've got a cult flick on our hands . The first half hour or so is entertaining and features a few laughs ; but once the main plot point has been executed ; the movie really picks up . Bruce makes best use of the scenario in all kinds of silly situations , from changing his clothes in a waste bin , to deciding ( with the taxi driver in his brain ) what to eat in a restaurant . The humour is mostly of the slapstick variety , and anyone who enjoyed Evil Dead II ( which should be anyone who's seen it ) , will no doubt enjoy this too . It does feel like Campbell is playing to his strengths a little bit too much with this whole project , but if you tuned in and DIDN'T see Bruce doing what he does best , disappointment would ensue . Besides that , no disrespect to the man ; but he's never been the actor with the greatest range . Despite being lots of fun ; the movie isn't great , as it gets a little bit too silly at times ; and there's a whole sub-plot with a robot that I didn't like ; but overall , The Man With the Screaming Brain is a film that we , sadly , don't see too much of nowadays . The film is an all-out , no holds barred , B-movie ; and it deserves respect for that if nothing else .
Familiar territory for William Lustig , but he treads it well	William Lustig certainly knows how to direct a gritty city based thriller ; he succeeded admirably with the fantastically entertaining Maniac Cop series , and while Hit List isn't quite as memorable - it's still more than entertaining enough , and I'm sure any fan of Lustig's work won't regret tracking it down . It's slightly more serious overall than the majority of the rest of Lustig's filmography , although the director still manages to find time for some humour , and while the action isn't exactly groundbreaking - the film is , at least , not boring for a minute . The basis for the plot focuses on Vic Luca ; a big-mouthed mob boss who is set to appear in court for his crimes . However , given his powers as the head of a criminal organisation , it's not difficult for him to track down and kill all the witnesses ; much to the dismay of hard-bitten cop Tom Mitchum , who wants to see Luca rot in jail . The plot thickens when Luca's assassin Chris Caleek goes to kill witness Frank DeSalvo and ends up getting the wrong house , and kidnapping ordinary man Jack Collins ' son . . . William Lustig has put together a good cast for this film , with the likes of Lance Henriksen standing out the most and getting good support from memorable actors such as Charles Napier , Rip Torn , Jan-Michael Vincent and Leo Rossi . As he showed with the Maniac Cop films , Lustig certainly has an eye for atmosphere and this film revels in the same gritty urban feel as the earlier films did . I've got to say that I'm surprised this film isn't better known really ; it may not have quite the same appeal that Maniac Cop did , but it's great fun and makes for easy viewing . The characters are all drawn in an intriguing manner , as no two are similar and thanks to the cast of character actors - all manage to be memorable in their own right . The film obviously had budget constraints as there's not a great deal of action sequences , and the ones that do feature aren't exactly over the top ; but Lustig makes good use of his assets , and Hit List could have been a lot worse . It all boils down to a conclusion that isn't hard to see coming , but its good fun getting there and overall , I won't hesitate to recommend this film to anyone who can find it .
Not brilliant , but worthwhile textbook example of the Giallo	If you want to see an absolute prime example of the Italian thriller , known as Giallo , you really need to go for one of Argento's offerings , preferably Bird With the Crystal Plumage or Deep Red , or perhaps Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling . Hell , there's even Mario Bava's Blood and Black Lace or the fabulous House With the Windows that Laugh or What Have They Done to Solange ; TORSO , however , isn't an entry on the illustrious list of prime examples of the Giallo , but that doesn't mean it's a bad film . TORSO is a rather formulaic example of the style of film-making , and one that includes the majority of the staples that have gone on to epitomise the type of film . Things such as the black-gloved killer , brutal murders , lots of nudity and even bad dubbing all feature heavily . Like most Giallo's , this one features an insane killer and also sports the over the top plot that many have . It's rather textbook , actually , and aside from the killer we've got a dame in distress and an investigation going on . Oh , and there's a Victorian doll thrown in for good measure . TORSO is a semi-well respected entry in the Giallo cycle , and it's easy to see why . As mentioned , it isn't one of the prime examples but the fact that it features many of the clichés is bound to go down well with Giallo fans , not to mention the fact that the movie features high amounts of tension and is constantly thrilling for that reason , which doesn't hinder it's high rating either . The film features several sequences that stick out , and the last fifteen minutes or so are very thrilling indeed . The ending is definitely over the top , and somewhat silly , but Giallo fans have come to expect that over the years and it gives the film a certain kitschy edge . The acting is hard to rate because of the terrible dubbing , but even without the dubbing it isn't anything to write home about . Suzy Kendall does well in leading the movie , and makes a nice damsel in distress ; but the rest of the cast are largely unknown and forgettable . On the whole , I recommend this film to people that love Giallo , have seen most of the higher rated ones and need something else to watch .
Excellent late-eighties Giallo !	By the late eighties , the Giallo genre had almost completely dried up with only the great Dario Argento's releases , along with a handful of other films , being anywhere near seeing . One film that is certainly a part of the worthwhile non-Argento efforts is this one ; as while it's a ling way from being perfect , what we do have here is a strong mystery storyline fused with a good atmosphere - and what more could you ask for from a Giallo ? The original Italian title is a cause for confusion as it suggests the film to be a sequel to the ( also rather good ) 1985 Giallo Nothing Underneath ; although the two films are unrelated . Too Beautiful to Die focuses on the production of a music video for a band named ' Blade ' . Naturally , the director wants the video to involve blades ; and several shiny blades take centre stage . The star of the show later resists the advances of a powerful man in a Jacuzzi , and she soon winds up dead . The police begin to investigate ; and it's not long before more people involved with the production turn up as corpses . Director Dario Piana creates a really good atmosphere for the film and clearly has a good understanding of what the Giallo genre is all about . There's a blue tint that features throughout and the director makes good use of the post-apocalyptic style of the music video at the centre of the film . It's also very much a product of the time it was made ; the film features that ' trashy eighties ' style throughout and the director is not afraid of implementing some extremely tacky eighties music as well . Of course , it's the murders that will have most viewers tuning in ; and while they're not on par with the goriest of the genre , they are none too shabby either and plenty of the red stuff gets spilled in inventive ways . It has to be said that the film is a bit messy and certain moments can drag more than a little bit ; but there's always a tense chase scene or gory murder just around the corner to keep things exciting . It all boils down to a well thought out and somewhat surprising ending that has the added advantage of actually making some sense ! I can't say that this is an absolute must see for genre fans , but it's certainly well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Feels like more could have been made out if it , but still a very interesting modern horror flick	On the face of it ; The Ruins seems like it might be just another teen horror flick to throw on the pile with the rest of the plodding slashers and brainless gore-fests ; but it appears that some actual thought was put into this one and while it's true that certain opportunities were missed and the film is not quite a modern day horror classic ; it's a very well made and inventive little film that I'm sure will be appreciated by the ' serious ' horror crowd . The plot begins with a group of four friends on holiday in South America . They meet a German guy and get drunk before the five of them decide to go off into the jungle looking for some old Mayan ruins . They find them eventually , but they also find a Mayan tribe who is not happy with them being there and after shooting the group's guide - chase them to the top of one of the ruins and then wait at the bottom . The group are relieved at first to be alive . . . until they realise that the flora at the top of the pyramid is more of a threat than the tribe below . Full credit has to go to The Ruins for originality ; it's certainly not the first film to feature killer plants , but it's not exactly a common plot line and this blends extremely well with the idea of a superstitious tribe and the beautiful South American locations . First time director Carter Smith builds up his atmosphere nicely and allows things to simmer until the killer plants finally make their appearance . By then , their threat is mixed with boiling emotions within the group itself and the hopeless situation developing at the top of the central location becomes completely gripping . The director also treats us to some pulsating moments of gore - an impromptu amputation being the biggest highlight . The plot is where the film's problems come in - it does feel uneven at times and I also got the impression that more could have been made of the central idea . Still , this is a good film that works well . I consider myself a ' serious ' horror fan , and I saw it with a group of people who have only a vague interest in the genre and by the end we all agreed that The Ruins is a good film .
Arty film on the persecution of witches	The persecution of witches is a rather popular cinematic topic ; the best film on the topic undoubtedly being 1968's Witchfinder General . This Czech effort follows a similar plot line to the earlier film , though the result is much artier and less graphic and while I preferred the older film - this one has its merits and will be of interest to people who find this topic interesting or who enjoy arty foreign films . The style of the movie rather reminded me of Ingmar Bergman's work ( though less ' deep ' ) and fans of his ( a group of people that doesn't include me ) will probably like this film too . The film begins with a sequence that sees an old woman take something from a church in order to help a cow give birth . Naturally , the powers that be aren't amused and after being caught , she is put before them to explain her actions . The council agree that she is involved in witchcraft , but other people are also implicated during the trial ; and after she is put to death , the ' town cleanser ' goes on a crusade to rid the town of all " witchcraft " . The film features very stark black and white cinematography and this helps the film in terms of atmosphere as it feels very dark and unpleasant , which bodes well with the plot . The film is not very graphic - especially not compared to other films on this topic and not in its own right either ; only a scene that sees three people burned alive could really be considered graphic . Most of the plot line is made up of debate between the lead characters and while it's fairly interesting , the film did start to grate on me after a while and I would have preferred it to be a bit more visceral . Witches ' Hammer is very well acted and the ensemble cast all fit into their roles well . This is the first ( and probably last ) film I've seen from director Otakar Vávra but clearly he's a director that pays attention to detail as every frame of the film feels carefully crafted . Overall , I won't say that this is a favourite of mine and if you're looking for a film about the witch trials , I would recommend Witchfinder General first ; but Witches ' Hammer is an interesting film and may be of interest to some people .
Surprisingly good eighties slasher !	On the surface , this would appear to be just another dreary slasher flick , but what separates this film from a lot of the crowd is the that director Jim Sotos ( who also directed the rarer of the two ' Forced Entry ' films ) creates a real gritty atmosphere that makes the film feel a lot like a seventies exploitation flick and ensures that the film is somewhat nastier than the likes of Friday the 13th and Halloween . It has to be said that this one isn't as gory as some slashers , but the violence is much more realistic , which more than makes up for that fact . The plot isn't particularly original and focuses mainly on the theme of a young girl coming of age . Melissa is fifteen and coming up to sixteen . She's in a new town and lonely because she doesn't know anyone , but luckily for her ; she's also quite fit and proves to be a hit with the local boys . However , there's a catch as every boy she goes out with ends up getting brutally slaughtered ! The crimes are investigated by the town sheriff and his two kids , and naturally Melissa ends up on the suspects list . The film was obviously made on a small budget but that doesn't hinder it too much as Sweet 16 more than sets out what it clearly intended to do . In fact , the production values are actually quite high for a small eighties production ; the shortcomings in the form of the cinematography helps the film as it is rewarded with a real rough feel . The cast is good , with the likes of Bo Hopkins , Patrick Macnee and Susan Strasberg leading the film , while Aleisa Shirley is more than adequate in the title role . The film feels more like a seventies movie than an eighties flick and that's another positive element if you ask me . The plot flows well and since the film is only short at about eighty minutes , it doesn't have a chance to get old or tired before the ending . With slashers , a twist at the end is pretty much mandatory and this film adheres to that - except unlike a lot of slashers , the twist here is both interesting and believable . I can't say that this is brilliant or a classic , but I went into it expecting nothing decent and found a fairly good film so I definitely do recommend Sweet 16 to my fellow horror fans !
Sinister little tale of witchcraft	There was some good stuff made for television during the seventies , and while Crowhaven Farm doesn't stand tall as one of the best horror films ever made , it's a very decent one that is certainly worth seeing . The plot doesn't really offer anything new , and simply follows the idea of a coven of witches , centred around the sinister Crowhaven Farm . The plot focuses on Ben and Maggie Porter , a couple that inherit the farm after the death of her father . Their marriage is tainted by the fact that Maggie cannot bear children , and the couple move to the farm in the hope that the change of scenery will help to pick up their relationship . Under the direction of experienced TV director Walter Grauman , a good cast gives way to a thoroughly interesting tale of witchcraft . Grauman does well with the atmosphere , and while most of the film is build up for the ending ; things such as the haunting music score and numerous plot revelations ensure that the film never dries up . Of course , all this build up needs a good climax , and the film gets just that with an ending that definitely justifies getting there . Overall , this is obviously a little thin and it won't be winning any ' greatest horror film ever ' awards . . . but it's good stuff and comes recommended .
Price is burning witches again !	I'd seen two films from director Gordon Hessler prior to seeing this one , and they're both wildly different . One was the excellent Gothic horror The Oblong Box , while the other was the uneven and mostly terrible waste of a great of a cast , Scream and Scream Again . This film falls somewhere in the middle in terms of quality . Cry of the Banshee actually reminded me a lot more of the classic film Witchfinder General than either of Hessler's previous efforts , although it is nowhere near as good as that one . The plot features themes of witchcraft and witch hunts , as we focus on the evil Lord Edward Whitman , slaughterer of peasants and a man with an on-going war against a coven of local witches . He opts to murder a number of them in front of leader ; a witch named Oona . However , this turns out to be a poor decision as Oona uses her magic powers to call up a magical being known as a ' Banshee ' , whom she uses - along with some members of Lord Whitman's own family - to bring a curse upon his entire household . Obviously , my main reason for seeing this film was because of the fact that it features a starring performance from the great Vincent Price . This is not Vincent Price's greatest performance , but he still completely owns the film in every sequence that he's in ( and he's in most of them ) . The character he plays in Cry of the Banshee isn't the most rounded character he's ever played , and therefore it isn't the most interesting - but hey ! It's still Vincent Price . The way that the plot plays out is mostly good enough to hold the audience's interest ; there isn't a great deal of suspense in the film , but director Gordon Hessler does a good job of creating the right atmosphere and setting up a suitable ' feel ' for the film . The banshee isn't what you'd usually think of when that word springs to mind ; which gives the film an element of memorability . The ending is decent enough , although it is rather predictable and overall , it has to be said that Cry of the Banshee is a more than passable . Sure , it's not brilliant - but Vincent Price fans are likely to enjoy it , and it gets a recommendation from me .
Largelly successful Agatha Christie spoof Giallo	Weekend Murders is one of the more hard to find Giallo films , and I find that rather surprising as the English countryside setting as well as the mystery plot that spoofs Agatha Christie stories means that it's actually one of the more accessible films of the genre . Despite the fact that Weekend Murders is an Italian production , director Michele Lupo has done a great job of creating a distinctly British atmosphere , and this could easily have been a British film were it not for the poor dubbing . Michele Lupo has a great sense of humour and he succeeds several times in lampooning the tradition that the film is spoofing , and Weekend Murders is a very funny film throughout . We open on a golf course where a leisurely game is interrupted by the discovery of a hand sticking out of a sandpit . It soon becomes obvious that the butler didn't do it because , contrary to the norm , he is the first to go ! We soon move on to the first real plot building scene , which takes form in a will reading to the members of a wealthy estate . Aside from getting a few laughs , we are also given the knowledge that the owner of the estate's favourite daughter is to inherit everything , much to the dismay of the rest of the house . Most of the humour in the film comes from the seemingly inept local policeman played by Gastone Moschin . His character soon hooks up with the self proclaimed ace Scotland Yard Superintendent Grey ( Lance Percival ) , and their double act forms the backbone of the movie . The two pair up well actually , and their exchanges work because the two characters are so different . Unfortunately , the rest of the support cast isn't so memorable ; and while none of them put in particularly bad performances - there isn't a real standout either . The film also has a few plot problems , as the focus isn't always on the mystery and the exchanges between the members of the house are often redundant and not relevant to the central theme . The mystery itself is rather bare , and although clever at the conclusion - the plot is not the labyrinth that I have come to expect from Giallo's . After spoofing just about every mystery cliché in existence , it is fitting that the common revealing scene at the end is also lampooned by Lupo , and while the identity of the murderer is actually rather obvious ; at least the reasons behind it make some sort of sense . Worth tracking down !
Disturbing enough , but not as much as it's reputation suggests	I have to say that I didn't have much in the way of expectations for this instalment of the Masters of Horror series as my previous experiences with director Takashi Miike haven't exactly been good . I didn't think much to the highly rated ' Audition ' , and positively hated Visitor Q - but I'm pleased to say that ' Imprint ' is a lot better than both . My interest in seeing this was brought on by the fact that it was apparently deemed too graphic to be shown by the American TV channel that shows the Masters of Horror series . That was hardly surprising considering Miike's reputation ; but unfortunately , the film is not as gory as I hoped it would be . Still , the blood and gore on display is definitely disturbing , and it's hard to see why a TV channel concerned about the press reaction etc would be reluctant to show it . The story is rather basic in itself and simply follows an American in Japan looking for a lost loved one . However , it's the way the story plays out beyond the central premise that really makes things interesting as there's a brilliantly intriguing twist towards the end , and the director manages to retain an atmosphere of mystery throughout , which helps to keep the audience captivated . The camera work is very good too , and some of the imagery shown within the film really is breathtaking . The extended scenes of torture are excruciating and well shot too , and overall ; this is not a masterpiece by any means , but it's one of the better Masters of Horror episodes , and comes recommended to my fellow horror fans .
The best non-Argento Giallo in over two decades !	Eyes of Crystal is certainly a very welcome film . Good Giallo's are few and far between these days , and this is easily the best that I've seen since 2001's Sleepless , which in turn is the best since Argento made the fantastic ' Opera ' back in 1987 . The film isn't a lot like the Giallo's of the seventies ( the golden period of the style ) , as the picture is largely glossy and clear and overall , the film is more character orientated than the murder fuelled classic Giallo structure ; in fact , I'd say that this film is more like the hit thriller Seven than any film by Dario Argento or Sergio Martino . The plot has two main areas ; firstly , it's a film about a police investigation into a series of murders , and secondly it's the story of the investigating officer wrestling with his conscience as he tries to solve the crimes . The plot starts off properly as a brutal triple murder is committed , and from there we follow the investigation into the murder , and see how the police pick up small clues to try and track the killer . Director Eros Puglielli injects his film with a slick sense of style as he directs the action through a number of different angles . The film features many scenes that really are beautiful ; the favourite of mine being the sequence that sees the police enter a murder scene in the dark with torches . The music is less frantic than that seen in previous Giallo films , and tends to be of a more searing nature , which helps to elevate the film over and above the story of murder and policemen that it is . I have to say that the music does go over the top at times , but generally it fits the scene . The main problem with this film , however , stems from the plot . The murders are grisly and gruesome , but it becomes too obvious where it's all going too quickly , and the reason behind the killings is hardly original , and since it's also rather silly ; it almost undoes all the hard work that has gone into the film up until the final twist is revealed . Giallo's have never been known for completely making sense and staying away from silly story lines - but Eyes of Crystal tries to go over and above the common tradition , and doesn't completely succeed . Even so , this is a quality thriller with good acting and fine direction which , when combined with the fact that this is the best Giallo in ages , means that Eyes of Crystal is well worth seeing .
Would have been better if it wasn't so ' clever ' . . .	It's all too obvious that Inside Man is meant to be a lot more clever than it actually is ; director Spike Lee peppers his film with a light sprinkling of comments on race and society , but not many of them hold any weight and by the time the film ends , it's difficult to work out just what Lee is actually trying to say . Films that try to be intelligent and fail usually receive low ratings from me , but this one manages to claw some points back because it is entertaining , and the central bank robbery plot line is intricately handled with care and panache . It's a shame that Lee decided to try and make more of this than was necessary . I realise that a great deal of undemanding bank robbery films have already been made ; but this one could have been one of the best if the director had stuck to the strongpoints . The plot has two sides to it as we follow a bank robbery from inside the bank and out . Dalton is a smart bank robber who figures out a way to both rob a bank and bamboozle the police at the same time . Denzel Washington is the cop on the case , while the plot is given a third dimension from a scheming power broker . One of the principle problems with this film is that too much is made of it , and the plot sometimes doesn't come together very well as Lee analyses his plot from both a past and present perspective . This means that we have the police interviewing suspects at the same time as the robbery is going on , and this usually involves cutting back to the bank and seeing someone doing something memorable , before Denzel Washington and his partner try to crack the people they think could be responsible . It gets a bit repetitive too often , but there's usually just about enough going on to make the film interesting . The acting is good , with the wooden Clive Owen getting a role that suits him as the masked bank robber ; while the charismatic Denzel Washington provides more interest as the copper . Willem Dafoe doesn't make much of an impression , however , and Jodie Foster could have been better used . Scenes such as the one that sees a kid talking to Clive Owen about a video game involving some rapper are painful and unnecessary , however . The heist plot is well worked out , though , and seeing the plan come together at the end is the film's biggest highlight . Overall , I can't say I didn't enjoy this film as its entertaining and well worked ; but it's not the great film that the director obviously wanted it to be .
Creepy little TV movie !	Despite the fact that it's only a TV movie , Don't be Afraid of the Dark is a creepy little film that takes it's modest plot and does really well with it . The themes in the film aren't very original , and it's always clear that the movie was made for TV as elements such as the acting performances and locations used aren't exactly the best , but the film succeeds in spite of this and actually works to much better effect than many big budget yet similar films . The plot is intriguing from the beginning , and revolves around a blocked up fire place in a house that a couple have just moved into . Naturally , being a woman ; the wife decides that she wants to use that fire place , and proceeds to open it up despite the advice of the friendly repair man . It turns out that this fire place harbours tiny demons , and now no one will believe that she is actually seeing them ! Director John Newland does well at implementing a creepy atmosphere , and there's also a lot of tension as the origin of the demons takes centre stage . The fact that it's never properly explained exactly where they came from is a shame , however , but the ending wraps everything up nicely and manages to create some intrigue on its own . Small niggles such as the fact that lead actress Kim Darby looks too young aside , in general this film is well worth seeing and definitely comes recommended !
Worth seeing for Edwige Fenech	I saw this under the title ' Who Mislaid My Wife ? ' , but the Italian title " Bad Thoughts " makes more sense as the plot revolves around the central character's nightmare fantasies regarding his wife's infidelity . The film could be described as a sex comedy as certain parts of it are clearly played for laughs ; but it's not as blatant as some of the other films in this genre and while Italian comedy has gone over my head in the past , I would have to say that this film seems to have a serious side to it . As mentioned , it's the lead character's jealousy that makes up the backbone of the plot . Lawyer Mario Marani is married to the beautiful Francesca Marani . They live the high life amongst other socialites ; but their private life is an issue for the husband as he can't help but think his wife is playing away . He continually imagines her in various situations with various men but has no evidence to back up his imagination . That is until he finds a man hiding in the closet inside their home and his jealousies increase further . Naturally the main reason I saw this film was due to the fact that it stars the beautiful Edwige Fenech . She actually keeps her clothes on for most of this film , which is unfortunate , but her performance is good and the film does at least involve her in several provocative scenes . Ugo Tognazzi ( also the film's director ) stars alongside Edwige and provides a convincing performance as the jealous husband ; while the film also has room for cult star Luc Merenda in a small role . I do have to say that the film is a bit too long and the plot does start to become a bit tiresome in places . The film has a fragmented structure and often skips from one place to the next , which can become a bit confusing at times also . Still , there's usually enough to keep interest high ( Edwige Fenech is usually enough on her own ! ) and the film is constantly amusing . We do get some ironic shocks at the end which are quite funny too . Overall , I wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to see this film ( with the exception of die hard Edwige Fenech fans ! ) but if you do manage to find a copy , it is at least worth seeing .
Earlier TV version of Breakdown	It seems that the seventies was a good period for made for TV horror films , and this film helps to prove it . Dying Room Only will be familiar to anyone who has seen the excellent 1997 Kurt Russell thriller ' Breakdown ' as it's obvious that this film was it's inspiration . The plot focuses on bickering couple Jean and Bob who stop at a diner while travelling through the desert . Bob gets into an argument with the owner , and when Jean returns from the bathroom , her husband is nowhere to be seen ! The way that this film plays out is very similar to the later ' Breakdown ' , except this time it's the woman that is looking for her significant other rather than the man ; which is actually a shame because Dabney Coleman has a more interesting character than Cloris Leachman , and I feel the film would have worked a lot better had it been the other way round ( obviously the makers of Breakdown did too ! ) . The mystery that is presented builds well and the film makes good use of its seventy five minute running time . I can't say that it's enthralling for the duration , but the film never becomes boring and overall , Dying Room Only is a very nice little made for TV flick .
Over the top and ridiculous Italian trash classic !	Adrian Luther Smith , writer of the ' Giallo Bible ' Blood and Black Lace describes this film as a " trash masterpiece " - and I pretty much agree with him ! The film is sometimes labelled as a Giallo , although for me it fits more into the exploitation genre as although there is some murder mystery , it's clear that director Sergio Bergonzelli was much keen on delivering as much sleaze as possible ! The director also ensures that the film feels rather arty , and this makes In the Folds of Flesh even more of a gem , as the locations offset the frankly ridiculous story brilliantly ! The plot is overly convoluted ( to say the least ) , and focuses on the residents of an old castle . An escaped convict witnesses a woman burying her husband by a statue in the back garden . We then move to thirteen years later . A couple of unwelcome visitors stop by and are promptly killed by two of the younger castle residents . Then the escaped convict turns up and begins demanding money to stop him going to the police and reporting the body in the garden . . . another murder and a police investigation ensue . The film can be described as a hodgepodge of popular Italian exports . We've got a light Giallo tone , as well as an exploitation theme ; and then there are also mentions of Nazi's and ancient skeletons . Naturally , all the women are very nice to look at ; and while the acting from Eleonora Rossi Drago and Pier Angeli isn't great ; it hardly matters as they deliver the performances required of them . The best thing about this film is the way that Sergio Bergonzelli constantly chucks in another twist to make the already questionable plot more ridiculous at every opportunity . The film is also rather nasty , and features a whole host of gruesome morsels - including the aforementioned murders , an acid bath and a plethora of decapitations ! ( The director obviously loves them . . . ) . It has to be said that In the Folds of Flesh falls down in some areas - there's no sex or nudity , and by the time you get to the end ; it all feels rather pointless as it's impossible to care about the fates of any of the characters . Still , this is certainly a film worth seeing and I don't regret wasting ninety minutes of my life on it !
Entertaining and different take on the western theme	More Dead Than Alive might not do much for a lot of western fans , and the reason for that is that it's so different from the rest of the genre . The western hero is meant to be big , strong , uncaring and a real sharp shooter ; and in this film , that is everything that our central character used to be , and now he's going straight . For that reason , it might be more advisable to go into this film expecting more of a drama than a western as that's essentially what it is ; a drama set in the once-wild west . Our central character is a man named Cain , who earned the nickname ' Killer Cain ' thanks to the twelve notches on his revolver . After eighteen years behind bars , the killer is released but while he's no longer on the run from the law ; he faces a different challenge as the West that put him behind bars is not the West that he's being released back into , and he quickly discovers that getting a job with his reputation is not the easiest thing to do . The only man who wants to employ him is circus ringmaster Ruffalo ; but Cain lacks practise and the young assistant Billy is a better shot . Aside from provide a different sort of western , the film also tries to do a few other things and unfortunately there just isn't time for it all . There's a romance angle which stems off the main plot and that doesn't get nearly enough time spent on it , while the action sequences we do get feel more like an afterthought . My main reason for seeing this film is undoubtedly the presence of the great Vincent Price , who gives a memorable performance in a supporting role . Clint Walker takes the lead role and while it's not a standout performance and he looks a little young and clean to have been behind bars for eighteen years ; he does make for a likable lead . Paul Hampton is a real standout , however , as the cocky young villain of the piece . The film provides good entertainment for the duration and it's not exactly taxing stuff , which ensures that the film is always enjoyable enough . The ending was a bit of a disappointment to me as certain characters were killed by the wrong people ; but all in all , this is a memorable film and is recommended if you want a decent hour and a half of entertainment .
The fly returns , this time on a budget	Obviously , this sequel is nowhere near as good as the original 1958 film ' The Fly ' , but despite obviously being a cheap follow-up and working from a story that basically just rips off the first film , there are some good ideas here and the film is definitely worth watching . The only actor to return from the original movie is Vincent Price , but the story does lead directly on as in true horror sequel style , in this film we follow the fortunes of the original scientist's son , who naturally decides to follow on his father's experiments . Price isn't the only thing that was recycled for this film , however , as the film was apparently written to incorporate sets from the original , although this does make sense considering how the story follows on . The hapless scientist this time is Philippe Delambre , son of Andre Delambre , and a man who has decided to rebuild the transportation device . Along with his friend Alan Hinds and uncle Francois Delambre , they conduct a series of experiments in the hope of succeeding where Andre failed . . . but naturally , as nothing runs smoothly in a horror film , events take a turn for the macabre . . . I'm guessing that black and white film was cheap around 1959 as despite the fact that the original film was shot in colour , this one is in black and white . However , I actually prefer films like this in black and white , so this wasn't a problem for me . Vincent Price took a backseat in the original film , but as his star was rising by the release of this follow-up ; he gets a more central role , although he still doesn't appear enough if you ask me . His role here isn't one of his strongest , but anything that features a performance from the great Mr Price is well worth seeing if you ask me . It has to be said that most of the performances ( and dialogue ) in this film are pretty ridiculous , but among the rest of the cast Brett Halsey , an actor who would go on to make Italian films along with this likes of Mario Bava and Lucio Fulci , stands out as the unlucky scientist . The film obviously isn't very graphic ; although it's slightly more violent than the first film , and the transporter machine is put to much better use here . The special effects are inventive too , and work well despite obviously not costing much . Overall , this is at least a worthy follow-up , which while not as great as the original ; has its moments and is worth seeing .
An Italian Vampire Mob Boss in America !	John Landis will always be best remembered for his comedy horror hit American Werewolf in London , and Innocent Blood does nothing to change that . While Landis plays around with the ' rules ' in a similar way to what he did with American Werewolf , Innocent Blood just doesn't do for the vampire genre what the earlier film did for werewolves . However , despite not being as good as Landis ' best work , Innocent Blood is a successful fusion of crime , horror and comedy - and it's sure to entertain whoever watches it , which I'm pretty sure was Landis ' main aim anyway . The plot focuses on Marie ; a sexy French vampire with a lust for sex . She decides to look in the Italian Mafia community for her next meal , and after chomping her way through Tony , she sets her sights on ' Sal the Shark ' . However , things go awry when her feeding is interrupted by a police officer and Sal is left to turn into a vampire . He wakes up very confused in the local morgue , while she begins to develop a crush on the interrupting officer . The mob boss represents a big problem ; however , as he sees fit to turn his mob into bloodsucking vampires ! Landis has put together a good cast for this flick , although the most notable stars are given lesser roles . Chazz Palminteri doesn't last nearly long enough , while Luis Guzman hardly has any screen time and there are also blink-and-you'll-miss-it cameos from the likes of Dario Argento , Sam Raimi , Tom Savini and Linnea Quigley . Anne Parillaud is seductive in the lead role , however , and she is given good support from Robert Loggia as the vampire mob boss . Anthony LaPaglia fails to make any kind of impression in the lead role and overall I'm disappointed that it didn't fall to the talented Chazz Palminteri . I have to say that the film is slightly overlong , as the plot starts to feel stretched by the end ; but Landis does a good job of sending up the vampire and gangster sub-genres with a number of trademarks making their way into the film ( in a mostly comical fashion ) . There's a fair amount of gore , and much of it is quite imaginative , which is nice . On the whole , I can't say that this film is a favourite of mine , or even a favourite vampire film ; but it's good stuff and comes recommended to cult aficionados .
Decent Jack the Ripper yarn	There is no shortage of films based on London's most notorious serial killer , Jack the Ripper , but in spite of this fact : Man in the Attic is a welcome addition to the list of films concerning The Ripper . It can't be said that Man in the Attic is a great film , but it's certainly a good one and did everything I had hoped it would do . The plot here is basically the same one featured in Hitchcock's silent classic ' The Lodger ' , as well as a whole host of other films . We follow the plot as a mysterious man moves into a house owned by an elderly coupled and co-habited by their actress niece . The Jack the Ripper murders are happening around the same time , and it's not long before the lodger's strange nature leads the lady of the couple to believe that they may be renting their spare room to a serial killer ! Director Hugo Fregonese gives the film a great atmosphere ; the smoky streets of London look superb and really give this story a good place to take place in . There's also a great score that helps to add to the atmosphere . The film focuses more on Jack the Ripper himself and his situation , and there are very little details of the actual killings , and certainly no gore . . . which is something of a shame , but the way that the film sets its focus and sticks to it is to its advantage . The plot moves fairly slowly and the mystery is never overly exciting ; but it's not too much of a problem because the characters are interesting and Jack Palance is spot on as the reclusive killer . Overall , Man in the Attic is a wholly satisfying yarn that entertains despite not being brilliant .
Excellent story-driven early nunsploitation flick	Nunsploitation is certainly one of the more bizarre cult cinema genres , and The Nun of Monza may well be the first film to be made of this kind . I wont profess to be a huge fan of this genre , although there are several good examples ; Images in a Convent and School of the Holy Beast being the best that I've seen . This one is an early example and as is often the case with pioneering films , it's not as lurid as some of the later ones made by the likes of Jess Franco and Joe D'Amato and takes an approach that gives more weight to the storyline ; though The Nun of Monza does still feature most of the nunsploitation trademarks . The plot will be familiar to anyone who knows anything about this type of film and focuses on a young girl who is accused of wrongdoing by a sleazy priest and packed off to a convent for wayward girls . However , the people in charge of this convent don't adhere to the normal Christian teachings and the girl soon finds herself unable to escape from the devil worshippers , lesbians and general deviance that plagues the convent . . . Unlike the later nunsploitation flicks , this one is actually a ' serious ' attempt at a film and it has t be said that director Eriprando Visconti has done a good job with it . The cinematography is superb and most of the scenes are well staged . Anne Heywood does very well in the lead role and convinces as the young girl at the centre of the tale while receiving good feedback from a supporting cast lead by Antonio Sabato . The sleaze elements in this film are not the main focal point , but we still get treated to some lesbianism , torture and devil worship . The sequence in which the devil is conjured is one of the best in the movie . I must admit I prefer nunsploitation that is more along the lines of Images in a Convent - i . e . where the focus is on nudity and sleaze , but the other side of nunsploitation can be good if done correctly ; and that is certainly the case with this film . Nun of Monza is for my money at the top end of the nunsploitation genre ; I realise that's not saying a great deal considering some of the films in the genre , but this early one still beats off a lot of the competition . Recommended .
Classic Jack Nicholson flick	Like most of the films that Jack Nicholson has been in , it's his performance that you will remember most about Five Easy Pieces . I love Nicholson's seventies movies because the great actor was still raw and going into one of his films , a performance with gusto comes as standard . Not to say that his latter day performances haven't been as good ; but in his early days ; he was more outrageous , and this is a film that does a good job of portraying that side of him . The film is a character study , which gives Jack the opportunity he needs to get inside the film and deliver a performance that not only works , but also makes the film work with it . I found it interesting that Nicholson , a co-star in 1969's Easy Rider stars here with another of it's co-stars ; Karen Black . Having these two together in another film would make you think that the acting isn't going to be as good ; with them both being co-stars in the earlier film - but they rise to the challenge and , really , both show that they should have been given more screen time in Dennis Hopper's roadbound classic . The plot follows a greasy oil rigger who has to return home after receiving news that his father is dying . It turns out that this guy is actually a very good piano player , and while back home he must come to terms with the life that he leads , and the one he ran away from . Themes include finding your place in the world , as well as how some people's selfishness can take over their life . Five Easy Piece's gritty portrayal of a man leading his own life and making his own way is really well done , and almost every event in the film has a meaning beyond what you are immediately seeing on the screen . At times , it can seem like the film is rather slow paced ; but it really has to be , due to the fact that there's so much of it to take in . I loved the atmosphere of the movie , which is very gritty and gives the film a distinct ' real life ' feel . These days , most movies go for a glossy texture ; but most of the seventies films that have stood the test of time include this gritty feel and the reason why this will be remembered and so-called ' modern classics ' like 2004's ' Crash ' wont is that this flick feels real , and not like overblown Hollywood rubbish . On the whole , like most of Nicholson's seventies films ; this is an out and out classic that should be respected by all !
Definitely one of the best horror omnibus films	Horror omnibuses have been around in one way or another pretty much since the great Mario Bava rejuvenated them in 1963 with the awesome Black Sabbath . They often vary in quality , and many are brought down by weak links ; this one , however , doesn't suffer from any weak stories . Obviously , some are better than others ; but all in all , I don't hesitate to call this one of the best horror omnibuses that I've seen . From a Whisper to a Scream is most notable for the fact that it is Vincent Price's last ever ' pure ' horror movie . It's a shame to see the great master during his swansong to the genre that made him ; but on the other hand , this role really shows Price's talent as , despite being only a small part , he really makes the best of it . The plot concerns a small town called Oldfield . After the electrocution of his niece , librarian Julian White ( Price ) tells a reporter about the horrible incidents that have occurred in the town . The first tale is the weakest of the bunch - but it still has it's moments . Clu Gulager is creepy throughout , and the themes that it handles are quite frightening . Speaking of frightening - check out that tale's climax ! Anyway , tale one is just a warm up , really . . . Tale two is the highlight for yours truly . I love it when an omnibus flick produces a tale worth remembering - and this tale certainly is ! It works from more than just visual horror , and when you think about the potency of the ending - this one really hits home . Nice message , too . Not far behind in terms of quality is tale three . This is the typical eighties story of the bunch , and a lot of the reason it works is courtesy of the gruesome special effects . This one also generates intrigue from it's story , however , and cant be seen as merely an excuse to show some blood and guts . The last tale of the quartet is the most psychological of the bunch , and it follows the fortunes of three civil war soldiers that are ' kidnapped ' by a bunch of children ! This one went on a little bit too long for my liking , but the ideas behind it are good and the way that we see the soldiers being dominated by the evil children is quite surreal . It's obvious that writer-director respects the fact that he's managed to get one of the all-time greatest horror actors in the film by the way that the wraparound story is handled . Usually , this part of the film lets it down because it hasn't been very well thought out - but the one in this film is completely the opposite and actually makes the movie ! On the whole , this isn't a must see horror movie , but it's very good and I highly recommend it !
Not Meyer's best , but a decent little corny porn comedy	Russ Meyer's films may be silly and irreverent , but they're also great fun , and while Beneath the Valley of the Ultravixens is not his best work , it's still great fun to watch and certainly comes recommended to Meyer's fans ! In my opinion , Meyer is at his best when he's mixing comedy porn with a thriller plot structure - with Faster Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! and Supervixens being the best examples of his work . Beneath the Valley of the Ultravixens is basically your average porn movie with a focus on a load of set-piece situations , but Meyer keeps the laughs coming and there's no shortage of big breasted ladies to keep the audience interested . There isn't really much plot to speak of , but the film centres on Levonna & Lamar ; a couple in " Smalltown , USA " . They're having problems in ( you guessed it ) the bedroom , as Levonna wants to have sex normally , but Lamar only likes to go in through the backdoor . Levonna becomes frustrated , so she does what any woman would do - gets herself a wig , learns Spanish and pretends to be a Mexican dancer to try and change Lamar's sex preferences . . . The plot isn't really relied upon and the film is more of an excuse for Meyer to present a load of silly scenes ; but that isn't a problem . The situations that various characters find themselves in generally are funny - with the scenes that sees Levonna get her wig and Spanish phrase book , and a sequence taking place in a dentist's surgery being the highlights of the film . There's plenty of nudity as you might expect , and all the girls have overly inflated chests in the true Russ Meyer style . The sex is not exactly hardcore , but there's plenty of it and it's not disappointing . The style of the film seems to be a parody of the American " apple pie " theme and the story is told by a narrator , who seems to be taking on the role of the " all American workman " , the twist being that he's always talking about perversion . I don't think Russ Meyer was really trying to say anything with this film - there's a slight hint of a point stemming from the idea of " Smalltown , USA is a normal small town , but look what goes on behind closed doors ! " , but it's not implemented well enough to have much meaning . Overall , this is a very decent little porn flick from Russ Meyer , and while I'd recommend other films of his over this one ; Beneath the Valley of the Ultravixens is worth a watch .
Imaginative Disney adventure	I've got to admit that I was never much of a fan of Disney when I was a kid ; and Alice in Wonderland is one in particular that I remember not liking . Based on the writings of Lewis Carroll , Alice in Wonderland tells the tale of a young girl in a mysterious world of wonders . The plot works by following Alice from one sequence ( usually involving a weird and wonderful set of characters ) to another , and by ensuring that every section of the movie is different ; the film manages to stay interesting throughout . The stars of the show are undoubtedly the set of characters ; and imaginative ideas such as the Mad Hatter , The Cheshire Cat , the Smoking Caterpillar and the Queen of Hearts are legendary . The animation is good , and by using bright colours ; the film always seems otherworldly and fascinating . One criticism I can direct at the film stems from the central character - I'm not sure how old Alice is supposed to be , but she seems a bit to savvy to be a little girl . Even so , that's a small criticism and while I personally can't buy into a plot like this too much ; I'm sure Disney fans will get a kick out of it .
Messy but fun sixties thriller	Circus of Fear is based on a novel by Edgar Wallace ; the same writer who spawned the German " Krimi " style of film-making . This film is a British take on the Krimi style and comes out something like a Hammer Horror mystery , though the film is not without its problems . That's possibly why this film is not easy to come by ; as despite the fact that it stars Christopher Lee in an interesting role as a circus lion tamer , Circus of Fear , at times , isn't all that easy to get along with as the plot is really quite messy and the horror that goes along with the central mystery often gets in the way . The plot begins with a botched heist that ends with one of the criminals shooting a police officer . The shooter is given the chance to go and give the boss his share before being allowed to flee the country ; but unfortunately , he is murdered upon his arrival at the meeting place . The action then switches to the local circus where is believed that the identity of the murderer will be revealed . There we are introduced to a whole host of shady and mysterious characters . . . The film is directed by John Llewellyn Moxey , who previously directed Christopher Lee in the excellent , fog-soaked , City of the Dead . Said previous film is a better one as the plot worked better ; but while Circus of Fear doesn't always work well , the things that do work are very good and the film never gets boring . The cast is headed by Christopher Lee who is grim and imposing in his role as a horribly scarred and masked lion tamer . The film also features a small role for the great Klaus Kinski , as well as sound performances from British performers Anthony Newlands , Leo Genn and Margeret Lee . The film presents a lot of suspects and it soon becomes easier to just watch it rather than try and guess who the killer is . However , the two twists in the tale can be guessed ( the first one is very obvious ) without putting too much strain on the viewer , which is a shame . City of the Dead was all about atmosphere and this film is fairly atmospheric too , though not nearly to the same extent as the earlier film , which is another shame . Overall , Circus of Fear is not a great film ; but it's entertaining enough and I can recommend it .
Disappointing considering what it could have been , but not bad	When seeing a Wes Craven film , you can never really be sure of what to expect . You might be in for a great ride , if you're watching the likes of The Last House of the Left or The Hills Have Eyes , but then again you may be in for a big disappointment ; as in the case of The People Under the Stairs and the absolutely awful Scream sequels . The man's filmography is a mixed bag , and this film ; The Serpent and the Rainbow , despite having an awesome title and good subject material ( zombies , voodoo , being buried alive ) , still ranks as a disappointment . That's not to say that the film is bad , however - not by a long shot . It's just disappointing considering how good it could have been . Some of the Edgar Allen Poe adoptions from the sixties , among other horror films , have shown what an interesting topic being buried alive - a fate far worse than death - can be ; but this film seems content to just coast along without ever really delving into it's subject . There's lots of interesting sequences and imagery in the movie , but none of it is done with conviction , which means that the movie is good enough while viewing ; but it doesn't leave you with anything when it's over . Bill Pullman has a persona that lends itself well to the horror genre and on the whole , it's a shame that the majority of the work he's done in said genre isn't really up to much . He does do well here , though , but it's a shame his material isn't better . Cathy Tyson , who impressed everyone but me in Neil Jordan's Mona Lisa , appears alongside Pullman and doesn't do badly ; but I think her filmography aptly sums up her acting talent on the whole . Wes Craven's directing isn't bad , but it never really impresses and since he didn't write the script either , it's safe to say that any of the success of this film doesn't really have much to do with him . The jungle setting is nice , and makes for a nice change as there aren't too many horror films set there ; and the film also impresses in the special effects side , as although the movie doesn't go over the top with great effects , the ones it does have are put to good use and it helps to create and intriguing and foreboding atmosphere . On the whole , this isn't fundamental horror viewing , but if you're into horror films and get a chance to see this - it's worth watching .
Not entirely successful , but nevertheless an interesting film	I'm not sure whether or not I like this film . On the one hand , I enjoyed watching it and I respect the fact that it's tried to be a little different ; but on the other hand , Kiss Kiss Bang Bang reminds me too much of the guy at the buffet who fills his plate and doesn't end up eating it all . The film is a comedy , a thriller , a murder mystery , an action flick ; a character study and a crime film , all rolled into one . It would be hard for any film to take this cocktail and spin it into a coherent piece , but to it's credit ; Kiss Kiss Bang Bang almost succeeds ; but cracks begin to show where the story is concerned , as the film clearly makes the conglomeration of genres it's central point , and it's too easy to get confused . The film is based on a collection of stories by Brett Halliday , and it follows a petty thief who stumbles into the top flight of Hollywood by chance , and soon finds himself part of a murder investigation after witnessing a car speeding into a lake . The investigation includes a gay detective named ' Gay Perry ' , and his former childhood sweetheart , Harmony . The cast is one of the film's main assets . Director Shane Black is always happy to show off his main star , who has finally made his way back into ' A ' class movies after some . . . errr . . . time out . Downey is a talented actor , and it's through him that the film gains most of its vitality . He is joined by Val Kilmer , who is a lot better than I thought he would be in the role of the gay detective . Michelle Monaghan rounds off the cast , and holds her own against the two bigger name male leads . Shane Black is most famous for his action films , including credits for the Lethal Weapon series and Arnie vehicle ; The Last Action Hero , but like the film's main lead ; Black has had some time off recently , and this film marks his comeback . Some people were relieved to see the Predator co-star back in action . . . I cant say I share the sentiment , but all in all ; I'm glad that he has finally made his directorial debut with this film . On the whole , this will appeal to people who like their films to be quirky and offbeat . The mock-noir style bodes well with Downey's witty performance , and the film is constantly entertaining ; even if it doesn't always hit the mark dead on .
Well done second sequel to Sleepaway Camp	Production of the second sequel to 1983's surprisingly good slasher Sleepaway Camp began immediately after production finished on the first sequel , and sees director Michael A . Simpson , writer Fritz Gordon and star Pamela Springsteen reunited . Sleepaway Camp 2 took me by surprise ; not being a fan of the slasher genre in general , I didn't go into it with high hopes ; but found it to be a very fun and worthwhile entry into the overpopulated slasher genre . This sequel is at least as good as the second part ; if not slightly better ! The plot is somewhat more unbelievable . . . but who cares ? We once again focus on homicidal transsexual Angela Baker . She's not given up on her life mission of murdering kids that go to camp , and thus the opening of Camp New Horizons ; on the same site where she murdered a bunch of kids a year earlier , does not escape her attention . Angela manages to secure the identity of one of the kids due at camp ; and doesn't waste any time upon her arrival as she immediately gets to work dispatching her fellow campers . Undoubtedly the main reason why the two Sleepaway Camp sequels work so well is due to the lead performance from Pamela Springsteen . Obviously , it's not exactly a heavyweight role ; but Springsteen takes to it with relish and actually manages to be somewhat believable in the role . She's very entertaining too - her voice and demeanour are often captivating . The most important thing for a lot of people going into slashers will be the kill scenes ; and this one isn't a let down in that respect ; as Angela utilises a variety of weapons to dispatch her victims - the best of which include a flag pole , a lawnmower and a rap tape ! The body count is nothing to sniff at , either . The film puts together a good support cast too ; the idea of the camp bringing together rich kids and poor kids is put to good use with an assortment of interesting and amusing characters . It all boils down to a suitably amusing ending and while this film is not exactly life changing ; it does represent a good fun time and I'm sure it will be enjoyed by anyone that liked the earlier films in the series .
Not big or clever , but definitely a very entertaining sequel .	I can't say that I'm a big fan of the slasher genre , and the reason for that is that the vast majority of the films are similar to one another and really the whole genre lacks variety . The original Sleepaway Camp was highly derivative of many other slasher films that came before it - most notably the campsite-set Friday the 13th , but it distanced itself from the rest of the genre with it's willingness for the victims to be somewhat younger than usual - as well as the fact that the central killer wasn't just the usual ' man with a knife ' ; and those two things make me rate it higher than the average eighties slasher . This sequel reunites none of the original cast or the director , and isn't even set at the same camp ! We join the story at nearby Camp Rolling Hills , which is playing host to a load of kids on summer break . The story of how a young girl named Angela slaughtered her fellow campers a few years earlier is still fresh in the campers ' minds , and danger is nearer than they think as an older and ' cured ' camp counsellor Angela Johnson on the scene . . . The film clearly is aware that it's not the most original film ever made , and even acknowledges this with a sequence that sees two campers dress up as the killers from better known slasher flicks . The film features no mystery to the killer's identity as we know who it is before we even see her committing any murders ; but this is made up for by some good humour and a good range of dispatch methods , which include stabbing , strangulation , burning and decapitation . Most slashers feature a big man with a knife as the killer ; and so the young male to female transsexual in this film is something of a deviation from the norm , and it works really well ! The strangely captivating Pamela Springsteen takes to her role with relish and actually is quite believable as a nutcase trying her best to seem normal . There's nothing in the film that is really brilliant or clever , but the plot flows well for the duration and is constantly interesting enough . After the first hour , we get the build up to the ending and it changes tone a little bit ; but the ending is decent enough ( and leaves the door open for the second sequel , made a year later ) . Overall , I would say that this film is about as good as the original and the two together help to secure Sleepaway Camp its status as one of the more interesting slasher series ' .
Overrated anime fare	Hayao Miyazaki has been getting a lot of praise recently as a result of the American release of his excellent ' Mononoke-Hime ' and his somewhat less than excellent ' Spirited Away ' . Castle in the Sky fits in between the two in terms of quality , but adds to the feeling that I got when the credits of ' Spirited Away ' rolled that Hayao Miyazaki doesn't deserve such high praise as he's getting . Don't get me wrong , this certainly isn't a bad film ( neither is Spirited Away ) , but it's hardly the work of a great master either . The substance on offer isn't much more than what you'd find in a Saturday morning cartoon , and the film takes itself way too seriously for an animated feature . Too much of the film is spent on characters delivering reams of heartfelt dialogue and it comes across as contrived and more than a little bit silly . However , this is matched by Miyazaki's inventiveness and attention to detail , which keeps the film away from the low end of the rating scale . With this film , Miyazaki has created his own world for his character's to inhabit , and that is always going to garner praise for the auteur . The story follows a young girl that has a crystal that has the power to show the owner the way to a mythical and powerful city in the sky . After escaping from various evildoers that want the crystal for their own reasons , she finds herself on the run with a young boy that also wants to find the lost city . This creativity is both a help and a hindrance to the story . On the one hand it allows Miyazaki creative freedom over what goes on , and he makes best use of that on many occasions . However , on the other hand , because the world isn't a complete whole - it leaves many questions unanswered , and after an hour or so of being bombarded with goings on that don't make much sense ; the film gets more than a little bit tiresome . The film follows the classic adventure structure , which is nice as it makes for an entertaining ride . Castle in the Sky also has a nice musical score , which fits the tone of the film excellently . This film certainly isn't bad , but it's not great either and I suspect that more than a little of it's praise has come of a result of the popularity of Miyazaki's later works and the fact that Japanese things are very much in fashion of late . However , if anime is your bag , you'll find lots to like here .
Certainly one of the better modern remakes !	Horror remakes are generally lamented by lovers of the genre , and for good reason - as not only are the majority of them lame and uninspired , but there's also the fact that we simply don't need new versions of perfect films such as The Omen and Dawn of the Dead . But that is not such the case with Herschell Gordon Lewis ' oeuvre , as while many of his films were entertainingly bloody , they also wouldn't be considered perfect . 1970's The Wizard of Gore was certainly one of the director's most promising features given the plot line - but unfortunately the resulting film was not so impressive . The plot here focuses on Edmund Bigelow ; a reporter who becomes entranced by the stage shows of Montag the Magnificent ; a magician who as part of his act selects girls from the audience and proceeds to butcher them on stage - only for them to appear intact at the end of the show . However , the magician's tricks take a more sinister turn when several of the girls used in the show turn up dead in mysterious circumstances and our lead character begins to question his own sanity . This film is really just a remake in title only as while the plot is similar to the earlier version ; here it's expanded on so much to the point where the two are unrecognisable . Indeed , I would even say that the film takes more influence from modern day magic films such as The Prestige and The Illusionist . It has to be said that the film is not completely perfect as the plot gets a little too complicated after a while and we soon get the point where explaining everything that is happening is simply not possible . However , it's all carried off with such a great style and so long as the plot is faintly coherent , it's easy to enjoy the film for its style which encompasses a supremely macabre atmosphere and some great grisly death scenes ( although sadly , HG's completely over the top blood scenes are lost ) . The cast is impressive with Crispin Glover giving a whirlwind performance as the central magician ; his dialogues are a real highlight . He gets good support from the likes of Jeffrey Combs ( in a role that is far too small and insignificant ! ) and Brad Dourif . Kip Pardue makes for a good lead also . Overall , this may not be great modern film-making ; but it's very decent for a remake and is at least worth a look .
Brutal and violent , and lives up it's reputation	Everyone with an eye to see this film will no doubt have heard about how brutal , violent and shocking it is ; and after seeing it , I've got to say that Assault ! Jack the Ripper lives up to its reputation . I've no idea what the title is alluding to , but to surmise the film ; it's an unflinching depiction of murder and rape that is all the more shocking because of the fact that most of the film is really quite realistic . The film is a part of the ' pinky ' genre that was popular in Japan around the sixties and seventies , but unlike many of these films ; this is not amusing or ' fun ' - Assault ! Jack the Ripper goes straight for the jugular ! The plot focuses on two restaurant employees . While out together one night , they accidentally murder a hitch-hiker . The pair soon realise that murder is their mutual aphrodisiac , and from there the murders continue as the restaurateurs begin an unflinching rampage of rape and murder , with any random stranger unlucky enough to be in their way the victim ! Naturally , this relationship doesn't last too long . . . The only place the film is lacking is on the actual ' money shots ' - we don't get to see the protagonist stab his victims in the crotch , and the reason for that is down to the Japanese penal code - which states that no full frontal nudity can be shown in films . This is a shame both for this film and just about every other Japanese exploitation film ever made . However , director Yasuharu Hasebe doesn't let that stop him delivering the shocks . The lack of full frontal nudity is more than made up for by the brutal violence and the film features plenty . It's not a particularly gory movie , but there's plenty of stabbing and butchery going on to please the gorehounds . The atmosphere is dirty and sleazy throughout and this compliments the brutal action nicely . The film is very short at just seventy two minutes , but this is not really a bad thing . The plot is very thin and while there's more than enough to keep the audience entertained for the time that it's on for , any longer and the film may have ended up grinding to a halt considering the thin plot line . Overall , I'm not raving about this film ; but it lives up to its reputation and I wasn't disappointed by it .
Very well done prison drama ghost flick !	Prison is not often brought up during conversations about the best eighties horror films , and there's a good reason for that because it's not one of the best . . . but as you delve past the classic films that the decade had to offer , this is certainly among the best of the lesser known / smaller films . The film does have some connection to blockbusters ; for a start it's an early directorial effort for Renny Harlin ; the capable director behind a number of action films including Die Hard 2 , Cliffhanger and Deep Blue Sea ; and secondly we have an early role for Lord of the Rings star Viggo Mortensen . The film is not exactly original but the plot line is interesting . We focus on a prison that has been reopened after a number of years . This was the prison where a man named Charles Forsyth was sent to the electric chair after being framed by the prison's governor . Naturally , the spirit of the dead man is not resting in peace ; and when the old execution room is reopened , the spirit of the dead convict escapes for vengeance . The film is not exactly The Shawshank Redemption , but it does take care to build up its various characters and while the main point of the film is always the horror , the prison drama behind it all does make for an interesting base . This is a good job too because other than the basic premise , the film doesn't really have a ' plot ' to go from and we solely rely on the interaction between the characters to keep things interesting . The horror featured in the film is at times grotesque but it's never over the top , which might actually be the reason why this film is seldom remembered , being released in a decade of excess . The murders themselves are rather good and imaginative , however , and provide some major highlights . As the film goes on , we start to delve more into the back-story of the vengeful convict's ghost and while it's fairly interesting , some things about it don't make sense and it drags the film down a little . Still , everything boils down to an exciting climax and overall I have to say that Prison is a film well worth tracking down .
Gory , violent and based on true events	Apparently based on the true story of Robert Harper , Ruggero Deodato's first foray into the cheap Italian cannibal gore sub-genre serves as both an interesting prelude to his quintessential cannibal masterpiece , Cannibal Holocaust , and as a decent entry in the cannibal cycle in its own right . While not as gory or as thought-provoking as Deodato's later film , The Last Cannibal World still stands out for its superb atmosphere and the chilling idea of a journey into the unknown . The film capitalises on the fact that it's following a ' stone age ' tribe , and this is shown by the way that the director often makes the gory set-pieces the centre of attention . The simple plot follows an aeroplane carrying four people as it crashes in the jungle . It's not long before Robert Harper is captured by cannibals , stripped , humiliated and thrown in a hole . The tribe keeps him alive on morsels , and eventually , he manages to escape their capture . However , getting home isn't going to be easy , as cannibals aren't the only thing to worry about in the wilderness of the Amazon jungle . I'm not sure how the real life Robert Harper would have taken this film . While Ruggero Deodato makes the movie as gruelling as his ordeal must have been ; it still can't be nice to have the worst experience of your life turned into a cheap Italian gore flick . I'm sure he won't be too disheartened by Massimo Foschi's portrayal of him , however , as the actor does a good job of conveying the desperation and humility that this kind of situation would instill in any man . He is joined by cult actor and gore film regular Ivan Rassimov , in a role that is too small for him to make a big impression ; but he's an actor that is always nice to see in movie . Me Me Lai apparently doesn't mind spending an entire film in the nude as the member of the cannibal tribe that takes pity on our hero's . Naturally , there's plenty of violence here ; and while it's not as graphic as some of the later cannibal films , like Deodato's own Cannibal Holocaust and Umberto Lenzi's Cannibal Ferox , I still wouldn't recommend this to people with weak stomachs . The atmosphere surrounding the jungle is well done , and the fact that it's based on a true story makes this film more fascinating for me , at least . The Last Cannibal World comes recommended to anyone with an interest in cannibal films .
Imaginative , original and fun little movie	Belleville Rendez-Vous sticks out from most other films mostly because of it's complete lack of dialogue ( save a couple of songs / announcements ) . This is very admirable of the movie , because despite this ; it is still able to tell a story , and tell a story well . And that is an admirable quality when your film has no verbal communication in it . However , because of this the film does limit itself to what it can do with the story , as verbal communication is obviously a big part of most films ; this is epitomised by one point in the movie when the film can't portray ' no ' , without the character saying " no " . I don't really like animation to be honest , but every now and again , a film from a genre / style that I don't really like comes out , and I like it . This is one of those films . Animation is well known for being a children's medium of film , and this isn't unwarranted as many children's films are animated pictures . This film , however , I would say is not suitable for children , or at least not young children . The film features more than a few rather shocking images , for animation ; such as a cold blooded killing , a topless dancer and a prostitute . . . in action . Things like this are what sets Belleville Rendez-Vous apart from kid's animated features . And in my opinion , it's to this movie's credit . The plot of the film , like a lot of animated movies , is secondary to it's absurd visuals , but regardless ; it follows the story of a grandmother and her fat dog who team up with a trio of female singers to rescue her son ; a skinny , big nosed , tour de France participant that is kidnapped by the mafia . The film plays out like an adventure themed acid trip , as along the way our heroines encounter no end of imaginative and colourful characters and scenarios . The plot is very simply played , which is mostly due to the fact that the only it can further itself is through visuals , due to the lack of verbal communication . Overall , Belleville Rendez-Vous is an imaginative , inventive and original piece of art ; what it lacks in fine plot details and character depth , it makes up for with great imagery and an abundant sense of fun . I therefore recommend this film to anyone , that wants to see something a little different .
Sleazy Video Nasty meeting of Giallo and Nunsploitation	Killer Nun is a crossover between two of sleaze cinema's most popular subgenres ; the graphically titled ' nunsploitation ' and the more popular Italian thriller known as Giallo . I can't say I'm very experienced with the former , but I'm a big fan of the latter ; and the fact that this film was a part of the Video Nasty list back in the eighties ensured that I had enough reason to see it . As a Video Nasty , this film isn't all that good and is unfortunately one of the more tame entries on the list , and to be honest ; I can't see a good reason for banning it , other than the obvious implications of a nun taking it upon herself to begin killing people . As a Giallo , this film isn't all that good either - as there isn't a lot of mystery going on , and the murders aren't too imaginative . However , as a slice of sleaze ; this film works a treat ! The plot follows a nun who finds herself addicted to morphine after having an operation on a brain tumour . However , this isn't the most dangerous element of her psyche ; as the patients at the hospital she works at believe that she is behind a series of murders ! The film clearly knows what its main strengths are , and director Giulio Berruti delights in showing things such as lesbianism and torture to his audience . The idea of one of God's disciples going around murdering people isn't the most original idea ever conceived , but it's well worked as the film always appears to be completely serious and manages to stay away from the comic book styling's of many Giallo , which would ultimately have harmed the film . Cult actress Anita Ekberg takes the lead role and delivers a strong performance , which despite not winning her any plaudits ; works well in the context of the movie , and she does carry off the nun look well . Joe Dallesandro joins in the fun , and the rest of the unknown cast are good enough for this sort of film . The lesbian scenes in the movie are well done and actually rather erotic , thereby guaranteed to delight the movie's target audience . The plot is always secondary to the sleaze , and therefore isn't too interesting ; but it plays out nicely , and while the ending isn't particularly strong ; this is a good example of sleaze cinema and is recommended to the relevant people .
Last and least of Di Leo's organised crime trilogy	The Boss is the third and final part of Fernando Di Leo's loose trilogy based on organised crime , and it's also the weakest . Milano Calibro 9 and The Italian Connection are without doubt two of the finest examples of this genre , but while this one isn't particularly bad ; it's not great either , and despite a number of standout moments ; The Boss grinds to a halt on more than one occasion , and I was nowhere near as gripped during this film as I was during the other two parts of this trilogy . The film is more focused on the ' organised crime ' angle than the other two films ; and The Godfather seems like an obvious influence . The film focuses on a war between two rival mafia families . Things start to get out of control after an attack on the local porn theatre , which leaves a load of gang members dead . Naturally , the wronged gang decides to take revenge for these killings and goes about kidnapping the rival don's daughter Rina Daniello . At the centre of the tale is the Nick Lanzetta , the assassin behind the killings in the theatre . The film gets off to an explosive start with a sequence that sees the central character blow a load of people away with a grenade launcher . This is somewhat misleading ; as a film with an opening like this really promises excitement all the way through , but unfortunately things slow down after that , which really annoyed me . The film does feature some other interesting scenes ( including a nice death scene that sees someone get a flick knife in the mouth ) , but The Boss never manages to top its opening scene . A lot of the film is made of talking , and that's not what I tune into this sort of film for ; I prefer my Polizi full blooded and full of car chases and gun fights . Like the superior ' Italian Connection ' , this film stars Henry Silva . The cult actor made a number of these films , and he suits the hit-man role well . Seasoned Italian cult film actor Richard Conte stars alongside Silva and also does well also . I have to say that I was losing interest by the end , but thankfully the film does have just about enough about it to ensure that it's worth seeing for fans of this usually wonderful genre .
It's a remake . . . and it's GOOD !	This film is never as great as the Vincent Price version - but it doesn't actually matter , as aside from sharing the same title - the two are hardly the same film . To be honest , I don't know why the makers couldn't just use a different title ( something like ' Nightmare in Wax ' or ' The House of Melted Candlesticks ' wouldn't have been bad ? ) - this would have made sure that the film is instantly going to be taken more seriously than most remakes ( as it would , in fact , be an ' original ' film ) and it would shut people like me who always moan about remakes , up . I see this film more as your classic madman slasher with something of a disturbing twist involving wax . The original film worked more from its creepy elements and the idea of wax figures mimicking people - this film is a heavy rock-laden excuse to pick off a few teens . And to be honest , I liked it a lot . The plot follows a group of ( mostly ) good looking young people that drive across the country to see ' the game ' . While on their way , they make an ill-fated stop in a field , and end up coming across a deserted little town . . . with a rather strange ' House of Wax ' . . . The gore is surprisingly more brutal than you would expect it to be . Mass releases tend to hold back with the gore - but this one seems happy to go all out for shocks - and scenes that see pipes go through heads , mouths glued together , decapitations and more show this aptly . House of Wax is slow to start , and the bits leading up to the gore are made up of lame ' character building ' and various banter . . . but it's never boring , and once the gore does start - the film really takes off . The best part of the film for me was definitely the ending , however - which is impressive , creepy and very apt all in one ! The acting definitely leaves a lot to be desired - but the central characters , played by Elisha Cuthbert and Chad Michael Murray - are well done . Paris Hilton is responsible for a lot of the flack that the film receives - and for good reason . She may have a lot of money , but she isn't good looking and she certainly can't act . Anyway , Hilton aside - this is really a lot better than you would expect a remake of a classic Vincent Price film to be . As mentioned , it's more of a slasher than anything else ; but unlike most films of its ilk , this is actually a good one . Recommended .
Surprisingly good Italian horror !	The Ogre doesn't seem to have won itself a very good reputation since its release in 1988 , and I guess a reason for that may be down to the fact that it was given the subtitle ' Demons 3 ' in order to help it sell better . Well , the film is directed by Lamberto Bava ; the man behind the first two Demons films , and ogres and demons are somewhat alike ( in that they're both ' monsters ' anyway ) . . . but other than that , this film has no connections to the other two films . It is , however , rather good ! Italian filmmakers are famous for ripping off popular films , and while it's not completely obvious ; it seems to me that this one has taken a fair bit of influence from Hellraiser . The plot focuses on a female horror writer who moves with her husband and son to a castle in Italy . She is haunted by memories from when she was a child and found an Ogre living in her basement . It's not long after moving into the castle before these visions return . . . and it may be more than just a coincidence as she comes to believe there's a murderous ogre living in the basement . The film was obviously shot on a budget and it was made for Italian TV , so it would be unrealistic to expect something brilliant ; but for what it is , this is certainly a very decent horror film . Lamberto Bava may not have as keen an eye as his father Mario did ; but he takes time in building up a foreboding atmosphere that really compliments the film well . The central setting , a large castle , makes the perfect place for a story like this to take place in and Lamberto makes the best of it ; even if it does involve ripping off superior films at times ; such as the Inferno-style pool scene . The plot itself is not quite as good as the atmosphere as several scenes are drawn out far too long and the relationship between the characters is rather strange ( particularly between the husband and wife ) . There's not a great deal of bloodshed , but Bava does get to do a little bit with the special effects . The ogre itself looks really silly and it's a good job that we don't get to see it very often . We do boil down to a fitting , if highly predictable , ending and overall I have to say that this film is much better than expected and comes recommended .
Glorious monster movie fun !	Terence Fisher and Peter Cushing have made some great horror films together , most of them for the brilliant Hammer studios . This film wasn't produced by the studio , but it could well have been as it has all the makings of a Hammer Horror film . Silly monsters , daft dialogue , a campy style and , as mentioned , Peter Cushing all feature ; all of which were favourites of Hammer films . Island of Terror follows the story of a doctor who unwittingly creates a barrage of seemingly indestructible monsters while trying to find a cure for cancer . Enter Peter Cushing and co . - a team of scientists that are on hand to fight back against the monsters and uncover the mystery behind them . Island of Terror is a monster film made very much within the common monster movie mould . One could maybe even go as far as to say that this is the quintessential classic monster B-movie from the sixties as all the clichés and staples of the style of film are featured heavily . Some of the dialogue in this film is ridiculous to such a high standard that I would call it ' priceless ' . See , for example , the instance when Peter Cushing is told about the discovery of a boneless corpse , to which he replies , " that's unbelievable " . It's moments like these that make B-movie so much fun , and nobody delivers silly lines like Peter Cushing - Hammer Horror has made him a master at it , and he shows us that in this film . Cushing's performance on the whole in this movie isn't up there with his best - but it's hard to keep up to the high standard that Cushing had set for himself with performances the likes of Baron Frankenstein and Van Helsing , so as his character in this movie has much less depth , you cant expect as great a performance . The real stars of the show are the creatures , which are as fascinating as they are ridiculously silly . The creatures look quite a lot like those old vacuum cleaners you used to ( and probably still do ) get before Dyson took over . In fact , I wouldn't be surprised if they actually ARE just painted vacuum cleaners . The moments when these things fall out of the trees makes watching the whole thing worthwhile , and if it's a silly monster movie you're after - you've just found it .
Excellent opener to Door into Darkness !	Door into Darkness is Italy's answer to Alfred Hitchcock Presents and is delivered by Italy's answer to Hitchcock ; Dario Argento . This first instalment of the series , titled ' The Neighbour ' is directed by Dario Argento aficionado Luigi Cozzi and handles the idea of a madman taking his insanity out on innocent people . We follow a young couple and their baby as they move into a new apartment block . Strangely , this is done at night ; and the story really picks up when , while watching Frankenstein , the pair discover a leak in the ceiling , apparently coming from the upstairs neighbour's flat . Seeing as this short film is made for TV , it's hardly surprising that it doesn't offer as much as films that Argento has been involved in usually do . There's barely a drop of blood , the story is very concise and the production values aren't exactly high ; but this is made up for by excellent directing , some nice acting and a great sense of tension that runs throughout . Director Luigi Cozzi has clearly taken influence from the Italian Master , and this is felt as he directs the action through a number of different angles and draws suspense from the very basic plot line . On the whole , The Neighbour can't be considered as one of the best things to come out of Italy during the seventies ; but for what it is ( a made for TV short film ) , this isn't bad at all . Not to mention the fact that the entire Door into Darkness series has huge cult value , and is therefore a must see for any fan of Italian horror !
Could have been good	Twister was almost universally slammed upon it's release in 1996 . Jan De Bont came hot off the heels of a great success with ' Speed ' , but unfortunately he couldn't make it two hits in a row . It is a shame , because Twister features lots of brilliantly thrilling action set pieces . The tornado ( ' Tornado ' wasn't as striking a title as ' Twister ' ) is one of nature's most extreme expressions of itself , and the scenes with the humans battling against it really do get the adrenaline running . Cows and ' debris ' , which consists of things such as Combine Harvesters , Petrol trucks , and my personal favourite ; an entire house , which our hero's must drive straight through to get to safety , zip past the screen and cause our hero's all manner of trouble . This film has no problem with it's action side , so why doesn't it quite feel right ? It's not a problem with casting , as this movie features a fairly good cast . My favourite actor , Bill Paxton heads it . Bill doesn't put in one of his best performances in this movie . . . actually , some parts are painful to watch , but Bill is definitely a talent and he makes the movie worth seeing . ( He was my main reason for seeing it ) . Starring opposite Paxton is Helen Hunt . Helen would prove that she could act a year after this movie with the brilliant ; " As Good as it Gets " in 1997 , and she gives a decent performance here as the typical woman ; bitchy , controlling but ultimately lovable . The Dread Pirate Roberts is the villain of the piece , but he doesn't really get a lot of screentime and to be honest , I don't rate him anyway . Jami Gertz is equally unimpressive as Bill's prissy , yet uncharismatic girlfriend ; but those two are made up for by Phillip Seymour Hoffman , who , despite having an extremely irritating character to work with , puts in a great little turn and steals nearly every scene he's in . So it's not a problem with the casting , so what's the problem ? The human drama is the problem . Frankly , it's laughable . It isn't helped at all by a lacklustre script , which is cringe-worthy at times , but it's not even the script that really makes it falter ; it's the complete lack of feeling for any of the characters . Of course , the tornado's are the real star of the show , but if you're going to include a human element ; you have to at least make it work . The story behind the twisters is that Bill and Helen are married , but awaiting a divorce . Bill has found another woman in the form of Jami Gertz , and wants Helen to sign the divorce papers so he can remarry . However , life is never that simple and Bill and Helen are actually still in love ; a love rekindled by a mutual love for the weather condition of the title , of course . The chemistry between these characters is non-existent and it really spoils the movie . I recognise the fact that you can't have a movie without a human element for the audience to relate to ; but the one here is terrible . Just . . . awful . So , do I recommend Twister ? Yes , it's action sequences are fantastic and the film is , therefore , well worth 2 hours of anyone's time for those sequences alone . The movie is definitely good entertainment , but it would have been a lot better with a decent script and characters that you can feel for .
Indeed , it's very odd	' Pecker ' is one of those films that you watch when you've got nothing better to do . However , unlike many of those films , Pecker is one that almost makes you glad that you had nothing better to do as if you had , you wouldn't have seen it . Don't get me wrong , I'd rather have been at lottery HQ collecting my winnings , on the phone to a representative from my local pub telling me that I've won free beer for life or even simply enjoying a night in with several top supermodels ; but on the whole , I rate the eighty five minutes I spent watching this as time well spent . The film is called ' Pecker ' because that's the name of it's central character , but something tells me that Mr John Waters named the film so for other , more innuendo related , reasons . Anyway , Pecker is a rather odd young man who lives in a rather odd small town somewhere in America . Pecker's hobby is to take photos of anything and everything , and claim that it's art . This hobby , one day , attracts the attention of a New York art dealer and Pecker is transported into super-stardom , much to the dismay of his Laundromat obsessed girlfriend and the rest of his small town . Director John Waters directs the film in a very surreal style , which gives it a very unique edge , and instantly grabs your attention . Waters evidently doesn't care about the integrity of film-making , and so sees fit to meld together something that can easily be seen as a mess . The leads carry Waters ' mess with vigour and gusto , but never really impress or deliver great performances . Edward Furlong gives his character a naive edge , which bodes well with his small town roots . He does look more than a little bit embarrassed at times , but sort of adds to the kitsch appeal of the movie . Christina Ricci does her usual ' bitch ' thing , but it doesn't work in this film as her character is supposed to be a more down to earth and snob hating , so to have her as a snob herself ensures that the film loses yet more credibility and makes it even more of a mess . The film will offend some viewers for it's rather graphic lesbian strip club scene ; not to mention it's central , gay club , location , and that adds weight to the idea that this is very much a ' love it or hate it ' sort of film , and I'm sure that's how Waters wants it . I , however , do not add weight to that claim as I merely thought it was ' pretty good ' . Take that John !
Not the best film of it's type , but a worthwhile one	Walk Softly , Stranger may not be the most memorable slice of classic cinema of all time , but even so ; Robert Stevenson's film offers an interesting tale of redemption and retribution , despite not being at all innovative . The film stars Joseph Cotten as a man who travels to a town called Ashton . He quickly becomes friendly with the locals , and tells them that he once lived there as a boy . His friendship with a young wheelchair-bound lady named Elaine Corelli , daughter of a successful factory owner , proves his most fruitful . But people's pasts have a habit of catching up them , and the man's gambling exploits are his weakness . The fact that this film stars Joseph Cotten was my main reason for seeing it . The man has a great screen presence that blends excellently with film noir . His performance here isn't one of his best , but he does well at hinting at a sinister side to his character just below the surface . He is joined by classic actress Alida Valli , who is most notable to me for the fact that she was one of the leads of Dario Argento's masterpiece ' Suspiria ' . The plot flows well throughout , and while it's never too full of surprises ; and the ending doesn't live up to the beginning , the film still offers 80 minutes of decent entertainment .
Beautifully filmed Hammer Horror	Probably the most important aspect of Hammer Horror , for me , is the colour scheme . At their best , Hammer films are painted like no other , and it gives the films a very distinct style . The Kiss of the Vampire has the best colours of all Hammer films - it's astounding how great this film looks . The sets are lavishly designed , the costumes are magnificent and on the whole - the film looks exactly how you want Hammer Horror to look . This sort of style really deserves an equally great story to go with it . . . but in a missed opportunity of epic proportions , Hammer haven't been able to script as well as they've proved with earlier and later films that they can ; and the result is a visually dazzling film , with a severely underwhelming story . That's not to say that the story is bad , essentially ; just not very good . We follow a honeymooning couple , who take a wrong turn and end up in a strange little village . This soon attracts the attention of the most important man in the village , and the pair are soon invited to dine with him . However , he's also the leader of a vampire cult , and he wants more than just to have them for dinner . . . The main problem where the plot is concerned isn't necessarily the story - as that's classic vampire stuff - but rather in the way that it's handled . It just goes too slow , and while this gives you time admire the scenery ; I want a little more stimulation than that . It takes ages to get going , and it isn't really until the last half hour that it picks up properly . It's nice when it does , but really it's too little too late . The ending is very nice , however , and the effects are typical Hammer , and therefore very much enjoyed by me . The Kiss of the Vampire doesn't feature any of Hammer's big stars . This shouldn't really harm it , but it does . Part of what makes many Hammer films work is the fact that there's a centrepiece actor that you can admire even when the plot isn't too good . This film doesn't have that , and while the cast of lesser-known actors do their collective best to keep the film interesting ; there isn't one unique enough to really take the reins . There's still a lot to like here , however , and despite the low points with the plot , The Kiss of the Vampire never actually becomes boring . Just make sure you see the likes of The Vampire Lovers and Twins of Evil first .
Well done and funny send-up of B-movie making .	Hollywood Boulevard is Joe Dante's first feature film and it's a send-up of the way that B-movies are made . The film was clearly shot on a budget and much of the runtime is actually spent on showing parts from other movies ! ( The work of Roger Corman in particular , who has a producer's credit ) . In spite of this , the film actually does work really well and that is in no small part thanks to the excellent cult cast and a well written script that features plenty of very well done jokes . The plot follows budding actress Candy Hope who goes off to Hollywood in the hope of making a name for herself . She ends up meeting agent Walter Paisley ( that name should be familiar to many cult fans ! ) who soon manages to get her a part in a film - albeit a part as a stunt girl on a Miracle Pictures film . She soon learns why the studio has the catchphrase " if it's a good film , it's a miracle " as the production is difficult and it's not long before various members of the cast begin being picked off by an unknown assailant ! The cast is one of the strongest things about this film , not least because of the inclusion of Dick Miller in a role much bigger than his usual cameo appearance . We also benefit from the Eating Raoul stars Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov who both stand out in their roles . The film is very short , running at just over eighty minutes , but plenty is packed into that runtime and the film is never boring for a second . I have no idea if making an actual B-movie is like it is portrayed in this film but if the actual B-movies I have seen are anything to go by , it might well be an accurate representation given how unprofessional the characters of the film are . The film is not exactly story heavy and the premise basically just makes up the plot of the film , but the characters help to ensure that the film has some sort of structure . The plot line involving people being murdered does feel a little bit out of place , but the movie is clearly meant just to a fun time so it's really not all that important . Overall , this film is good entertainment and provides some laughs and is well worth a look for any B-movie fan .
Insane Spanish horror . . . could have been better	A Bell From Hell is an odd little film , and a highly uneven one as it features a bunch of highly positive elements , and another load that only bring it down . The atmosphere of the movie is one of the biggest standouts , as it's dark and gritty and makes for a great setting for a film like this one . Also , the themes of insanity shine through well and director Claudio Guerín does a good job of showing the audience the fractured state of mind of the lead character . However , the plot often feels like it's going nowhere and the ending leaves everything open , which isn't good considering the ending is supposed to conclude a film . The plot focuses on John ; a young man who was sent to a mental asylum as a child upon the wishes of his aunt , who merely wanted to claim his inheritance for herself . However , John isn't able to be kept in the asylum forever and upon his release he decides to return home in order to get revenge on his aunt and three cousins for having him spend a large proportion of his life inside the mental home . The film features some lovely memorable imagery , which includes shots of the church and the bell of the title as well as several blood-soaked scenes set inside an abattoir . Watching the lead character go insane is one of the movie's main highlights also , and it culminates in a great dungeon-set sequence . The acting is largely atrocious , however , with Renaud Verley delivering an irritating performance , which heads up a cast of forgettable performers . There are a lot of sequences in the movie which don't particularly mean anything also , and it seems obvious that the director was running out of ideas to fill his film with after a while . The idea of a film about someone who is insane is not exactly original , and unfortunately for director Claudio Guerín , many other films have done it better . The build up to the ending is nice , however , and it takes influence from a range of classic horror stories - all of which are better than this film . Overall , it may look like I didn't like this film much ; but I did enjoy it , and fans of Euro-horror may well also .
So , this is what mad cows disease does to people . . .	The fact that horror has been on a steady increase in the past few years is shown by the fact that low budget zombie flicks are back in vogue ! When people think of British zombie films that aren't comedies , the overrated 28 Days Later tends to spring to mind ; but now Britain has another zombie flick to it's name in the form of Dead Meat . Now don't get me wrong ; this is hardly a great film , but through its relentless pace and delicious gore sequences , it's sure to satisfy its target audience . The film is shot in Ireland , making this ( probably ) the only time zombies have been seen in the Emerald Isle . The plot line takes influence from the outbreak of mad cow disease a few years ago . Dead Meat uses this disease in order to explain the outbreak of zombies ; and although it's not quite a good , water-tight , reason for the flesh eaters ; it's a hell of a lot better than most low budget gore flicks manage ! We follow a group of survivors who are thrown are thrown together after the residents of the local farmland begin eating one another . There's a safe haven nearby - but getting there is proving to be rather difficult . . . The biggest asset this film has in terms of originality are the scenes featuring the zombie cows ! There's a great shot of a cow peering in through the window a la the Tyrannosaurus from Jurassic Park . Dead Meat is full of small nods to other films , and Irish humour ( which will be lost on most people ) features also . Given that it's set in Ireland , you've got to expect not to understand all the dialogue - and that is certainly the case . However , this is actually a good thing ! What the characters are saying isn't important anyway , but listening to them waffle on is hilarious ! The cast is made up of unknown actors , none of which I've seen before ; and that's not surprising as this film serves as the only film credit on most of their résumé's . Conor McMahon directs this - his first feature film - lovingly . His direction is efficient , and despite some amateurish moments , such as the part where a zombie accidentally flicks on the record player and a rather unhealthy passion for eyeball violence , I've got to say that this is a success for him on the whole . All in all , Dead Meat is hardly a must see flick ; but fans of this stuff should seek the film out , as it makes for a good time and is easily better than films the likes of the Dawn of the Dead remake .
From small acorns , great oaks grow !	Despite it's obvious low budget , un-professionalism and complete lack of intelligence : Within the Woods may well be the most important horror short ever filmed . For , if it were not for this little movie ; the student team of Sam Raimi , Roger Tapert , Bruce Campbell et al may never have gone on to make the finest film in horror movie history ; The Evil Dead . It's well documented by now that this film was the one that the team made in order to get funding for their first feature length movie , but funding wasn't all they would get from it . If you've seen this film , then it's a good bet that you've seen The Evil Dead too ; and if you have , you wont be able to get away from the similarities of the techniques used and the sequences shown . Much of what happens in this film made it into the final cut , with things such as the conclusion to Ellen Sandweiss ' chase sequence , the zombie at the door and the final monologue of the main character being lifted wholesale from this movie into The Evil Dead . It's not surprising why Sam Raimi and co ended up getting funded for this short . While , as mentioned , it's not great on the whole ; we are shown quite clearly the prowess of the director . Raimi has implemented his trademark camera angles , along with the ' Raimi-cam ' , brilliantly and this is matched by the post-production , which sees the film being well edited and scored . As you might expect for this sort of film , the acting and script are , frankly , rubbish ; but it hardly matters when the rest of the it is so inventive and well done . And ' Indian burial ground ' aside ; that's what the film is . The basic premise of the film wasn't changed for The Evil Dead , except that the actors have been swapped around . This time , we get to see the great Bruce Campbell as the main monster , and Ellen Sandweiss as the protagonist . While this works because Bruce's charisma allows him to excellently portray a possessed human ; he makes for a better hero really , and Raimi and co ended up getting this right for the final cut . If you're not an Evil Dead fan ( unlikely ) , you wont like Within the Woods . . . but if you are - make sure you track it down !
Savage and brutal remake	I can't say I'm a fan of this horror remake craze , but I was interested in seeing this one because I'm a big fan of Rob Zombie ( movies and music ) , and since I'm not a fan of the original Halloween , I knew I'd be able to enjoy this for what it is rather than comparing it to the original . I have to say that this film is nowhere near as good as Zombie's previous two films , and like most people I'd have preferred him to follow them up with something original ; but he's applied his brutal , in your face , style well to the Halloween franchise , and while it's not going to win me many fans to say so : I prefer this remake to the original . Halloween ( 2007 ) is really a film of two halves , with the first half of the film Rob Zombie establishes the character of Michael Myers , first showing him as an angry child at school and building into the famous sequence where he murders his family on Halloween night . We then see Michael as he is committed to an insane asylum , his obsession for masks grows and the second half of the film is more like the original as Michael escapes and goes after his one surviving relative . The first half of the film is far more interesting than the second . Zombie does a good job of making the character of Michael Myers interesting ( my main gripe with the original was the fact that Myers isn't interesting ) . By the time it builds into something that more closely resembles John Carpenter's original film , the events that unfold mean more as we have some background on the killer . The film has been criticised for ' not capturing the spirit of Halloween ' . Hailing from the UK , I don't even really know what ' the spirit of Halloween ' is , so whether or not this film captures that spirit doesn't matter at all to me . Zombie does manage to give the film a savage and brutal atmosphere and he also manages to keep the action all the way through the film , though the final chase scene does go on a bit too long . I'd be hesitant to call this film a ' slasher ' too : Zombie has made it more of an exploitation flick , and I won't complain about that ! Zombie has put together a good cast of horror favourites , including Malcolm McDowell , Udo Kier , Clint Howard , Danny Trejo , Brad Dourif and Dee Wallace , as well as his own regulars : William Forsythe , Ken Foree , Sid Haig , Bill Moseley and of course his beautiful wife Sheri Moon . The young performers do well too : especially Daeg Faerch in the role of the young Michael Myers . Overall , this is not a great film and I'm disappointed that Zombie followed his earlier successes with a remake rather than an original film ; but this is certainly a brutal and entertaining modern horror film , and I enjoyed watching it .
Nice little thriller	Brian De Palma made a return to the thriller genre in which he made his name after the gigantic blip that was Mission to Mars , which he suffered two years earlier . But is his return to the genre a hit or another misfire ? Neither , actually ; it's decent . The plot follows the escapades of a young lady that screws the mob out of a heist of diamonds , stolen during a thrillingly executed heist at the Cannes film festival . After assuming a new identity , she later returns to Paris where she must evade her past by any means necessary . Brian De Palma obviously has a talent for filmmaking ; this is evident in the majority of his works , particularly the earlier ones . It's not as abundant in this film as it is in some of his others , but that flair is still shown to a certain extent . He does , however , seem to spend a lot of the movie piling on the style , when he would have been better served building character and giving the audience something to care about . Anyone that knows De Palma , knows that he is the man that " does Hitchcock " . Here , he doesn't tribute Hitchcock , but rather the melodramatic noir thrillers of the 40's and 50's . This is clearly shown at the start of the movie from the shot where Rebecca Romijn Stamos is sat on a bed , watching the classic noir ; Double Indemnity . Having only seen Stamos previously under heavy make-up in the delicious X-Men films , it was nice to see her here in a ' normal ' role , especially as I was one of the people that saw her sex appeal , even under all that attire . De Palma teases the viewer with her at first ; he keeps her face hidden behind various objects and camera movements , but when she finally appears ; she doesn't disappoint ; Rebecca is one beautiful woman . Especially when she dons that brown wig . Starring alongside Stamos , is Antonio Banderas . I like Antonio a lot ; I rate him as an actor , and not just for his role in the spectacular Desperado series . However , he isn't at his best in this film . In a role that requires him to don a silly gay accent at certain points , Banderas doesn't quite look at home . Maybe it's just because I'm used to seeing him flying round shooting bad guys , but he struck me as being a little bored . It may or may not be a good thing that the film is done partly in French , as on one hand it makes it more realistic , and firmly places us in France ; but on the other , we have to read subtitles in an American film , and when I watch an American film ; I'm not expecting to read subtitles . Especially not ones that disappear before you have a chance to read them fully , as they often do here . Another thing about Femme Fatale is that it never manages to be as sexy as it pretends to be . Despite making almost full use of the lead's assets , it is ultimately more tease than strip . This could be seen as a nod to the classics to which the film owes itself , but for a film that states itself as being a ' steamy thriller ' , I was expecting slightly more steam . The film boils down a final and surprising twist . Throughout , the film keeps you guessing , despite being largely hinged on coincidence ; and the twist does come as a surprise , but it is that awful , clichéd twist that everyone dreads . However , to De Palma's credit ; he does almost make it good . To pull off a twist like the one in this film , the storyteller needs to be talented enough to not make the audience demand their money back when the movie finishes . When the twist first hit , my eyes were starting to role but credit has to be given to De Palma because even though the twist he's working with is silly , he manages to bring the film to a close which wraps it up , and does tie all the loose ends together . And although I'm still not sure if that was the right route for the film to take , it is well done . Overall , Femme Fatale is an enjoyable thriller that is bound to keep most audience members on the edge of their seats throughout . It doesn't echo the brilliance of Dressed to Kill , Carrie , Sisters or most of De Palma's earlier oeuvre in the thriller genre ; but it is the best film that the man has made since The Untouchables , and is therefore recommended .
Another excellent film from Hammer !	I'm a big fan of Hammer Horror ; their inventive camp styling puts their output above the majority of other horror studios . Adding to that is the fact that when you watch a Hammer film , you know that you're in for a good time . While Hands of the Ripper isn't the best film to come out of the studio , it still represents another success for the studio and it's a film that will no doubt delight their fans . The great plot line follows the daughter of the infamous murderer ; Jack the Ripper . After witnessing her father kill her mother , the young girl is permanently scarred and now , years later , her past is beginning to surface . The film finds a space between a psychological thriller and the familiar ' slasher ' sub-genre ( and it's yet another film in this style that pre-dates Halloween ) , and it blends brilliantly . The first thing you will notice about this movie is the way that the murders are done - stylishly , brutally and extremely camp ! They're extremely over the top and a great treat for the horror fanatic . Eric Porter stars as a psychiatrist who takes our heroine in after she murdered the woman who was looking after . Porter gives a fine performance as the good doctor , and keeps in with the style of the older leading male that Hammer have created . The film is noteworthy for it's excellent creation of the period in which the film is set , and that too adds to the delight of the film . One thing that I have noticed about Hammer's product as they entered the seventies is that the films lost that colourful camp edge that epitomised the earlier films and it had been replaced by a more European style . Captain Kronos is the prime example of that change , but luckily Hands of the Ripper is more like the Hammer films of yore . Not as colourful , but it still has that Hammer charm that us fans love so much . As usual , the film isn't quite perfect ; it's dogged by a less than perfect script , and at times the psychological elements of the film ground down to walking pace , which makes the film boring ; but generally this is a lovely piece of kitsch and Hammer fans won't be disappointed !
Lukewarm made for TV thriller	Going by the title , you would be forgiven for thinking this film would be some sort of grisly slasher ; but actually ( and disappointingly ) it's a subdued made-for-TV thriller that bears more than just a passing similarity to Michael Crichton's 1978 film , Coma . The film is directed by Rainer Erler and is a German made film ; although it takes place in Texas , USA . Being a TV film , you've got to expect it not to be heavy on the gore and special effects ; and this is the case . Spare Parts relies on the plot and its characters to remain thrilling . . . and unfortunately it doesn't really pull it off effectively . The plot focuses on a newlywed couple having their honeymoon in Texas . They stop at a motel and meet the friendly proprietor ; shortly before an ambulance swings by and abducts the husband . The girl goes back to the motel for help ; but the proprietor insists she's never seen her before . The woman ends up getting a lift with a trucker , who helps her get to the bottom of the mystery . This plot has been done several times ; not only in the aforementioned Coma , but also in later efforts such as Larry Clark's The Ambulance . The film feels very cheap throughout , and never manages to get past its TV movie status . At one hundred and five minutes , it really has to be said that the film is too long also ; and it becomes less than interesting before the end . The central character ; a young German woman is fairly likable , although despite the long running time ; we don't really get to know a great deal about her . The plot certainly could have been very interesting , but not a great deal is made of it . There's very little suspense in the film either and that doesn't exactly help the film when it comes to the excitement stakes . To its credit , however , the plot does at least make sense throughout and the film does feature an ending that wraps everything up nicely . Spare Parts is not an easy film to find and to be honest I wouldn't recommend anyone bothers to track it down - Coma is ( slightly ) better anyway !
Very decent mystery flick from Álex de la Iglesia	The Baby's Room is Álex de la Iglesia's entry in the Spanish horror TV series " Films to keep you awake " . I saw Iglesia's cult hit ' Day of the Beast ' fairly recently and was thoroughly impressed by it . Obviously The Baby's Room is not of similar quality , but it's a more than interesting little story and better than the majority of the " Masters of Horror " episodes . If you were to pigeon hole this film , it would go into the ' haunted house ' genre , and although there's haunted house themes ; Iglesia makes more of it than just that . The plot focuses on a young couple with a baby that have just moved into a new home . After buying a baby monitor , the couple come to believe that somebody may be in the house with them ; but the truth is something far more sinister . As a mystery film , this one works well . I can't say that the plot is completely original ; though the film didn't turn out to be what I was expecting which is always a bonus . The central couple are both excellent , with Javier Gutiérrez particularly standing out . There are some good moments of suspense and the director does manage to keep us interested for the duration . It boils down to a decent twisted ending and I certainly recommend this film to anyone who can get their hands on it .
Silly and incoherent , but fun and nasty Giallo flick	All I wanted from this film was a fun Giallo , and that's pretty much what I got . Despite the fact that he's directed a lot of rubbish , I'm actually quite a big fan of Umberto Lenzi , and Seven Bloodstained Orchids in particular shows that he certainly knows his way around a Giallo . This film doesn't come close to that one in terms of quality , and even by Giallo standards ; Eyeball is rather silly . It's obvious that Lenzi didn't care too much about making the plot coherent , as barely any attempt is made build characters , and the dialogue between the members of the coach party at the centre of the film is as redundant as the ineffective police investigation . The plot sees a coach full of tourists , which includes adulterers , lesbians and a priest , parading around Spain . They're not the only ones on tour , however , as a blade wielding psychopath is following them round and slicing out certain members ' eyeballs before brutally knifing them to death . The police are baffled , and the coach party is sure that the killer isn't one of their number . . . The main reason why this film doesn't carry much weight in terms of credibility is because the murders aren't taken seriously by anyone in the film . The police concern themselves with minor details , while the coach party continue their holiday and don't spare much of a thought for the murderer's victims ! There is some attempt to build a story up amongst the passengers , which includes a lesbian relationship and a man on holiday with his mistress ; but none of it really convinces - a fact that isn't helped by the poor dubbing and overplayed soundtrack courtesy of the usually competent Bruno Nicolai . All that being said , this film somehow works because it doesn't take itself seriously , and comfortably fits into the ' fun ' side of the Giallo sub-genre . The plot is a bit too wayward , but Lenzi keeps it together by throwing in another nasty murder sequence every time the film looks like it's about to get boring . It all boils down to a suitably silly conclusion , but again it somehow works and makes a lot more sense than the Giallo is famous for making . Overall , I don't recommend going into this film with high hopes ; but if you liked Strip Nude for Your Killer and The New York Ripper , Eyeball should suffice .
Four morbid tales of mutilation , incest , rape and sacrilege !	Well , it's safe to say that Subconscious Cruelty is one weird film ! Supposedly an insight into the human mind , Subconscious Cruelty is comprises four macabre and bizarre tales of the extreme . The first segment , entitled ' Ovarian Eyeball ' is really just a warm up , but it's good in that it gives the viewer an idea of what to expect from the next three segments . It simply sees a naked woman laid out on a table , while another woman cuts into her abdomen and pulls out a human eyeball ! I've got no idea what the point is , but it certainly makes for visceral viewing . The following story is the best of the bunch , and takes in the " old favourite " sick movie theme of incest . The segment follows a man who lives alone with his pregnant sister . He's repulsed by her pregnancy - yet he wants to have sex with her anyway , and naturally he gets his way . This story stands out because of the monotonous and ' matter of fact ' narration , as well as the ending - which doesn't fail to deliver the shocks . This segment is well acted , well filmed and easily the highlight of Subconscious Cruelty . Naturally , the next two sections aren't as good as the second one ; so the only way from there is down , but director Karim Hussain still manages to pull something out of the bag before the film ends . He doesn't do it right away , however , as the third segment is the weakest of the film , and simply sees a lot of people have sex with the ground . It's very surreal , and therefore memorable for that same reason ; but there doesn't seem to be a lot of point to it , and I was in the mood for something a bit more morbid after the second section . The film ends on a high , however , as while I'm not entirely sure what the point was - the final segment features the film's best imagery . This segment focuses on religion , and certainly isn't for anyone that values it ! Director Karim Hussain has achieved something here - as while this collection of four ' extreme ' stories doesn't come together as a complete whole , the film almost feels tasteful as it's shot in such an eloquent and eye catching manner . The director would seem to have been imitating the highly respected surreal director Luis Buñuel , albeit with gore , rape and incest ; and if you ask me , he hasn't done a bad job at all . Not for everyone , but certainly worth a look for extreme fanatics !
Not quite a bloodbath or a laugh-fest ; but fun enough	This completely bizarre horror-comedy is notable for a few reasons ; mostly due to the fact that it features a late performance from the great Vincent Price and because it stars British comedian Kenny Everett . The humour is something of a mixed bag , as the film attempts to get laughs from a range of places ; and doesn't always succeed . Some of the humour is absolutely pitch black to the point where I wasn't sure if I was supposed to laugh or not , while other areas of the movie are really stupid and overall , not much of it fits together nicely . The film does manage a few moments of hilarity , however , most notably the discussions about the deaths at the central location in a local pub and a great scene that sees Kenny Everett's doctor operating on a patient . The plot follows a group of scientists that travel to a house known as ' Headstone Manor ' , which is infamous for the savage murders that took place there some years earlier . The house is also inhabited by a group of satanic monks that won't sleep until they have purged the house of its unwelcome guests . As you would expect ; the film is at it's strongest during the scenes that include the great Vincent Price , but this is also one of the problems as there aren't enough of them . I don't know if director Ray Cameron simply couldn't afford to have Price in the film more , but Bloodbath at the House of Death would have been a better film if he could . Kenny Everett manages to keep things ticking over when Price isn't around , however , and the comedian does well in providing the film with most of its laughs . I'm not sure how into horror the director and lead star are as the film is mostly played out for laughs ; but there is time to include some delicious horror elements . The central location is a nice play on the common ' haunted house ' theme , and the house itself is dark , ominous and features numerous rooms . For a film with the word ' Bloodbath ' in the title , there isn't a lot of gore ; and this is slightly disappointing after the first sequence , which features a fair amount of it . Overall , this is undoubtedly a disjointed effort and not everything works , but it's a fun film and things such as the nods to classic films like Star Wars and The Evil Dead are nice .
A stranger called in Britain first !	The origins of the slasher flick can be traced all the way back to Hitchcock's masterpiece , Psycho , but the modern slasher is a different animal entirely . Some still believe that John Carpenter's overrated Halloween began the craze , but that was predated by Black Christmas , and that in turn was predated by this British flick from 1971 . Fair enough , this isn't exactly a template for the modern slasher film , but many of the staples of the genre - a young woman in peril , a killer fresh out of the loony bin , the babysitter theme etc - feature , and to the best of my knowledge ; this was one of the first films to feature these themes together . The film can be described as the film that ' When a Stranger Calls ' should have been , as it takes the theme of a babysitter being stalked by a lunatic , except everything is fit into one night ; and so doesn't suffer from the sprawling middle section of the aforementioned film . Amanda is a young babysitter who arrives at the residence of the Lloyds to look after their three year old son while they go out to a party . What she doesn't realise is that the father's biological father has broken out of a mental home , and has decided to go and see his won . . . By keeping the focus on just one situation over one period of time , director Peter Collinson ( Straight on Till Morning , The Italian Job ) creates a tense atmosphere , which benefits from the dark and gloomy feeling that the night setting gives to the story . The film isn't all that gory , but this doesn't really matter as the focus is always on the atmosphere , and this is enough to pull it through . The film benefits from two great performances . First and most importantly , we have Susan George , who lights up the screen throughout with her stunning good looks . Also appearing is Pussy Galore herself Honor Blackman , who is good in the time that she appears . The plot moves well throughout , and the fact that the film doesn't really have a great deal of story is excellently masked by the tense atmosphere , which is enough to keep things moving . There's only one real twist in the story , and that concerns the meeting of the lunatic father . His appearance isn't all that shocking since the hints that he will turn up come thick and fast early on . This is where Fright falls down , but even so ; this is a nice little exercise in suspense , and is well worth seeing .
Brilliant Sci-Fi thriller !	This Filmfour funded Sci-Fi movie is most definitely a must see . While it takes huge influence from The Manchurian Candidate and offers nothing new or original plot wise ; it's handled with the utmost skill that it comes off as being fresh and inventive , despite it being basically a re-run of an earlier film . It's good to know that films like this are still being made ( even if they aren't getting wide releases ) , and Cypher is refreshing for that reason . The plot twists and turns , which gives it an element of paranoia and also serves in keeping the audience on the edge of their seat while trying to figure out the meaning of Cypher's mystery . The plot follows Morgan Sullivan ; a bored suburban man that decides to take a job with Digicorp that involves him listening to speeches from several rival companies and recording them for reasons , to him , unknown . However , his job is interrupted when he meets a mysterious young lady known as Rita . . . This film features a number of stark white backgrounds that give it a very surreal edge and blend well with it's apocalyptic imaging of the future . This gives the film a very odd look that sets it apart from the majority of other films of the same type , with it's only real close affiliate being Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange . The plot is also very efficient and ditches character development in favour of the more stylish - and more thrilling - plot developing . You never quite know where you are with the plot , which serves in making it all the more intriguing . The acting is largely good with a largely unknown cast backing up the team of stars ; Jeremy Northam and Lucy Lui . Northam very much looks the part of the quiet and disheartened man at the centre of the tale , and does well with his role . Lucy Lui is an actress that has a resume that doesn't quite fit her talent , but she has a look about her that just fits this movie . Cypher is far from perfect as some of the sequences are illogical and at times it can be inconsistent ; but on the whole , if you want an inventive recent Sci-Fi film ; Cypher is the way to go .
Sick , disgusting Chainsaw Massacre rip-off	American Gothic is interesting , mainly , because of the way it plays off modern family values , with ' more proper ' older ones . The film's major plot point is that a bunch of kids have ended up in a house inhabited by a very old fashioned family . This comparison between the two starts off interestingly , as the kids laugh at the old folks sayings and scoff at the way they're not allowed to smoke in the house etc . At this point , I thought that the horror might have harmed the film ; and while it does spoil the theme mentioned - American Gothic makes up for it with some very nasty ideas , which propel it over and above the station you'd expect it to be at , given that it's another Texas Chainsaw Massacre-style family of maniac's film . The plot is as simple as you would expect , and the fact that the central group of characters find themselves stranded on an island with a seriously backwards family is just an excuse for an expose of insanity . The adults in this family call each other ' ma ' and ' pa ' , and the kids are a little too old to be playing with toys . . . American Gothic was directed by John Hough , whom you might recognise from successful seventies horror films such as The Legend of Hell House , and premium Hammer Horror Twins of Evil . This is definitely a step down in terms of credibility for the director ( but not as big a step down as a third sequel to The Howling in the same year ) , but Hough does a good job of directing ; as he implements the idea that the island is in the middle of nowhere well , and the characters are introduced in such a way that it's not easy to forget them once they've been inducted into the film . The roles of Ma and Pa are the most interesting of the film , and they are brought to life brilliantly by Yvonne De Carlo and Rod Steiger . The acting in this film isn't exactly Oscar worthy , but all the cast do well in their roles and its lots of fun watching characters as over the top as these being brought to life . The murder scenes are grisly , although much of the action takes place off screen - and the film does a good job of repulsing its audience ; just looking at the " kids " is enough to do that ! This isn't great or a must see ; but American Gothic is well worth seeing .
The sleaziest motel in cinema !	Play Motel is something of a cross between Giallo and your standard sleaze film ; as the common Giallo theme of sex is revved up , while the other staple of the genre ; namely , murder mystery , is pretty much forgotten about in favour of showing as much skin as possible . As you might expect given that premise , the sleaze factor is amazingly high , and director Mario Gariazzo appears to be trying to imitate the likes of Jess Franco with his sex-heavy plot line . The way that the actual plot is lost under all the skin is actually quite comical , as it's clearly there just to take advantage of the ( at the time ) popular Giallo sub-genre . But then again , you've got to expect that sort of thing from Italian filmmakers ! The plot focuses on a place called ' Play Motel ' . Sexual activity is rife there , but unfortunately for the guests ; Play Motel has a peeping tom on the premises , and he enjoys snapping pictures of love making couples and then blackmailing the wealthy victims with the threat of making the photographs public . We follow a half-assed investigation into the crimes . . . The film has something of a reputation among cult fans for being raunchy , but actually the sex is rather soft considering what can be viewed in similar films . That being said , the film is quite a long way away from being clean ; and we still get to see various taboos being broken . The music is what really makes this film what it is , as Play Motel features some of the most ridiculous sounds ever to grace a Giallo . The title song is hardly ' Hotel California ' , and the way some corny music comes on every time two people are about to get it on works well . Despite being trash , Play Motel actually features a rather decent cult cast . Ray Lovelock is the biggest name with regards to the actors , and he receives decent support from Antonio De Teffè , as well as buxom females such as Enzo Fisichella ( ' Big Alligator River ' ) , Patrizia Webley ( The Bloodsucker Leads the Dance ) and Marina Hedman ( Images in a Convent ) . The blackmail plot gets resolved at the end , although it's completely uninteresting . However , this film is really all about smut and sleaze ; and on that front , Play Motel certainly delivers !
I won't bother thinking up a pun to go with Bangkok . . .	Going into this film , the only thing that I was really worried about was that it might be boring . It's not that I particularly have anything against pornography ; but what's taboo now and what was taboo over three decades ago are different things , and besides that ; you can only watch people having sex for so long before it begins to get dull . However , I was wrong ; the film isn't boring , and while the focus is usually on sex ; there actually is a story , and it actually is quite interesting ! The film is unlikely to appeal to people that are interested in the more perverted side of sex as the film doesn't feature anything above lesbian sex , but the tender way that the story is presented as well as the French style give it a very erotic feel throughout . The plot , as you might expect , focuses on the character ' Emmanuelle ' , a young woman that lives with her husband ; an older man , in Bangkok . They share a sort of teacher-pupil relationship , and they're also very liberal where adultery is concerned , as neither one cares too much about the other's antics with other people . This film inspired a barrage of slightly less tasteful sequels , as well as a range of Italian films , many of which were directed by sleaze God Joe D'Amato . I don't think the filmmakers intended Emmanuelle to be associated so closely with sleaze , and actually at times ; it doesn't really feel like a porn film ; more of a drama with sex . I've got no idea how many taboos this film broke upon it's release over three decades ago , but the fact that it doesn't really break many today does it a favour where class is concerned as the film never feels too dirty , and this bodes well with the high class of the lead characters and setting . Sylvia Kristel takes the lead role , and is believable as a sexually naive young woman . She is joined by a number of eye-pleasing actresses , including Christine Boisson and Marika Green , and all get to take their clothes off in several scenes . The settings in which it all takes place are pleasing also , and the film is of a much higher class than a lot of nowadays porn . I'm surprised that Emmanuelle still has a notorious reputation , as it's only soft-core at best ; but it's definitely worth seeing , if only to see how much things have changed !
Entertaining and thought-provoking . . . . very underrated	The Thirteenth Floor is one of those films that has gotten lost under all the more well-known films of the late nineties ; and this is a shame , because it's a damn sight better than a lot of the films that always receive praise from the critics . Not everything in this film works , and for that reason and others ; it's no masterpiece , but you've got to admire The Thirteenth Floor for it's originality , and it's ability to pull a coherent plot out of a scenario that has ' disaster ' written all over it . The film is based on the book " Simulacron-3 " by Daniel F . Galouye , which is the same book that inspired Rainer Werner Fassbinder's " World on a Wire " . Whether or not this version is better , I can't tell you having not seen Fassbinder's version ; but I can tell you that this version is worth seeing . The film follows the death of a computer programmer . He was working on a computer simulated world before his death , and his colleague ; Douglas Hall , believes that the programmer left the key to discovering his murderer inside the virtual world . . . prompting him to go in search of it . The film works both as an entertaining science fiction flick , and a thought provoking drama . The film asks questions about the value of life and the ills of playing God ; and although these questions have been asked by many films many times before ; here , it's done so well that you forget that and ask yourself these questions all over again . The twist at the centre of the movie extremely well worked , and after it hits you'll ask yourself how you didn't guess it sooner - and that is testament to the excellent plotting preceding it . Despite being a science fiction film , there is very little in the way of special effects in this film . However , the movie makes up for this with the excellent way that 1937 Los Angeles is created - it's easy to buy into the film's multi-world plot , and for that reason ; it doesn't need special effects to work . The acting is largely good , with Craig Bierko impressing in the lead role . Vincent D'Onofrio , Gretchen Mol and 24's Dennis Haysbert , who is excellent in his small role , support him . On the whole , this isn't brilliant or a masterpiece ; but as far as modern Sci-Fi goes ; this is one of the best I've seen .
That's a nice monster you have there doll face . . .	Well , Italian filmmakers had ripped off just about everything by 1971 , so why should Hammer Horror be safe ? While this trashy horror flick wouldn't pass for a Hammer Frankenstein film , it's clear where the influence comes from , as the filmmakers here have done what Hammer did numerous times and took the base plot of Mary Shelly's classic novel , and changed it enough to make it sufficiently different . As you might expect considering that this film is a product of seventies Italy ; it's raunchier and sleazier than its English counterparts - although overall , this film is actually rather tame all things considered . The plot focuses on Baron Frankenstein , a doctor that creates a monster . The monster soon turns on its creator and kills him , leaving Frankenstein's daughter - the sexy Tania Frankenstein , also a doctor - to continue his research , while the murderous monster prowls the countryside . She carries out the experiments alongside Marshall , her father's assistant , but when he finds out that she can't love him because of his body , they decide to transplant his brain into a better body and have the new monster kill the original monster . . . I'm a big fan of Hammer's Frankenstein series , and I'm also a big fan of Italian rip-off cinema ; so this is a favourable meeting of two different styles as far as I'm concerned , and indeed I enjoyed the film immensely . The thing that made Hammer's Frankenstein films so much fun was , aside from Peter Cushing , the fact that you could never quite be sure what's going to happen ; and this film benefits from that too . This is perhaps not as overblown as some of the Hammer Frankenstein's , but it delivers a wickedly different spin on the classic Frankenstein story . Another hugely favourable element of this film for me is the fact that it stars one of my all time favourite Italian beauties , Rosalba Neri . Neri is perfect for this type of role , as it allows her dark side to shine through brilliantly . Italian horror fans will also be glad to know that the film features a performance from popular American export , Joseph Cotton as Baron Frankenstein . The plot remains interesting throughout as its all great fun to watch and doesn't require any thinking at all on the audience's part . Overall , Lady Frankenstein gets high recommendations from me !
Definitely one of the better recent zombie films	Ever since the release of the highly overrated ' 28 Days Later ' , there's been a steady stream of low budget zombie movies being released ; and I've been disappointed with most of them . The reason for this , mostly , is that the vast majority have too much humour about them , and although it is difficult to take a movie about the dead returning to life and feasting on the living seriously ; things such as dancing zombies are , quite frankly , lame . It was a relief , then , that this film takes itself seriously ; and the result is a gory , and loving tribute to the classic zombie films made by genre-icon George A . Romero . It's Day of the Dead that is this film's main focus , but tributes to the other films in the series shine through ; as well as a few nods to other genre classics . The plot follows a zombie outbreak , which ends up in a prison after the sole survivor is arresting while trying to dispatch his friends who ended up catching the virus . The prison is maximum security , and this proves a big problem for the guards who become the hunted after their prisoners succumb to the deadly virus . Before seeing this film , I thought that the prison setting may hinder the movie ; but actually , it's definitely an advantage . The closed setting allow the film to present a constantly foreboding atmosphere , as we know that the characters are trapped with the living dead ; and it also means that the movie doesn't spoil itself by trying to be too clever . Gore is present by the bucket load , which is sure to please zombie fans ; but the action itself is a bit of a turn off as it happens mostly in slow motion . The first half of the film sees the plot build , and while it's not exactly deep ; Dead Men Walking sets itself up nicely , and in true Day of the Dead style ; the climax is full on action and gore . There's a little too much intestine ripping ( I didn't hear the words " Choke on ' em ! " , though ) , but mostly the gut-munching is pleasing to the eye . Dead Men Walking looks and feels like it's been made for TV , which is a bit of a shame as either better production values , or a more low budget style would have served it better - but on the whole , I'd definitely take this film over most of the recent zombie flicks without a second thought .
Surprisingly good and by far the best of the series	The original Cube isn't a very good film . It worked from an intriguing premise , but the irritating characters , poor execution , lack of explanation and hardly any inventiveness ensured that the film was a failure on the whole . The sequel basically offered more of the same , and while I preferred it slightly to the original - it was still a bad film . I have no idea why I bothered watching this prequel , to be honest , but I'm glad I did - because it's actually quite good ! Instead of just following the fates of the unfortunate victims of the Cube , this time round we get glimpses of the people behind the death trap , and there's insight as to their motives as well . This is a very good thing , as it allows us to get to grips with the actual point of the film and doesn't just leave us sat there wondering like the last two did . The plot of the film does , of course , follow the same path as the previous two with a bunch of strangers trapped inside the Cube and trying to find a way out . Only this time , we've got someone behind the scenes who's watching the events unfold and then decides to get a young woman out of the cube . We kick off with an ultra gory sequence that sees someone practically dissolve after triggering one of the traps inside the Cube . While this sequence doesn't offer us anything that the previous movie didn't give us already , it does give the film a nice set up and gives you the idea that you're going to be in for a fun ride . The atmosphere around the cube was the best thing about the first two movies , and it's even better this time as the rest of the movie is good enough to compliment it . The traps on display don't offer much in the way of invention , but there is a nice one that sees someone becomes a victim of a flesh-eating virus . One thing that is very annoying about this movie is the number of traps that the characters trigger off with their boots . Obviously , this gives the film some realism as real people wouldn't just rush into a room where there might be a trap ; but it's so irritating when you see in a boot get ruined in a room that could have held a nice death sequence . Anyway , on the whole this is by far the best of the rather weak Cube series and the moments of intrigue are enough to ensure that fans of Sci-Fi will enjoy it .
Django drifts into a town on the high plains . . .	I'm used to seeing cheap Italian films ripping off popular American movies , but this may be the first time that I've seen it the other way around . In 1973 , Clint Eastwood made a film called ' High Plains Drifter ' , and it's practically the same as this entry in the Django series ! Well , I say this entry in the Django ' series ' - even though the central character is actually called Django this time ; the film still doesn't follow on from Sergio Corbucci's original , and is more of a cash-in on the name . Even so , it's still a worthy Spaghetti western and one that is more than likely to delight said style of film-making's fans . Like Eastwood's later film , Django the Bastard has a streak of horror running through it , which stretches from small things such as the crosses Django leaves to his victims , all the way down to the major plot points . The film follows a mysterious stranger who turns up in a small town . A man who is surprised to see him is promptly shot and killed , and soon we learn that this stranger may not be among the living . . . Anthony Steffen takes the lead role as Django and delivers a performance that I don't like very much . The character is obviously meant to be enigmatic and brooding , but Sheffen is really flat and it's hard to believe that this is a man who would even bother to take revenge . After having seen the likes of Franco Nero and Thomas Milian in the lead role , Steffen's performance becomes even less enjoyable . However , the story he finds himself embroiled in more than makes up for the actor's lack of emotion . The small town setting makes for a great claustrophobic atmosphere as Django seeks out and shoots his enemies . The gun battles are impressive , and make for great entertainment . The dialogues can be a little clumsy at times , but you can't go into a film like this expecting great writing . This film may have been a big influence on High Plains Drifter , but in fairness ; Django the Bastard does take its own fair share from Eastwood's partnership with Sergio Leone . Several shots of Django are extremely derivative of Eastwood's Man with No Name and it was Sergio Leone and Clint Eastwood that were responsible for immortalising the lone drifter character in the first place . Still , this western is well worth seeing for fans of Italian cinema .
Convoluted thriller that benefits from a brilliant twisted conclusion	Considering the talent on display , it really has to be said that The Sweet Body of Deborah is something of a disappointment . The script is penned by Sergio Martino's long-time collaborator Ernesto Gastaldi ( who put pen to paper on classics of the genre such as The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh and The Case of the Scorpion's Tail ) , the director is Romolo Guerrieri , who also made the highly rated ' The Double ' , and it stars a trio of Giallo regulars ; Carroll Baker ( Lenzi's Kiss Me , Kill Me ) , George Hilton ( The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh ) and Jean Sorel ( Fulci's One on Top of the Other ) . There's also a producer's credit for Sergio Martino's brother and workmate , Luciano Martino . The Sweet Body of Deborah is a rather early Giallo as it was released prior to the boom of the subgenre in the early seventies , and so it's something of a front runner ; which somewhat explains why the film doesn't stand up to best that the genre has to offer , although many directors ; such as Mario Bava and Umberto Lenzi has already made successful films prior to the release of this one . The plot is one of the film's strongpoint's , as a seemingly chance encounter between the central couple and a man who claims Jean Sorel murdered his girlfriend opens up into a twisted and complex tale of lust and greed . The major problem with the film stems from the handling , as although the twists and turns are well worked ; there isn't a lot of suspense in the plot , and the film boils down to snail pace far too often . Furthermore , despite coming from soon to be esteemed Giallo cast members , the ensemble is rather flat and no one gives a particularly strong performance . The director does have an eye for detail , however , as the locations are stunning and Carroll Baker gets to don some of Giallo's most outrageous outfits . The film is typical of Ernesto Gastaldi in that there are a lot of twists and no one is ever quite what they seem . The climax is highly improbable and far too convoluted , but it's carried off well and director Guerrieri does a good job of presenting a number of twists in quick succession to ensure that the movie ends on a high . Overall , this isn't a classic of the genre ; and Giallo fans can feel free to skip it , but I love a good twisted film and the ending really made it for me .
When will silly scientists learn not to test new formulas on insects ! ?	Well , I'm not the biggest fan of fifties big bug movies ; but ' Them ! ' is something of a favourite of mine , and Tarantula isn't too far away from the quality of that classic film . The main thing I don't like about this sort of film is the fact that a lot of them are essentially the same - i . e . an insect grows to incredible size and terrorises everyone . Naturally , Tarantula follows that same sort of formula ; but this one has more about it , and it's also great fun to watch . There's a thin plot surrounding the huge tarantula , and that has something to with a new synthetic formula that can nourish life forms without the need for food . The scientists doing the experiments have tested this new formula on a tarantula , and after a fight at the lab - the giant bug escapes to wreak havoc across the Arizona desert ! The film is very ' American ' , and most of the central characters are the upstanding citizens that you would expect to find in fifties USA . The special effects are what really stand out about this film ; these days , a film like this would features a load of trashy CGI , but here they've ( obviously ) used a normal tarantula together with miniature sets , and while the effects aren't too realistic ; they work well and give the film a certain amount of charm , which is lacking in many modern films . It's not hard to see where the plot is going , but that's not a big problem as its fun getting to the end , and sub-plots involving a rare disease and several disfigured scientists add to the intrigue nicely . Overall , this film hasn't made me a fan of fifties big bug movies - but it's a very good example of one , and comes highly recommended !
A little more depth than the average Italian sex comedy	Director Massimo Dallamano is undoubtedly best known among cult film fans for his excellent Giallo ' What Have They Done to Solange ' and considering the brilliance of that film , it would seem on first glance that he made this little sex comedy merely as an excuse to work with the beautiful and talented Edwige Fenech . While that may well be true ( and who could possibly blame him ? ) , this film is actually a little more than merely a vehicle for the stunning actress and has some hidden depths beneath its often goofy exterior . The film focuses on a young man named Tonino Niscemi . He wants to pursue a career as a priest and as such has never had sex with a woman , nor does he have any desire to . However , upon returning home to his father ( who supports his son in becoming a priest ) and his grandfather ( who does not ) , Tonino finds himself at odds after meeting his father's new wife Carmela ; a teasing wench who keeps him fawning after her . The film is billed as a sex comedy ; and indeed several antics reinforce that fact ( mostly stemming from the randy grandfather ) but much of the film undertakes a serious tone and its clear that the director was keen to explore the sexual awakening of his central character ; and it is that which gives the film most of its depth . It has to be said that Roberto Cenci does not exactly cut a likable figure in the central role ; he looks a bit too ' green ' for my liking and is often unconvincing in the role . This , however , is made up for by the presence of Edwige Fenech who despite not giving her best performance provides a regular distraction whether clothed , unclothed or somewhere between the two . Edwige is at her sultry best while teasing her co-star , as happens often . There's more than enough to keep the proceedings interesting and the side show of over the top characters helps to ensure that . The ending can be seen coming a mile away and provides no surprises ; but it wraps things up nicely and while this isn't a ' great ' film by any stretch of the imagination , it's certainly well worth a look for Edwige Fenech fans or collectors of Italian sex comedies .
Another feline up to no good !	Shadow of the Cat is a Poe-esquire horror film that focuses on a sinister animal - the domestic cat . The film begins with a reciting of the Edgar Allen Poe poem ' The Raven ' , and from there we begin to focus on the title animal . There is nothing about this film that officially suggests it has anything to do with Hammer studios , but the feel of the film is very much like Hammer and the fact that John Gilling - the man behind two of the best Hammer horror films , Plague of the Zombies and The Reptile - is the director means that it has something of an affinity with the studio . The plot focuses on the common Gothic horror theme of a family and an inheritance . The family here is the Venable family , and the story starts properly when a rich old woman is murdered by her relatives because they're after her inheritance . The only witness to the crime was the lady's pet cat , and while normally anyone committing murder in this way would get away with it scot-free , this particular cat takes exception to the murder of its owner and sets about exacting its own revenge . The plot is , of course , pretty far fetched , but it's handled well and John Gilling never lets it descend into the realms of ridiculousness when it comes to people being murdered by the cat . The cat itself looks sinister enough , and while it doesn't have the same menace as , say , the murderous moggy in Lucio Fulci eighties impression of The Black Cat , the acting from the feline side of the cast is mostly fine . The thick Gothic atmosphere is the film's main asset , and John Gilling achieves this through the black and white cinematography as well as the decor of the central location and many of the events that transpire . The film is very short at around seventy five minutes , but this doesn't matter too much as Gilling makes his point and doesn't let too many sub-plots interfere with that . Of course , this sort of story is rarely going to give way to a truly GREAT film , as there isn't enough of it ; but the film moves along nicely for the duration , and the events that build up to the ending ensure that the film does what you would expect of it . Overall , I doubt too many people will be disappointed with this and any fan of British horror will want to check it out .
Well done women in prison flick	Nightmare in Badham County is a ' women in prison ' film , but I wouldn't recommend going into it expecting something along the same lines as the sleazy Jess Franco women in prison films as you're liable to be disappointed . That being said , this is still an excellent seventies made for TV movie and while it may be lacking in the sleaze factor ; it makes up for that in other areas and John Llewellyn Moxey's film is still well worth a look . Naturally , considering that the film is a TV movie ; it's not too violent , but influence was still obviously taken from the ' hicksploitation ' genre and we focus on a small town where the legal system doesn't exactly adhere to the national standard . Two young college girls are driving through Badham County when they get a flat tire . After finding someone to help them , they run across the local sheriff and come a cropper when he doesn't take too kindly to them brushing off his advances and making a fool out of him . He then sets up his revenge ; by having the girls thrown in a backwater prison for a minor offence . This film will no doubt get plaudits for the acting , and it's certainly above average considering the type of film . Deborah Raffin and Lynne Moody give good turns in the lead roles , and really do manage to draw you into their characters . Lynne Moody is the standout for me for giving the more realistic performance ; Deborah Raffin overacts to quite a large and noticeable extent on several occasions . The film draws in themes of the racial divide as the prison at the centre of the film separates the blacks from the whites . This is probably the most shocking element considering the lack of sleaze . The prison itself doesn't seem as imposing as some of the prisons shown in other films , and it actually never seemed all that difficult to escape from . However , John Llewellyn Moxey creates a great atmosphere of hopelessness that stems from the inmates and surrounds the central location , which ensures the film has the right feel to it . It all boils down to a well worked and memorable ending and while this film may not be one of the best in its field ; it's very good and well worth seeing !
Standard , but not bad , Spanish Giallo	Seven Murders for Scotland Yard is pretty much your standard Giallo fare , and that is no bad thing ! The plot revolves around a vicious psychopath who goes around brutally slaying prostitutes . You would expect a film with this sort of plot to be a completely brutal and sleazy affair , but Seven Murders for Scotland Yard is surprising in that aspect as while there are murders aplenty , there's no real nudity , and the murders themselves have been heavily edited , so we don't get to see much more than a bit of blood . This is unfortunate as Seven Murders for Scotland could have done with these appealing elements to compliment the plot , but even so ; it has to be said that this isn't a bad film on the whole , and it's certainly one of the better Spanish Giallo's . As mentioned , the plot focuses on the murdering of prostitutes , and as the title suggests , Scotland Yard are soon on the case . The main suspects in the murders is a Peter Dockerman , whose girlfriend was killed along with the prostitutes , but Commissioner Henry Campbell of Scotland Yard doesn't believe Dockerman to be the one they're looking for . It's clear just looking at this film that it didn't benefit from a large budget , and indeed the locations do all look very cheap . Of course , the fact that my copy isn't exactly brilliant doesn't help , but it is obvious that director José Luis Madrid was merely cashing in on the popular formula of the day . Like a lot of seventies Spanish horror films , this one stars Paul Naschy . Naschy has given some good performances in the past ; but this isn't one of his better ones . In fact , none of the performances in this film really inspire anything from the audience and it doesn't seem like anyone is really putting any effort in . The plot is fairly standard stuff too , though it never completely dries up as there's always another murder just around the corner . The identity of the murderer becomes obvious early on in the film , and the twist I was expecting never came . The ending itself is decent enough , however , as we finally get to see the killer's lair and the climatic struggle is decent despite the fact that you wont really care who comes out victorious . Overall , Seven Murders for Scotland Yard is a decent enough Giallo , but there are many , many better ones out there !
Better than your average Franco flick !	Jess Franco made a lot of films that are liable to make you want to claw your eyes out ; but then he also made a lot of films that made you wish he took more care of his overall filmography as the man clearly had talent . Night of the Skull is firmly in the latter category ; as while the plot is not particularly original and has been done many times before and since ; Franco makes good of it and Night of the Skull is a very successful thriller overall . The basis for the plot takes influence from the often used idea of a will reading causing trouble within a family . The film takes place in England and we focus on the residents of an old castle . The Lord of the manor , Lord Archibald Marian , has been murdered . As the family gather for the will reading , they are shocked to learn of two wills ; one to be read in the case that the Lord was murdered , the other in the case that he died of natural causes . The family are shocked further when all of his assets are left to his illegitimate daughter , but there are twists in store before the will can be executed . The film gives a writing credit to the great Edgar Allen Poe for his story " The Cat and the Canary " , although clear influence is taken from crime writer Edgar Wallace and indeed his novel " The Terror " ( which was adapted in 1965 as The Sinister Monk ) features basically the same story . The film has some similarities with the Giallo genre also and Giallo fans will no doubt enjoy this one too ( genre entries such as The Weekend Murders and Deadly Inheritance also use the same base for a plot ) . The film is set in England and Franco takes care with his setting and the film does actually have an English feel ; despite the fact that all the characters speak Spanish . Franco also creates an effectively creepy atmosphere that benefits the film immensely . The film is of a higher quality than a lot of Franco's stuff also - with the acting from the ensemble cast being well above par . The storyline is interesting for the duration despite the fact that it will be familiar to most genre fans ; and the ending does deliver something of a surprise . It's an unlikely way for the tale to end , but at least it sort of makes some sense . Overall , Night of the Skull is a very decent thriller and comes recommended .
Flawed , but entertaining Italian crime flick	Long Arm of the Godfather would probably be thrown in with the Italian ' Polizi ' genre , although in actual fact the police presence in this film is minimal at best and the film prefers to centre on its cast of immoral criminal characters . While this does mean that there's no sympathetic character to root for , it does also mean that we get treated to plenty of entertaining violence and dubious situations , which somewhat makes up for it . The film has no point to make ( apart from ' don't cross vicious gangsters ' ) and like most of this genre , the plot is very simple and in this case we have a rouge gangster going up against his old boss . While working on transporting a shipment of guns , Vincenzo starts to get big ideas of his own and decides to hijack the cargo and sell it himself . As you would probably expect , this doesn't exactly sit well with the formidable Don Carmelo who , upon hearing of the treachery , sets out to find the man who dared to steal from him . Meanwhile , Vincenzo is gathering up his girlfriend and setting his plan into motion . Writer-director Nardo Bonomi ( this his only film ) manages to keep the proceedings interesting throughout despite the fact that the plot is not overly thrilling . Some time is taken to build up the characters and we are always aware of the central situation ; although the fact that all the main characters have some link to immortality means that there's no actual hero figure , meaning that the only reason to care is simply the plot itself rather than the characters in it . The film does benefit from a strong central cast however , with German born actor Peter Lee Lawrence ( who looks quite a bit like Ewan McGregor ) convincing in the lead role and receiving good feedback from the beautiful blue-eyed Erika Blanc as his girlfriend and the brilliant Adolfo Celi , who is a standout in every film he's in ; including this one . The plot really doesn't contain a great deal of surprises and indeed where the film is going is often announced by Adolfo Celi's Godfather character - but even so , the film does manage to entertain throughout and while I would not call this one of the best Italian crime flicks , it is at least a good one .
Strange and memorable little known horror	Prey is , effectively , two movies . We have a film about an alien coming down from space to wreak havoc on the human race , and then we have the story of a man infiltrating a lesbian relationship . This does give the film more than enough to go on when it comes to keeping things entertaining ; but on the other hand , the whole alien plot actually gets in the way of the other plot and while I essentially saw this movie because it's a horror film ; it's the horror that spoils it ! However , while it certainly does have it's failures ; Prey is a movie that was obviously shot on a very low budget and since it is a rather original take on a common movie theme ; it does deserve a lot of plaudits . The movie begins with a scene that sees a young couple in a car . After a bright light in the sky , the man gets out and ends up becoming possessed by the alien before killing the girl . This all happens not far from the home of Jessica and Josephine ; a pair of lesbians living in a beautiful large house . After meeting the alien and seeing him hurt , they invite him in to stay with them . The film is directed by Norman J Warren and that will be enough to put some viewers off I'm sure ; as the director of such rubbish as Bloody New Year and Satan's Slave is not exactly well known for making good horror films . However , this is a cut above and surely his best work . That's not to say it's anything like high quality however ! The acting is extremely poor in places and the plot doesn't exactly move smoothly ; and that isn't helped by some extremely trite and stupid dialogue ! The lesbian couple is much better portrayed than the alien and both do actually have some character and the dynamics of their relationship has a huge effect on how the story moves . The alien , played unconvincingly by Barry Stokes , is extremely poor and the performance relies too much on the alien not knowing much about Earth , which soon gets tiresome . However , it's only short and the weird goings on ( such as a fox hunt and the alien being dressed as a woman ) have a sort of surreal quirk to them . It all boils down to a gratuitous ending that works quite well . Overall , this is not great by any means ; but it's an interesting cult gem and is at least worth seeing .
Decent little Hammer rarity	Terror of the Tongs is a largely unknown Hammer film and , as such , isn't one the great studio's best films . It is , however , a more than decent entry in Hammer's oeuvre , and is well worth seeking out for Hammer fans . The film takes place in Hong Kong , and director Anthony Bushell does a fairly good job of capitalising on the mystery of the eastern culture . The most prominent thing about this film is no doubt the fact that it stars the great Christopher Lee - as the Chinese head of ' The Tongs ' ! It's a hilarious performance , and while Lee doesn't exactly convince the audience that he's Chinese , it brilliantly shows off his charisma and ability to hold the audience's attention . The plot focuses on a secret Hong Kong society known as ' The Red Dragon Tong ' . They kidnap the captain of a ship in Hong Kong harbour while he's trying to restrain the people who kidnapped his daughter . We then follow the attempt to free him from the Tong ; but this isn't a group of amateurs , as the society is big and powerful and freeing the captain isn't easy . The film actually isn't a lot like what I've come to expect from Hammer , as it's all played out rather seriously and there's not a hint of anything even resembling supernatural activity . The film doesn't reflect particularly well on the Chinese people - as despite being set in Hong Kong , there's hardly any natives on the cast list and the Chinese characters don't get to much that has any bearing on the plot . The atmosphere is nothing to write home about , although director Anthony Bushell manages to create just about enough tension to keep things ticking over . The acting is generally below average , with only Christopher Lee coming out of the film with any credibility - which is amazing considering the nature of his role . The film doesn't have a great deal of bite - in spite of a torture sequence and numerous scenes of drug use - although it mostly isn't boring . Overall , I can't say that The Terror of the Tongs is even near to being Hammer's finest hour , but it's a decent little rarity and worth tracking down for Hammer fans .
Not quite brilliant , but an interesting unknown film	Michael Curtiz is well known for a handful of successes ; most notably , Mildred Pierce , Angels With Dirty Faces and , of course , Casablanca - and it was this , combined with the starring role for horror icon Claude Rains that made me elevate my hopes for this largely unknown little thriller . While I can say that this film doesn't live up to Curtiz's other works , it is at least an interesting thriller and one that will surely appeal to fans of this sort of film . The director's handling of the central plot is superb , and Curtiz always ensures that the atmosphere is thick and foreboding by way of a number of dark sequences , as well as the array of immoral acts that feature strongly in the plot . The film is based on a novel by Charlotte Armstrong , and follows the murder of a young girl . The plot moves on and we are introduced to another woman suffering from amnesia ; which means she can't remember whether or not she actually married a man who claims to be her husband . Furthermore , the woman's uncle is a man named Victor Grandison , and hosts a radio show called ' The Unsuspected ' . The plot does , perhaps , feature slightly too many different angles ; but it all comes together well , and personally I'd much rather see a film that is too convoluted than too bare bones . There isn't a great deal of excitement within the plot ; but the murder scenes are well filmed , and as the atmosphere is always at the forefront ; the film continually succeeds in being the eerie chiller that it is meant to be . The great Claude Rains is most famous for roles in masterpiece horror films such as The Invisible Man and The Wolf Man , and while his performance here doesn't allow him to show the sort of charisma that made him famous ; Rains does well in acting sinister and his performance certainly benefits the film . The rest of the cast don't stand out as much as the great Mr Rains , but nobody sticks out for being below par either , which is nice . The locations are well used , and the film-noir elements shine through the horror-thriller plot style nicely . Overall , while I can't say that it's a travesty that this 1947 film isn't better remembered ; it's certainly worth a look .
Suspenseful modern horror	Wilderness isn't a great modern horror film , but it does a good job of taking old ideas and rehashing them into a fresh and exciting plot line . The influences to the film are clear , with the much-copied classic ' The Most Dangerous Game ' being fused with more modern films such as ' Battle Royale ' . The basic plot line isn't too far removed from your common slasher film , but director Michael J . Bassett gives him film an extra edge by putting the focus on the struggle as the protagonists battle with the wilderness ( naturally ) , the main threat and even each other . The plot focuses on a group of juvenile delinquents who are sent to an uninhabited island when a young lad staying in their home is found to have committed suicide . However , the island doesn't turn out to be uninhabited at all , as aside from a local hermit ; there's also a group of girls there with the same idea - and some mad psycho with a crossbow and a group of bloodthirsty German Shepherds , who is seemingly hell bent on not letting any of them off the island alive ! The director seems more bothered about atmosphere and tension than characters ; as while some of the people inhabiting the film are well defined , their actions are often questionable and none of them are particularly interesting . But even so , this isn't a problem ; as the film is constantly suspenseful and the fact that there is an unseen psycho in the woods bodes well with the atmosphere on display . Michael J . Bassett seems keen to go against the clichés of the horror genre , as there is no mystery to the killer's identity after the first half of the film and the crossbow weapon works well . There's a fair amount of gore on display , although the film never matches the initial death sequence in the wilderness in terms of gore . The acting isn't terrible , but the ' thick ' British accents sound really phoney to an actual Brit like me . Sean Pertwee is the only recognised name on the cast list , but the rest of the cast ; which is made up of mostly British television stars , provide adequate performances . Overall , Wilderness is certainly a good horror film and comes recommended .
One of the better slashers out there !	I'm not a big fan of slashers and don't tend to go out of my way to see them ; but I had a particular interest in this one as I've heard it said that Happy Birthday to Me is an " American Giallo " . It's not of course ; owing to the fact that there's no such thing ; although it has to be noted that the film does feature some of the Giallo trademarks - and I can certainly see why comparisons are made as the film features red herrings galore , a mysterious plot and , best of all , plenty of gory and elaborate death scenes ! The film is set a high school and thus focuses on school kids . In particular , we focus on Virginia Wainwright , a young girl and benefactor of a breakthrough new treatment that helped restore her brain after an accident that she is unable to remember . It's coming up to her eighteenth birthday , but things aren't looking good for her when members of her clique begin to disappear ! Even worse , every time someone disappears , she faces a blackout and soon begins to question her sanity . . . could she be committing the murders without realising it ? The film is directed by British director J . Lee Thompson ( who also directed the original Cape Fear ) . He certainly knows his way around a thriller , and does an overall good job of ensuring that Happy Birthday to Me flows well throughout . He doesn't forsake his heritage either , as Happy Birthday to Me stands tall as the only American film I can think of that features proper football ! I don't know whether or not the Giallo was actually an influence on this film , although I'd be surprised if it wasn't considering the way that the plot moves . There is a focus on plot twists , which automatically sets this film aside from slashers and probably wont please the slasher crowd much overall . The twists are fairly well handled , although it does start to get a bit much at the end . As mentioned , the gore is plenty and director J lee Thompson orchestrates some nice death scenes that include murder weapons such as motorbikes and weights . The final twist is highly unlikely , but I can't criticise it too much considering how big a Giallo fan I am ! Overall , this is one of the better slasher flicks that I've seen and it's definitely recommended . Fans of this should also see the Italian equivalent ' There Was a Little Girl ' , also from 1981 as they're very similar !
Excellent story driven roughie	A Climax of Blue Power is an excellent roughie flick as it combines hardcore porn with a storyline that is actually interesting . The story is not exactly Shakespeare , of course , but naturally most people will be tuning in for the porn and the story helps to ensure that it actually has some point , rather than just being a collection of random sex scenes , and that does benefit the film immensely . The film is somewhere between a porn flick , a cop flick and a psycho flick and the lead character is a man named Eddie ; a security guard who gets his kicks during his off-hours by posing as a police officer and picking up young prostitutes . After being given a run down of what will happen to them now that they've been caught , Eddie then offers to let the girls go if they'll agree to give him a free ride - which invariably leads to a torrent of abuse for the girls . This goes on for a while until one day , while out and about , Eddie witnesses a woman kill her husband . This has an effect on the " moral and upstanding " man and after mulling over what to do ; he decides to deal out his own punishment . . . The film was obviously cheaply made and naturally this has lead to a very gritty and downtrodden atmosphere , which bodes well with the hardcore sex . The sex definitely is hardcore and director Lee Frost ( who previously directed odd porno-noir The Pick-Up and dismal Nazisploitation trash Love Camp 7 ) definitely leaves nothing to the imagination as we get to watch the lead character have his way with various female members of the cast . The sex is gritty just like the atmosphere though it well filmed and largely very erotic also . The acting does leave a lot to be desired , although Jason Carns is thoroughly convincing in the lead role . The film all boils down to the scenes at the end where we get to see the lead have his way with the murderess he witnessed earlier on and these are the best parts of the film . The film takes a bizarre turn and the sex scene towards the end is very brutal . Overall , A Climax of Blue Power certainly wont be everyone's cup of tea ; but if you like your rough seventies porn with a story ; this is probably one of the better examples . Recommended .
Captain Kronos - he's not your usual vampire hunter . . .	Hammer studios were on their last legs when this story of vampire hunting was produced , but yet they have still managed to prove themselves as the premier source of horror during the time period in which they existed . Captain Kronos lacks the kitschy style that made earlier Hammer's such a delight , and it's been replaced by a sleazier European atmosphere . This is no bad thing , however , as the sleazy styling epitomises the central character , and fits the film like a glove therefore . Captain Kronos isn't the usual , classy vampire hunter in the style of characters like Van Helsing , and instead he's a womanising pretty boy that is just as at home smoking dope as he is slaying vampires . Hammer's best feature is their ability to recreate , invent and throw the rule book out the window ; and despite being almost at the end of their run with this film , they've managed to pull another corker out of the once seemingly endless pit of imagination and inventiveness . That's not to say that the film is perfect , however ; quite far from it in fact . The film puts far too much focus on its central character , and although he's a lot of fun ; he doesn't quite have the charisma to carry an entire film . The fact that director Brian Clemens disagrees with me on that is evident throughout , however , as he's given Kronos a back-story to work with that isn't exactly brilliant . The film does work in spite of this , however , as it features much bloodletting , which will please horror fans and the film is a very pleasant viewing and lots of fun . Captain Kronos also has quite an obvious western angle about it as well , which is always nice to see in a horror movie ( or any movie for that matter ) . The direction is fair , if not overly brilliant and Brian Clemens fails to capture the morbid and creepy atmosphere that served earlier Hammer offerings so well . The film features several moments of humour , however , which keep it flowing nicely and it also benefits from a nicely over the top musical score . Captain Kronos is far from perfect , and the lead character isn't quite as cool as his name . However , it's a lot of fun and Hammer fans will no doubt find lots to like about it , so it's warmly recommended .
Light on the sleaze , but still an excellent women in prison flick !	When I think ' Women in Prison ' , my mind often goes to sleazy Italian / Spanish productions by directors such as Jess Franco and Bruno Mattei ; and while these films are often very sleazy , they're also very samey and once you've seen one ; you might as well have seen them all . I have to admit that these types of films generally aren't my favourites ; but in fact the idea of women behind bars has been done very well on several occasions outside of Italy and Spain ; and Roger Corman's New World Pictures is responsible for some of the best of them . Caged Heat is the directorial debut of Oscar-winning director Jonathan Demme , and it's a well done little flick with plenty of entertainment value ! Naturally , the film centres on the story of a girl who is caught committing crime and sent to a women's ' prison where she is introduced to a host of violent inmates . This prison is ruled over by the stuff wheelchair bound Superintendent McQueen ; and she takes offence to a play put on by the girls ; leading them to plot an escape . This film is much lighter on the sleaze than I'm used to in a women in prison flick ; but this is more than compensated for by some great action scenes and dialogue and that's what ensures Caged Heat entertains throughout . It does have to be said that the plot is not particularly original or ambitious and basically follows a structure similar to many other women in prison films that came before it ; but that's not such a big problem . The film never gets boring and is peppered with standout scenes ; including an escape attempt while out working in a field and a bank robbery . The film is helped along by assured direction from the man who would go on to helm the masterpiece The Silence of the Lambs and a great cast with plenty of standouts ; including best of all the legendary Barbara Steele in the role of the head prison warden . Overall , Caged Heat may not leave the viewer with much to think about by the end ; but it's a brilliantly entertaining little grindhouse flick and anyone that enjoys this type of film will surely want to track it down .
Has holes , but a decent film nonetheless	Was it just a coincidence that two movies about magicians with a period setting were released within the space of a few months of each other ? I don't know , but needless to say this film is always going to find itself being compared with Christopher Nolan's ' The Prestige ' , and it's always going to find itself in second place because Nolan's film is a hell of a lot better than this one . The two films are similar in that they're both thrillers , both focus on retribution and , obviously , both are based on magicians . This one is based on a short story by Steven Millhauser and focuses on a man named Eisenheim . As a boy , Eisenheim falls in love with a girl a few social classes above himself , but their relationship is broken up for that very reason . Cut to years later and Eisenheim is a successful magician in Vienna . He meets his long lost love during a show and they quickly rekindle their relationship ; but being together is a problem as she is engaged to the Crown Prince . . . After rising to fame with the likes of American History X and Fight Club in the late 1990's , it has to be said that Edward Norton has been a bit of a disappointment ever since . He really was due a good performance , and while his role here isn't as great as the ones that made him famous in the first place ; he performs well and the film definitely represents his best work in years . Norton is given excellent support from the likes of Paul Giamatti , Rufus Sewell and Jessica Biel , and the acting is high quality on the whole . As mentioned , the film features a period setting and with the help of some glossy cinematography , it mostly looks very nice . The film is obviously intended to be a thriller , although there isn't a great deal of suspense featured . The plot does remain interesting for most of the duration , however , and there is usually just about enough going on to ensure that it doesn't become boring . The film builds up to a twist at the end . I didn't see it coming myself , though I'm sure many others will . However , in spite of this it is fairly well worked , although the audience is asked to suspend disbelief more than just a little . But even so , this is decent enough entertainment and I did at least enjoy it .
Fetid and nasty	Supposedly based on a true story , Scrapbook is a torturous account of the darker side of human nature . It's easy to see why this case ( assuming it did actually happen ) was made into a film , as the potential for a harrowing tale is certainly there - and mostly that comes from the idea of a ' scrapbook ' in which the killer forces his victims to write about their experiences in his ' care ' . Scrapbook appears to be one of the first of a ' new wave ' of mostly direct to video nasty horror flicks , a sub-genre that has gone on to inspire such films as August Underground and Murder Set-Pieces . There isn't a great deal of plot in this film , and director Eric Stanze has preferred to keep the action focused on just two characters . Clara is the victim who is being held by vicious psychopath Leonard . Leonard keeps a scrapbook which contains all sorts of information about his victims , and it doesn't take the girl long to realise that the way to manipulate the killer is through the scrapbook . But that doesn't stop her becoming the victim of several bouts of rape and torture . I've seen a lot of this sort of stuff , and I have to say that in comparison to a lot of similar films ; Scrapbook isn't really all that nasty . But that's not to say that it's a film for everyone ! There's a huge focus on torture , and this is complimented by the dirty locations in which the film takes place . Director Eric Stanze succeeds in creating a truly fetid atmosphere for the film to take place in . This helps to make the overall atmosphere of the film more shocking , and sometimes the film succeeds at being nasty without the need for gore . That's not to say that the film doesn't feature any of the red stuff , however . The sex scenes are vicious and sometimes hard to watch , and the film really gets going in the last fifteen minutes with a series of excruciating sequences . It's clear that this film isn't perfect , as the central relationship isn't always enough to provide sufficient interest , and even though there's only two characters in the film ; we never really get to know either of them . Still , as a nasty modern gore flick ; Scrapbook certainly isn't bad !
Won't scare you to death , but this creepy cult gem provides a nice horror experience	Let's Scare Jessica to Death is one of the forerunners of the ' films that need a decent release ' crowd . The film is notoriously difficult to track down and just about every cult horror fan in existence that hasn't seen it wants to . I'm pleased to say that I finally got myself a copy . . . but unfortunately , it seems I'd set my expectations too high and Let's Scare Jessica to Death has turned out to be a little disappointing for me . But that's not to say I disliked it ! The atmosphere in this film is superb , and massively helps the story along with it's themes of insanity in a sinister rural setting . The film follows a woman named Jessica who has recently been released from a mental hospital . Along with her husband and a friend of theirs , they move into a rickety old farmhouse , and meet a hippie chick squatter who has taken it upon herself to stay in the formally abandoned farmhouse . However , all is not well for Jessica as she's hearing voices again , and as if this isn't bad enough on it's own - there may be more to the young girl that the trio have decided to let stay with them . The film appears to have been marketed more towards the ' zombie fan ' end of the horror market judging by the front cover , but actually Let's Scare Jessica to Death is a psychological horror film . The way that Jessica hears voices in her head helps to create tension , and this in turn is helped by Zohra Lampert in the title role . Her acting isn't brilliant , but she has an aura of naivety about her , which helps when it comes to the vulnerable , insane side of her character . The plot is always slow moving and relaxed , and this allows the film to aptly put across the plight of the main character . There isn't much gore in the film at all , which is likely to disappoint fans of the more visceral side of horror . It's clear that Let's Scare Jessica to Death is somewhat overly ambitious with its plotting , as I often got the idea that the film is trying to be more intelligent that the screenplay allows . But even so , Let's Scare Jessica to Death is a creepy gem and one that will certainly appeal to fans of the less gore focused horror movies .
Hardly perfect , but decent entertainment at least .	Risking was apparently seen as something of a routine thriller upon its release in 1976 ; and despite a good first half hour and some decent scenes during the movie , I can certainly see the reason for that . The film is often considered a part of the " Poliziotteschi " genre , and for good reason as the film focuses a lot of the eternal war between Italy's cops and Italy's robbers ; but the film also ties in a revenge theme and this somewhat distances it from the average Polizi thriller . The film begins with a jewel heist gone wrong as hapless criminal Massimo Torlani breaks into a jewel store , only to have the shutters closed on him immediately . Naturally , he is sent straight to jail ; but the plot thickens when it transpires that the young man is actually an undercover police officer sent to jail to infiltrate a gang of crooks lead by Giulianelli . However , the copper has more on his plate than just orders from the top as the criminals were also responsible for paralysing his mother and he takes the opportunity to get some revenge . The film stars Ray Lovelock , who gives a charismatic performance as usual ; but fails to thoroughly convince as the undercover copper mostly down to his boyish good looks . I'm sure he was cast in the film more because of his popularity than because he was essentially the right actor for the part . The film gets off to a really good start as our hero finds himself in jail , gets in with the criminals and then breaks out of it . From there , the plot takes a bit of a downturn as the film loses focus and becomes more wayward . The plot also doesn't flow very well and at times feels like it's just skipping from one action scene to another . The fact that the story isn't exactly on course to make a point also lets the film down . However , the main reason for watching a film like this is always the entertainment value ; and Risking isn't exactly lacking in that department . We've got fist fights , car chases and all the rest of it and the film is normally at least entertaining . I wouldn't call this an essential Polizi flick , nor one of the best ; but it's certainly worth a look if you can find it .
A very decent little thriller !	Dark Places is not a very well known seventies British horror movie ; probably owing to the fact that it's not a Hammer movie , but it features an interesting story and a great cast , and overall this is certainly a very decent little thriller ! The story has some fairly strong horror themes running throughout , but personally I wouldn't say this is a horror flick ; Dark Places is a thriller , and the main focus is on the thing that makes the world go round - money , and a huge stash of it . At the centre of the film is a spooky old house , once owned by a mental patient who died . The house has now being taken over by the Asylum administrator who inherited the house . This is bad news for a few different people in the village - mostly notably scheming couple Dr Mandevile and Sarah . The reason being that before he died , the owner of the house hid a huge sum of money somewhere within the walls and the pair have been on the trail of it ever since . Not wanting to risk losing their cash , Sarah and the doctor hatch a plan to turn the situation to their advantage . . . The key thing about this film is the old house at the centre , and therefore the chilling atmosphere stemming from it . Director Don Sharp has a history in horror , with a handful of films made for Hammer , as well as the excellent cult trash classic ' Psychomania ' to his name , so it's quite unsurprising that this film has a horror atmosphere . The plot is well done also , with many different characters having a stake in the money at the centre of the story , and thus ensuring that the film remains interesting and varied . Dark Places features a very good cast , which makes it even more surprising that this film isn't better known . The great Christopher Lee is the biggest standout in his role as the doctor with an ulterior motive , while Joan Collins gives good support and provides some nice eye candy as his accomplice . The film also features performances from fellow British stars Robert Hardy and Herbert Lom , who also do well . Overall , this might not be a masterpiece ; but it's certainly a good film and comes recommended to fans of British horror !
Chucky is back again ! . . . and it's not too bad	I've got to say that I never wanted to see this film , but sometimes you find yourself in front of a television showing ' Bride of Chucky ' , and have nothing better to do . I have to admit to not having seen the first two sequels , and I highly doubt that I'm missing much . As you might expect , Bride of Chucky is completely ridiculous ; yet somehow , the overwhelming stupidity seen throughout the film is what makes it good ; as after a while , it's much easier to simply not think about what you're seeing and enjoy the film for what it is . As I said , I never saw the first two sequels ; but from what I've heard , they're not much good ; and since there isn't too much that you can do with the idea of a mad serial killer in the body of a doll , spoofing classic films such as ' Bride of Frankenstein ' isn't too bad an idea . The film focuses on Tiffany ; a young woman that tracks down ' Chucky ' . She was his girlfriend while he in human form , and she's looking to rekindle their relationship . However , things don't go to plan when it turns out he was never as keen on her as she was on him , and after punishing him ; Tiffany gets hers . . . The film is directed by Ronny Yu ; the same man responsible for such enjoyable trash as Freddy vs Jason and The 51st State . It has to be said that he certainly has his own style , and Bride of Chucky benefits from a superbly trashy atmosphere and a whole host of pumping rock music , which bodes well with the gory and silly plot line . The film is rather uneven , however , and while some of the jokes ( the part involving Tiffany finding a wedding ring in particular ) , are very funny ; while other parts of the film fall rather flat . Yu is keen to poke fun at the plot line and the entire Chucky series at every possible moment , although the ' in ' jokes aren't often very funny . The doll ' sex ' scene is bizarre , although Yu does make good by the end with a frenzied final half hour and a climax that leaves things wide open for a sequel , which the film got six years later . Brad Dourif returns to his trademark role , and once again does well at providing the voice for the maniacal doll at the centre . Even better than that , however , is the fact that he's joined by the extremely odd Jennifer Tilly , and listening to their banter is often lots of fun . Overall , this isn't a great film - but considering how bad it could have been , this third sequel ain't too bad .
Highly entertaining eighties exploitation !	Midnight was released in 1982 , but it's every bit a seventies style backwoods exploitation flick ; and while the movie does feature a whole host of problems ; it makes for extremely fun viewing and the way that the plot moves ensures that the film never becomes boring . I'm a big fan of films like this because you can never really tell what's coming ; and while the plot of this film doesn't make logical progressions , it certainly does manage to keep the audience on the edge of their seats . The central plot focuses on a young girl named Nancy Johnson . Nancy has a ' bad experience ' with her stepfather - one that involves him groping her and her resisting his advances . She decides to flee her family home and hits the road where , after coming across one driver who wants to book a motel with her , she comes across two young lads in a van . They give her lift and convince her to travel with them to Florida ; but after a run in with the law , the trio find themselves out in the woods , where it just so happens that some murders have been committed . . . The film is directed by John A . Russo ; the man behind a handful of trashy exploitation flicks , as well as a writing credit for classic horror Night of the Living Dead . His writing and direction on this film is not brilliant ; but he does manage to pack a lot of different story elements into the film and he has succeeded in making it entertaining ; and you cant ask for much more than that from an eighties exploitation flick . It's clear that the director didn't have much of a budget to work with ; and the film does look very cheap , although this is repaid by a grubby and fetid atmosphere which really does the film a lot of favours . Midnight is thoroughly unpleasant throughout ( the soundtrack being the only exception ! ) and there's not one innocent character in it , which adds to the unpleasantness . The cast is nothing to write home about ; although cult cinema fans will no doubt recognise Lawrence Tierney as the amorous step dad . Overall , this film falls somewhat short of being a must see ; but it makes for a good watch and is a hell of a lot better than it's reputation suggests ! Recommended .
Classy Nazi exploitation	" Nazisploitation " is a genre that I would have no qualms in calling completely useless . The genre is riddled with drab and depressingly bad nonsense with films such as The Beast in the Heat and SS Hell Camp being among the worst examples . It's for that reason that I didn't go into Tinto Brass ' Salon Kitty with any big expectations - but to my surprise , not only is this film a million times better than the rest of the Nazisploitation that I've seen ; it's also a rather well made and actually quite noteworthy slice of classy exploitation cinema that is well worth tracking down . Naturally , the film takes place in Nazi Germany and we focus on the Nazi party . The early parts of the film show various depravities , including some of those experiments that every exploitation fan knows the Nazi's were a big fan of . From there , we move into the film's main plot which focuses on a brothel . Kitty Kellermann has her house of ill repute closed down by the Nazi's and they've given her a new one , complete with new girls . . . who happen to be SS spies dedicated to revealing detractors within the party . My main problem with this film is undoubtedly the runtime ; as while Salon Kitty never actually gets boring , two and a quarter hours is way too long for a film like this and it would have benefited a lot from some more streamlined editing . That being said , I'd rather this film be over two hours long than any of the other Nazi flicks I've seen ! Naturally , the film features some rather depraved sequences ; including some sex experiments with freaks that I didn't enjoy very much . The majority of the film focuses on the brother , however , and that is a very good thing ! Tinto Brass takes his time in building up a sordid and sleazy atmosphere and the central location is very memorable indeed . There are some decent sex scenes in the film too and the cast of beautiful women really does help matter . A lesbian S & M style sequence ( that unfortunately only lasts about a minute ) was the highlight of the entire film for me . I think it's clear that the director was keener to make an exploitation film than a serious drama ; but Salon Kitty does succeed on both fronts , and while this film may be a bit too strong for the art house crowd - if you're looking for some classy top quality exploitation , you will find it here .
Not constantly funny , but hilarious in places	I have to say , I went into this film with high expectations . Borat was always the funniest character on " Da Ali G Show " and Sacha Baron Cohen is undoubtedly a talented comedian , but somehow this film feels like an overlong sketch , and isn't as consistently funny as the segments on Da Ali G Show . However , that's not to say that Borat is in any way a failure - Cohen delivers his lines with brilliant comic timing , and there are several real standout moments in this film . Borat is presented as documentary made for Kazakhstan television , and the base plot is that TV presenter Borat is off to America in order to report on the cultural differences between the two nations . We are introduced to Borat first in Kazakhstan where he tells us of the seedy goings on in his local town . From there , we go with the Kazakhstan man to the USA , where he talks to various people before catching a glimpse of Pamela Anderson on Baywatch , and deciding to relocate the documentary to California ; where he hopes to track down and marry the sinful Baywatch blonde . A lot of this film is like watching a train wreck waiting to happen . For example , at one point in the film ; we discover that Borat is going to have a chat with a group of feminists , and it's not hard to imagine what's going to happen ! Most of the humour focuses on the central character and the situations he gets himself into thanks to the fact that they apparently do things differently in Kazakhstan . The fact that the film relentlessly pokes fun at the Kazakhstan people means that I'm not surprised it wasn't well received over there , although I can't say it really bothers me all that much . The thing about Borat is that he's not poking fun ' his people ' , but rather poking fun at the world view of sensitive topics such as anti-Semitism , terrorism , homophobia and racism . Cohen's style of comedy puts the people being interviewed at the brunt of the joke , and half the time these people deserve this treatment for their extreme views ( the rodeo sequence is of particular note in this respect ) . My main problem with this film is that it doesn't really leave a lasting impression on the viewer . . . although you have to respect the star for his willingness to constantly put himself in risky situations .
Psycho kids create gory death scenes	Devil Times Five is basically your basic seventies horror flick about a bunch of people in an isolated location being terrorised by psychos ; except this one has a twist , and that twist comes in the form of the psychos themselves being young children . The most famous film to use the idea of psychotic children is probably the 1960 classic Village of the Damned ; but it has been done many times since . Devil Times Five is perhaps something of an oddity within the genre as it doesn't particularly focus on the idea of the children being psychos , but instead puts its focus on the sleazy adult characters and gory death scenes . The plot focuses on a group of people staying at a snowbound lodge . Meanwhile , a bus carrying a group of psychotic children slips off the road ; allowing the kids to escape . After taking out their guardian , the kids descend on the lodge where they are taken in by the people staying there . Shortly thereafter , the adults start turning up dead . . . The film is a real piece of seventies grindhouse with the main focus being on the sleazy atmosphere . Immediately we are shown that not all of the main characters are angels and it sets things up nicely . Often horror films involving kids will be toned down a little ; but that's not the case here either . The kids themselves are vicious enough and that is complimented nicely by a grisly set of death scenes that include things such as a woman in a bath being eaten by piranhas , someone being set alight and a vast assortment of mêlée weapons being put to good use . The snow setting provides a good location for the action to take place as it provides a good atmosphere of isolation to ensure we're always aware that the central characters are in trouble . It does have to be said that the film can't really be taken seriously ; it's not particularly well written or acted and the story has no depth whatsoever - but it's not important anyway for a seventies horror flick and the film does provide ninety minutes that are worth seeing .
Well worked thriller with plenty of twists !	Interrabang is , superficially , a very beautiful film . The location used is serene and picturesque , and when you add a trio of lovely and often half naked ladies into the mix ; you have a film that was probably a lot of fun to make . It's also not a bad film to watch as while things do get a bit silly at times ; there's plenty of twists and turns in the plot and director Giuliano Biagetti manages to keep things interesting with only his small cast to rely on . The film is often considered a part of the Giallo genre ; although I wouldn't go as far as to call it one myself ; the film is more of a precursor to the genre . The plot focuses on a photographer named Fabricio . He has taken a boat with three beautiful women out to sea for a fashion shoot . It's long before the boat has a problem with the carburettor and Fabrizio hitches a lift to land in order to get a new one . While he's gone , a strange man named Mario approaches the boat and begins getting it on with the ladies ; however , he might just be the maniac on the loose in the area . One of the most noteworthy things about this film is the title , and it's noteworthy because most people will wonder exactly what an " Interrabang " is . Well the film is good enough to explain and apparently it's a cross between a question mark and an exclamation mark ; and the film uses this to try and make some sort of social commentary . . . which completely gets lost under the superficial nature of the rest of the film . The film is rather talky and that's actually the main attraction . I wouldn't be surprised to find that this film was re-cut with a load of hardcore porn added for a seventies release since there's room for it ; but the version I saw was very clean and there wasn't so much as a naked breast on display ( which while slightly disappointing , is a lot better than having this turn into a hardcore porn affair ) . There's no blood either , and clearly the director wanted the film to stay on point ; and this does actually benefit it quite well . The twists come thick and fast towards the end and that keeps things exciting ; but the actual ending itself is completely bizarre . Overall , this is a very rare thriller and thus not easy to come by . . . but I'd certainly recommend it if you can find a copy .
Population : dead but not buried	Messiah of Evil hasn't won itself a very good reputation three decades down the line , but the reason for that certainly isn't due to a lack of originality or intrigue . Director Willard Huyck presents his film with a lot of mystery and atmosphere , but there isn't a lot of urgency to the proceedings ; thus meaning the film is very creepy and heavy on atmosphere , but it's never very exciting ; which is a shame considering the plot . There are definitely a few standout moments in this film ; scenes taking place in a cinema , inside a house and one involving the police are well worked . . . but again , the relaxed direction does the film no favours . The plot follows a young woman who travels to a creepy little town in order to find her father . It quickly becomes clear that everything is not fine and well in this evil place , and the girl discovers several clues leading her to the conclusion that her father is still in town . What she ends up discovering is a zombie ' cult ' , in which the living are changed into the living dead by way of some strange supernatural force . . . The film begins very slowly , and the first half of the movie is really rather uneventful . The poor production values ensure that the film doesn't often look very nice ; although this becomes less of a problem as the film progresses , and the story gets more intriguing . There aren't that many different ways a zombie theme can be tackled , so full credit goes to writer-director Willard Huyck for his imagination , as Messiah of Evil is one of the first films ( to my knowledge ) , to use zombies in this way . . . although it has been done to better effect since . The style of the movie borders on surreal , as the bright shots help to create a dreamlike ambiance , although the cheap look of the film often brings it down . It's a shame that the first half of the film isn't more interesting also , as the second half aptly sums up what hidden gems are all about ; but it's let down by a rather dull opening forty five minutes . Overall , Messiah of Evil is well worth seeing and tracking down , but it is , unfortunately , not as great as it undoubtedly could have been .
Decent obscure horror movie	The Night God Screamed , despite the interesting title , is not a very well known horror film ; whether or not that's just down to poor distribution I don't know , but what we have here is an interesting and well made little seventies gem in the exploitation vein , though preceding a lot of the better known entries such as Wes Craven's The Last House on the Left . The title made me expect some sort of religious themed horror movie , but actually religion only plays a minor part in the movie and the movie is actually more of a creepy horror flick with exploitation themes . The main player is a preacher's wife who testifies against a fanatical religious group when they crucify her husband . Time goes by and the judge who put members of the group away invites the woman to look after his kids while he and his wife go on holiday . He gives the kids strict instructions not to leave the house while under her care ; which doesn't go down well considering they're all teenagers . The situation gets worse still when they start being terrorised by a bunch of unknown attackers . . . The Night God Screamed is a slow burning horror movie that doesn't utilise high amounts of gore and violence but delivers its scares through atmosphere and tension . The film has a real gritty feel to it and this bodes well with the dark plot line . The film stars Jeanne Crain in the lead role . She's not the usual horror movie star , but she does well among a cast of lesser actors and helps to ensure that the film is always interesting . The main bulk of the film focuses on the main characters trapped inside a house and this section of the film is tense throughout . Some of the scenes leading up to the finale are not all that interesting , but the film never actually becomes boring . The ending is decent and the twist does make sense , although it's not exactly impossible to guess . It is a shame that this film is so obscure because I'm sure that a lot of horror fans would enjoy it ; somehow , however , I can't see it getting a DVD release any time soon . If you can find a copy of this movie , it is well worth getting hold of .
A good example of a made for TV vampire movie !	Despite being made for television , this modern vampire flick certainly has a lot going for it ! The film takes place in modern day Las Vegas and stars Darren McGavin as a cynical and eccentric reporter . However , the main plot line is about vampires ; which brilliantly offsets the serious tone of the rest of the film . Being made for TV does hinder it somewhat - as it's very tame and the short running time doesn't allow for a very complex plot , but even so ; it makes for a fun viewing and that's what is more important . The plot follows the murder of a handful of young girls , and our hero ; reporter Carl Kolchak comes to believe that the murders were committed at the hands of a vampire . However , it's not easy to convince the town's officials , and soon he realises that he must deal with it himself . Darren McGavin is the pick of the acting cast , with a performance that really makes the film worth noticing , and also paved the way for a sequel a year later , and a short lived cult TV series . I will say that this film wont appeal to people who enjoy blood and gore in their vampire films , and indeed I would have it enjoyed it more if it wasn't so tame - but overall , this made for a fun watch and I'm glad I saw it .
Cheerful ' Video Nasty '	It's easy to pass Xtro off as a piece of trash ; as that's essentially what it is , but those who are well versed in Sci-Fi horror will surely see it's positive elements shining through . It would seem that just about every idea director Harry Bromley Davenport ever had has ended up in this film , and so what we end up with is a disjointed and silly ; albeit continually shocking and inventive little movie , which blends over the top images of extreme gore with the corruption of a family unit . The film was a part of the DPP's ' Video Nasty ' list back in the eighties , which has ended up meaning that the film has an unfavourable reputation , which it doesn't really deserve ; both because the cheesy gore effects can't really be taken seriously , and because the film is too cheerful to be reputed as a shocker . The plot is actually quite good , as it follows a young boy who witnesses his father being taken by aliens . Naturally , nobody believes him ; although his story becomes somewhat more plausible three years later when his father reappears and disrupts the mother and her new man with his presence , and murderous new powers . The film features several memorable scenes , the best of which sees a woman giving birth to a fully grown man ! The special effects clearly didn't cost much , but that's not a problem as they fit the film and the director does well in ensuring that the effects are consistent in their style , and that they always fit the tone of the movie . The film was produced in Britain , and take obvious influence from Ridley Scott's masterpiece , ' Alien ' as well as a whole range of other Sci-Fi films . The plot is well used in conjunction with the idea of a malevolent alien coming to Earth and killing people , and by keeping the focus on the disrupted family unit ; director Harry Bromley Davenport manages to elevate the film above the normal level of B-grade schlock . The film isn't strong on atmosphere , although the poor production values do give it a gritty feel that bodes well with the plot . The acting is typically terrible , with only Bernice Stegers ( ' Macabre ' ) providing any kind of standout . Overall , this film will no doubt be too silly and inconstant for some ; but if you like your films to be weird and high on imagination ; you can't go wrong with Xtro !
Not bad , but not Spielberg at his best either	There's no doubting that Spielberg knows the workings of cinema well enough to ensure that his movies are always entertaining , but sometimes he doesn't choose his projects all that wisely . The man is at his best when he's got a huge budget and a long list of stunts to play with ; and he showed this with his Indiana Jones trilogy and Jurassic Park films . When Spielberg attempts drama , the results are often mixed . Schindler's List stunk of a blockbuster director trying to win an Oscar , and while it doesn't look like Spielberg was going for gold with this picture ; the movie doesn't quite bode right , and much of the drama seems forced or overly sentimental . This makes the film hard to take seriously at times , especially since many of the events in the film are completely detached from reality . The extremely swift wedding ceremony sticks out the most . The plot , based on a true story , follows Viktor Navorski ; an Eastern European man who finds himself stranded in a New York airport when his country goes to war and isn't letting anyone in or out . He then , through lack of other options , decides to take up residency in the airport itself . In 2004 , Tom Hanks delivered an outstandingly over the top performance in the Coen's remake of the Ealing classic , The Ladykillers . The Terminal sees Hanks delivering another over the top performance , but it's not half as good this time . Hanks ' put on European accent isn't bad , but it quickly becomes annoying . His dumb antics are another thing that becomes annoying all too quickly , and after about an hour ; the premise begins to show signs of becoming tired . Catherine Zeta-Jones is Hanks ' massively underdeveloped love interest . It is this aspect that is the film's main downfall . The romance between these two is hardly explored and it happens all too quickly . It therefore feels like an afterthought in an underdeveloped movie . It isn't all woe for this film , however , as the movie does have it's good points . Spielberg does a surprisingly good job of setting up his protagonist's plight and the way that we are constantly reminded of the predicament that the immigrant is in , is good . On the whole , this is worth watching ; but Spielberg has been better , and far more entertaining , than this on many occasions .
Nothing on Silence of the Lambs and the novel it's based on , but a decent thriller in it's own right .	After the return of the infamous Hannibal Lecter to our screens in 2001 with Ridley Scott's film version of the best novel in Thomas Harris's Lecter trilogy , it's not surprising that a new version of the first novel in the series got an update a year later considering that it's previous screen version , Michael Mann's Manhunter , doesn't fit in with the other two films in the series . I do have to say that this version is both more true to Harris ' novel and an overall better film than Manhunter ; though it does have numerous shortfalls and has nothing on the masterpiece ' Silence of the Lambs ' . The plot is quite similar to the one in Silence of the Lambs , and features a cop on the hunt of a serial killer and receiving help from the incarcerated Hannibal Lecter . FBI Agent Will Graham , the captor of Hannibal Lecter , is called out of retirement to help catch a serial killer dubbed " The Tooth Fairy " by the media . The killer has already slaughtered two families and the FBI believes that another one is soon to join them ; meaning that Will Graham has no choice but to ask Hannibal Lecter for help with the case . The casting is one of the things that many critics pick up on , and that's not surprising . Anthony Hopkins effortlessly slips back into the role that he will always be associated with ; although he's far more comical here than in previous Lecter films . As anyone who has read the book will tell you , Edward Norton is completely wrong for the role of Will Graham as the role needed a grittier actor . Harvey Keitel is a great actor , but Scott Glenn from Silence of the Lambs fit the role of Jack Crawford much better . There's nothing wrong with the rest of the supporting cast , however , with Ralph Fiennes , Emily Watson and Philip Seymour Hoffman all fit into their respective roles well . There's not a great deal wrong with the plot pacing , although the film is a little slow at times and the book is much more exciting on the whole . Certain parts of the plot could have been cut out to streamline the film for the screen , although Ted Tally's screenplay is good in that it does encompass most of the important parts of the book . Obviously this film is always going to come under criticism for not being as great as Silence of the Lambs and it does have nothing on the book , but overall Red Dragon is a decent enough thriller in it's own right and I cant say I dislike it .
Nightmarish Video Nasty	Nightmare Maker achieved cult status through it's inclusion on the DPP ' Video Nasty ' list , which has also lead to it becoming a ' lost ' film . It's somewhat unfortunate that William Asher's film was included on the infamous list , as aside from a couple of gory scenes ; there really isn't anything in this film that warrants it's banning . Nightmare Maker focuses on themes of insanity and incest , and the way that the director portrays these themes is bold and uncompromising ? although I find it hard to believe that this film was banned for it's themes by the same set of censors who made such decisions as banning ' The Driller Killer ' merely for it's artwork . The plot focuses on Billy Lynch ; a young man living with his aunt after his parents were killed in an unfortunate car accident . However , his relationship with his aunt isn't how she would like it ; as the aunt has designs of a sexual nature on the boy , and does her best to ruin all of his plans ; including his relationship with his girlfriend , and his hopes of winning a scholarship . All in all , making his life a nightmare . . . The film features performances from a few well known actors , including Bo Svenson as a bigoted sheriff and Susan Tyrrell as the maniacal aunt . The film also features a small early role for Bill Paxton ; who , as he would in the rest of his career , doesn't appear in the film for long enough . The acting performances overall aren't bad considering the type of film ; but it would be unwise to go into it expecting anything brilliant . Susan Tyrrell does get to enjoy herself as the central matriarchal figure , however , and seeing her descend into insanity is a lot of fun . The style of the film is very eighties indeed , and through gritty cinematography ; director William Asher ensures that the film feels every bit like the ' Video Nasty ' that it would become shortly after it's release . The scenes of gore are short and don't show much blood ; although scenes involving a machete , as well as the pivotal scene that sees Billy's parents killed in a car crash are rather bloody and deserve mention . The plot never really gets going properly , which is a shame ; although the final fifteen minutes are very good indeed and manage to bring closure to all the plot threads . Overall , this certainly isn't the best film on the Video Nasty list ; but it's a good one , and well worth tracking down !
A hit for Abel Ferrara	It has been said of Abel Ferrara that you will either be turned on by his artistic vision , or be left cold by it . I'm split down the middle when it come to his films , I've liked half the ones I've seen but disliked the other half ; this one fits firmly in the ' like ' side of the equation . The Driller Killer is another entry into the ' shock ' cinema repertoire , which is topped by such classics as The Last House on the Left and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . The Driller Killer hasn't gained itself as much fame or notoriety as those two , but don't let that fool you ; it is still a very good movie . The story follows an artist , who , through the pressures of his work and various things going on around him , is slowly driven insane . His insanity is brought about by lack of money and a punk rock band that has moved in upstairs . We are able to see the frustrations of our ' hero ' increase throughout the movie , especially when the plot thickens and several other things in his life go awry . Because of this , we can see that there is a reason for the brutality that is later shown in the film , and therefore this movie can take credit for having a story behind it's violence , and not just having brutality for the sake of it . The Driller Killer was originally banned as a " video nasty " because of the notoriety it gained for it's cover art , as opposed to it's content . This can be seen clearly by the fact that The Driller Killer isn't actually that gory . Of course , as the title suggests ; this film features a drill being inserted into various places on the human anatomy ; but unlike a lot of other movies of this ilk , the horror doesn't come as a result of the huge amounts of gore spurting from the wounds , but rather from the noise that the drill makes while being used , and the insanity of the main character . However , gorehounds will still find lots to like about this movie and the people without a strong stomach are probably best staying clear . Overall , the Driller Killer is a creative and inventive insight into insanity . It's not a masterpiece like some movies that deal with a similar theme , such as Taxi Driver , but it a very good movie and recommended to fans of shock cinema .
No relation to The Changeling , but still an interesting cult film !	It's a shame that this film has been lumbered with the title ' The Changeling 2 ' ( those Italians ! ) , as it's actually not bad at all and far better than the cash-in title suggests . The film is nothing like Peter Medak's 1980 horror , and actually owes more to the popular Italian Giallo imports , as well as the American film noir movement . The film that this one takes most of its influence from is undoubtedly the 1946 masterpiece The Postman Always Rings Twice ( which coincidently ( or not ) was remade six years before this film ) , and this is shown by the central plot and characters ; all of which are clearly reminiscent of the earlier film . However , this is an Italian movie - so you can count on a few over the top surprises ! The plot focuses on a man and a woman who decide to murder the woman's husband . This isn't the sort of behaviour that goes unnoticed by the law , and the man becomes paranoid about what the couple have done . Eight years on , a mysterious drifter arrives at their bed and breakfast and he seems to know a lot about the crime the couple committed years earlier . . . This film was made for Italian TV , and it does have a rather cheap feel to it ; but it's adequately glossed over by a distinctly Italian style , and the film features some brilliantly atmospheric music along with a quality cast of actors , most of which have worked with big names such as Lucio Fulci and Dario Argento . The film is directed by Lamberto Bava ; son of the great Mario Bava , and a director who has a varied career full of hits and misses . The Changeling 2 is actually one of Lamberto's better films and isn't too far off the quality of some of his somewhat acclaimed Giallo's such as Macabre and A Blade in the Dark . The Giallo influence can be seen throughout the film as Bava keeps the focus on the murder , and the mystery surrounding the drifter who enters the couple's lives . It has to be said that the ending is rather poor and I'd have preferred the film if Bava didn't go for the ill-advised schlock twist . But even so , this is an assured and fun little film that is a lot better than the TV roots and the cash-in title would suggest it is . Recommended to the cult fan !
Good account of an actual crime	The Honeymoon Killers is based on the real-life story of the known facts about the case of Martha Beck and Raymond Fernandez . The film is shot in a documentary style , which proves an adequate base for the film to work from ; although it also makes the proceedings feel rather cold , and I have to say that I had a difficult time warming to the film . The idea of someone killing people he finds through a lonely heart club has been used numerous times in cinema , most notably in films such as ' Sea of Love ' , and I dare say that the inspiration for such films came from this real life case . The plot focuses on Martha Beck ; an overweight nurse who meets Raymond Fernandez through a lonely hearts column . He's used to scamming the women he picks up in this manner , but the pair hit it off and it's not long before Raymond decides to bring Martha in on the scam , and she poses as his sister . However , she becomes jealous of the women that Raymond is picking up , and the deceit eventually leads to murder when she can't cope with other women invading her and her lovers ' lives . The film was originally going to be directed by Martin Scorsese , but the popular director was eventually replaced by writer Leonard Kastle . Whether or not Scorsese would have done a better job is up for debate , but Kastle does an adequate job , although the black and white photography is largely pedestrian . He does , however , succeed in building up his characters , and it's the situation is always believable because of that . The director also does well at providing the film with a fitting fifties setting , and some of the scenes are rather shocking as they include things such as a mother being murdered in front of her son . The acting is good , and Shirley Stoler in particular stands out as the central female . This was her debut performance , yet she performs like an experienced actress . Stoler does well at commanding every scene she's in , although her opposite number ; Tony Lo Bianco , still manages a stand-out performance also . Overall , The Honeymoon Killers does well at providing a good account of an actual event ; but I hesitate to call it a classic simply because I found it difficult to get into .
Not your usual Italian zombie flick !	The general consensus of Italian filmmakers seems to be that they specialise in making trashy , gory and derivative horror films in a number of set and overpopulated genres . This view is not exactly unfounded as a lot of Italian films are cheap and trashy , and often rip-offs of successful American films . However , Pupa Avati can't be pigeon holed in the same way ; despite making films in popular Italian genres such as zombies and Giallo , his films are by no means cheap and trashy and certainly not rip-offs either . Anyone going into this film expecting a zombie movie along the same lines as ' The Beyond ' will be sorely disappointed , as Avati's film prefers to take the slow and thoughtful approach . The plot focuses on a journalist named Stefano . He is bought an old typewriter by his girlfriend . He soon notices that there's something written on the ribbon and after deciphering it , he uncovers the story of Paulo Zeder ; a scientist from the 1950's who discovered that certain types of ground , which he calls " K-Zones ' , have the power to resurrect the dead . . . A lot of people have called this film " thinking mans horror " and while that could be said of it , the argument that the film is boring does carry a little bit of weight also - needless to say , this film is not what springs to mind when one thinks of an Italian zombie film ! The film is very slow and the plot is very strung out over the ninety seven minute running time . There are moments in the film that are boring , and this is problem ; but Pupa Avati , as he proved with his earlier film The House With the Windows that Laugh , certainly has a penchant for slow burn horror and the overall film does manage to remain interesting for the duration . There are some good ideas on display , although I'm not sure if this really should be called a " zombie movie " as it's more along the lines of a mystery thriller . There are a few good moments of horror , though the zombies aren't flesh eating . The best idea of the whole film doesn't come until almost at the end - and by then it's a bit late as there isn't time to explore it , which is a shame . Anyway , Zeder is an interesting horror flick and while it won't appeal to all tastes , I can still recommend it .
Interesting , but not as sexy as Amuck	My main reason for seeing this film was due to the fact that's directed by Silvio Amandio , the same man who directed the Giallo masterpiece ' Amuck ' , as well as the very nice ' Smile Before Death ' . This film is often mistaken for a Giallo , but I knew it wasn't before I began watching it , so no disappointment there . All I really wanted from this film was an erotic extravaganza similar to the other two Amandio films that I'd seen , and when I looked at the plot description ; it seemed as though I was going to get one . The plot focuses on a relationship between a daughter and her father's wife to be . This relationship is ripe for heinous sexual activity , and when you throw the daughter's ' not too clever , but sexually efficient ' boyfriend into the mix ; you know there's going to be a lot of nude scenes . Silvio Amandio obviously enjoys filming lesbian scenes , and may even be a bit of a pervert as all three films that I've seen from him have an astute lesbian angle . . . and that's certainly no bad thing . Anyway , the main plot focuses on the idea of the daughter trying to rid herself of her future step mother . I've got to say that I absolutely loved the style of the film . It feels very seventies , and the central location ; a beach setting looks gorgeous with its golden sand and crystal clear waters . It also provides the film with a distinct fantasy style , which might have gone well with the sex themes if they were more well done . The lead women are both your typically sexy Italians , but their scenes together aren't very tender and feel a little too rehearsed ; strange coming from a man who shot possibly the best lesbian scene ever filmed in Amuck . Gloria Guida spends a lot of the film with little or no clothes on , which is nice as she has a great body ; while Italian horror star Dagmar Lassander provides the film with a suitably sexy older woman performance . The plot isn't very deep , and it's clearly more of a premise for Amandio to shoot sex scenes from . This isn't a big problem ; however , as the film is mostly interesting all the way through and while there's no violence or gore , the central character does impose a rather vicious screen presence . It's easy to feel sorry for Dagmar Lassander's character by the end , although the ending itself left me rather cold . Overall , I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to find this film ; but it's certainly not bad .
Hell hath no fury . . . like a woman with a big gun	Ms . 45 is cult maestro Abel Ferrara's take on the rape and revenge flick , a sub genre that was kicked off by Wes Craven's masterpiece shocker ' The Last House on the Left ' . However , the director has put a different slant on the theme ; as this time , instead of being wholly misogynistic , Ms . 45 features a feminist slant . Of course , this had already been done a few years earlier by Meir Zarchi with the notorious ' I Spit on Your Grave ' , but Ferrara's film retains a sense of originality through it's urban slant and the cool , calm and collected way that the victimised anti-heroine dispatches sex-obsessed men with her overworked . 45 pistol . The aptly named ' Ms . 45 ' begins her murder spree after being raped twice in one afternoon . The young lady is a mute and , not content to try and get the justice the legal . . . but slow way , she decides instead to change her fashion sense to ' seductive ' , and take her gun out on to the street . . . where any man unfortunate enough to get in her way doesn't have a very long life expectancy . This all comes to a head when her nightlife interferes with her job in the fashion industry . Abel Ferrara's filmography is more than a little bit hit and miss . Personally , I rather enjoyed The Driller Killer , although it certainly had problems ; and Ferrara's only other real successes for me were the Christopher Walken vehicle ' King of New York ' , and Harvey Kietel's ' Bad Lieutenant ' . . . with the likes of The Funeral , The Addiction and Cat Chaser being very dull films indeed . Ms . 45 was a relatively early film for the director , and it's also one of his best . The film is very short , but this is actually a good thing ; as Ferrara doesn't attempt to pad out his plot with needless details , and the result is a very streamlined film that gets its point across without wasting any time . The violence follows this same idea too , as while Ferrara's murders aren't particularly striking or stylish , they're gritty and realistic enough to be shocking despite an overall lack of blood and gore . On the whole , I wouldn't say that this is a brilliant film ; but it's very cult , and fans of this sort of thriller will definitely get a big kick out of it .
Life after death for the Marquis de Sade . . . . or at least for his skull	The Skull won't exactly knock you out of your seat with its brilliance , but despite that fact , it is still an enjoyable slice of British horror , with a number of things to recommend it for . Amicus may be better known for their omnibus films , and indeed this story does feel a little stretched over its 85 minute running time , but in spite of that ; The Skull is undoubtedly one of the studio's better feature length efforts . The fact that Amicus have managed to get both Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee on board ensures interest from the beginning , and the plot isn't a let down . The Marquis de Sade isn't the most common horror figure , but nevertheless ; this film focuses on his disembodied skull . Christopher Maitland is a collector of rare and occult items , and when his supplier ; the dodgy Anthony Marco brings a skull to him one day ; he is interested because it once belonged to the Marquis de Sade . When his friend , Sir Matthew Phillips , explains that the skull is dangerous , Maitland only becomes more intrigued . But he finds to his peril that skull is dangerous , as it leads its owner to kill . . . Freddie Francis directed a number of films for both the big British studios , Hammer and Amicus , and it's not hard to see why he often gets hired as the quality of his direction is not too far behind heavyweights Terence Fisher and Roy Ward Baker . He's got a good creative partner in novelist Robert Bloch , who wrote the story ' The Skull of the Marquis de Sade ' , upon which this film is based - as well as the far better known novel ' Psycho ' . This film doesn't feature a career best performance from either horror heavyweight , but Peter Cushing fits his role as the occult collector brilliantly , while Christopher Lee delivers his usual forceful , scene-stealing , method of acting . Patrick Wymark is also worth a mention , as he is given the most intriguing role in the piece as the slightly sleazy dealer . It has to be said that the first two thirds of the film are more interesting than the third one , which is a shame as the film seems to run out of steam before the end . However , The Skull is still an interesting little film , and I'm sure that fans of classic horror will find lots to like about it .
Hilarious hardcore	Wicked Schoolgirls is from the same production company that brought us the hardcore ' classic ' The Taming of Rebecca . I wasn't really expecting much out of it ; but to my surprise , this film is at least on par with the aforementioned title ; although largely for different reasons . The plot focuses on some school ' kids ' who are all sleeping around . One of the girls sleeps with a teacher and unfortunately for her ; someone photographs it and starts blackmailing her ! However , she decides to get her brother Jock to sort things out for her . The film is touted to be hardcore porn ; and there certainly is some hardcore porn to be found in it , but it's not nearly as dirty and sleazy as some other genre efforts . That's not really a bad thing , however , as while it might not please all fans of this sort of stuff ; the film does have enough to fall back on . Wicked Schoolgirls is an immensely cheap production and this is obvious at all times ; be it through the bad picture quality , awful acting and / or the tacky script , and this is really what makes the film so fun to watch . It pretty much becomes an unintentional comedy after so long and while it's not really a turn on - it is rather funny . I'd actually recommend this more to bad movie fans than hardcore porn admirers ; but I would imagine that both groups of film fans will find something to like here .
Formulaic , but fun enough and worthwhile viewing	Unlawful Entry is by no means a great film ; not even by genre standards , but it still stands out as a more than adequate example of the genre , and aptly portrays the basic thriller tradition . Next to thrillers from the same period ; films like Basic Instinct , Unlawful Entry may seem a little tame , but as it puts the focus on its trio of central characters , the film becomes more interesting than it would have if experienced director Jonathan Kaplan had tried for more action and sex scenes . The film portrays the frightening idea of someone ' above the law ' abusing their power for their own means , and does this through police officer Pete Davis . The action centres on married couple Michael and Karen Carr , who call the police one night after a thief breaks in and holds the wife to knife point . However , it turns out that they've actually made things worse for themselves as the officer sent to the house takes a liking to Karen , and thus makes it his business to infiltrate their relationship and try to take Michael's wife for himself . . . It has to be said that the film doesn't offer much in the way of surprises , as the plot is purely formulaic and can be likened to any number of similar films , but somehow the familiarity of the plot gives it something of a relaxed feel , and while experienced movie watchers will feel that they've seen it all before , the film is carried off with enough panache to see it through . Unlawful Entry relies a lot on its actors , and the three at the centre of the story manage to deliver worthwhile performances . Kurt Russell gets toned down in his role as the unlucky husband , while Madeleine Stowe doesn't get to do any heavyweight acting , but at least looks nice . The pair doesn't really have any chemistry together , which is a shame and brings the piece down - but this is offset by a conniving Ray Liotta , who manages to get under the skin despite looking a bit like David Hasselhoff . The film is always interested , but never really intriguing ; although the plot does work well and the ending is fitting in context . Overall , this is not great or a must see film ; but its decent enough and I don't regret watching it .
Hilarious trash flick !	When it comes to stupid trash films , Troma have no equal ; and while the vast majority of their output is absolute rubbish , now and again you'll find a few gems in the rough ; and unlikely as it may seem , Class of Nuke ' Em High is one such gem . The film presents a post-apocalyptic style similar to that seen in films such as The Warriors and Escape From New York , and blends it with the idea of a school being run by several students ; which is reminiscent of the hit thriller Class of 1984 . This is all then mixed in with stoner culture ; as its toxic weed that causes all the problems , and you have a recipe for a successful trash flick . The film opens with a ' routine nuclear evacuation drill ' at Tromaville High ; a school situated next to a nuclear power plant . One kid goes mental , and it's not long before we see that a local gang are buying weed from a nuclear plant worker and selling it to the kids at school . The weed grows faster than normal ; and there's a reason for that , as toxic waste has contaminated it and pretty soon the kids of Tromaville High start acting rather strangely . . . If this film was made by any other production company ; I'd probably say it has a point to make about the advent of nuclear power , but since this is Troma it's clear that they've simply lifted a common fear and turned it into a schlock film . There's absolutely no point to it ; but seeing all the general carnage is a lot of fun , and director Richard W . Haines isn't afraid to go completely over the top , despite the obvious limitations of his special effects budget . The film plays out something like a zombie movie ; although there are influences from other sources , and not all the afflicted characters turn into mindless beings . The gang at the centre of the film is an interesting troupe , and their style fits the jokey tone of the film very well . It's good to see a film like this that has a sense of humour , and absolutely nothing in the film is to be taken seriously ; shown best by the fact that the central location is ' Tromaville ' , and is the ' toxic chemical capital of the world ' ! The special effects towards the end get a little silly , but it's all in good fun ; and while this movie won't be to everyone's tastes , if you enjoy schlock horror - you'll love this !
Completely bizarre cult oddity !	If it's a completely bizarre horror flick you're after , then you can go wrong with Confessions of an Opium Eater as there is NOTHING typical about this flick , and overall it is just as much an oddity as its title suggests it is ! I actually saw this film under the alternative title ' Souls for Sale ' , but ' Confessions of an Opium Eater ' does the film far more justice . My main reason for seeing the film was because it's a Vincent Price film that I'd never come across before , and anyone seeing Confessions of an Opium Eater for the same reason won't be disappointed as this is Vincent Price as you've never seen him ! Indeed , not even the usually distinctive master of the macabre can deliver the usual in this film . The plot is often confusing and doesn't always flow well , but the themes of opium induced hallucinations , Chinese human auctions and odd little midgets are usually enough to see it through and ensure that it's hard to care about the shortcomings with the plot . The dialogue is surprisingly lyrical , and it's a huge benefit to the film that Vincent Price is on hand to deliver it . Price's voice always bodes well with dialogue like this , and that doesn't change here . Confessions of an Opium Eater was filmed in black and white , and while the cinematography looks rather cheap ; it does fit the feel of the film . Vincent Price takes centre stage at almost all times , and while there are some memorable characters among the supporting cast - it is always clear that this is Price's film . The film is directed by Albert Zugsmith ; and the fact that he is better known for his producing credits is hardly surprising as his direction isn't exactly inspiring . . . but then again , you can't expect brilliance in a B-movie picture like this one . There are a number of standout moments in the film , however , and chief among them is Price's hallucination sequence ; which somehow manages to blend well with the rest of the picture . Overall , Confessions of an Opium Eater is a film that is well worth tracking down despite not being one of price's out and out best efforts , and I highly recommend it .
Well done and interesting crime thriller	Under Suspicion apparently flew completely under the radar upon release in 1991 , and that's really not all that surprising . The film is actually a very well done little crime thriller ; but it features a very simple plot line and plays out almost like a classic film noir ( as opposed to a ' cool ' crime thriller in the vein of Goodfellas or Reservoir Dogs ) , and as a result the film doesn't stand out much . It actually seems like it could have been made for television as most of the cast ( Liam Neeson aside ) will be recognisable to anyone that has seen a handful of British TV shows and it's very modest all the way through . The film takes place in the fifties and we focus on private detective / disgraced former policeman Tony Aaron . Aaron makes a living through the illegal practise of faking affairs in order to beat the strict divorce laws . He begins using his wife for these capers ; but is given a shock when his wife and a client are found dead in their room . An investigation into the killings ensues , with our detective as the prime suspect . The plot is definitely this film's main strongpoint , and it is carried off well . Director Simon Moore does a good job of getting his audience interested in the characters , which allows him to weave the simple , but twisted tale . Liam Neeson won some award for his portrayal of the central character , and it is a really good performance . This sort of role can often be difficult for actors to play because the character is essentially scum , but we do feel for him ; and this is thanks to the charismatic and warm performance . The ensemble cast is rather impressive and , as mentioned , many British viewers will recognise a lot of faces . The mystery is constantly intriguing and we are made to wonder who has committed the crimes . It does have to be said that the final third of the movie not as interesting as the first two ; but all in all , this is a well worked and interesting little thriller that is rounded off by a strong ending . I wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to see this film ; but it's certainly worth a look if you do find a copy .
Surprisingly good 80's tat	I know little or nothing about astronomy , but nevertheless ; I was , at first , a little sceptical about the plot of this movie . It follows three children that were all born during a solar eclipse and so have no emotion , and thus ( naturally ) become ruthless serial killers . The plot does sound ridiculous at first , but once you realise that a solar eclipse blocks out Saturn and , as you know , Saturn is the emotion planet , it all falls into place ; makes complete sense and it's then that you know you aren't simply watching another silly 80's slasher with a pea brain plot . Thank god for that ! Seriously , though , Bloody Birthday is based on a ridiculous premise , but it more than makes up for that with it's originality . Having a bunch of kids going round slaughtering people may not be the most ingenious masterstroke ever seen in cinema , but when given the choice between this and another dull Friday the 13th clone - I know what I'd choose . Also helping the film out of the hole that some people would think it's silly plot dug it into is the fact that it's extremely entertaining . Many slashers become formulaic far too quickly and the audience ends up watching simply to see some gore . This film , however , keeps itself going with some great creepy performances from the kids ( which harks back to creepy kid classics such as Village of the Damned ) , a constant stream of sick humour and a small , but impressive for the type of film , dose of suspense and tension . One thing that I liked a lot about this movie was the vast array of weaponry . There's nothing worse than a slasher where the killer uses the same weapon over and over again ( cough Halloween cough ) , but that's not the case here as Bloody Birthday finds room for everything from skipping ropes to bow and arrows . There wasn't any room for a chainsaw , which is a huge shame , but I suppose not every film can have a chainsaw in it .
Very decent remake	The train got replaced by a boat , London with the American Deep south , Alec Guinness with Tom Hanks , The parrot by a cat , the bank with a Casino and the kind , feeble old lady with a more astute black woman ; which somewhat misses the point of the original . In the original film , the majority of the comedy element came from the way that the old woman had no idea what was going on in her home ; because of her being old and naive , we were able to believe that she wasn't suspicious and had no idea . However , in the remake it's not so believable that this woman would not know what's going on ; some attempt is made to establish her as a kindly old lady that knows no bad from her distaste for " hippety Hop " music and the fact that she goes to church , but she doesn't capture the feeble and naiveness of her predecessor , which in my opinion harms the comedy element of which the original did so well . That aside , this movie does have a great deal of good things going for it ; most notably a very hammy , eccentric and hilarious performance from Tom Hanks . Alec Guinness is one of the finest actors of all time , and following in his footsteps is no easy feat ; but Tom Hanks really proves himself as an actor here by following Guinness remarkably well . From the moment he is introduced , in a very similar if less sinister sequence to that shown in the original masterpiece , we can see that Hanks has got the atmosphere of his character just right . The only slight annoyance of his character is the little laugh he does now and again between lines . . . it would have served the movie better if that was left out in my opinion , but it isn't even nearly enough to scotch my all time favourite Tom Hanks performance . Unlike the original , and one thing that I think the remake does better is that the gang of small-time , hapless , crooks is fleshed out a little . In the original , the characters turned up the house , without anything made clear about their characters , whereas this time each one is given a little introduction ; which aside from being hilarious , also gives the audience a feel for each one of them , which really helps the movie . The gang features two really notable standout performances from J . K . Simmons ( the unsung star of Spider-Man ) and Marlon Wayans , who does a surprisingly good job as Gawain MacSam ( you've got to love the character names ! ) . These two add a third dimension of comedy to an already wonderful comedy thriller . The original was a very dark comedy , and so is this film , although this one is certainly a lot lighter . It doesn't take advantage of the absurdness that the original had ( the lop-sided house ) , and it doesn't get dark till very late on either ; and that is something which could have been better . However , cinema audiences have come to expect a lot from Coen brothers films , and this one , despite being a remake , does not disappoint . As an Englishman , and a fan of the original ; I say the Coens almost did it justice .
Odd but entertaining Italian crime flick	Go Gorilla Go is probably most notable for its strange title , and this carries over into the film ; as while it takes obvious inspiration from some big genre classics ; the film features some strange plotting and a storyline that is a bit unusual on genre terms . Director Tonino Valerii previously directed the excellent but complicated Giallo My Dear Killer and clearly has a talent for delivering convoluted story lines as Go Gorilla Go features one too ! The film focuses on Marco ; an undercover police officer who is also working as a body guard for a shady underworld figure . He's also got a brother who is not exactly squeaky clean and has contacts with a few other ' Gorillas ' who are in the same line as he is . It's not long before our hero gets involved in a kidnap plot along with his brother and his underworld boss and this plot is ran parallel with a load of others and the whole thing gets rather complicated . Luckily , however , it's all spun together with a whole load of action scenes ; many of which are really well done . We've got the usual compliment of car chases and fist fights , but the main standout is a sequence that sees the lead character trapped in an elevator with the bottom taken out . The final car chase , which involves a train a la The French Connection , is also very well executed . The lead role is taken by Fabio Testi and the actor looks the part and plays it well . The rest of the cast is filled out mostly by lesser known Italian actors , but they get on well as an ensemble and bad dubbing aside , the film is above average in the acting department . The way that the story flows does get a bit too confusing at times as we constantly switch from one thing to another , but at least the proceedings are kept entertaining for most of the duration , before exploding in the final third . This film is not very well known and as such has become rather hard to come by . In the grand spectrum of Italian police films ; this one is not one of the more important ones or one of the best , but for anyone that considers themselves a fan of this genre ; Go Gorilla Go is certainly worth a look and comes recommended .
Impressively downbeat seventies thriller	Sunday in the Country is another one of those downbeat seventies thrillers , although it doesn't seem to take influence from the likes of The Last House on the Left despite its sadistic nature and torture-themed plot . The film takes in ideas of justice and whether or not a normal man can be justified in taking the law into his own hands as we follow three bank robbers who wind up at a country home where a man has plans not to let the police deal with them and instead decides to lock them in his basement and deal out justice himself , much to the dismay of his granddaughter who doesn't take kindly to his sadistic intent . The film builds tension by way of constantly putting the idea of whether or not the man will kill the robbers himself . This might not sound too interesting , but director John Trent does a good job of ensuring that the vigilante themes work well . Ernest Borgnine doesn't exactly show off his full talent in the lead role , but still brings credence and believability to a man who wants justice on his own terms . The rest of the cast aren't too good , but nobody performs below the standard of a B-movie picture like this . The country atmosphere is well shown , and even though the locations aren't stunning , they bode well with the feel of the movie . Overall , I can't say that this is a great film ; but it's certainly a good one and comes recommended to fans of seventies cult cinema .
Surprisingly good ! Miles better than Blood Rites . . .	I saw this film as it was the second feature on a disc containing the previously banned Video Nasty ' Blood Rites ' . As Blood Rites was entirely awful , I really wasn't expecting much from this film ; but actually , it would seem that trash director Andy Milligan has outdone himself this time as Seeds of Sin tops Blood Rites in style and stands tall as a more than adequate slice of sick sixties sexploitation . The plot is actually quite similar to Blood Rites , as we focus on a dysfunctional family unit , and of course ; there is an inheritance at stake . The film is shot in black and white , and the look and feel of it reminded me a lot of the trash classic ' The Curious Dr Humpp ' . There's barely any gore on display , and the director seems keener to focus on sex , with themes of incest and hatred seeping through . The acting is typically trashy , but most of the women get to appear nude at some point and despite a poor reputation , director Andy Milligan actually seems to have an eye for this sort of thing , as many of the sequences in this film are actually quite beautiful . The plot is paper thin , and most of the film is filler ; but the music is catchy , and the director also does a surprisingly good job with the sex scenes themselves , as most are somewhat erotic . Overall , this is not a great film ; but it's likely to appeal to the cult fan , and gets a much higher recommendation than the better known and lower quality ' Blood Rites ' .
New technology and old styles combine to great effect !	Every now and then , a film comes along that changes the cinematic landscape and has influence on all films of it's kind made after it . Stars Wars did this for the Sci-Fi / fantasy genre in 1977 , and now we find ourselves here in 2004 with the latest result of a technological advance ; Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow . To be honest , this isn't the landscape changing film that it's technology could have made it be . It's definitely innovative , but I'll be very surprised if this way of filming catches on in a big way . That being said , Sky Captain is definitely a treat to behold , and although I doubt it's credibility as a landmark in film history , it's a nice glimpse into the future and is concrete evidence that CGI can be very effective if done correctly . The film is new in the way that it's made , but it harks back to the old days in the way that the story pans out . The film is set up like a classic 30's B-movie ; complete with the styles of filming that were the staple then . The story is outrageous , but lots of fun and it follows a plane commander ( Jude Law ) and a journalist ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) who must thwart an evil plot to incinerate the planet . Jude Law is perhaps too pretty to play the sky captain . Don't get me wrong , he does well with the role but I continually got the impression that someone a little more rugged would have done it more justice . Seeing a primped and posh young man battling his way through robots and various monsters doesn't quite cut it in my humble opinion . All the cast has fun in this movie , and their verve helps to carry the film along and maintain it's fun aspect . Gwyneth Paltrow does well alongside Jude Law as the journalist / old flame , but the show stealing performance comes from Angelina Jolie in a very hammy , if far too short , role as one of sky captain's fellow flyers . It's always nice to see Giovanni Ribisi in a film , and he gets a role here too . He's a very underrated actor , and it's a shame he doesn't get more recognition . Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow starts off big and bold , and then continues to get bigger and bolder as the adventure continues . As our hero's get nearer to the bottom of the mystery , the whole background changes and it makes for a very fun ride . It doesn't get any more outrageous than casting a dead actor in your film , though , and there's a nice short appearance for Sir Lawrence Olivier . On the whole , this is an excellent way to spend 90 minutes of your life . It's not the greatest adventure film ever made ; but fans of classic B-movies will enjoy themselves and the use of new technology is a treat to behold .
New Bond in a good action flick	I can't say I'm a fan of James Bond films - I've seen them all ( except the original spoof ' Casino Royale ' ) , and Goldfinger is the only film that I rate highly ; but I was interested in seeing this one for the fact that there's a new Bond , and he's so different from all those who have gone before . Director Martin Campbell is no stranger to making Bond films with a new lead as he was the man that helmed the well-received Pierce Brosnan debut Goldeneye back in 1995 . This one , however , is wildly different from the rest for reasons other than just the new Bond - as we have an unfortunate lack of gadgets , as well as an overall darker and more serious tone . The plot line isn't the most megalomaniacal of the series , and simply focuses on Le Chiffre ; a terrorist accountant with a talent for playing poker . He decides to set up a high stakes poker game in Montenegro after his other plan was thwarted by MI6's newest agent , James Bond . Coincidentally , Bond happens to be the best poker player in the organisation and so the government funds his ten million dollar entrance fee . . . but he has to win , otherwise Britain will be directly funding terrorism ! Being a talented poker player myself , I was a little worried that the film may focus on the turgid ' stud ' form of poker ; but fortunately , it's the more exciting Texas Hold'Em that takes centre stage . The film doesn't focus too much on poker , but what we do get is completely overblown ; along with the rest of the film . Of course , I'd be complaining more if it wasn't ; and Martin Campbell provides a good mix of big stunts and smaller one on one fights . The real star of the show is , of course , the new Bond ; and Daniel Craig does a really good job in the central role . The James Bond series really needed some new life injected into it , and Craig adequately provides that . He is joined by the stunningly sexy Eva Green who takes the ' Bond Girl ' role , while Mads Mikkelsen is a distinctive baddie and the film is rounded off by Judy Dench and Italian actor Giancarlo Giannini , who starred in the classic Giallo ' Black Belly of the Tarantula ' with no less than three Bond girls ! Overall , Casino Royale is certainly an enjoyable slice of celluloid , but despite its overblown emotional scenes - that's all it is . But even so , it would be difficult to get bored during this film , and it gets a thumbs up for that reason .
Not entirely successful , but Edwige delivers a great performance !	Secrets of a Call Girl is a rather odd Italian crime film as instead of focusing on the usual areas - shootings , car chases , fist fights etc , we focus on the hard done to girlfriend of a mobster ; Anna , played by Edwige Fenech . The film is , therefore , is something like a cross between a crime drama and a romantic drama and in my opinion , it doesn't quite gel together - but that's not to say that this isn't a good film . The title implies that this will be a ' confessional ' drama and implies that the central character is a prostitute , though that is somewhat misleading . As mentioned , the plot focuses on Anna ; a young girl who works in a café . She goes from rags to riches when she catches the eye of Guido ; an Italian mobster who takes her out of the café and into the gangster life . She soon realises that all that glitters is not gold when she witnesses a mob hit and the boss wants her silenced . Guido then decides to push her into prostitution , but when he is caught by the law ; she decides to escape him and makes a new life with her son and a doctor . Edwige Fenech takes the lead role and does brilliantly with it . Her role here requires her to a little more than just take her clothes off , and she rises to the occasion well . It's easy to forget that she can act considering her roles in many of her films , so Secrets of a Call Girl serves as a nice reminder ! The film also features performances from Corrado Pani , Richard Conte and John Richardson , who all do a good job in supporting roles . Giuliano Carnimeo takes the directors chair and does a good of directing Fenech for the second time , after The Case of the Bloody Iris . It has to be said that this film is more than a little slow at times , especially compared to other similar genre films owing to the fact that the focus is more on Fenech's character rather than the mob activities . However , this is not always a bad thing . I can't say that I'm a big fan of Romance films , but Fenech does enough to light up the screen every time she's on it and the film never becomes boring . It all boils down to a powerful ending that actually does have an impact . Overall , I'm not crazy about this film ; but it's a good entry into Fenech's resume and it gets my recommendation .
Religion gets a comic book makeover !	Religion based horror movies have long been one of cinema's staples , and while that sub-genre is massively overpopulated ; The Prophecy represents a more than decent entry in the cycle . The film reunites Pulp Fiction cast members Christopher Walken , Amanda Plummer and Eric Stoltz , and that's quite apt as this film is like a pulp fiction bible story . I dread to think what god fearing folk make of this movie , as we have popular bible figures such as Gabriel and Lucifer spitting out crass one liners and getting involved in punch-ups . Things like this make the film hard to take seriously , but it's also deliriously entertaining and the plot offers more than enough thought-provoking elements to keep the film ticking over nicely . The story follows a war in heaven , which was kicked off by the way that God decided to give souls to humans and not angels . The soul of an evil war general is the Holy Grail , and the Angel Gabriel has come to Earth in order to claim it . However , fellow angel Simon has had other ideas and has taken it upon himself to hide the soul from Gabriel . The cast is the film's main strongpoint . I'm not a big fan of films like this , but I had to see this one simply because it has Christopher Walken playing Gabriel . Walken plays the character a lot like he would a mob boss and it really works rather well as he ensures that every moment he is on screen is a treat , and of course , his screen presence is immense . The talented Virginia Madsen takes a lead role and finds herself paired up with the weak link of the cast , Elias Koteas who is flat and hard to like in his starring role . A pre-fame Viggo Mortensen delivers a memorable performance in the coveted role of the Devil and the central cast is rounded off by the charismatic Eric Stoltz . The story moves well , and it's real strongpoint is the way that it gives you enough to think about during the less exciting scenes by way of it's many plot points . The situation is brought to the screen well , and Gregory Widen's screenplay is good enough to ensure that every character is given enough screen time for us to get to know who they are . The special effects are fine and the film is well directed by Widen in his only feature film director's role . This film is , perhaps , not for everyone ; but its good enough entertainment and I enjoyed it .
Not really a Giallo , but still a decent exploitation flick	The Killers Are Our Guests is one of the harder to come by Giallo's , and that isn't surprising as the film doesn't really adhere to the common Giallo plot and themes . The basic plot is more along the lines of an exploitation film , as it features at the centre , people being held captive by criminals in their own home . In fact , I would really hesitate to call this film a Giallo at all ; there is not really anything about the film ( aside from the title and the fact that it's Italian and was made in the mid seventies ) to identify it as a bona fide Giallo . As mentioned , the plot focuses on a couple being trapped inside their own house by a criminal gang . The gang have robbed a bank , but one of them got himself shot , so they decide to hole up at the house of Dr . Guido Malerva so the injured member can get medical attention . However , not everything goes to plan once the gang get to the doctor's house , as things start to fall apart when another gang member , named Eddie , turns up at the doctor's house . As you've probably guessed , this film doesn't do much for me as a Giallo , but as an exploitation film it's not bad . The interaction between the various lead characters is the film's backbone , and it's fairly interesting - if a little slow . The centrepiece of the action is a lesbian scene , which was by far and away the best moment of the film for me . I think the reason why this scene is in the film is down to the fact that this sort of thing was popular in seventies Italian films ( and that's a lot of the reason why seventies Italian films are popular with me ! ) , but even so it works quite well in the context of the movie . The acting is decent enough , with Italian actor Antonio De Teffè leading an experienced line up that includes Margaret Lee ( Slaughter Hotel ) , Luigi Pistilli ( Bay of Blood ) and Gianni Dei ( Giallo a Venezia ) . Overall , I wont say this obscure film is one of the best films to come out of Italy in the seventies ( actually nowhere near ) , but it's a decent ride and one that I'm sure will be appreciated by anyone inclined to track it down .
Nine very silly people and one sadistic killer !	The Killer Reserved Nine Seats apparently takes influence from Agatha Christie's classic novel ' Ten Little Indians ' . Unfortunately I've not got round to reading Christie's story yet , although I'm guessing that in her writing , all the women weren't so keen on taking their clothes off , the murders weren't so grisly and there wasn't such an emphasis on sleaze ! While The Killer Reserved Nine Seats can't be described as the nastiest Giallo to come out of Italy , it certainly has its moments and one scene in particular is likely to please any fan of this sort of film ! The plot focuses on an old theatre where an entire family were killed for reasons unknown . The rich aristocratic owner invites nine people there , but it's not long before they start being picked off by an incognito assailant in a sinister mask . Naturally , every one of the guests has a motive ; and since the doors are locked , it's obvious that the murderer is one of the guests . And not only that , but just when you thought things couldn't get any more complicated , it turns out the theatre is under the power of some ancient family curse ! I would like to state clearly that this film is heavily flawed . . . but I'm such a big fan of this stuff that things such as the poor narrative , questionable character actions and the needless and silly supernatural sub-plot really didn't bother me too much . The film certainly has a lot of plus points , and the claustrophobic setting is one of them , as director Giuseppe Bennati does well at ensuring the atmosphere is always sinister and unsettling . There's plenty of action between the central characters , and a particularly pleasing element is the fact that the women aren't too shy when it comes to getting undressed , and getting off with the other female characters ! As you might expect since the title promises a possible nine murders , the film isn't short of people being killed . Many of the murder scenes are underdone and not memorable , but one will stand out as an unlucky lady is slashed , stabbed in the nether regions and eventually has her hands nailed to the wall ! It all boils down to a daft conclusion , but it sort of works as the sickness increases and the motive for murder is a lot better worked than the motives in some similar films . Overall , this is hardly the greatest Giallo you're ever likely to see ; but if Gothic atmosphere , lesbians and grisly murders are what you like ; there's lots of fun to be had here !
Not a lot of shocks , but nevertheless a nice slice of sleaze	Like many films on the BBFC's " Video Nasty " list back in the eighties ; The Witch Who Came from the Sea baffles the viewer because there really isn't anything in the film that should have lead to its banning . Sure , there's a little bit of blood and the suggestive child abuse scenes are a bit shocking , but this film is never going to corrupt or deprave . Anyway , while the shocks are disappointing , and I can understand why this isn't a widely liked cult classic ; I've got to say that I really enjoyed it . . . and I should also mention that I'm not really sure why . The film features the age-old storyline of someone going insane and turning to murder , but it's surprisingly more relaxed in pace and content that many other similar movies . This one is also different because , rather than seeing a man butcher women ; we've got a woman exacting violence against men . Molly is a young lady corrupted by memories of her seafaring father . She turns to drink , and soon becomes a killer after spending the night with two footballers . We then follow her on her dissent into alcoholism and insanity . The film has that classic , gritty low budget look about it , which bodes well with the atmosphere presented . One of the main reasons why I liked this film is because it seems that writer Robert Thom and director Matt Cimber actually care about the plot and characters , and this is shown by the fact that a lot of the movie is spent building up the situation around the lead character . The movie remains interesting throughout because certain facts about the lead's past are fed to the audience bit by bit , and these help us to see why the character acts as she does . The lead role is taken by Millie Perkins , who actually does a really good job with it . It's easy to believe that she is the character we are seeing on screen , and her performance is above the average for this sort of film . The scenes of gore aren't all that shocking , and only the one that sees a man butchered with his razor is likely to provoke any kind of reaction from the audience . The castration sequences and the child abuse are what this film became notorious for , but I don't know why as they both are put forward in a very casual manner . Overall , however , I feel that The Witch Who Came from the Sea has been unfairly treated and should be remembered with a bit more respect .
Not bad early Woody	Woody Allen's Bananas is a comedy of hits and misses . When it's funny , it's very funny and the film features a number of real stand out moments , such as the power mad general dishing out the new laws he's made , and of course Allen's neurotic dialogue , which is always a treat . However , at a number of moments ; you get the impression that Woody Allen is trying to be funny , but he's failing miserably , which only serves in being annoying . This is Woody Allen while he was still in his rather immature phase ( everything before Annie Hall ) , and it shows by way of the rather ludicrous plot , which sees Allen losing he girl he is infatuated with , on the grounds of him not having leadership qualities . So , he goes on the holiday to San Marcos that the two of them were meant to go on , and somehow gets caught up with a group rebels there that are trying to provoke a revolution , and eventually becomes president . Hey , I told you it was silly ! In Woody's immature period , he had several hit's and misses , with Sleeper being at the foot of his filmography , and the wonderful Everything You Always Wanted to Know about Sex at the summit . This one is more hit than miss , but to call it an actual ' hit ' would be lying . Basically , Woody doesn't capitalise on the more interesting parts of the story , and instead seems all to keen to show us some slapstick humour . Although this is funny at a number of times , this film could have been a biting political satire on how America deals with other nations , or maybe even how rebels fail once they come to power . It could have even been an interesting commentary on the superficiality of love . Maybe Allen could have outdone himself and gone for all three ! Basically , this is a movie where a one could have been . Don't get me wrong , this is definitely a good film and well worth watching , particularly for the Woody Allen fan ; it's just unfortunate that it came at a time when Woody was still a clown .
Not as bad as reputed	When you consider that this movie is directed by the great Jacques Tourneur , stars the legendary Vincent Price and is based on a poem by the master of the macabre , Edgar Allen Poe ; it's a huge disappointment . Considering the quality of the talent involved , this film really should have been a lot better . However , despite the fact that it's a long way from brilliant , the film isn't bad either and fans of any combination of the three major players will no doubt find something to like about it . The film begins in familiar Poe and Price territory , with the great actor reading the beginning of the poem on which the film is based against a backdrop of the ocean hitting the sandy shores . The story follows two men that follow a group of fish-men down a back passage of an old in house in search of the girl that the monsters have kidnapped . The men follow them to a lost city that has been engulfed by the sea , and discover a world of intrigue as they learn about the society of never ageing smugglers that they have stumbled upon . It's the story telling aspect of the story that makes the film struggle . It's very uneven , and huge chunks are spent on rather boring elements such as an extremely overlong underwater chase sequence . However , when the film is good , it's very good . Vincent Price delivers a great performance as the ruler of the underwater kingdom . Price is an absolutely great actor who has to prove nothing to nobody and one reason for that is because no matter how bad the film is , Vincent Price always gives you a reason to watch . The effects are a little silly , especially when you get to see the half-fish , half-men up close , but things like that add to the charm of classic B-movies , and so it's easy to let it go . The story itself is very good , and despite the fact that it's only a poem , Poe manages to inject all the malevolence that has made him immortal in the eyes of everyone that knows anything about literature . The film also includes a tribute to the great author by way of a section which includes a first edition of his works . This film certainly isn't brilliant , but it's not bad either . I certainly recommend it to fans of Price , Poe or Tourneur .
More great gory fun !	As a big fan of the Re-Animator series , I was quite excited when I found out that a second sequel was being made . Unfortunately , however , due to poor distribution in the UK ; it has taken me over a year to find a copy . But now that I've finally seen it , I am pleased to report that Beyond Re-Animator doesn't disappoint ! It is now 13 years after the infamous massacre of the second film and Herbert West has found himself in jail . However , you can't keep a good re-animator down , and being in jail doesn't stop his experiments , especially when a new doctor ; Dr Howard Phillips arrives on the scene . Jeffrey Combs returns as the insane scientist , Dr Herbert West . Unfortunately , Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott ) from the other two films doesn't return , but Re-Animator was always Combs ' series anyway , so although it's a loss ; the show must , and most certainly does go on . Jeffrey Combs was made for the part of Herbert West ; his portrayal of the character is absolutely wonderful . He catches just the right atmosphere of a man obsessed by his work in all three films . He also manages to tie a lot of humour in , which is obviously a good thing for a tongue in cheek movie such as this . The rest of the cast acts as a support to Combs , and succeeds fairly well in that respect but none really impress much on their own . Jason Barry ( who had a small role in the rubbish movie ; Titanic ) acts as Dan Cain's replacement and Herbert West's new understudy ; Howard Phillips . He never really impresses in the movie and it would seem that his main objective in the movie is to make West look more insane , and through his subdued performance ; he does that well . Elsa Patasky looks good as the lady of the film , but her performance is terrible ; even embarrassingly bad at times . Simón Andreu is the only member of the cast other than Combs that really impresses , and he plays the prison warden ; the villain of the piece . Gorehounds won't be disappointed with this film , I can guarantee you that ! Re-Animator became infamous for it's heavy amounts of overly gory sequences , and this movie features lots of them too ; from an exploding chest to a severed torso that walks on it's hands ; this movie has it all . Many sequels , particularly horror sequels just recap the original with more gore , but the Re-Animator sequels haven't so far , all have something new . In Bride of Re-Animator ( Re-Animator 2 ) , a new idea about animated different parts of a dead corpse emerged , and in this film the new idea is adding the ' soul ' to the re-animated body . It is admirable for the series to take that route as for a film of this ilk , more gore could simply be added and it's fans would almost certainly happy , but here you get a story to chew on aswell . The last two films ended with a riot , which has become a part of the Re-Animator tradition , and this film doesn't break that great tradition . The last 30 minutes or so are absolutely insane , with many things going on all at once and that is sure to please fans of the original movies . Overall , Beyond Re-Animator is an incredible gory ride and is recommended to anyone with the stomach for this sort of movie .
Good gory fun - a nice Alien rip-off	If a movie was popular in America , it's safe to bet that there'll be a load of cheap Italian rip-offs of it , and Contamination is , of course , a Spaghetti impression of Ridley Scott's Alien . Despite being an obvious rip-off , however , Contamination has enough ideas of it's own to ensure that the film works as a standalone piece . This film was one of the 74 included by the British censors on the infamous ' Video Nasty ' list , and after the first ten minutes ; it's easy to see why . While the film is never extremely gory , there's enough blood and guts to both satisfy gore fans and annoy the censors . The film differs from Alien first and foremost because it takes place mostly in New York , rather than in space ; and actually reminded me a lot of Lucio Fulci's Zombie Flesh-Eaters in the way that it starts out in the USA and then moves elsewhere . The plot follows a team that discovers a load of singing eggs ( yes , singing eggs ) on an abandoned boat . It's not long before one of them explodes near to an unfortunate man , who promptly finds himself without his skin . This prompts an investigation into the mysterious life-form . . . The main reason why this film is so enjoyable is the sense of humour that runs throughout . There's a scene towards the start in which a police offer finds himself in quarantine which sets the film up nicely , and makes sure the audience knows that they're not going to be in for an entirely serious ride . The plot plays out well , and the way that it sets itself up for the twist mid-way through is good . The special effects aren't very imaginative , as most of the aliens take the form as the aforementioned singing eggs ; although there is a scene towards the end of the film which features a full alien , and while it doesn't give Ridley Scott's film a run for its money , it is rather nice in a kitschy sort of way . Luigi Cozzi clearly isn't the best Italian director , but he does a rather good job with Contamination , and considering The Killer Must Kill Again also ; he's a little better than he gets credit for . The only real nasty scene in the movie for me sees an experiment performed on a mouse ; but overall , I'd say this just about deserve its Video Nasty status , and fans of Italian horror shouldn't be too disappointed by this cheap little flick .
Could have been better , but still a good modern vampire flick	30 Days of Night is based on a comic book by Steve Niles and Ben Templesmith which , like every other comic book , I haven't read . It's not hard to see why they'd turn this comic into a movie , however , as the chance for a brilliant vampire flick is clearly there ; we've got a snow setting , coupled with one of nature's strangest happenings , and of course a pack of hungry vampires . Considering all these elements ; it really does have to be said that 30 Days of Night is a big let down . While certainly not a bad film ; it probably could have been a masterpiece . The plot centres on a small Alaskan town . Most people that live there are deserting ; not wanting to have to withstand the upcoming month of darkness . Those that remain soon find that the fact that alcohol is banned during this time isn't there only problem ; as the local sheriff notices a few strange crime reports , and pretty soon the town is at the mercy of a gang of bloodthirsty vampires , hell-bent on chowing down on everyone left in the town , before eradicating any trace of them being there . Only a small few stand in the vampires ' way . . . One of the main problems with modern horror movies is flashy photography . I don't know who decided that not letting the audience see what is going on properly is exciting , but whoever it was should be hunted down and butchered by a gang of bloodthirsty vampires , being sure to remove to his head to prevent him coming back and inventing some other rubbish . Credit where credit is due , however ; this film doesn't feature too much of it . Once the vampires are introduced properly , things improve greatly and the film reaches its biggest high towards the middle with an excellent massacre sequence . From there , it's somewhat reminiscent of George Romero's classic Night of the Living Dead , as we watch the survivor's hole up and band together against the impending threat . The film stars Josh Hartnett , who is not as misplaced in the lead role as I thought he might be . He's a bit too pretty to be the town sheriff really , but he gets into his role well . Danny Huston as the head vampire is the real standout here . One big problem with the film is that it takes place over thirty days , yet it feels like it could have happened in one night . It's obvious why they chose to do it like this . . . but it doesn't feel right . It boils down to a disappointing and silly ending , but most of the film is entertaining and gory enough to please most viewers . Overall , this is not as great as it could have been ; but it's an above average horror film , and I recommend seeing it .
Atmospheric almost classic	Bluebeard is probably most notable for the fact that its lead star , John Carradine , famously named his role here as his favourite across his lengthy list of film credits . It's easy to see why the man himself enjoyed playing this part so much too - Carradine's role in Bluebeard allows him to act at his most sinister , and the film really depends on him as this is very much a one-man story . Carradine has just the right look for this sort of role also , and all these elements combine nicely to ensure that Carradine's part in this film is a success . The base for the plot is one of cinema's most common and most prolific , but this film is notable for being one of the earlier films to use it . We follow a deranged madman who likes to paint girl's pictures before he strangles them to death . The man himself is famous for two completely different lives ; in one , he is the notorious serial killer ' Bluebeard ' , who prays on beautiful young women - and in the other he's Gaston Morrell , a dapper up and coming young painter . This film's major problem is certainly not with the plot , stars , or style ; it's with the plotting . Bluebeard falls down primarily because it moves at snail pace . The plot is intriguing , but the way it presents itself is the opposite , and it's a shame because , if handled with care , this film could have been really good instead of just being good . Director Edgar G . Ulmer is most famous for his directing credit on classic film ' The Black Cat ' , and is lesser known for his set design on films such as Fritz Lang's Die Nibelungen , M and Metropolis ; as well as silent classics ; Sunrise and Der Golem . Ulmer's previous experience helps him with Bluebeard , as the film is constantly atmospheric , and the director makes best use of his simple sets by way of his use of the camera and the murky black and white cinematography . The film is very bleak throughout , and this massively helps the plot as it gives the film just the right amount of foreboding . Plots like this have been turned into better films since the release of this film over sixty years ago ; but Bluebeard is still well worth seeing . The film starts out slow , but it does pick up and not even an extremely overlong puppet sequence can fully degenerate the film into the realms of absolute boredom . It's not must see ; but worth seeing if the chance presents itself .
Good B-movie noir mystery	In the style of Edgar G . Ulmer's Detour , Inner Sanctum is a cheap little film noir , and one that gains all of it's successes from its plot rather any technical elements . The main problem with this film , therefore , is simply that there isn't enough of it ; and while the plot and characters that we get introduced to are good , they could have been a whole lot better if the film had more of a budget to play with . The plot focuses on the idea of guilt and its effect on a man that has killed someone . We follow Harold Dunlap , a man that decides to stay at a boarding house after killing a woman at a near-by station . The plot focuses on the interloper , as well as the people already living at the house ; and all the thrills are garnered through that . The film is tense and exciting , and it's also a good indication of how times have changed ; I mean , would you let your kid sleep in a room that is currently being inhabited by a male guest that you've only just met ? Well , you would if it was this kid ; as Inner Sanctum features what is probably the most irritating child performance of all time . But aside from that , the cast is strong and the film is well directed by Lew Landers , who also directed Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff in The Raven some years earlier . Recommended to noir fans .
Great horror sci-fi from the Italian master	Mario Bava has directed some of the best and most important films of all time ; Black Sunday , Blood and Black Lace and Bay of Blood to name a few ; but often overlooked is this little gem from 1965 . He didn't need to , as by this point he already had several classics under his belt ; but Bava has really proved his worth as an ingenious and creative director with this film . With just a small budget , some below average actors and a few sets ; Mario Bava has succeeded in creating a great sense of claustrophobia in a very atmospheric little horror flick . The film plays out like an episode of Star Trek , with two teams of astronauts landing on an alien planet that is inhabited by hostile beings . Upon their landing , several members of the crew members of the first ship go insane , but don't do any damage thanks to the quick thinking of their captain . The second crew aren't so lucky . . . Planet of the Vampires is a very campy film , most of which is brought on by the acting and cheap looking effects , but it does have several plus points , one of which is it's great atmosphere . As Bava would later go on to do in the horror classic ; Baron Blood , he uses smoke and small spaces to create a sense of tension and build the film's atmosphere . Also like in Baron Blood ; this creates a brooding sense of dread and anticipation , and this is something that would later be done in the classic sci-fi horror movie ; Alien . Also of note is the abandoned alien spaceship in this movie , and another abandoned alien spaceship in Alien . I think Mario Bava can take some credit for the inspiration of that film . As previously mentioned , the acting in this film is very flat and uninspiring . This is the movie's main flaw ; the effects aren't brilliant , but that can be forgiven due to the low budget and the time that this movie was made . Aside from the acting ; there's little to fault Planet of the Vampires on , when you take into account the sort of movie it is . There is no doubt that Mario Bava did everything he could with this movie , bearing in mind his budgetary restrictions and overall it is a testament to his directorial talents . Planet of the Vampires is therefore , very much recommended !
Short , but well filmed and full of tension	This film proclaims that the events contained within are based on actual happenings . I can easily buy this as the plot isn't so outlandish that it becomes impossible for it to have actually happened . The way that the film treats it's subject matter is good in that it focuses on atmosphere and tension to get across what is only really a variant on the same sort of story used in films such as Night of the Living Dead and Assault on Precinct 13 , and the film does manage to remain interesting for the most part despite the fact that it gives you no real reason to care for the characters and the plot is incredibly thin . IMDb only lists two actors for the cast - there are actually more , but these two are the central characters . Clementine , a schoolteacher and Lucas , a writer live together in a picturesque little country house . They believe themselves to be isolated within this nice little home , but upon hearing a noise one night , the pair venture outside and discover that , in fact , they are not alone in their living area and soon realise that they have been invaded by a group of murderous ' visitors ' . . . The film only runs for seventy minutes , so there's not much time for plot building anyway . It would seem that directors David Moreau and Xavier Palud were keener to focus on themes of the plot rather than telling an actual story , and the ideas contained within mostly concern the pointlessness of violence and an invasion of a family home . The film benefits from a nice glossy cinematography , which looks nice and gives the film more of a high quality feel . The acting is decent enough , and both Olivia Bonamy and Michaël Cohen give interesting portrayals of their characters . The murderers are the most interesting part of the film , and this is true in spite of the fact that they're kept off screen as much as possible . The same idea behind the murderers of this film has been used before , to a better degree in some films , and is used well here also . The film falls down on the fact that it doesn't run for long and it doesn't really seem to have an actual plot . This isn't particularly important considering what the film obviously sets out to portray , but it does leave Them feeling rather empty . Still , this is a quality French horror film and comes recommended .
Scissors , drills and fashion models !	I went into this film with my expectations set to ' low ' as most of the best Giallo's were made during the seventies , and the majority of reviews that I've read on this film haven't exactly been full of praise ; but to my delight , Nothing Underneath is actually a surprisingly good thriller ! The plot , direction and acting are all rather mundane ; but the film is elevated by a number of good twists , and a great sense of style emanating from both the modelling theme and the good ideas that have gone into putting the plot together . The film , naturally , focuses on murder ; and we've got familiar Giallo elements such as a killer wielding a certain implement ( in this case , scissors ) and a plot deep enough for it to never completely make sense . The film's story centres on Bob Crane ; a young man that experiences a vision of his twin sister's murder . His sister is a model in Milan , and after the premonition ; he travels to Italy where he contacts Commissioner Danesi , who naturally doesn't believe him ; until another dead model turns up , and then he has a case . . . This film has a lot of ideas entwined within the plot , but not all of them are original . The fact that it's the Commissioner's last case is far too clichéd , while the idea of fashion models being brutalised is a common Giallo theme . However , the idea of a ' psychic link ' between twins hasn't been seen in Giallo often , and even though it's not very well explored ; it does provide an interesting basis for the story . One thing that is important to many Giallo fans ( yours truly included ) is stylish and bloody murders , and unfortunately this film doesn't have a great deal of them . Scissors are a prime weapon for a nasty murder ; but not much blood is shown , and there is only one real nasty scene in the movie ; which involves a young woman being stabbed in the back . The cast only contains one real name , belonging to Donald Pleasance . Pleasance is OK in his role , but he fails miserably at trying to be Italian . It all boils down to a well done exciting climax that sees the culprit revealed , along with a huge drill ! Overall , Nothing Underneath is not exactly a prime slice of Giallo , and I am perhaps overrating it a little ; but it's a well done film with a lot of plus points , and I'd recommend it to Giallo fans .
Not quite brilliant , but highly original and inventive	After seeing Anguish , I know it will stay in the memory a while as it's not quite like anything else I've seen . However , outside of the central gimmick ; there is unfortunately not a great deal to recommend it for . Bigas Luna's film is a horror movie within a horror movie , and as you can probably imagine from that description ; it's a completely bizarre and surreal film . The title ' Anguish ' seems to be a clue to the order of the day as both segments focus on putting the subjects in a state of anguish with a series of gripping occurrences . The film focuses on John Pressman ; an optician with an eye problem and a strange mother . After losing his job , he goes out on a killing spree under the direction of his mother who apparently is using some sort of hypnosis . The spree goes on for a short while and then the film takes a turn for the bizarre as the focus pans out and we find ourselves in a movie theatre with a group of people watching the film we've been watching ! However , it turns out all is not well there either , as one of the crowd is a maniacal killer . The main problem I have with this film is simply that while the central idea is very good , the two segments of the story are actually quite mundane . They're both just your average ' serial killer ' stories , albeit one featuring a great deal of eyeball violence . The director clearly wanted to excite his audience and get them on the edge of their seats , and while parts of the film are exciting - I didn't find myself in a state of anguish for the duration . I don't often find myself needing a particular point when it comes to serial killer flicks , but this film just feels a bit too intelligent not to have one . I can only assume that the director wanted to portray something along the lines of the idea that a potential killer could be influenced by what they are seeing on screen ; although it's never really brought across . Distinctive performers Michael Lerner and Zelda Rubinstein are the pick of the cast and provide memorable leads . The film does deserve a lot of respect for going out and trying to do something a bit different and even though it doesn't come off as well as it might have ; Anguish is still well worth seeing .
Excellent traditional vampire flick !	Stephen King's repertoire of books turned into films isn't all that good on the whole , but the list does have a few solid entries ; and Salem's Lot is one of them . The cut that I saw was the cinema version , which has been cut down from the three hour TV version . Because of this , the film is overlong in places and incoherent in others ; but if you ignore that little fact , what you have here is a nice little vampire flick . The story takes place in the small town of ' Salem's Lot ' . If I were to name a town , I wouldn't call it ' Salem's Lot ' because with that name , something evil is bound to happen . It's like calling your town ' Werewolf Creek ' or ' Demonic Possession Falls ' - you just wouldn't do it ! Anyway , Salem's Lot becomes a town of vampires after the local weirdo orders a strange package from somewhere . The plot follows a writer that has gone back to Salem's Lot to finish his book . Once murders start occurring , the inept police sergeant suspects the local weirdo , but the writer has more imaginative ideas about what's going on . . . and sees that it may be down to vampires ! The special effects in Salem's Lot are very cheesy - so cheesy , in fact , that I got the impression that they were like that on purpose . The way that the small town is presented is good , and it gives director Tobe Hooper lots of chances to create an atmosphere around the story . He handles the atmosphere side of the film with great skill , and that makes up one of the film's best assets . There's a reason why many fans consider this Hooper's only good movie besides The Texas Chain Saw Massacre , and the atmosphere is probably it . The story does take a while to get going , but the way that it introduces the characters is good and through it's atmosphere and the way that the story moves ; the film never gets boring . I haven't read the book of ' Salem's Lot ' , so I cant comment on how the film relates to the writing ; but I can say that it's nice to see the man that is probably the best contender to the crown of ' modern master of horror ' handling a story about vampires in a traditional way . I loved the way that King didn't try to distance the story from the genre clichés , and it's nice to see a ' true ' vampire film . Overall - good stuff and highly recommended !
Three tales of torture	The Joy of Torture is apparently a part of a trilogy of torture films . It's the first one I've seen so I can't compare it to the other three ; but it's certainly an interesting and well made film in its own right . The film is divided into three separate short stories and , as the title suggests , they are all about torture . While I did enjoy the film on the whole ; I do have to say that I'm glad it was split into three rather than featuring just one long story as there's only really so much that can be done with this idea and the fact that the story changes three times means that the film stays fresh for the duration . The first story focuses on a brother and sister . The brother becomes ill and the pair end up having an incestuous relationship , which leads to her being tortured as incest is against the law . This is a well acted and well filmed little story and the focus is mostly on the drama between the pair . The torture and gore doesn't turn up until the end and the ' romance ' between the brother and sister is not exactly heartfelt . Still , it's a decent opener . The second story focuses on a familiar exploitation location - the Church , and focuses on the love between a nun and a priest , which naturally doesn't go down too well . This is another strong story , although the focus of it is a bit too similar to the first one with it focusing on a forbidden love . The third and final story is undoubtedly the best of the film as it tries to do something a little different from the first two . Rather than tell a story and depict the guilty parties being tortured ; this time we focus on a great tattoo artist who decides that he wants to make his masterpiece on the back a young girl . He wants to paint a torture scene and in order to do this , gets himself an invite to a live torture chamber . Before the title credits we get to see a woman have her head cut off and body cut in half ; and on the basis of this , I was expecting something really gory and so was a bit disappointed . The only extended scenes of torture happen in the final story and while well done ; the film isn't the hardcore exploitation that I was expecting . Still , this is a good film and it's recommended to fans of this sort of stuff .
Not a dead-loss , but not dead-good either	The nineties was a varied decade for cinema , with several trends running concurrently . As such , many films slipped through the net ; thus meaning that there's a lot of nineties films that never became big hits , yet were great nonetheless . When I discovered Dead Again in my TV guide , I was hoping that this film may be one of the aforementioned ' hidden gems ' - but suffice to say , it wasn't . That's not to say that Kenneth Branagh's film is bad , not by any means ; but it has too many problems , which stop it from fulfilling it's potential . The plot is one of those that has every chance of going wrong , given that it takes place across two time periods and features elements such as reincarnation . The plot follows the murder of Margaret Strauss , apparently committed by her husband ; composer Roman Strauss . We then cut to the present , where Los Angeles private detective , Mike Church , takes on the case of a mysterious woman suffering from amnesia . In order to help her regain her memories , Church hires a hypnotist ; and it soon comes to light that the woman's nightmares of the Strauss murder may be more than what they seem . I love films with original and weird plots , which is what attracted me to this one in the first place . The plot here is good ; but it's not handled very well . The way that the film switches back and forward between the two time periods is ham-fisted and doesn't translate to the screen very well . It's also very difficult to really care for any of the characters , as most of the screen time is spent on building up the plot rather than spending time with the characters . The film suffers from a rather dull first half , but it really picks up in the second when the twists start to come into play . My TV guide described the film as Hitchcockian - I wouldn't go that far personally , but the twists do make it enjoyable . The film is , however , very lacking in the substance department . A film with reincarnation at its core really should be making you think ; but this one is more of a straight thriller , so don't expect to have your brain taxed . On the whole , I don't recommend missing this film ; but I don't recommend going out of your way to see it either . Dead Again is a film to be viewed when it's on TV and you need a film to watch .
Fun on the French Riviera	I love films about con-men , and even though this one features a plot that is about as believable as a flock of flying pigs ; there's a lot of fun to be had with it . Dirty Rotten Scoundrels benefits from the duo of Michael Caine and Steve Martin , who star as a couple of con-men working on the French Riviera . However , the town of Beaumont Du Mer isn't big enough for the both of them , and so the pair has a little wager ; and the loser has to leave ! Dirty Rotten Scoundrels works largely because of its lead stars . Caine and Martin have proved themselves successful individually , and their combined chemistry here is really fun to watch . Both actors have very different styles of comedy , which allows them to play off one another well . The French Riviera provides a nice setting for a film like this to take place , and director Frank ' Yoda ' Oz delights in capturing all the glamour , which helps to give the film a real sense of style . The plot itself is well worked , and although Steve Martin can go over the top at times with his brash brand of comedy ; the film does get more interesting as the plot thickens and the final twists at the end are well implemented . Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is a film that is real fun to view , and I don't hesitate to recommend it to anyone that enjoys fun films .
Not vintage Lovecraft , but a good film	Full Moon seem to have a rather poor reputation arising from the fact that many of their films are low budget and not exactly masterpieces , but the company certainly does well when it comes to H . P . Lovecraft , and while this film isn't up to the standard that Stuart Gordon went on to set with Castle Freak , Lurking Fear is still a good example of low budget horror . I've not read the Lovecraft short story that the film is based on , so I can't say how faithful to the original material it is ; but the film features a number of Lovecraft's trademarks , and the central theme of a town overrun by strange otherworldly creatures is pure Lovecraft . The plot centres on the town of Leffert's Corners , which as mentioned , has a problem with strange otherworldly creatures . A man named John Martense also has a problem also as his criminal father happened to bury a corpse in Leffert's Corners , which is filled with money ; and he isn't the only one that wants it . We then follow John Martense and a group of three would-be robbers who arrive at the town just as the locals are preparing a spectacular fight back . The main problem with this film really is that not enough happens . We focus on a claustrophobic church where the locals have holed up , and while the atmosphere is good and every now and then someone gets killed , the characters aren't interesting enough to pull it through as well as possible , and the creatures never take centre stage . But even so , I enjoyed this film as its PURE horror ; we don't get mixed up in any needless subplots , and director C . Courtney Joyner ( who has directed a slew of trashy horror flicks ) keeps the focus on the central theme well . The acting isn't up to much , but the cast just about pull it through . Jeffrey Combs is never far from H . P . Lovecraft , and I always enjoy seeing him in films . Hellraiser's Ashley Laurence makes a welcome appearance and is actually very sexy , while Allison Mackie does well as her opposite number . The film gets better as it goes along , and the director just about succeeds in building tension on the way to the ending , which wraps everything up nicely . Overall , this is not a great film and I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see it ; but its fun enough and definitely worth watching .
Very nice Giallo	The third and final part of the ' Animals Trilogy ' sees master director Dario Argento in familiar Giallo territory . Michael Brandon plays a rock musician who is photographed by a masked assailant stabbing and killing a man that has been stalking him . Later , the masked assailant starts to send Michael Brandon photos of him in the act , and that's where the fun starts . Four Flies on Grey Velvet never quite reaches the level of adrenaline that Argento's earlier work , Bird with the Crystal Plumage , did ; but a number of Argento's well known trademarks are here , including gruesome murders , a masked killer and numerous possible culprits . The level of bloodshed in this movie isn't as abundant and the death scenes aren't as creative as in some of Argento's later works such as Profondo Rosso or Tenebrae , and the film has only one death sequence that really touches on the elaborate death sequences that Argento has become known for ; and that's the one where the girl is killed on the stairs . There also a streak of black humour in this movie that isn't usually present in Argento films , shown by the detective who will solve this case because of his " Amazing record " of never having solved a case yet ( great irony on his conclusion by the way ) , the disgruntled delivery man and the casket " party " , which was both surreal and strangely funny . However , the film doesn't suffer much from the lack of bloodshed as there is still much to like about it . One thing I love about Argento ( and there are many things ! ) is the way he pulls the viewer into the film . Argento gives small details of the plot away , just enough to give you something else to think about , but not enough so you are able to guess the conclusion . This is a great skill that Argento is very adapt at ; his movies two detectives on the case . One is in the movie ( whether professional or improvised ) and the other is the viewer . This works well because it grabs your interest and keeps it , and that's what makes Argento movies great and a cut above the majority of other mystery thrillers . As with all Argento films , The movie starts to build more pace towards the end , and builds into a clever and satisfying solution as to who the murderer is and the means of finding out who it is , which is linked with an animal like in the other two films of the ' Animals Trilogy ' . However , the very end of the movie is somewhat disappointing . After an exciting finale , the way the murder is killed seemed unimaginative and just a quick way to end the film , which was a shame . Saying that , the end certainly doesn't ruin the film , it just isn't as good as it could be . This movie is recommended to anyone that considers themselves a fan of Dario Argento and horror buffs in general .
Motor Psycho ! Kill ! Kill !	Motor Psycho is pretty much your typical Russ Meyer film , and features all of his trademarks . We've got busty women , unlikely characters and over the top violence ; and it's all filmed in stylish black and white . The film is a lot like the slightly earlier masterpiece ' Faster Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! ' in style and execution , although Motor Psycho doesn't feel as extravagant as that film . The running time is only just over seventy minutes , so the film also feels a little underdeveloped . The plot is rather simple and focuses on a gang of motorcyclists who see fit to rape and torture various women . However , they bite off more than they can chew when they rape a veterinarian's wife , and he decides to pursue them , along with a woman whose husband was also killed by the gang . Naturally , this film is extremely entertaining , although it doesn't have a great deal of credibility . There are some really good scenes in the film , but unfortunately ; there are also some ' not so good ' ones , which bring the whole piece down . Still , this is a more than decent way to spend your time , and if you like Russ Meyer ; I'm sure you won't have a problem with this .
A good slice of low budget Gothic	Die Monster Die may not be a major highlight for any of its major players , but even so ; this film represents an assured slice of Gothic horror and I can't find much to complain about . The film is based on the Lovecraft tale " The Colour out of Space " , and follows the common Lovecraft themes of mutated life forms and mysterious central characters . The film begins to build intrigue immediately as a young British man arrives in town with the intention of visiting his fiancé's estate . None of the locals are too happy about his presence ; especially when he tells them where he is going . This immediately gets the audience on the edge of their seats as the desire to find out just what has been going on at the mysterious mansion sets in . Director Daniel Haller continues to build the suspense when our central character gets to the mansion and we are introduced to Nahum Witley ; a wheelchair bound father that is also none too happy about the man's presence . From there , the film builds a scintillating Gothic atmosphere , and the locked greenhouse quickly becomes the focus of our attention . . . The only other film I've seen from director Daniel Haller ( who worked with Roger Corman on his classic Poe Anthology ) was The Dunwich Horror , which squandered its Lovecraft story thanks to some frankly boring plotting and an ending which succeeded in explaining next to nothing . Needless to say , this earlier film doesn't suffer from the same problem as there are bags of tension and intrigue , and the director doesn't hold back when it comes to letting the audience know the secret behind the central character's cagey nature . The special effects are good considering the time in which the film was made and the obvious budget constraints , and the sequence in which we finally get to see what is inside the greenhouse is a definite highlight . The film is most famous thanks to a lead performance from the great Boris Karloff , who might not massively impress in the acting stakes this time ; but still manages an assured horrific performance . The ending is exciting and plays out well , and unlike The Dunwich Horror ; succeeds in explaining the mystery . Overall , while this is only a modest success , it's certainly well worth seeing !
Surprisingly decent , actually	Killing Zoe is the feature film debut from Quentin Tarantino's ex-friend and collaborator on Pulp Fiction , Roger Avery . Avery is less talented than his ex-friend , that's beyond question and it shows in this movie ; which despite not being bad at all , isn't brilliant either . The first thing you'll notice about it is it's European styling , which emancipates from the fact that it's set in Paris and it's cast of actors , who hail from across Europe ( and the world ) . We've got French , British , Japanese and most probably more . The plot is Reservoir Dogs-ish , with a bunch of men planning a bank heist . We follow Zed ( Erik Stoltz ) , an American that has just arrived in Paris and hooked himself with a hooker . He's in on the robbery of course , but before he gets there he's taken on a night out around Paris , for drugs , drinking and god only knows what else . Naturally , the film is cool as anything ; and this appears to be the entire point of the movie as the plot lacks bite , charm or anything resembling a point . Killing Zoe gains credibility for being very entertaining , and you'll wonder where the time has gone while watching this movie , which is never a bad thing . Of course , it is , in effect , a waste of time ; but if you enjoy watching it , it hardly matters . The film is continually unpleasant , with violence , gore , swearing , nudity and the rest of the gang featuring heavily , which will no doubt offend some - but certainly not me . Eric Stoltz takes the lead role , and does well with it ; even if he does never really impress , and at times even looks uncomfortable . Julie Delpy is the title character and she doesn't impress either ; she'd prove her worth a year later in Before Sunrise , of course , but here she doesn't really impress . Jean-Hugues Anglade , who does impress as the lead villain , steals the show . He's loud , brash and over the top ; making every scene he's in a delight . Avery's direction is solid for most of the movie , but he appears to get a little big headed towards the end when he throws in lots of little tricks that aren't all that good . However , this is certainly a decent movie and fans of Tarantino will probably think " it's awesome ! "
Great modern day western	The Western seems to have gone out of fashion in recent years , which is a shame - so it's a good job that there are people like John Hillcoat out there who are willing to deliver films like this . The Proposition is a real old school western - gritty , violent and fleshed out by sophisticated and interesting characters . Director John Hillcoat succeeds in capturing the style of the classic westerns , and the fact that this film was written by Nick Cave means that it will be no surprise that there's a trippy , hallucinogenic feel to it also . The plot focuses on an impossible situation . After capturing Charlie and Mike ; two of the notorious Burns brothers , Capt . Stanley decides not to hang them both - but to give the elder of the brothers , Charlie , a proposal . He and his brother will be given a full pardon if he can bring the eldest and most notorious of the Burns brothers , Arthur , to justice in nine days . Otherwise the youngest brother , Mike , gets the hangman's noose . One of the main reasons why The Proposition is so good is down to the fact that it's so well put together and everyone involved in the film is at their best . Guy Pearce very much looks the part in the lead role and holds the film together well . He gets great support from the likes of Ray Winstone , Danny Huston and Emily Watson . The fact that the film is brought to life by such a talented bunch of people really does it a lot of favours , as each actor ensures that the story gets across in a way that is always interesting . Many of the best westerns are violent and gritty , and this one is no different . While there aren't a great deal of gunfights and fistfights , the ones that do feature really make an impact . The film feels very realistic throughout , and this ensures that what happens is always credible and believable . It all boils down to a shocking and fittingly ambiguous climax that will generate as much thought from the audience as the film that precedes it . Overall , The Proposition is easily one of the best westerns made in recent years , and it's a damn good film in its own right too !
Maurizio Merli delivers again in an action packed Polizi flick !	Maurizio Merli may have come to fame as a Franco Nero impersonator ; but after that he really came into his own and if his name is on the cast list ( particularly if it's at the top of the cast list ) , you're pretty much guaranteed a good film . This one was the final outing for Merli's Commissario Betti character , and he ensures the ace crime fighter goes out with a bang as Marino Girolami's film is packed to breaking point with car chases , shootouts and fist fights and certainly delivers on the promise of being an action packed thriller ! The plot focuses on Commissario Betti . Once again , he's aggravated at the amount of crime going on in the city and his attention is focused mainly on two big crimes ; a bank robbery and a kidnap plot . The Commissioner battles bravely to ensure the crooks are brought to justice but soon realises that there's no point in merely sorting out the henchmen and decides to go after the man he believes is heading the criminal operations ; slimy businessman Albertelli , although bringing justice on the head criminal may not be so easy . . . This film is very easy to watch and getting lost in the numerous action scenes is a lot of fun . The plot flows very smoothly and there really is very little time when something isn't happening , which is really exactly what you want from a film like this . The action scenes do take over the plot at times ; but it's not really important because entertainment is the main thing . The plot itself is certainly interesting , however ; with the main focus being on the police matching wits with a very sly and intelligent criminal . You can always count on Maurizio Merli for a great performance and he doesn't disappoint here . He does look just a little bit silly at times admittedly , but he actually does convince us that he is a man who would give everything to stop crime in the city ( although by this point , he had a lot of practise ! ) . The film is not exactly heavy and although certain scenes are quite nasty ; the atmosphere is usually quite light . Franco Micalizzi's score is very good too , and Merli receives very good support from cult supremo John Saxon . The ending is a bit of downer , but I can't complain given how entertaining the rest of the film is . Highly recommended !
A ' real ' story of a man's frustration	It has to be said that this film is an amazing achievement . The Devil is a Woman is a lush and vibrant film , and you really do get the impression that a lot of thought has gone into every scene . The script allows the characters to grow in front of the audience's eyes both in relation to each other and in their own right . Furthermore , the acting is fantastic ; with Lionel Atwill convincing as a heartbroken former lover of Marlene Dietrich's cold hearted femme fatale . It's Dietrich that commands every scene she's in and gives an all round amazing performance in the title role . Furthermore , the Spanish setting is superb , and provides a beautiful location for this complex love story to take place in . But it's not the technical elements that make this film so great ; it's the plot . We first get to know the characters during a conversation between a fancy man and a former lover of the same woman . The older man tells the younger of his times with said lady , and we get a fully painted picture of all the protagonists through this . The film offers a great portrait of love and frustration ; with the title itself referring more towards the lead man's experience with the title character rather than the character herself . The Devil is a Woman is certainly not a fluffy romance flick , but it is a film that works on two levels ; on one hand , it tells its story straight and so is easy to get into , but on the other it provides a story with a chasm of depth if you're willing to look for it .
" Could anything be sweeter than desire in chains ? "	This film manages to do a rare thing ; we get treated to some great sex scenes , and the story surrounding the sex actually verges on intelligent ! Director Stephen Sayadian's art house erotica may struggle to find an audience ; art house fans will probably find it too trashy , while porn fans may find it too arty ; but for anyone who likes something a bit different ; Cafe Flesh is a definite must see . The film's back-story focuses on a nuclear war that has had a bizarre effect on the surviving citizens . The remaining population has been split into two halves ; the sex negatives who become nauseous if they engage in sex , and the sex positives ; who remain normal . We focus on Cafe Flesh ; a club where sex negatives go to watch the sex positives perform various sex acts on stage . We follow a small group of sex negatives inside the club . The club has been elevated by the news of the forthcoming arrival of the famous sex positive Johnny Rico , while one of the negatives begins to question her status as her and her boyfriend grow further apart from one another . The thing I liked about this film most is undoubtedly the atmosphere ; director Stephen Sayadian takes care to ensure that the club's atmosphere is as seedy as possible , and while helping the sex scenes ; it also helps the film to enforce the dismal vision of the future . The sex scenes themselves are all staged and very diverse , which ensures the film doesn't get lost under too many samey sex scenes . The music used during these scenes is a real highlight and arguably even makes the film . The film doesn't really seem to have a particular point to make ; and while the sex scenes are just the acts on stage , I do think that they are the main point of the film . The storyline between some of the main characters is decent , however , and the film does actually make the audience care about what happens . The ending does seem to be rather rushed , however , and really reinforces that the film doesn't have a particular point to make . However , this film is still undoubtedly one of the best porn films out there and it's definitely worth a look . Recommended .
Slightly more weighty stuff from Franco	Nobody can deny that Jess Franco made a lot of rubbish in his career . . . but then he goes and directs a film like this , and it becomes easy to forgive him for past and future sins . She Killed in Ecstasy is thinly plotted and rather predictable , but it's also sexy and violent , and overall ; an excellent slice of sleaze from a director who knows a lot about this sort of film . Franco attempts to inject a bit of substance into the film by way of a plot that involves the humanity of scientific discovery as well as emotional torment , which is also the reason behind all the killing . Franco seems to care more about sex than violence , and this shines through as all the kill scenes involve sex , but not all of them feature a lot of blood . The plot focuses on Mrs . Johnson ; the wife of a scientist researching human embryos . After his work comes under scrutiny from a medical comity and he is labelled all manner of things , from ' criminal ' to ' animal ' , he decides to take his own life . She doesn't like this very much , and so decides to take revenge on all involved by seducing and killing them all . The film features a host of sleaze regulars , including Vampyros Lesbos star Susann Korda . Korda provides a good lead for the film as she certainly looks the part and you can believe that many men would easily be seduced by her . She receives good feedback from the likes of Fred Williams and Howard Vernon , and despite the fact that this film is a cheap slice of trash ; the acting isn't bad on the whole . Franco gives his plot more credibility with scenes such as the one that sees Mrs Johnson mull over the corpse of her dead husband . Given the type of film , there's a surprising amount of emotion going on . Franco has often said that he hates his body of work , and this film appears to be an attempt at making something with some meaning . The sex scenes are generally well worked , and the lesbian sequence in particular is really well done . Susann Korda also gets to don a number of sexy outfits , which is nice . The plot flows well , and since the film doesn't last long - there isn't a lot of time for it to get boring . Overall , She Killed in Ecstasy is hardly a great film ; but it's better than you might expect and I can't say I didn't enjoy watching it .
A napkin dispenser that knows your future . . .	Episodes of The Twilight Zone are always based on intriguing ideas that make you think , and this one takes its plot from the idea of superstitions . Nick of Time was the follow up to the stunning ' Eye of the Beholder ' , and as you might expect ; it can't live up to that episode . However , this tale benefits from its good natured humour and intriguing premise . We follow a honeymooning couple , who have to stop in a small town after their car breaks down . They go for a bite to eat in the local café , and soon become obsessed with the gimmicky napkin dispenser that will predict your future for a penny . When several of its predictions come true . . . they come to believe that there may be more to this item that its gimmicky exterior suggests . This tale is very dialogue based , and most of the plot stems from the chatter between the couple . This dialogue is well written , and the tale constantly pulls you into their plight . Nick of Time then climaxes nicely with a stimulating finale that is typical of Rod Serling's TV show . Sure , it's not the best episode of the series ; but as usual , this tale is well worth 25 minutes of your life .
A truly gritty action movie and the best of the series by a bloody mile !	Generally speaking , I think belated sequels made a long while after the original are a very bad thing ; but that's certainly not the case here as Stallone roars back on to the screen as the disgruntled Vietnam veteran John Rambo in pure blood-soaked style and this latest entry in the series is by far the best to date ! Serious kudos has to go to Stallone for this movie - not only does he return to what is probably his second most famous role ( after Rocky ) , he also wrote , directed and produced the film - almost making Rambo a one man show ! The action in this film centres on the war in Burma and Stallone starts off by showing us how brutal the military there is . Then we shift to the star of the show - Rambo , and currently he's in Thailand helping to collect snakes for a local snake show . His life takes a turn one day when some damn foolish idealists turn up wanting a ride in his boat to Burma . After much deliberation , he decides to give them a lift there . However , pretty soon it transpires that they have been taken prisoner by the Burmese Army , and Rambo ends up giving the same lift to some mercenaries . . . The Burmese War makes for an interesting backdrop for the film - I certainly don't know much about it , and the Asian jungle location is just perfect for an action movie like this . Of course , Rambo doesn't have much of a point to make - you could possibly argue that it's a brutal condemnation of warfare - but clearly the only point here is for Stallone to shoot , stab and explode his way through everything with a pulse - and I certainly have no problem with that ! Naturally , the action is the main focal point of the film and Stallone throws in plenty - barely a minute goes by without someone getting killed , and the body count of over 200 is mightily impressive ! It could even be said that the film is mainstream exploitation - it really feels like Stallone isn't holding back at all and it's great to see a movie that doesn't pull it's punches - highlights include a mass of soldiers getting torn to pieces by a chaingun wielding Rambo and a solider having his throat ripped out by the veteran's bear hands ! At sixty one years of age , you'd be forgiven for thinking that Stallone is getting too old for this sort of stuff but in fact it's the opposite - he fits the role in this film much better than he did in the previous roles . His angry look and stout posture is absolutely perfect and while this film wont go down as a masterpiece - it certainly is a lot of fun and comes highly recommended to everyone who enjoys a brutal action movie !
A rush of adrenaline	The title of this marvellous French horror thriller translates directly into English as ' High Tension ' , and as anyone who's seen it will tell you ; it's an apt title . Simply put , Switchblade Romance ( to give it English release , and better , title ) is a pure adrenaline rush throughout . The film forsakes substance in favour of masses of tension and the result is a film that is guaranteed to get your heart racing . The fact that the film features numerous sequences of extreme gore doesn't exactly hinder it either . There has been a surge of good , inventive horror coming from overseas and independent studios recently ; the likes of May , Dog Soldiers and Sleepless being among the best of them , and Switchblade Romance sits nicely alongside the cream of the recent crop . This film follows two friends , Alex and Marie who go to stay with Alex's parents in their country home . However , things go awry when a man breaks into the home and brutally murders the family . We then follow Alex and Marie through a roller coaster ride of tension and suspense as they try their best not get sliced and diced ! The film is very stylishly shot , and this has lead many to label it a ' Giallo ' . This is most certainly not true , and there isn't much other than the style of the movie to suggest this . Switchblade Romance is more of a Texas Chainsaw Massacre style horror driven slasher than a Giallo ; the film clearly knows this also , with a direct homage to the seventies classic towards it's climax . The amount of gore on display is impressive , and several scenes are certainly not for the feint-hearted . There's quite an array of weaponry in the film also , from the plain and simple switchblade , to much more exciting weapons like barbed wire , various guns , an axe and , my personal favourite , the chainsaw ! In fact , I am pleased to report that Switchblade Romance features what is maybe the most brutal chainsaw scene ever ! Aside from the weapons and gore , this film is also of note for it's music . The original score sets just the right tone for the goings on - it's atmospheric , but steady and almost like a lullaby , which fits with the film's style nicely . Switchblade Romance also features one of the best uses of original music of recent years , with a great scene that incorporates Muse's " New Born " . Switchblade Romance is pure style , and a complete adrenaline rush . Tension isn't in the film , it IS the film . In spite of it's lack of substance , this movie will have you on the edge of your seat and begging for more . Add that to some lovely music , classy acting and enough gore to fill an abattoir - and what you've got is the makings of a cult classic !
Excellent paranoid western	Based on a story by Howard Breslin , Bad Day at Black Rock is a story of paranoia , patriotism , secrets and justice in a small town . This story and others like it have been seen time and time again in cinema , but this one stands apart for it's great acting as well as the intricacies of the story . This film got off to a bit of a bad start with me , as I was expecting ( and hoping for ) a black and white picture , but it turns out that this film was filmed in Eastmancolor , which is a bit like Technicolor . Despite the fact that my favourite movie of all time ( The Good , The Bad and The Ugly ) is filmed in Technicolor ; I generally prefer classic westerns , especially pre-60's ones to be filmed in black and white . . . it just looks better . Anyway , the plot follows a one-armed ex-army man named Macreedy , who gets off a train at a small town as he has a medal for the father of the man who saved his life in world war 2 . The man gets more than he bargained for , however , when he stumbles upon the fact that this is a town with a secret . . . and it's one that they will withhold by any means necessary . . . Director John Sturges is quite a name within the western genre , having directed films such as Joe Kidd and , of course , The Magnificent Seven . Bad Day at Black Rock is a completely different kettle of fish from those two , however , as it's far more story based ; and substitutes the gun slinging that westerns are famous for , for more talking and story building . I would liken this film to the classic ' The Ox-Bow Incident ' before comparing it with the directors ' other films . Sturges directs his cast excellently , and it's their performances that bring out the best in the film . Spencer Tracy leads the ensemble with a great performance that really holds the movie together . There aren't too many big names here , but those belonging to Lee Marvin and Ernest Borgnine stand out . The story is one of those that has implications beyond the immediate goings on , and it's also one that will be relevant throughout history as it keeps repeating itself . Overall , this is a very good western-drama that is sure to please anyone with a mind to seek it out . Recommended .
Pandora opens the box and unleashes evil upon the world	The Howling Man may not be the most exciting episode of The Twilight Zone - but it's certainly a very inventive little tale , and nods towards the classic story of Pandora's Box are well implemented . The plot follows a man who comes across an ancient mansion during a storm . He asks for shelter , but ends up collapsing upon his exit from the house . It isn't long before he comes upon an old stable . . . with a man whom he is told is the devil himself inside . The mansion itself is very eerie , and although we don't get to see much of it ( budget constraints ) , the atmosphere is still well implemented . Obviously , this is only a 25 minute TV episode , so you can't go in expecting the kind of plot and character development seen in feature films ; but even in that small running time , this episode gets a lot across . The story itself is the main strength of this piece , as it's very clever and imaginatively brought to the screen . This episode features the acting talents of classic horror star John Carradine , who stands out amongst a small unknown cast in the central , most memorable role .
Excellent thriller with a few points to make	What we have here is a film that sort of bridges the gap between suburbanite drama and extremely dark science fiction . The story is massively famous by now and has obvious implications about gender roles and each sex's thoughts towards their spouse . However , at its heart , The Stepford Wives is a brilliant mystery thriller that has as much in the way of intrigue as it does in social commentary . The film is based on a book by Ira Levin , who previously wrote feminist horror novel ' Rosemary's Baby ' . The two films are somewhat similar in theme as both focus around what is usually seen as women's work - childbirth in Rosemary's Baby and keeping house in this film . The plot focuses around the town of Stepford and the Eberhart family who are new in town . It would seem that something is up with the place immediately as the women seem completely detached and only interested in house work . The wife , Joanna , soon meets up with fellow new arrival Bobbie Markowe and the two begin to believe that something has happened to the other women , and decide to investigate . The atmosphere is a key element in this film , and director Bryan Forbes capitalises on that by giving Stepford a welcoming atmosphere that always borders on being mysterious and somehow not quite right . The story can be a little slow at times , and as most people will know the twist before going into the film , it can sometimes feel like its taking ages to get where it's going . However , the film keeps the audience interested by constantly hinting at the problem with Stepford and feeding us only small pieces of the puzzle at a time . It has to be said that the plot doesn't completely make sense - there are a few plot holes , and the reason for the men in Stepford wanting a " Stepford wife " doesn't really stand up to scrutiny - but I feel that The Stepford Wives finds making it's point to be more important than minor plot details , and it does that well . It all boils down to a nice conclusion , which wraps up the story well and provides a nice little shock for the audience to digest . Overall , The Stepford Wives isn't quite a masterpiece - but it's certainly a very good film and I definitely recommend it !
Superior seventies porn !	For a porn film to rise above being just another entry in the genre , it really needs more than just wall to wall sex ; and it is with that in mind that I name Pretty Peaches as one of the best porn films ever made . Alex De Renzy's masterpiece has so much more than just sex and actually manages to hold the audience's interest throughout with a combination of good humour , some interesting characters and a suitably wacky plot line that leaves plenty of room orgies , enemas and accidental incestuous relations . The ' Peaches ' of the title refers to our heroine ; a young and very naive girl who drives a jeep . She's off to see her father get married and after doing so , sets off on her own way ; much to the dismay of her father . She ends up roaring across a field in a jeep and has a crash resulting in her being knocked out . A couple of guys find the girl and decide to help her , by raping her while unconscious . She wakes up with amnesia and the two guys agree to let her stay with them ; on the condition she gets a job . Peaches then sets off to find who she ' really ' is . The lead role is taken by prolific porn star Desiree Cousteau , and she's just great ! Films such as The Devil in Miss Jones have made me not expect much in the looks department from the lead actresses , but Cousteau bucks that trend nicely . The curvaceous buxom beauty is a delight to watch , even if her acting is not always the greatest ! There's plenty of sex in the movie ; but the sex scenes themselves don't go on and on as is the case with some other porn movies and they serve their purpose really well . The fact that they don't go on and on means that there's plenty of time for the film to move along quickly which ensures it doesn't get boring . Director Alex de Renzy obviously has a sense of humour too and parts of the movie ( such as the build up to the rape scene towards the start of film ) are very funny . As the film draws to a close ; there's less focus on characters and story and more on sex and the film culminates in one great big orgy scene with a rather shocking sting in its tail ! Overall , Pretty Peaches is without doubt one of the best porn films of the seventies and for that reason is highly recommended viewing !
Superior adult film-making	Gerard Damiano directed two hardcore porn classics before directing this film - those being the influential Deep Throat and The Devil in Miss Jones , but for my money ; The Story of Joanna blows them both out of the water and is the best and most erotic of the three . The film apparently takes influence from the classic French tale of sadomasochism ' The Story of O ' and focuses on a strange relationship between two people . There isn't really a story to speak of as it's more just a premise from which the director springs all the sadomasochism and sex scenes . Basically , what we have is a rich aristocrat named Jason and his maid ? a submissive woman named Joanna . Their relationship begins in the aftermath of a meal in which Joanna proclaims that everybody needs to be loved , and Jason responds by bending her over a table and having his way with her . Jason then informs Joanna that despite her love for him , he will never love her back but still exposes her to all sorts of cruelty including bondage and sex with other lovers . The film has a classical setting and it's almost like the director was spoofing the classic romance pictures as the mood , music and performances all adhere to a higher level than what is usually expected from a porn film . This is one of my favourite things about The Story of Joanna ; it does feel very high quality and it bodes really well with the sadomasochistic sex scenes . Both the leads approach the film well and put in good performances . Terri Hall is absolutely beautiful and fits into the title role well and convinces as the submissive side of the central relationship . In contrast , Jamie Gillis is mysterious and brooding as the dominant partner which bodes well later on when the twist in the tale is revealed . The sex scenes are of course what most people will see the film for and the director clearly knows how to film something erotically as the sex in this movie is very good . It's also not overused and actually feels like the director is holding back on it at times ; which is actually refreshing as porn with wall to wall sex can be a bit dull . Overall , this is a fantastic porn film and comes highly recommend ; I'd rate it the second best S & M themed porn after the masterpiece The Punishment of Anne .
More macabre mayhem from Corman and Poe	The Premature Burial is certainly a lesser entry in Roger Corman's " Poe " cycle , but even a lesser entry for this great series can be considered something of a minor horror classic , and that is exactly what The Premature Burial is . It is unfortunate , however , that the winning team of Roger Corman , Edgar Allen Poe and Vincent Price had to be split up , with the great actor sitting this one out . I'm sure that Price wasn't very pleased about it either , as this is about as ' Poe ' as you can get without actually being the man himself . It's well documented that Poe's favourite subject is that of being buried alive , and that is very much the central theme that runs through this movie , as our central character is obsessed with his fear of being buried alive , because of his father's catatonia , to the extent that he has built himself a tomb for him to be placed in when he finally dies . Aside from this central theme , Corman has dotted other Poe trademarks around the story , such as the theme of betrayal and even a cat trapped inside the walls of a building ! While the film lacks the great Vincent Price , his replacement , Ray Milland , doesn't do a bad job at all in the lead . Milland had already proved himself as an actor in films such as Billy Wilder's ' Lost Weekend ' , and he shows here why he's one of the A-cast . What he lacks , though , is Price's authority and commandment of the screen . Throughout the film , I couldn't help but wonder how the film would have been with Price in the lead instead of Milland . . . and while thinking that , I couldn't help but think it would have been better . My favourite aspect of this movie has got to be the stylishly foreboding atmosphere that Corman creates around his central story . The graveyard surrounding the house that the characters live in is lovingly decked out with masses of smoke , and the result , while slightly over the top , makes for a great treat for the eyes ! Typically for a Corman movie , this one has it's problems in the plot department . At times , the film slows down completely and while Corman never allows it to get boring , some sequences ; such as Milland's dream sequence , just go on too long . However , while this isn't as good as the likes of The Masque of the Red Death and The Fall of the House of Usher ; it's still a more than worthy entry in the series and comes with high recommendations !
Bleak , intense and disturbing - a masterclass from both Sidney Lumet and Sean Connery !	Based on a stage play by John Hopkins and directed by Sidney Lumet , The Offence is a dark and dismal tale of police brutality . I am not at all surprised to learn that this film did not do well at the box office upon its release in the summer of 1972 ; and the reason for that is simply that it is not a film for everyone . The uncompromisingly bleak tone as well as the unpleasant subject matter will be too much for some , but if you can get past that ; what we have here is a very intense and interesting character study , as well as a film that sees the great Sean Connery give one of the best performances of his impressive career . The plot focuses on a series of brutal attacks on young girls . Experienced Detective Johnson has brought in a suspect whom he believes may be the one who carried out the attacks and begins to interview him . During the interview , Johnson comes to believe more and more that the man he is speaking to is the man behind the attacks and after discussing with him , the detective finally loses his rag and takes it out on the suspect . Sidney Lumet is a great director who often doesn't get the respect he deserves . The director has had hits with films such as Dog Day Afternoon and 12 Angry Men ; but films such as this one and Equus often don't get the respect they deserve and that's a shame . While this film is not perfect and parts of it are more interesting than others ; the director ensures that the tension is bubbling all the time and every exchange between the central character and whoever he is talking to ( e . g . the suspect , his wife , his boss ) is very intense and we are often allowed to get inside the character's head . This is also thanks to the great Sean Connery who is absolute powerhouse in the lead role and constantly impresses throughout the film . The story asks a lot of questions and doesn't give out all the answers ; which serves in making the film more interesting as the viewer is forced to come to their own conclusions . The final half hour of the film is truly brilliant and this part alone justifies the entire story . The Offence may not have the best reputation ; but it's a film well worth seeing and I highly recommend it .
Not The Simpsons at their best , but still an entertaining comedy .	Obviously the big fear with this film was that it wasn't going to be as good as the TV shows ; and while I wouldn't say that this movie is The Simpsons at their very best , the movie does give many of the episodes a run for their money and it certainly is very funny overall . Another fear for this film was that it might not make the transition from small screen to big screen in a way that feels right ; and while this is hard for the movie to get over since we're all so used to seeing them on the small screen , and I cant really say that it particularly ' feels ' like a movie ; I cant make that too much of a criticism since I enjoyed the movie on the whole . Given more of a running time , you would expect a plot that is ' bigger ' than the average episode's plot and it is . There's the usual Simpsons trick of first featuring a seemingly irrelevant plot , but soon it becomes clear that the plot is focused on Lake Springfield , which gets cleaned up before Homer decides to dump a load of waste in there ; leading the Government to take the drastic action of having Springfield encased in a giant dome , and having the locals take it out on the Simpson family . . . As is often the case with the show , the jokes here are varied and so personally I wasn't laughing all the way through , though the movie does feature something for everyone , which is a plus . There's no real point in talking about the voices or the animation ; all of which are just what everyone is used to . The film maybe does try to be a little too expansive ; obviously the Simpsons creators wanted to go for a big blockbuster sort of feel , but personally I would have preferred a ' smaller ' story such as the one featured in the classic dual episode ' Who Shot Mr Burns ' . I can remember the moment I really decided I wanted to see this film ; it was shortly after seeing the trailer , which featured the supremely silly ' Spiderpig ' song as sung by Homer . This is a brilliant little gag , and definitely the funniest thing in the film for me . The film does try and bring all of the Simpson family into the plot ; though as it often the case with the episodes , it's really Homer and Bart that are the main stars ( being the most interesting characters ) and that is OK with me . Overall , I wouldn't rank this as a big favourite were it an episode ; but The Simpsons Movie certainly works well as a comedy and I'm glad the yellow-skinned family have finally reached the big screen .
Effortlessly cool and self-styled western	Dead Man is a unique piece of film . As this is my first taste of Jim Jarmusch , I had no idea of what to expect , but even if I had ; I reckon that this film wouldn't have conformed to them . Dead Man is a surreal and trippy western that peels itself away from the staples of the genre and succeeds in creating something truly one-off and self-styled . Lead by a score written by Neil Young , Dead Man is continually satisfying and powerful ; and you get the impression that every scene has been fully thought through , and is perfectly realised as the auteur intended . For this reason , Dead Man captivates it's viewer from the moment it starts until the moment it ends , and as it descends into full blown trippy weirdness , you can do nothing but stare in admiration of this strange gem of cult cinema . The plot is thin on the ground and it largely lacks meaning , but it doesn't matter because Dead Man is a purely aesthetic experience . Still , it follows William Blake ( Johnny Depp ) , an accountant from Cleveland that arrives in a town to take a job offer , only to find that the vacancy has already been filled ? Dead Man is filmed in very stark black and white , which only adds to the surrealism of the story . Had this film have been done in colour , it would not have captured the same atmosphere that the black and white gives it ; and so this decision was an inspired one indeed . One staple of the western genre that Jarmusch is keen to retain is the use of close-ups . The director spends a lot of time caressing Depp's facial features with his camera and , at times , even focuses on his lead actor when the action doesn't concern him . Aside from keeping in with the western tradition , this also allows Jarmusch to keep the focus on the main character , which keeps the viewer focused on his plight . For this film , Jarmusch has put together a cast of B-movie icons that will have B-movie fans foaming at the mouth . Crispin Glover , Robert Mitchum , Billy Bob Thornton , Lance Henriksen , Gabriel Byrne , John Hurt , Alfred Molina and even Iggy Pop feature and it's great to see so many faces in the same movie . The cast is , of course , lead by a man who is perhaps today's best actor ; Johnny Depp . Depp's name on a credit list speaks for itself , and I don't need to tell you that his performance is great ; nor do I need to point out the effortless cool that this movie exudes , largely thanks to the great man's presence . My only advice is see it . . . see it now .
Superior 80's rubbish	Frank Hennenlotter's " Basket Case " highlights the problem with horror films of today . Back in the eighties , films would be made with an idea and no budget , and the result would nearly always see the release of an inventive and interesting horror film . Basket Case is no exception to this , as despite hokey effects , a rather silly story and some very suspect acting ; Basket Case is a trash classic all the way , and it's a film that's guaranteed to delight fans of horror . The story capitalises on the fact that many people ( including yours truly ) find the subject of deformity uncomfortable , and the subject of living with it even more so . The plot follows a strange young man that carries a basket around with him . Inside the basket lies his hideously deformed Siamese twin , and the deformity wants it's revenge ! This leads the two brothers to seek out the doctors that separated them and brutally butcher them , and delivering us with a great camp horror movie ! The central creature - namely , the deformed brother , is a masterpiece of creature design . The thing itself looks ridiculous , but in spite of this it actually manages to be quite frightening , and once you've gotten over the initial giggles : it takes on a life of it's own , and even manages to become quite believable . The film is sufficiently gory , which will no doubt be good news for everyone that wants to see it . Frank Hennenlotter is one of those directors that obviously has talent and flair for making films , but also hasn't been given a real chance to realise it . It's a massive shame that the endless amounts of remakes continue to get released on huge budgets , while someone that could make a great movie is blessed only with chicken feed to make them with . Just wait until the part where the brothers ' story is told ? that's inventiveness for you ! One thing I do love about the director is the way he casts his lead ; the one here is certainly odd enough , in a naive loser sort of a way . On the whole ; fans of intricate , deep cinema should stay well clear - while everyone else is preparing themselves for a damn good time !
No gore this time , but still a great Lucio Fulci film !	It's hard to believe that this thriller was directed by the same man who would go on to create such gory highlights as Zombie Flesh-Eaters and City of the Living Dead , but indeed this is a film from the Lucio Fulci that us gore hounds know and love . His later Giallo , such as A Lizard in Woman's Skin and Don't Torture a Duckling weren't as bloody as Fulci fans are used to , and this one is even less so ; in fact , it isn't even a horror movie . Fulci does find time for graphic images , however , but things such as a badly decomposed corpse look out of place in a movie that is much more about mystery and suspense than shocking its audience . Fulci often doesn't get the respect he deserves when it comes to movie-making , and that's unfair as he really does know how to tell a story . One on Top of the Other focuses on themes of love and revenge , and follows the story of a doctor with a wife who suffers from chronic asthma . After her death , he is enticed to a nightclub along with his mistress , where he meets a young woman who is the double of his dead wife . Shortly thereafter , the corpse of his wife is unearthed and traces of poison are found in the body . . . The film takes obvious influence from the great Alfred Hitchcock film ' Vertigo ' , but unlike a lot of Italian films from the sixties and seventies ; this one is not merely a retread of its popular American influence . Fulci injects his own style and verve into the plot , and common Giallo elements such as crossed loyalties and compromising situation for the lead victim start to creep in . The acting on display here is superb , with Jean Sorel putting in a fabulous performance in the lead role in which he manages to captivate the audience and be convincing at the same time . The female leads are more striking ; however , and both Marisa Mell and Elsa Martinelli get to act as well providing beautiful eye candy for the audience . Unlike a lot of Giallo's , this one takes place outside of Italy and makes San Francisco the central location . The landscapes look great , and the original jazz music by Riz Ortolani helps to ensure that swinging sixties feel comes across . There is a lack of murders in this film , which may disappoint Giallo and Fulci fans ; but the intrigue that appears instead offsets this nicely , and overall I don't hesitate to say that One on Top of the Other is one of the great Giallo films !
Second only to Lon Chaney's take on the classic story	Hammer Horror tends to be at their best when they're doing their own take on a classic story . That's what they've done here , and Phantom of the Opera is definitely one of my favourites from the studio . This version of the tale sticks closer to the original than many of Hammer's films do , with only some small elements being changed . The phantom here is much more human than the ones seen in earlier and later takes on the tale , and the chandelier sequence has been given a small overhaul . None of Hammer's real big stars appear in this production ( which could be partly responsible for it flopping on release ) , but Hammer's favourite director , Terence Fisher , has still managed to put together a suitable cast . Herbert Lom takes the title role and does well with it , in that he has a great ability to make you feel sorry for him . The ultra-camp Michael Gough is the phantom's nemesis , and portrays his vile character brilliantly . Many people don't think much to Gough's acting - but he's one of those actors that can shine when given fitting material . Thorley Walters is no stranger to Hammer films , and he is joined by Heather Sears to make up the rest of the central ensemble . Naturally , there's a small role for Hammer regular Michael Ripper too . The plot will be familiar to everyone , and it follows a brilliant composer whose work was stolen by the opera house director . In an attempt to burn the work , the composer becomes badly deformed and takes up residence in the annals of the opera house that should have made him famous . It isn't long before he spies the beautiful Christine , and thus makes it his business to train her singing voice . The sets for this film are great , and do everything that you would expect the sets for this story to do . Hammer have gone for a more downtrodden style than the usual flamboyance , and that helps to enforce the dark side of this classic tale . There has been a lot of versions of Phantom of the Opera over the years , and while Lon Chaney's version will remain the best in most horror fan's eyes , I have no qualms with ranking this take on it as number two . My only problem with the film really is that too much time is spent on actual opera . This is also what I hated about the Claude Rains version . . . but I suppose you cant have ' Phantom of the Opera ' without a little bit of opera . On the whole , this is a great Hammer film and well worth seeing !
Classic B-movie entertainment	Sherlock Holmes films from the classic Universal era tend to range in quality . This range goes from very good to above average , with none of their output being abysmal , or astoundingly brilliant . Sherlock Holmes and The Secret Weapon fits snugly into the middle ground quality-wise , and , as ever , it's an enjoyable outing that fans of the series , like myself , will enjoy very much . This film sees Holmes in the middle of a World War 2 plot by the evil Nazi's to steal a Swiss scientist's invention , which could turn out to be a key element on the battlefield . The World War 2 Sherlock Holmes films don't tend to be as good as the ones such as The Scarlet Claw where Holmes is conducting private investigations , as they're usually dogged by too much propaganda or a plot that is more to do with the war than the mystery . This one , however , pretty much stays away from both and by putting the focus on Holmes and his investigation , the film works much better . Perhaps Universal saw what brought down the earlier Voice of Terror and changed the focus because of that . Basil Rathbone once again puts in an excellent maverick performance as the ace detective and while Nigel Bruce doesn't feature as much as normal , it's nice to see him when he does . The two don't spent much time together , which is disappointing because their chemistry is always one of the best things about Holmes films ; but this does allow more time for Holmes to showboat in various disguises , which is always lots of fun . Dennis Hoey's Lestrade is definitely my favourite of the secondary characters , and while he's not as funny as usual ; his facial expressions are great , and his presence helps to emphasise how great Holmes is . His scene with Watson in a car following paint drops on the road is my favourite moment of the film . It's good to see Holmes ' nemesis , Professor Moriarty return , even if it does seem like he's just been thrown in for the hell of it . Lionel Atwill's performance isn't as good as George Zucco's in The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes , as he never really convinces that he is indeed a brilliant mind ; but seeing him lock horns with the protagonist is fun and it's nice to see him in the film to offset the World War 2 themes , which are never as interesting as Holmes himself . The film starts off as more of a thriller than a mystery flick ; but once it gets going , it's hard to put down and this is a more than solid entry in Universal's oeuvre .
Excellent and potent tale of loss	Paris , Texas is my first ever taste of acclaimed director Wim Wenders , and while the film isn't exactly sweet ; it's certainly not bitter enough to steer itself away from the realms of the masterpiece . Paris , Texas is very much a character driven story and it follows the account of a man that wanders out of the hot desert sun with an acute case of amnesia . When his brother , Walt , finds him , he helps him to remember his life , and we then watch as our protagonist rekindles his former relationships first with son , and then with the mother of his child . Wim Wenders handles this story with the utmost skill , and it works thanks to the tentative way that he portrays the characters to the audience . Just like the town of it's title ; Paris , Texas is basically a film about being lost . I ( and I'm sure many other people ) didn't even realise that there was a place called Paris in the middle of Texas , and this little place is symbolic of the substance that is at the core of this movie . The film doesn't benefit from any big name actors , but the actors in the movie do give it their all and ensure that it doesn't fall down on the acting side . Harry Dean Stanton takes the lead role , and does a good job in , at first , portraying a man consumed with amnesia ; and then consumed with the time he has lost . Nastassja Kinski is the only member of the cast that has a really notable list of film credits other than this movie , but ironically she has the least screen time of the five leads . Every minute she is on screen is a delight , however , and she lights up the screen with both of her talents ; looks and acting ability . The young Hunter Carson gives a rare child performance ; i . e . one that isn't incredibly annoying , but strangely he didn't appear in very many movies after this one . The climax to the tale is more than satisfying , and is easily one of the most haunting and potent I've ever seen in a film . Wenders shows his talent with both the execution and the implications of it , and it's a satisfying end to a very satisfying movie . Recommended .
A lesson in atmosphere	The Spiral Staircase is one of the most eerie and atmospheric films that I have ever had the pleasure of seeing . The entire movie gives off a sense of malice throughout , and the use of music here is some of the best I've ever seen in a movie . The film's plot follows a series of murders , of which all the victims are people with imperfections . Our hero is Helen ; a young mute girl that works as a nurse for Mrs Warren , an old lady that lives in a big house . Aside from the old lady , also living in the house are her two sons ; Albert and Steven , along with a few other people such as the maid . As the murders are being committed on imperfect women , the old lady becomes concerned for her mute nurse and begs her to leave . When another murder is committed in the house , the danger that the young girl is in becomes more apparent . The first thing you will notice about this hidden gem is it's striking cinematography and lush settings . The film is very Gothic , and that gives it a very foreboding atmosphere . This is without doubt the best things about the film ; in a dark thriller such as this , the atmosphere is always important , and as I said ; this film has plenty . The film also features a lot of intrigue . As it has many characters that could be suspects , it leaves you guessing . Playing it's cards very close to it's chest , we don't find out who is the murderer until the very last minute . The cast of The Spiral Staircase don't excel individually , but they come together very well as an ensemble . Most of them would never make another notable movie , although the majority have rather large filmographies . Robert Siodmak takes the directors chair , and he should be commended for his work . His use of the camera is excellent ; the film features numerous close-ups , and when coupled with the haunting music ; it makes for a great eeriness . There is one sequence in particular where the killer is watching his would-be victim from some bushes in the rain , and that with the haunting music in the background is altogether one of the most frightening sequences ever filmed . Cinematic perfection .
Easily one of the best thrillers of the nineties !	Given the plot description , it's clear that Jonathon Mostow's thriller ' Breakdown ' isn't going to redefine cinema or break any boundaries ; and as it is , the film is actually very derivative and more than a little clichéd ; but the cast and director carry it off well , and overall this is one of the most tense thrillers I've seen . It can't be easy to create tension , and indeed many thrillers fail miserably at it ; but this one honestly is a thrill ride from start to finish and once Mostow has implemented the tense atmosphere , the audience isn't allowed to breathe calmly again until the end credits role ; and that really is what you want from a film like this ! The film takes obvious influence from desert road thrillers such as The Hitcher and Duel and adds in a little organised crime , as we follow a married couple on a road trip through the desert . The trip turns awry when their car breaks down , and after a truck pulls up to help ; the husband finds himself in a world of turmoil when his wife goes missing after taking a ride with the trucker . Nobody seems to have seen her ; just how do you locate a missing person in the middle of nowhere ? This sort of movie doesn't usually give its stars much to do , but the amazingly talented Kurt Russell takes what he's been given and moulds a very real character out of it . The early exchanges between him and his wife are good and show that the film isn't just about car chases and shootouts . Russell does well in ensuring that his character is always vulnerable and a million miles away from his all action characters in films such as Escape from New York . He is joined by talented support from the likes of Kathleen Quinlan , Jack Noseworthy and J . T . Walsh ; all of which excel in their respective roles . The action is clichéd , but the director ensures that it all feels very fresh as everything is delivered with panache and great excitement . There are a number of car chases and scenes that see the lead character in peril , and it's easy to put yourself in his place thanks to Kurt Russell's performance . It's true that this film is , in essence , just a good excuse to while away ninety minutes of your time ; but Breakdown is better than many films of its kind , and if you're looking for thrills ; you'll find them here !
Horror's premier team - Corman , Poe and Price team up again !	From the talented team of Roger Corman , Vincent Price and , of course , Edgar Allen Poe comes this lively and inventive trio of horror stories ; Tales of Terror . I've got to tell you straight off ; it's a shame that this film was made . It's not that it isn't a good film , I enjoyed it very much but it's a shame because all three of the stories featured here could have made stand alone films , and it's a bit of a waste in that respect , as I'm sure I aren't the only one that would rather have three Corman-Poe films than just one . Still , it was made so we might as well make the best of it . The first story is a lot like Corman's excellent earlier film , ' The Fall of the House of Usher ' and stars Vincent Price as the father of the girl whose mother believes murdered her . The father has gone insane since his wife left him and her corpse remains rotting within the walls of his house . This tale is very short , and we don't get a lot of time for the important things such as atmosphere building or character development due to it being short ; but it's a nice little tale non the less and gets the audience in the mood for Poe's style of story telling . The second and longest tale is based on one of Poe's most famous stories , ' The Black Cat ' and stars Peter Lorre as the drunk who discovers his wife is having an affair and proceeds to take revenge . This tale has been covered many times and from many different angles , from the 1934 classic to Fulci's version , all the way to Argento's take on it in Two Evil Eyes ; but not one of them has ever truly done the story justice in my opinion ; and in spite of this starring Peter Lorre and featuring a performance from Vincent Price , this one doesn't quite do it either . Peter Lorre , however , is fantastic and it's always a treat to see him on screen . His performance here has definite comedy elements in it , and seeing scenes such as the part where Price and Lorre taste wine are delightfully , if absurdly , funny . The black cat itself doesn't really get enough screen time in this tale , and that's what I think keeps it from being the definitive version . The third , final and best tale of the trilogy again stars Vincent Price and covers another tale that was covered in 1990's Two Evil Eyes ; The Case of Mr . Valdemar . George Romero helmed the Two Evil Eyes version and caught a lot of flack for it , and for good reason as it was rubbish ; this version , however , certainly isn't . The story is ingenious , but that's elementary since Edgar Allen Poe wrote it . Vincent Price gives a great performance ( albeit one that is mostly done in voice over ) and the tale is actually quite frightening . All of the tales in the story deal with something death related , but this one does it best and the story actually comes across as being feasible . . . spooky .
Life is tough when your cousin comes to stay . . . and she's a witch !	Well , I didn't have much hope for this one - but it actually turned out to be a big ( pleasant ) surprise ! By 1978 , director Wes Craven was best known for his brash exploitation thrillers The Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes , making this film something of a change of pace for him as not only doesn't it feature the hardcore violence of the latter two films - it's actually a ' made for TV ' picture ! However , in spite of that - it's actually really good ! Fair enough , it doesn't break any traditions and it doesn't have a whole lot of ' bite ' , but the story is perfectly paced and this ensures that the director is able to keep things interesting throughout , and this is what makes Summer of Fear a cut above your average TV movie . The plot focuses on Rachel Bryant - a young girl who lives with her family somewhere in America . Her aunt and uncle are killed in a car crash one day and , other than the obvious implications of this event , it turns out to be really bad news for her as her cousin comes to stay with the family . Julia Trent is an instant hit with the household and all their friends - but her antics aren't fooling Rachel , who comes to believe that Julia is a witch . This is the sort of story that would lend itself brilliantly to a book ( the film is based on the children's novel of the same title written by Lois Duncan ) , but doesn't often translate well to the big screen . That makes this film an exception as despite featuring no big scares and relying entirely on the intrigue generated from the central situation , the film keeps itself going well , and the way that the story constantly hints at the witchcraft theme works very well . The film stars Linda Blair in one of her first post-Exorcist horror roles , and she does brilliantly with it . Her hair looks a bit silly throughout , but she gets over this with a nice performance in which she captures a balance between the naivety and ingenuity of her character . The rest of the cast act in support to Linda , but all give decent performances . The events leading up to the inevitable climax aren't all that terrible ; but by keeping things down to earth , the film actually becomes more effective as it nicely gets into a rhythm and nothing in the film feels out of place . Even the ending , which shows the film at its most over the top , still feels rather tame in comparison to other , similar , films . Overall , I can't recommend going out of your way to find this - but if you happen across a copy , it does at least make for a fun , relaxing viewing .
Excellent dissection of a real life crime	Director Richard Fleischer obviously has an interest in true crime , what with this and the excellent 10 Rillington Place , and he's certainly very good at directing films based on real life cases . Compulsion is based on the landmark US case of Leopold and Loeb , and takes place in 1924 . The case is often billed as " The Trial of the Century " ( along with a number of other cases ) , and is perhaps best remembered for the eloquent marathon speech delivered by lawyer Clarence Darrow ( played in this film by the great Orson Welles ) . The names of the central characters have , rather unsurprisingly , been changed for the film ; but it's also not surprising that Leopold ( ' Judd Steiner ' ) tried to sue the filmmakers for ' invasion of privacy ' upon its release in 1959 . The film follows the story of two intellectual , yet very stupid , boys that decide to kidnap and kill another boy for intellectual reasons ( reminiscent of Hitchcock's Rope ) . After the body is discovered by one of their classmates ; the pair find themselves under suspicion after a pair of glasses is found at the scene of the crime . Richard Fleischer gives excellent handling to this fascinating story , as he excellently creates an air of mystery around every scene and the result is a truly riveting dissection of this landmark case . The story is given credence by some excellent performances by Dean Stockwell and Bradford Dillman in the lead roles . After having read the details of the real life case , I do think that both the roles could have been given more depth ; as the infatuation between the ' lead ' boy and follower could have been brought more to the forefront . I guess that this was one of the films that Orson Welles made to make himself a few bob , but even so ; his eloquent and memorable performance is undoubtedly the standout of the film , even though he only appears for a short period . The themes surrounding the case are one of the major points of the movie , and it's all well handled as the screenplay allows Fleischer to both tell a story and ensures that all of its implications come across . Overall , this is an excellent and unfortunately often ignored film that deserves more plaudits . Recommended !
Visually stunning hypnotic nightmare !	Despite it's uninspiring title , Ken Russell's " Gothic " is actually an intriguing , and uniquely inspiring piece of cinema . Mary Shelly's " Frankenstein " is one of the stories that has helped to shape horror cinema , and so the story behind it is guaranteed to interest horror fans . This film isn't exactly the story of how the story came to fruition ; but rather a compilation of ideas surrounding " what could have happened " ( but quite clearly didn't ) . The film takes influence from the enigmatic Lord Byron more than anything , and it's always him that springs to mind as we watch the small cast delve into their imaginations , culminating in an orgy of sex and violence . The story is simple , and focuses more on imagery and the ideas behind what is happening on screen . We follow Percy Shelly and his wife to be , Mary ; along with her sister Claire , who travel to the self-exiled home of Lord Byron . While there , the four of them ; along with Byron's biographer , decide to indulge in the art of making up ghost stories . However , the fun gets out of hand when the quintet begins to believe that they have actually created a monster . The film has a very ' intellectual ' flavour , but the fact is that there isn't a lot below the surface of this film . Gothic , to me at least , is a visual treat rather than food for thought - with Ken Russell's imagery providing more than any deep and complex substance . The imagery is stunning , and fits into the film very well . Russell's sets compliment the story excellently , and the atmosphere in which the film takes place is more important than the story itself . Lord Byron's house is almost a character within itself , and when combined with the actual characters ; Russell has provided horror fans with a very surreal film indeed . The cast is excellent . Films with a small cast rely more on their actors , and this film certainly doesn't fall down in that respect . Gabriel Byrne leads the cast , and does an excellent job of holding the film together . Julian Sands , Natasha Richardson , Myriam Cyr and Timothy Spall , who all portray their characters excellently , join him . On the whole ; I can easily see why people dislike this film ; as it's somewhat messy , and doesn't adhere to common horror standards - but if you like your horror different , this is highly recommended .
Relaxed and sombre . . . . Ozon , is that you ?	Unlike the vast majority of the rest of talented French director Francois Ozon's films , Under the Sand features hardly a shocking moment . In fact , the most shocking thing about this movie is the level of restraint present towards the end when Ozon has a clear shot at giving his audience something to go home with , but doesn't capitalise on it . On the whole , Under the Sand is simply a sombre tale of love , fused with tragedy and the implications of loss . The film follows Marie Drillon ( Charlotte Rampling ) , a woman who loses her husband while on holiday . As he has been lost in the sea , Marie has no body to prove that her husband is indeed dead , and so continues her life pretending that he's still around . The film then follows a psychological thriller structure , as we watch our protagonist disintegrate as a result of her loss . Under the Sand is more than just another thriller , however , as Francois Ozon directs it , and his energy and invention always ensure that the film remains interesting . It's amazing just how relaxed this film is , as just shortly before seeing it I was lucky enough to catch Ozon's " Water Drops on Burning Rocks " , and said film is a completely different kettle of fish to this one . There's next to no startling imagery , no impromptu dance sequences and on the whole it just seems like Ozon wanted to make a straight art film . Not that I have a problem with that . The film stars Charlotte Rampling , who would go on to collaborate with Ozon on the bewitching Swimming Pool and is an excellent actress on the whole . Ozon always ensures he gets the best out of her as well , and in this film , as in Swimming Pool , you always get the impression that the bond between actress and director is a happy one and one that both parties are satisfied with . The film's substance draws from it's themes of loss , but the most haunting element of the movie is the idea that love is ever lasting . In today's day and age it seems that it's socially acceptable to cheat on your lover , but this film ardently disagrees with that view . While I don't rate this as one of Ozon's best films , it's definitely a good one and I don't hesitate to recommend it .
Beautiful cult gem	When it comes to rare cult gems , The Perfume of the Lady in Black is a finely cut diamond ! Many rare Italian films have received wide releases recently , meaning that it's a tragedy that this film hasn't . While this film isn't the best to come from Italy , it's certainly well worth seeing for fans of the Italian thriller , and its cult value is immense ! The film is often mistaken for a Giallo ; but this seems to be more because of the fact that it's from the Giallo homeland than any affiliation with the sub-genre . The Perfume of the Lady in Black is more of a psychological thriller , although it does benefit from a colour scheme typical of Italy's most famous cult films . The plot follows the story of Silvia Hacherman . We see her in a photograph over the title sequence , and it quickly becomes apparent that all is not right with her and her family . The film starts years later ; Silvia is grown up and her parents are dead . However , their memory is not , and the beautiful young woman finds herself haunted by their memory . Carrying on with the diamond idea . . . this film is absolutely stunning to look at ! The vibrant colour scheme ( which mainly consists of yellow ) ensures this and every scene is beautifully photographed by director Francesco Barilli . Barilli directs the film with care , and every vista is dripping with a double meaning bubbling below the surface . Mimsy Farmer ( who has worked with Italian legends Dario Argento and Lucio Fulci ) takes the lead role , and only adds to the aesthetic value . This beautiful actress is a delight to look at , and her image always suits the film . The plot is character based , and the plot points are few . Because of this , several points will be lost on the casual viewer , and The Perfume of the Lady in Black is a film that needs to be viewed carefully in order for it to be fully appreciated . The film benefits from a foreboding atmosphere , which is perfectly backed up by the music score ; and the way that it climaxes in bloody and brutal fashion brilliantly offsets the pace of what has gone before . The Perfume of the Lady in Black is not an easy film to track down ; but if you get the chance to see it , I definitely recommend taking it !
Another stupid but fun Italian sex comedy !	Even though this sort of thing is cheesy and incredibly silly - it does have to be said that Italians have a great sense of humour , and certainly know how to put together a good sex comedy ! Naturally , my main reason for seeing this film was the presence of the stunningly beautiful Edwige Fenech , and even though we never get to see her completely naked ; the lovely miss Fenech never disappoints , and certainly makes an imposing presence on the film once she appears . It would appear that director Mariano Laurenti knew what the film's main selling point is , and as such makes the audience wait almost half an hour before Fenech finally appears , but she's always worth the wait . The plot focuses on two feuding neighbours ; Olimpio , a knight and Oderisi , a miller . Both have beautiful wives , and both have opted to keep them under lock and key with a chastity belt . However , when going to see Oderisi one day , Olimpio sees his wife , Lady Ubalda , for the first time and decides he will do his utmost to have her . However , upon learning of this ; Oderisi decides to take revenge . The film is set in the past ( it's not really clear when ) , and this provides one of the film's biggest jokes . The sets and the costumes look like they cost a fistful of lire to put together and it are clear that nobody really cared much about the setting . The jokes are mostly very childish and revolve around sex , although there's also a lot of slapstick humour and various other gags to keep things going . Edwige Fenech is reunited with her Giovannona co-star Pippo Franco who , despite being somewhat annoying , is actually really funny and provides a decent lead man role . The other lady is Karin Schubert , who's not as beautiful as Edwige , but provides good support along with Umberto D'Orsi . The film is not exactly a masterpiece of plotting , but it flows well at least and never dries up to the extent of becoming boring . The music is amusing also and certainly fits the style of the film . Sex comedies aren't my favourite type of Italian movie , but the handful that I've seen have been really good and Ubalda more than lived up to my expectations . Definitely worth seeing !
Derivative , but fun and worthwhile Giallo	Antonio Bido's previous foray into the Giallo sub genre , The Cat's Victims , was a rather messy and highly derivative affair , so I'm pleased to report that he's improved greatly for this follow-up . Typically for Giallo , The Blood-Stained Shadow features a convoluted plot , and unfortunately Bido's plot pacing can be a little off at times , as the film is painfully slow at some points , and then whimsically clever at others . Luckily , the director uses the atmosphere from the Venetian Island upon which the film is set well , and even during the ' down time ' , there is enough about the film to keep it ticking over in a pleasant manner . The plot starts with a shot of a dead body ; a young girl whose murderer was never discovered . We pick up the plot some time later when a young man has returned to his home , which also happens to be the place where his brother , the local priest , lives . After having being told by his brother of all the immoral people in the town , a group which includes gamblers , perverts and con artists , the dead bodies begin to pile up . Is there a connection with the murder years earlier ? The Cat's Victims was clearly very derivative of the great Dario Argento , and this film is too . The film isn't as well put together as the likes of Deep Red and Tenebrae , but Bido does a good job of imitating the superior director . The murder scenes are very well orchestrated and really quite nasty also ; as we've got a man getting an axe through the heart , a woman having her head forced into a fire and other such gory highlights . The score by Stelvio Cipriani is a particular highlight , as the heavy tones suit the movie excellently and provide it with one of its strongest elements . Naturally with this kind of plot , it can be a little difficult to follow at times as random events occur at regular intervals ; but Bido makes good of it by the end , as everything comes together in a way that makes sense and manages a genuine surprise for the audience . Overall , while The Blood-Stained Shadow isn't one of the heavyweight ' must see ' films of the Giallo cycle , it has enough strongpoint's to ensure that it will be a point of interest for Giallo fans , and while the director has borrowed , perhaps even a little too much , seeing all the common Giallo elements in a film together is a treat . Recommended !
Excellent horror - don't miss this one !	I've got to the point where I've seen so many horror films that none of the main horror themes really scare me anymore - but there is just one exception , and this film tackles that idea with a great big toothy grin on its face ! Most legends have had a film about them made at some point ; this is not the first film to take on ' Vagina dentata ' , but the only other one I know of was the little known 2003 Wolfgang Büld film ' Penetration Angst ' - and Teeth does it much better . The plot is preposterous and absurd and while it's clear that the film does have its tongue in its cheek somewhat , I got the impression that the director was trying to make a horror film rather than a comedy . We follow Dawn ; a young girl that is a member of a strange ' purity ' cult which vows not to have sex until marriage . However , she meets a young man through this cult and the pair shares an obvious attraction . After messing him around a bit , she finally gives in to him ; but then changes her mind at the last minute and he rapes her ; but things turn out worse for him than for her when he's left with a bloody stump . . . The Vagina dentata myth is based on a man's fear of sex and in this film , it's blended with the idea of a young girl growing up and losing her virginity . It has to be said that the film doesn't make quite as much of a meal of the ideology as it could have done , although the way it features certain male characters getting ' punished ' for their wrongdoings as well as the central character agonising over what is going on inside her body does at least get the points across . One problem with the film is that it's all very predictable ; there are a few surprises but generally at the start of any one scene , you can pretty much see where it's going to go and this is a bit of a shame considering how bizarre the central idea is . The acting and production values are all decent on the whole and the film stays away from being a goofy ' Troma style ' flick , which is to its credit . However , there is some gore featured and while the central ' monster ' itself is never actually shown , the director does seem to delight in showing the castrated males and this is guaranteed to make the male members of the audience squirm ! Teeth is clearly a film that is not for everyone ; but I'm sure many will be curious just to see what it's like and for what it is , I have to say that Teeth is very well done .
Up there with the best porn flicks of the seventies	Pornography doesn't have a great reputation and that's hardly surprising considering the vast amount of rubbish porn films doing the rounds , but Resurrection of Eve is certainly at the top end of the market and manages to be both a good film and a good porn film . The film was made in and is set in the seventies and directors Jon Fontana and Artie Mitchell do an excellent job of creating the seventies style . The production values of the film are strong also , and unlike a lot of porn films ; it's clear that some money was spent on this one and the positive results of that are obvious . The story is actually surprisingly strong and focuses on a young girl named Eve . As a girl , Eve is sexually abused and we join the story some years later and she's involved with a man named Frank . Frank's jealous of Eve's relationship with a black man named Johnny and she ends up in a car accident . After facial reconstruction surgery , Eve is ' resurrected ' . She and Frank get married and Frank ends up getting a taste for group sex , which Eve has trouble getting into at first . . . The most bizarre thing about this film is that Eve is played by three different actresses ! When the film starts off , she's just a girl so obviously a different actress for her younger and older years was required , but why have the whole car accident / reconstruction thing going on ? It's even more bizarre when you consider that Marilyn Chambers as the final Eve looks nothing like the previous two played by Nancy Welch and Mimi Morgan respectively . Anyway . . . I guess it's not too important . Marilyn Chambers is the main actress of the three and she's excellent in her role . Nice looking actress and she actually has some acting talent too . Matthew Armon stars alongside her and also gives a good performance . Naturally the most important thing about this film is the sex and there's certainly plenty of it ! Since the core plot focuses on group sex you can expect a lot of that too and the orgy scenes are very well done . The directors also pay a lot of attention to background detail and there are a lot of scenes that feature couples randomly getting it on in the background . The sex is also rather erotic , which isn't always the case with adult cinema . Overall , Resurrection of Eve is up there with The Punishment of Anne and Through the Looking Glass as one of the best porn flicks of the seventies and porn fans won't want to miss it !
Sublime fantasy masterpiece	How can you not love this movie ? From the amazingly talented team of Marc Caro and Jean-Pierre Jeunet comes this superbly original fantasy tale , that just oozes inventiveness and drags you into it's world , where it's all too easy to completely lose yourself . Caro and Jeunet were , of course , the good people behind the brilliant ' Delicatessen ' . The City of Lost Children is kind of like Delicatessen mark 2 . The style is still there in droves , except in this film it's much more abundant , and while Delicatessen had a base in reality , The City of Lost Children can easily be classified simply as ' pure ' fantasy . The film is very French , and even if you didn't know where it's makers came from , you'd be able to guess . The French style is great anyway , and an excellent base to make a movie from , but when it's mixed with Jeunet's personal style , we've got a movie on our hands ! That's exactly what this film is too ; pure cinema . This is the sort of experience that I watch movies for , and so the film gets a huge thumbs up on that front . The plot follows a man named Krank . Krank ages prematurely because he cannot dream , thus leading him to kidnap the local children and attempt to steal their dreams . However , as Krank is many a child's worst nightmare , that's exactly what he gets ; nightmares , which just isn't good enough . The fun starts when Krank's men kidnap the brother of strongman Ron Perlman , who then sets out with a young orphan girl to find him . The two leads ; Ron Perlman and Judith Vittet do a magnificent job of carrying the film , and their very different appearances and persona's blend well with one another . Judith Vittet really does steal the show all on her own , however , as her performance is far more mature than you would expect from an actress so young . It's a shame she only has four film credits to her name . It's not the actors that are the real stars of this film however , as the surrealistic style just steals every scene . You spend most of the movie simply admiring the lavish settings and absolutely sublime uses of CGI . As mentioned , this is exactly the sort of production that cinema was invented for . The inventiveness on display is simply stunning and puts just about every other film in it's class to shame . Jean-Pierre Jeunet is one of today's finest filmmakers , and along with a select group of individuals is one of the few directors left that are still capable of a masterpiece . And that's exactly what this film is ; a masterpiece .
Classic horror film , based on a classic book and lead by a classic career-best performance	It is fitting that the first American horror film to feature spoken word was based on what is possibly the most famous , and most important horror novel of all time ; Bram Stoker's Dracula ! The story , of course , is great ; and when combined with Tod Browning's directorial vision , and a career best performance from the great Bela Lugosi , it's hardly surprising that the 1931 version of Dracula is the most enduring version of the classic tale of all time . This is the film that , along with James Whale's Frankenstein of the same year , ensured that Universal studios would always be remembered as one of the major forces in horror cinema , and deservedly so . The classic story starts off with a man named Renfield travelling to Transylvania to finalise the sale of Carfax Abbey to the mysterious Count Dracula . It's not long before Renfield is going insane and looking after Dracula on his sea journey to England . In England , Dracula becomes obsessed with the beautiful Mina , and after sucking her blood , her father calls in the scientist Van Helsing , who discovers the cause of Mina's problem . . . Even though he only played the role once on screen ( not including a role in the comedy Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein ) , Bela Lugosi managed to get his name forever associated with the character . His Eastern European accent and melodramatic persona ensure that nobody has ever delivered a more memorable performance as the great vampire , and many believe that there has never been a better Dracula than Bela Lugosi ( although I've got to admit that I prefer watching Christopher Lee in the role ) . Tod Browning's direction is assured and perhaps the most striking thing about it is the lack of a score . Browning's lack of music ensures that the film has a slow pace , but this also makes it very eerie ; with the only sounds present being the actor's voices and the creatures of the night . When combined with the thick Gothic atmosphere , we have an environment that is perfect for this sort of Gothic horror story . The story of Dracula is incredibly famous , and I wager that there's barely anyone on the planet who doesn't at least know the basics of it . This does harm the film a little , because it means that you always know what's going to happen - but it's a small criticism of an absolute classic horror film . There are some films every horror fan must see , and this is one of them .
An excellent throwback to eighties horror !	I approached Gutterballs with caution ; as while the premise sounded interesting enough , I was not a fan of director Ryan Nicholson's first feature film ' Live Feed ' . Gutterballs seems to take inspiration from slasher flicks such as Intruder and Stage Fright , in that we have a group of people locked inside a small location with a maniacal killer , and mixes this with a gleeful eighties style and a bucket of blood and gore . The result is a film that is not for everyone ; but a dream come true for fans of exploitative horror , as Gutterballs is completely unflinching in the way that it portrays violence , and it's actually very refreshing to see someone still making films like this with all the watered down horror coming out of most modern day studios . As the title suggests ; the film focuses on a bowling alley . We are introduced to two rival teams and the animosity between them soon becomes obvious when they start scrapping within the first few minutes of the film . Cut to the next night and their game is intruded by an unknown bowler calling himself ' BBK ' , and the bowlers start being picked off one by one . Gutterballs is a film that really doesn't hold back at all ; the gang rape scene within the first twenty minutes is liable to get more than a few backs up pretty quickly , but it actually turns out to be just a taster for what is to come as we are treated to a barrage of murder scenes and various body parts are mutilated . Despite all the blood and guts , it's clear that the film isn't meant to be taken completely seriously either ; and parts of it are absolutely laugh-out-loud funny , which is nice . Ryan Nicholson ensures that the film is entertaining throughout and Gutterballs never really slows down or becomes boring for a minute , which makes for a very fun viewing . Most surprising of all is the fact that the film is very professionally done - the acting is more than above average for this sort of film , and the gore - while ridiculously gratuitous - doesn't look completely fake . The killer's identity will be obvious to anyone familiar with the genre , and not too hard to guess for anyone that isn't ; but the film does have more than one twist up its sleeve and the ending itself is a blast . Overall , I don't expect Gutterballs to receive universal praise , but I would think that it will get respect from genre fans ( who also have fun spotting various tributes ) and I would certainly rate it as one of the better horror flicks of this decade . Recommended !
An excellent horror flick !	I have to say I'm surprised that this little film doesn't have a higher rating . SSSSSSS is not a great film by any stretch of the imagination ; it is rather heavily flawed and definitely very silly , but it's also rather original , very inventive and certainly makes for an interesting watch , so the bad reputation is baffling ! Along with spiders and scorpions , snakes are another interesting animal that often finds itself a part of horror films , and SSSSSSS puts it's focus squarely on the scaly reptiles , in particular the impressive King Cobra . The film obviously takes its influence from mad science horror films ; in particular the likes of Frankenstein and puts snake twist on it . We focus on the aptly named Dr Stoner , a herpetologist heavily engaged in research on snakes . He takes in David Blake , a young student , as his assistant and promptly starts him on an " anti-venom " treatment . However , unbeknown to David , the treatment is actually a plan by the not so good doctor to turn him into a King Cobra ! Much to the dismay of the doctor's young daughter . . . It is a silly story , but the way that it's portrayed is good in that it's always interesting . It's always obvious where it's going , and despite a few surprises along the way ; the ending itself is not a big surprise . However , the way that it keeps a simple idea going for over ninety minutes is impressive . The cast is good , with character actor Strother Martin managing to be both sinister and gentle at the same time . Cult TV actor Dirk Benedict is at the centre of the cast as the unlucky medical student , while the cast is topped off by the beautiful cult actress Heather Menzies as the doctor's daughter . The film was obviously made on a budget as the special effects looks incredibly cheap ; but that gives the film charm which actually benefits it . At the start of the film we are told that all the snakes used are real snakes , and I can believe it as they do look real and they're also rather impressive - the King Cobra is the centrepiece , but a twenty foot long python also makes its impression ! This may be a silly film , but it's a good watch and very entertaining , so it gets a thumbs up overall from me !
The postman rings twice in Italy , too !	Well , I'd heard from somewhere that Ossessione is a precursor to the Italian film genre , and particular favourite of mine , the ' Giallo ' . . . but actually , aside from the fact that this is a thriller that was made in Italy ; the two have pretty much no relation . In the sixties and seventies , Italian film-makers would get themselves a reputation for ripping off just about every successful American film released . They've not done that here , but Ossessione does follow almost the exact same story as the later American film ' The Postman Always Rings Twice ' , without giving the book's author , James M . Cain , so much as a credit ! Anyway , the plot focuses on Gino Costa , a handsome drifter who , by chance , stumbles upon a café where a woman named Giovanna Bragana works . He soon learns that she's married to Giuseppe ; a big fat annoying man , whom Giovanna can't stand to have even touching her . He wants the pair of them to run away together , but she's not so keen on the idea . However , fate ends up intervening and her plan to have her husband murdered is successful . . . Despite the fact that the film loses some credibility for not crediting the author whose story it's based on , it has to be said that director Luchino Visconti implements the film noir style well , and in a way I even prefer the atmosphere of this film to some of the bigger American noir classics . The story is , as you would expect , extremely strong and the Visconti manages to pull good performances out of his cast . Visconti drags the film out a little bit too much , however , and with a running time of almost 135 minutes , I felt that the story was too thin to warrant this kind of length . I almost feel guilty for levelling all this criticism at Ossessione as it IS a good film , but it's not a ' great ' film . The relationship between the two central characters is never really explored properly , and it seems like the film is keener to distract us from it rather than let us into the characters ' heads . There's not much mystery to the plot as we pretty much always know what's going on , and by not always focusing on the characters themselves ; the film is not as interesting as it could have been . Still , it makes for an interesting viewing and comes recommended for that reason . . . although it's not as good as the 1946 version of the same James M . Cain classic .
Delicious black comedy from Roger Corman	This delicious black comedy is one of the films that Roger Corman used to make before he got a bigger budget and went on to do fantastic adaptations of Edgar Allen Poe stores , starting with ' The Fall of the House of Usher ' , the year after this was made . A Bucket of Blood stars Dick Miller , whom you may know as ' that guy from Gremlins ' , which Dante almost certainly cast him in due to his affiliation with Corman , as he plays a character named Walter Paisley in both The Howling and A Bucket of Blood . Anyway , in this film he has been cast a busboy for a public house , who is also an aspiring artist . However , Walter lacks creativity and is looking for an idea when he inadvertently kills his landlady's cat , which he then proceeds to cover in plaster and present as a piece of art . The art world is filled with weirdo's , and because of that , this sculpture becomes an instant hit and Walter is now very much ' in ' . One masterpiece isn't enough , however , and Walter must add more to his collection to gain the fame he wants . . . but where is that next masterpiece going to come from ? Aside from being a cheap black comedic exploitation thriller , A Bucket of Blood is also a commentary on the art world . Anything can pass for a masterpiece when it comes to being ' creative ' ( shown by that strange woman with a bed in real life ) , and a dead cat certainly fits that bill . The film also comments on the fact that one masterpiece isn't enough for an ' artist ' to cement themselves in the annals of history and thus they need several . Dick Miller's portrayal of the aspiring artist at the centre of the tale isn't award worthy , but he does a very good job . The character is naive , with an air of pathos , spanning from a need to be accepted , and Dick Miller captures this essence so well that you cant imagine anyone else in the role . I really enjoy seeing Miller on screen and it's a shame he didn't get more roles as he has a lot of potential for playing characters of this sort . This film is an obvious predecessor to many other indie themed exploitation thrillers , such as The Driller Killer and is important for that reason . The jazz styling makes a nice atmosphere for the movie and it helps to capture the pseudo-cool jazz trend that is often associated with art in the late 50's and early 60's . And , aside from everything I've said so far ; this film is just really good . It's a lot of fun and many of things shown on screen are really funny . There's also some lovely death sequences including , most notably , someone being cut in half with a buzz saw . Naturally ( considering this was made in 1959 ) , we don't get to see the death , but it still happens and it's not Corman's fault he couldn't show it . This film is a damn good time and it's a shame that it hasn't gained itself a more established following the forty-five years since it's release . Recommended viewing .
Hard-hitting boxing , and sentiment that works !	Ron Howard has made a name for himself for directing dull , politically correct Academy award favourites ; and it is with that in mind that I decided that I didn't want to see this film . But I'm glad I changed my mind ! Cinderella Man is more than just a follow-up to Clint Eastwood boxing success with ' Million Dollar Baby ' , and reunites the ' Best Picture winning team of Russell Crowe and Ron Howard , for the story of depression era boxer , Jim J . Braddock . Braddock was more than just a boxer in his time ; he became the hope of the United States for the working class ; so you've got to expect a lot of sentiment from this film . But , that is where Cinderella Man stands out ; both from other films in it's class , and the rest of Howard's oeuvre - there is sentiment here , but it's not of the ' fake ' kind - Howard builds it up excellently . By keeping the focus on the main character , the director is able to explore both the central figure and the era in which the film is set ; and after showing the audience Braddock's first fight , and the situation that he and his family have found themselves in ; it really is impossible not to only feel for this man , but get behind him as he tries to fight his way to the World Heavyweight Title . I don't profess to be the biggest fan of Russell Crowe , but you can always count on a strong lead performance from him , and that is what he delivers in this film . His acting here isn't great ; but he portrays the right image that you would associate with his character , and his in-ring performance massively outweighs his performance outside of it . The fights in Cinderella Man are well choreographed , and thanks to some excellent first person cinematography ; are always exciting , and it really feels like the boxers are actually being hurt ! The support cast isn't bad , and it's Paul Giamatti who stands out the most there . His Oscar nomination seems more to be compensation for the film not receiving a ' Best Picture ' nomination than anything ; but as I say , he's not bad . Renee Zellweger is the weak link for me ; I haven't been impressed with her so far , and her role here doesn't even give her a chance to change that . This film could be classified as ' predictable ' , but it wasn't for me as I've never heard of Jim Braddock , and therefore don't know the results of his fights ; meaning that anything could have happened . Overall ; I dint rate this as the best film of the year , but it is a milestone for its director . It's taken him a while , but Ron Howard has finally directed a great film .
Another excellent film from Fernando Di Leo	Naked Violence is yet another well made and effective offering from Fernando Di Leo ; a director that often doesn't receive the praise he deserves . Di Leo would go on to make some of the best Italian crime films in the early to mid seventies , but he also made some interesting stuff in other genres ; such as this film . The film is based on a novel by Ulkranian writer Giorgio Scerbanenco , who also wrote books that inspired other Di Leo films . The film is very concise and the director is keen to focus on the important elements of the plot , which helps the film to keep focus and in turn makes it more interesting . The film begins with a scene that sees a young schoolteacher raped and murdered by her class ; which just happens to be full of delinquents high on alcohol . Police Inspector Liberti gets on the case and begins by interrogating the kids in the class , but as he continues his investigation ; he realises that it's becoming less and less likely that the kids acted on their own accord , and his suspicions are confirmed when his best witness is found dead . The film is essentially a character study and we mainly focus on the Police Inspector and a handful of the boys at the centre of the crime . The locations used are not particularly diverse ; especially not during the first third when almost everything takes place inside a room in the police station . The film does have a very minimalist approach , but it's all done very professionally and the film is of a higher quality than a lot of the output from Italy in the late sixties and early seventies . The film is bolstered by a handful of good acting performances ; Pier Paolo Capponi is absolutely great as the police inspector and receives good support from Giallo heroine Susan Scott ( who in truth doesn't have a whole lot to do ) and Giuliano Manetti as the main character of the school class . The majority of the film is build-up as we try to work out the reasons behind the heinous crime at the start of the film ; and the brutal climax doesn't disappoint . The motive for the killings might not go down too well in some circles ; but it's inventive enough and ensures that the film finishes well . Overall , this is an excellent thriller and comes highly recommended !
Almost great modern noir	Mona Lisa is an interesting predecessor to Neil Jordan's later masterpiece ' The Crying Game ' . Taking in many of the same themes as the later film , such as the nature of love , affection and doing what's right , Mona Lisa is an update of the classic film noir tradition that also has obvious ties with other genres such as crime , romance and even comedy . One famous film that I would liken this one to is the Martin Scorsese classic ' Taxi Driver ' , as the two films deal with similar issues and follow a similar structure , but Mona Lisa distances itself from the classic 70's movie because it has a very obvious heart at it's centre . The characterisation in the film is really well done , and it's obvious that writers Neil Jordan and David Leland care a lot about the characters in the movie . The events of the film are almost all a result of character actions , and the plot follows George ; an ex-convict who has just been released from prison . He is given a job ferrying a high-priced call girl around her various jobs . What George doesn't count on is that the contempt he feels for her will turn into affection . Like The Crying Game before it , Mona Lisa is a down and dirty , gritty movie and this styling does the film no end of favours when it comes to portraying the plot . The movie's style bodes well with the themes on display , and it also serves in giving it an edge of realism . However , the film's main downfall is that , while the atmosphere is realistic , the acting largely isn't . Neil Jordan doesn't appear to know how to pull a convincing performance from his stars , especially the female ones , as a lot of the dialogue is delivered in a very forced and phoney sounding manner ; and it can get uncomfortable to view at times . Bob Hoskins does well at the film's core , and what I said about the acting can't always be applied to his performance ; but there are definitely moments when holes begin to appear with him too . Also , like Jordan's masterpiece , the film's soundtrack is sometimes off-cue , and certain songs would have bee better off not being chosen for the soundtrack . However , all of the film's flaws can be forgiven when the film reaches it's explosive conclusion , as it's the perfect end to the film as it allows all of the characters to fully mature , and Bob Hoskins in particular shines at the climax . On the whole , Mona Lisa is a flawed , but still highly admirable piece of work .
Looks like it was made on a tramp's budget , but still a great precursor to the exploitation genre !	Shanty Tramp is often mentioned as one of the precursors to the exploitation tradition - and that would certainly seem to be true . While films like Psycho and Peeping Tom had already brought violence to the forefront , this film revels in pure SLEAZE - as while still comparatively tame compared to some later efforts , Shanty Tramp still contains a number of detestable characters including a drunken father , a sinful preacher and , of course , the central character - an insatiable young hussy who uses people for her own enjoyment . The plot focuses on said character as she sets out looking for adventure at other people's expense . She meets a man at a bar , but he ends up getting in a scrap with a black man and is shocked to find that she prefers him ! After rounding up his mates , the men prepare for vengeance upon the black man ; as does the girl's drunken father , who believes his daughter's lies that he raped her and gets ' every white man in town ' looking for him . All this goes on while a shady preacher is busy shouting about the lord ! The film was obviously shot on a very limited budget as the whole thing looks very cheap . Shanty Tramp was shot in black and white , but it's not the fluid black and white picture that adorns many , bigger budgeted , films as this one looks like the filmmakers got a load of film stock on the cheap . The acting too is mostly terrible , and the dialogue is mostly trite ; but all this is unlikely to put off the seasoned exploitation fan , who will no doubt be used to poor production values and non-talented performers . None of this stuff matters anyway , as the real focus of the film is on the shady characters and nasty situations that they find themselves in . The film doesn't feature much blood - and indeed , there is only one real shocking sequence in the entire film , but this is down to the time in which the film was made , and Shanty Tramp is still an excellent early taster of things to come . Overall , this might not be a great film in the classic sense - but I'm sure it had some influence on films that are classics , and it's well worth tracking down both for that reason and for the fact that it's a great deal of fun to watch !
Great true life prison drama	I didn't go into this film with massively high hopes - but I don't know why , as Midnight Express is surely one of the best ' hidden gems ' that I've seen ! The film is almost three decades old now , making it strange that it hasn't turned up in this decade with a better reputation . Starring Brad Davis and directed by Alan Parker , this British production follows the frightening idea of being trapped in a foreign prison . Adding to that is the fact that it's actually based a true story . The real life Billy Hayes ( Davis ' character in this film ) wrote the book ' Midnight Express ' , from which this film takes it's inspiration . The idea of being caught breaking the law in another country is handled well in this film , and Alan Parker always ensures that the prison environment is dark and claustrophobic , with the focus being on the state of mind of the main character at all times . It's very easy to get into this film , and the linear plot helps this massively . These days it's customary to mess around with plotting in an attempt to be as original as possible ; but Midnight Express proves how a straight story can allow the audience to connect with the characters . Midnight Express benefits from an array of great actors in the central roles . Brad Davis , as mentioned , takes the lead role and manages to capture just the right amount of naivety and self-preservation to make the role believable . He is joined by big name actors Randy Quaid and John Hurt , while smaller name actors such as Bo Hopkins , Paolo Bonacelli and Mike Kellin give it their all in their respective parts . For justice to work the crime must fit the punishment ; and this is something that makes this film obviously based on a book by the prisoner himself . We never seen the main character admit that he's done anything wrong , and the focus is always put on him wanting to get out of jail . This is wrong in a way , as if people were allowed to get away with crime ; there would be no law - but on the other hand , it allows us to get into the accused's head a little more , and this ultimately makes the final payoff far more rewarding . Overall , I'm not saying this film is without problems ; but it's definitely well worth seeing . The acting and directing are fabulous , and this film also benefits from being based on a great true story . I'd maybe even label it ' must see ' .
Got a big smile from me !	Well , it's not big and it's not clever - but Sex with a Smile is great fun , and rather funny in places ; plus it features performances from five of Italy's hottest ladies , so what's not to like ? The stories in the film apparently focus on Italian humour , but to me it seemed pretty universal and I think that even people who don't know anything about Italian humour will find this funny . The film features five separate stories , all involving sex and all ending with a funny and ironic little twist . The stories are all around twenty minutes long , and most of them will raise a smile from the audience . The stories mostly seem to focus on a hot woman bewitching a weak willed man , but when the women in question are Barbara Bouchet , Dayle Haddon , Giovanna Ralli , Edwige Fenech and Sydne Rome - it's not hard to see things from the male point of view ! The film is perhaps not quite as sexy as it thinks it is or wants to be , but there's no shortage of hot women lolling around in next to nothing and director Sergio Martino manages a lot of nice visuals , which are sure to keep the audience happy . The first story is one of the best and features Barbara Bouchet as a respectable woman who decides to take a shady man up on his offer of sex for 20 million lire three times , only to find that he's not exactly playing straight with her ! We then move on to Marty Feldman's bodyguard who takes his job of guarding Dayle Haddon's socialite very seriously . The tale features a little too much silly slapstick humour my liking , but it's funny in places and Dayle Haddon is great to look at ! The third story is probably the weakest of the five , but nice enough as Alberto Lionello's showfer tries to woo Giovanna Ralli's countess . Edwige Fenech is up next in a tale aptly titled ' Dream Girl ' , starring alongside Tomas Milian , who really shows his versatility as a geeky guy who dreams about her . Fenech really does look great in this story ( almost as hood as she did in Martino's excellent Giovannona Long Thigh ) and this is definitely the most erotic of the quintet . The film ends on a high with a story revolving around an overprotective dog , which succeeds in ruining Aldo Maccione's chances with Sydne Rome . This film may not appeal to everyone - I would say that if you've seen Woody Allen's Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex and didn't like it , you maybe shouldn't bother - but otherwise , Sex With a Smile is an amusing and fun little sex comedy that gets a big thumbs up from me !
As over the top as an Italian rip-off can be !	Italian filmmakers are famous for ripping off successful American films ; but with this film director Alberto De Martino has taken it to a whole new level ; as he's collected just about everything that made films such as Dirty Harry successful and mashed it all together in this action packed and over the top cop flick . Most of the Italian Polizi flicks have things that were clearly taken from American films ; but usually they retain a sense of the Italian style . This is not the case here ; the film is Italian , but you can actually believe that it's an American film , and it was clearly made to appeal to American audience . As the title suggests , the film focuses on Tony Saitta ; the type of hard nosed cop that will punch you in the face and smash your car up before even thinking about asking any questions . The plot kicks off properly when Saitta's sister ( who is a good twenty years his junior ) dies in mysterious circumstances . The cop then sets out to find out who did it ; by forsaking the usual police methods . After following the clues . . . he eventually gets close to the killer . Despite taking influence from such great films , this one is a long way from being brilliant itself ; but it is at least great fun . The way that the central characters jumps in with both feet at every opportunity is great , and seeing him brutalise suspects at the drop of a hat does ensures that the film doesn't become boring on many occasions . Alberto De Martino is backed up by a good cast ; with Stuart Whitman in the lead role and receiving good support from cult star John Saxon as well as the A-lister Martin Landau . This film is not very seen ; but anyone who does see it will undoubtedly remember the car chase , which is peppered with clichés but is at least really well done ; not least for the fact that it all comes off as the result of a minor piece of plot development ! The film also borrows from other genres ; with the Giallo genre creeping in during some scenes . It soon becomes clear that the film is not going to deliver anything meaningful by the ending but the climax does at least wrap things up nicely and while this is not a great film on the whole ; it is lots of fun and well worth a look .
Another very decent Giallo effort from Lamberto Bava !	Lamberto Bava's films may not have the cutting edge that many of his father's did , but the good thing about it is that you can always count on a decent thrill ride , and while You'll Die at Midnight doesn't set the genre on fire ; it's a more than decent Giallo and I'm pretty certain that regular viewers will get a lot out of it . Being released in 1986 , this one comes very late in the Giallo cycle although it recaptures that mysterious feel of the classic Giallo's well and the cinematography is good despite the fact that this obviously wasn't an A-class production . The plot is pure Giallo , and focuses on a murderer . We start by focusing on Nicola ; a man who spots his wife buying lingerie and notices she has an affair . After arguing and almost killing her , he visits his colleague Anna , but shortly after he leaves the house ; someone breaks in and murders his wife ! Naturally , Nicola is the main suspect , but Anna , a psychologist , sees signs that the murder may have been committed by the so-called " Midnight Ripper " . The only problem is that The Midnight Ripper has been dead for several years . . . The film features lots of scenes reminiscent of classic Giallo's , and many of the murders are memorable . The kitchen scene is probably my favourite , but the murder scene inside a lingerie store has a more nasty edge . There isn't a great deal of variety with the weapons , but at least Lamberto ensures that the imagery is good and the film is always at least interesting . You'll Die at Midnight is pretty short , running at around 85 minutes and this is a good thing as it means that there is little filler and the film doesn't really have time to become boring . You'll Die at Midnight has more of a range of central victim characters than many other Giallo's too , and this makes the film more interesting as the killer appears to be after each one for different reasons . Naturally , it all builds into a final twist ; which although somewhat silly ( as the climaxes in these films often are ) , it's interesting enough and somehow ( almost ) makes sense in the context of the film . Overall , I can't say that this is a classic example of the genre ; but like Lamberto's other Giallo attempts ; it's certainly worth watching !
Classic example of film noir	This slice of film noir isn't one of the better known ones , and the reason for that is probably because it doesn't have any real stand out elements about it ; but the film does work excellently as a textbook example of the style of film-making . The most notable thing about the film is the fact that it features a leading performance from the great Humphrey Bogart . Bogart's personality has always been more than a little bit over the top , but it often isn't too noticeable . For some reason , however , it really sticks out in this film ; but it somehow fits the dialogue like a glove , and the feel of this film is very much in the true classic style of noir . The plot is pretty standard , and follows Bogart's character ; an ex-paratrooper , who is looking for a friend of his that disappeared after being accused of murder . However , he gets more than he bargained for when he hooks up with his friend's mistress , ' Dusty ' Chandler . The atmosphere of the movie is dark and mysterious , and this blends brilliantly with the brooding plot line . The film manages to pull in many of the standard noir elements ; best of which is the femme fatale ; excellently brought to life by Lizabeth Scott . Overall , Dead Reckoning is a very good example of the film noir style of film-making , and while it's not one of the ' must see ' films ; it's certainly well worth bothering with .
Absolute Horror Classic	I'm not a big fan of slashers ; they tend to be a bit dull and samey , but every now and then an intriguing and interesting one comes out , and A Nightmare on Elm Street is most definitely an intriguing and interesting one . The film revolves around Nancy , a young girl that dreams of a badly scarred madman with knives for fingers and a serious grudge against the children of Elm Street . However , Nancy is not the only one having nightmares and the fun really starts when her friends start turning up dead . Freddy Krueger , the badly scarred madman of the piece would go on to become one of cinema's greatest icons . I even dare say he's up there with the likes of King Kong and The Terminator . In the inferior sequels to this movie , Freddy would go on to become something of a comedian ; but here he's every bit the insane madman that slashers would go on to become known for producing . Freddy is brought to the screen by Robert Englund . Robert Englund has managed to get himself something of a cult following for his work on all eight of the Nightmare films , but unfortunately , Freddy is the only ' big ' role in his career . The rest of the cast is made up by John Saxon , who also starred in one of the slasher genre's trend setters ; Black Christmas , among other films ; also appearing is Heather Langenkamp , who would return to the series for part three , and she played herself in the tongue in cheek spin off ; New Nightmare , and of course the movie features the introduction of a man that is close to becoming a film legend ; Johnny Depp . A Nightmare on Elm Street is directed by Wes Craven ; a man that has almost his entire filmography in the horror genre , and has created a number of the genre's milestones along the way ; films such as The Hills Have Eyes , his debut The Last House on the Left and the film that brought slashers back ; Scream are among his best works , but A Nightmare on Elm Street is the film he will always be remembered most for by the majority of horror fanatics . Unfortunately , the Nightmare franchise isn't as respected now as it could have been , due mostly to the amount of lacklustre sequels it spawned . However , don't let those sequels fool you ; the first film is original , inventive , suspenseful and atmospheric , and is without a doubt a classic of the horror genre .
A shocking tale of love and obsession	In the Realm of the Senses is a film that has divided opinions among those that have seen it ( a number that is not too big thanks to the film being banned in many countries across the globe ) , but love it or hate it ; you have to admit that In the Realm of the Senses is certainly very interesting . The plot is allegedly ( according to the epilogue ) based on a true story , although I would describe it as a more hardcore version of the 1969 Pinku film ' Blind Beast ' ; although In the Realm of the Senses is a really different experience and could not in any way be considered a copy of the earlier film . The plot primarily focuses on love and obsession , and we get two central characters . They are Kichizo and Sada and the pair meet and fall in love rather quickly . It's not long before they are spending every waking minute together ; and most of the time they spend is naked , engaging in sex all the time . Sada soon becomes infatuated with Kichizo and as their relationship becomes more and more intimate , things begin to spiral out of control . This film is somewhat unique for the fact that it's both Japanese and features gratuitous , full-on nudity . The film really doesn't hold back either , and one of the most shocking things about is how seeing the two central characters naked for most of the film doesn't seem like anything out of the ordinary . There's some hardcore and explicit sex scenes too , with blow jobs , anal etc featuring often . The film is sometimes passed off as merely pornography , but it's not a fair statement to make about the film . While it certainly is very pornographic , it's clear that director Nagisa Oshima valued telling a story over shocking his audience and the gratuitous nudity exists to further the point that the film is trying to make . The film is very well made ; the cinematography is beautiful and all the performers do well ; Eiko Matsuda in particular is excellent as the obsessive leading lady . It's clear that the film is building up to something and while the conclusion is hinted at early on ; it's still shocking enough once it arrives . Overall , this is a fantastic film and a must see for cult fans .
Dark and harrowing family portrait	Documentary film-making has taken a step up in recent years with an increasing number winning high acclaim . It's not surprising that a documentary as interesting and as personal as Capturing the Friedmans is one of the most highly rated , and director Andrew Jarecki's insight into a real-life family being torn apart fully deserves it's acclaim . Great documentaries are films that manage to tell a story while remaining objective , and even though this film handles the ever controversial theme of paedophilia ; the director allows the relevant parties to tell the story as they remember it , and ultimately the viewer is left with only the facts surrounding the case , which can then be used to form an opinion . The real life case that the film handles is that of the trial of Arnold and Jessie Friedman . Arnold Friedman was arrested in 1987 on more than 400 charges against young boys aged 7 to 11 , while Jessie Friedman was tried for several sexual acts against young boys that were studying in his father's computer class . The film follows their story told through relatives and people involved in the case . Perhaps the most astounding thing about this film is the fact that it was made . Most families wouldn't want documentary filmmakers ( not to mention the world at large ) getting in on their personal lives , but I suppose it did give them a chance to tell the story as they see it . The themes that the documentary handles are indeed harrowing , as aside from the obvious implications of being a paedophile ; we've also got the destruction of a family unit , as well as statements of hated from most of the family members . Andrew Jarecki keeps things moving by splicing real-life footage with testimonies from people involved with the case and the opinions of those close to the convicted . There are several facts that are presented , and some may believe that these are attempts to sway the audience ; but the director only allows the actual facts to stand as the truth , while the personal opinions of those close to the central family are kept plainly as opinions . The film never makes a big thing of its central plot , and it's obvious that the director prefers to keep his eye on the family , which ensures that the resulting film is ultimately more frightening . Overall , this is a compelling watch and comes highly recommended .
Completely ridiculous camp classic !	Horror Hospital is far too silly to be taken seriously , but that's what makes the film so good ! The film throws in one illogical sequence after another , and if you tried to account for all the events in the movie and make sense of them ; you'd be completely wasting your time . In fact , if you're watching this film you are , in fact , wasting your time , but the film makes up for this by being lots of fun and this ensures that it's always delightful . The film clearly knows that it's trash rather than a serious horror film , and this is shown throughout by the tongue-in-cheek mood that runs through it . The filmmakers clearly couldn't keep a straight face while making this film and that translates onto the screen . The ridiculous plot follows the insane Dr Storm and his " heath farm " . After travelling there for a holiday and meeting a young lady on her way to see her aunt ( who works at the " health farm " ) , a British man named Jason finds that his holiday might not be going as planned , and once he finds out that the not-so-good doctor is conducting experiments into making zombies ; Jason , the girl and some other bloke that turns up must make a bid for freedom ! When it comes to bad movie-making , this film has it all ; a terrible script , duff cinematography , useless actors delivering stupid performances , daft music , a clichéd , rip-off ridden and implausible plot and the list goes on . . . . yet , somehow , it all moulds together into something very watchable . I think another reviewer summed it up best when he talked about the hilarious sequence that sees the utterly superfluous character , Abraham , introduced into the film . I actually had to rewind that part of the film about five times just to fully take in how amazingly stupid it is . The film is full of moments like that , and that's why this piece of trash appeals much more than the standard trash that was produced en mass in the seventies . Michael Gough helps to make this film a winner with his delightfully over the top camp performance as the ' evil ' Dr Storm . You can always count on Gough to overact and make himself look silly , and that's exactly what he does here . On the whole , if you like your movies to be serious ; you wont get an ounce of enjoyment out of Horror Hospital . But if you like them to be stupid and camp - prepare for a truly GREAT ride !
A Magnificent motion picture	Following up on a brilliant and groundbreaking classic like Citizen Kane would not be an easy task for any director , but genius auteur Orson Welles has proved that he was more than up for the task with this movie . The Magnificent Ambersons is an adaptation of Booth Tarkington's novel , which gives a commentary on American life in the 40's . I was unsure going into this movie as I'm not exactly the biggest pro-American in the world and , to be honest , couldn't really care less what American life was like in 40's . However , I should have known better as all truly great films transcend the time that they were made in ; and this film does also . The Magnificent Ambersons delivers a slice of family life that is interesting not because of the parallels with American society , but because of the emotions and motivations of the central characters in the plot . The plot follows a spoilt young man named George . After the death of his father , one of his mother's old suitors , a man named Eugene Morgan returns as a widower and successful automobile manufacturer . However , the spoilt young mother's boy doesn't like the attention that is being paid to his mother , and so seeks to end their affair . The Magnificent Ambersons is very much an ' A ' quality picture , with all elements of the film being very much top class . Orson Welles doesn't need any more plaudits as a director , but I'll give him some anyway . For such a young man especially , the film is superbly well directed . The atmosphere that Welles has created excellently compliments the plot and helps to draw the audience into the characters and their motivations . The characters themselves are suitably deep , and more than enough so that we as the audience are able to relate to them . The motivations are classic ones , as we have the young man distraught that his mother has a rival for attention , the man himself vying for her attention , putting his rival's actions down to naivety and the mother herself , not wanting to displease her son ; but at the same time , wanting a companion . The relationships of these characters make for fascinating viewing , and that is the backbone of this classic film . On the whole , this is classic cinema at it's very best , and it's amazing that the film isn't mentioned more often in ' great film ' discussions .
Nice little comedy that could have been better	This sweet romance is predictable and hinges on a rather unlikely scenario . I mean , if you'd just met someone that may well be your soul mate ; would you really let them go and leave it up to fate to bring you back together ? No , me neither ; but Kate Beckinsale and John Cusack decide to do just that and that's the springboard for this romantic comedy . However , to it's credit ; it does work and , for a change , here we have a romantic comedy with a definite point . Obviously it deals with fate ; but there are also elements of finding the right person and not being able to be happy with someone you know isn't that person . It's true that the film could have been a lot better , as on the whole it's rather poorly handled and spends too much time being sweet or trying to be funny , and not enough is spent on building up the characters so that we'll care for them enough for it to be effective ; but still , the film is a lot of fun and it's a damn sight more interesting than the vast majority of films in it's class . John Cusack is an actor that I rate . I don't think he's made anything poignantly brilliant at this time , but for many of his films ; he's the best thing in it . That is a comment towards the quality of many of his films , but also towards his talent as an actor , as I feel he has the ability to hold an audience's attention and deliver a fine performance while doing so . The beautiful Kate Beckinsale joins him . Kate isn't a brilliant actress , as she shows in this film , but she is absolutely beautiful and she and Cusack make a nice couple together on screen . However , due the plot ; they don't get to spend a lot of the running time together , with only one brief , if nice , spurt . The film is dogged by the usual romantic comedy hindrances , such as unlikely situations and a soundtrack of pre-recorded songs when a score would have worked much better ; but the film is a good time and seeing the two's lives intertwine while not actually meeting is a quirky , and somewhat genius . As I said , this could and by all accounts should have been better . Still , it is what it is and it is good escapism .
Surprisingly good , and one of the best films of 2005	The best martial arts films are always the ones that deliver the fight sequences along with an interesting story and characters , and that is exactly what Unleashed does . The fighting and the story exist in equal parts , and the film never feels like its delivering one side over another . The plotting , therefore , is extremely well done ; as the graceful action sequences deliver the adrenaline , while the story exists to give point to the movie and keep the viewer interested . The fact that the action sequences are some of the best I've seen from recent cinema doesn't hinder the film at all ; Jet Li's kicks , punches and head butts are all perfectly timed and realistically done - there's no over the top slow motion or gravity defying leaps here , and because of that ; massive credit has to go to the choreographers . The plot follows a loan shark named Bart , who keeps a man locked up in his basement . The man in his basement is a trained killer , and once the loan shark removes his collar ; woe betides anyone who gets on his wrong side . This life is all the collared man knows ; but when , by chance , he meets a blind piano tuner . . . he gets shown a new life , one that he never knew existed . Unleashed benefits from a trio of excellent performances . Bob Hoskins stands out most as the inherently evil Bart ; trainer and master . Bob Hoskins is a great actor who can deliver a range of emotions - but he's at his best when he gets to ham it up as the villain ! Morgan Freeman , whose intrinsically good Sam plays against Hoskins ' baddie , offsets his performance . These two characters represent two sides of the spectrum ; namely , good and evil , leaving Jet Li's character , Danny , in the middle - drawn to the good , yet constantly pulled towards the bad . Li's role doesn't require a great deal of acting ability , but Jet makes the best of his more emotional moments . His real role in this movie , however , is in the fighting sequences ; in which he is excellent . This man is the closest thing we have to Bruce Lee these days ; and he shows why here . The sequences themselves are typically violent , and every time there's a hint of a fight about to start ; it draws you towards the edge of your seat . The pivotal sequence , involving Jet Li fighting four opponents in a pit is a contender for the most exciting scene of the year . The ending is more than satisfying , and all characters are made to flourish in a way that is congruent with their roles in the film . On the whole ; this is a great little flick , and well worth seeing !
A great ghost story !	I'm a massive fan of the horror genre , but I don't like ghost stories . To me , ghost stories are a poor manifestation of the genre . It's not the idea of ghosts that's the problem , it's the way the stories are presented ; often dull , slow moving and uninteresting , and those are things that do not make a good movie . However , there is an exception to every rule ; and this film is the case with that one . The Devil's Backbone is a mesmerising and inventive addition to the ghost story tradition . The film moves slowly , but that is a definite advantage to it . The slow pace allows us to get to know , and even care for the characters before the horror starts , and this makes the horror all the more potent when it does start . The Devil's Backbone has been touted as ' the Spanish Sixth Sense ' , and although this is unfair as this is hardly a bad film ; I can see where that notion is coming from . The main difference between the two , however , and the reason why this film works and Shyamalan's doesn't is that the parts between the horror here aren't boring , are well acted and serve a purpose in that they allow us to get to know the characters ; Shyamalan got too caught up in trying to make his twist work and the drama in-between caught the brunt of that , rendering the film boring . The film can't really be accurately described as a ' horror film ' , it's more of a drama come character study with horror elements . The horror elements are pronounced , as the ghost is the centrepiece of the story , but the film doesn't focus on them enough for it to be considered horror . Entwined within it's plot is a coming of age tale , a story of revenge and a nice little section on ' what is a ghost ' . I like it when a film delves into it's subject material and attempts to give something of an explanation ; Return of the Living Dead did it for zombies ( albeit comically ) , and The Devil's Backbone does it here for ghosts . The coming of age side of the story is brought to life brilliantly by some sublime acting courtesy of the young cast . Entwined within the story are themes of the kids being thrust into a situation that requires them to grow up fast , and it also sees them dealing with themes of death and revenge . One thing you will instantly notice about this film is the fantastic cinematography . The film has a gritty style , but despite this it manages to come off looking crisp and clean . There are some shots that are incredibly beautiful . All shots with the ghost , which is one of the best crafted ever , come to mind immediately but also of note are the underwater sequences , the special effects and the capture of the location . The film is set in an orphanage somewhere the Spanish desert , and this location serves the movie magnificently . The fact that it's a day's walk away from the nearest town makes the film very isolated , which allows the horror more potency . Guillermo Del Toro is an obviously talented director . He has this film under his belt , along with Cronos ( which I haven't yet seen , but have heard great things ) , but after that it's hit and miss . Blade 2 was a good film , and a refreshing one after the lackluster first part ; but Mimic wasn't very good on the whole , despite some good moments . More recently he's gone on to direct Hellboy , which again I haven't seen but it looks like another fun film . I hope Del Toro makes a return to art soon , he has the talent and it would be a shame to lose him to ' decent ' films .
A well worked and original little thriller !	It's true that there are more than enough thrillers about serial murder - and so it's always great when a film comes along and plays with this premise - and Frailty does that brilliantly ! Bill Paxton is obviously best known for his acting work ( which includes film-stealing performances in films like Aliens and Near Dark ) , and here he gets to work both in front of and behind the camera as we get a typical Paxton-style show stealing performance , and he directs also . Obviously , this isn't a film that will break any boundaries ; but Paxton takes his plot and spins an entertaining and exciting thrill-ride around it . The film opens with a man named Fenton Meiks arriving at a police station . He tells the agent in charge of the ' Gods Hand ' case that he knows the identity of the killer that has been terrorising the local community . The film then moves into flashbacks , as we find out that the man's father received a vision from God , in which he was told to destroy demons . The film focuses on the father's two young boys ; one of whom believes his father's visions , and one that doesn't . . . If you were to properly analyse the film's message , you would no doubt come to the conclusion that there are many holes and ideas that don't really make a lot of sense . But this isn't important , as Frailty does everything that you could ask of it . The religion theme is well done , and the film provides an interesting perspective where God is concerned . The acting is excellent , with Bill Paxton in a somewhat dumbed down , but no less intriguing role than usual . The support cast includes Matthew McConaughey and Powers Boothe , both of whom are well used . The real acting comes from child actors Matt O'Leary and Jeremy Sumpter ; who both manage to star in the film without becoming annoying . The film has many themes outside of the central religious one , the most frightening of which is the corruption of youth . Paxton does a really good job of blending the boys ' childhood story with some quite gruesome horror , and while the film does have some failings where some of the central ideas are concerned , it's not too important as Frailty is a well worked thriller that does what it says on the tin !
One of Hammer's weirdest and most memorable films !	A lot of great horror films were produced by Hammer Studios , and The Damned certainly ranks up there both as one of the studios best , and as one of the weirdest . The film is a mix of drama , thriller , horror and sci-fi and is inventive and refreshing in the way it plays out and I guarantee that if you go into this film without first finding out what it's about , you'll never guess where it will take you ! The plot structure basically has two main threads to it and neither one is related to the other , but the film pulls them together well . The first plot we are introduced to focuses on Joan , a young woman who gets involved with an American tourist . He gets beaten up by a gang of thugs and it soon transpires that Joan is the sister of the leader of them ! The two run away with the angry brother and his gang hot on their tails . The second side of the plot concerns nine children who are being brought up in isolation inside a secret military base as they have somehow been born radioactive . The two plots combine when the American and his girl stumble into the base with the brother after them . This film was always in danger of becoming messy considering how the story changes dramatically half way through , but it actually flows really well and the story manages to keep the first plot running even when the second one takes centre stage . The themes of the story do get lost somewhat under what we are directly seeing on screen , but ' The Damned ' is a very fitting title as the movie deals with a situation born out of the need for a contingency plan in case of nuclear war . The fact that the plot focuses on both sanctioned and unsanctioned criminals makes it more interesting . The film is also very haunting ; the children themselves echo those in the classic Village of the Damned and the gloomy plot line gives off its own formidable atmosphere , which is reinforced well by the way the children are treated in their prison / home . The central cast is excellent with Shirley Anne Field and Macdonald Carey getting good support from the always memorable Oliver Reed . The children give some of the best performances in the film and manage to capture what you would expect of children in their situation very well indeed . Overall , The Damned is one of Hammer's most strange and surreal films ; but it marks a welcome change and it's not a film I will forget in a hurry . Don't miss out on this one !
Good , camp fun from the eighties	Night of the Creeps is another of those fun teen horror / sci-fi flicks that filmmakers in the eighties were so fond of making . The film has surprisingly more ideas than most , and after a great little intro that takes place in space ; the film moves on to 1959 ( in black and white ! ) , where watch a couple of unlucky kids become the victims of some sort of alien from space . There were a lot of zombie movies made around the time that Night of the Creeps came out , but thankfully it would seem that ' House ' director Fred Dekker wasn't content to merely make another , as although , when it comes down to it ; this really is another zombie movie - the way that the zombies come about and the method of dispatching them shows some brains ? literally . We pick up the story in 1986 , where we watch two high school kids effortlessly break into some sort of medical facility in order to be inducted into a top high school fraternity . Inside , they find a glass container with the body of a young man inside . Naturally , they decide to open it up ; and it isn't long before their fellow students are being turned into bloodthirsty mutants . Only the two kids , a girl and the local police detective can save the day ! It seems that giving your characters names of horror movie directors was fashionable in the eighties , and Fred Dekker has adhered to it , with characters called Hooper , Raimi , Cronenberg , Cameron , Romero and Landis . If you ask me , this is a silly , ham-fisted exercise and I don't like it . . . but I suppose it doesn't make much difference . The rest of the film is lots of fun , however , and Dekker shows great imagination in putting the piece together . Sequences that see an axe-wielding psycho burst through the floorboards , as well as a number of exploding heads and strange slug-like aliens that look a lot like those things from David Cronenberg's " Shivers " are great . Tom Atkins is the biggest name on the cast list , and he gives a delightful performance in the role of the wisecracking police detective . Cult icon Dick Miller makes a small , but memorable , appearance ; while the rest of the cast is made up of teenagers . The special effects are a bit suspect , but generally rather good and Dekker ensures that they fit the jokey tone of the movie . Overall , Night of the Creeps is a supreme piece of eighties trash that I recommend to anyone who enjoys a good , silly film .
One of the most potent anti-war films ever made !	Soldier Blue is a rather odd film . It's a mixture of a war film and a western ; it's a film about war , but instead of focusing on the war , we focus on just two characters and their conflicting ideologies and despite it's reputation for having a high shock value , most of it actually plays out like something you might see in one of those westerns / war flicks that gets played on TV on a Sunday afternoon . This is a well made film , but for all the conflicting elements ; I'm not surprised that the film has been banished into obscurity . The film takes place during the American civil war and focuses on the war between the US Army and the native Indians . At the start of the film , we witness a US cavalry group get slaughtered by Indians , leaving only the naive private Honus and a world-weary young girl named Cresta alive . Despite their differences , the pair band together to try and reach a US fortress where they will be safe and in the process develop an understanding . We follow the two of them as they make their way through the Wild West . . . Soldier Blue is actually a really clever film and packs a hell of a lot more of a punch than many other anti-war movies out there . The majority of the film focuses on the two central characters and everything feels rather light-hearted . We get to know the pair of them and watch them squabble and it's all rather fun and amusing to watch . The anti-war ideology comes through by way of the character of Cresta ; an anti-American native Indian sympathiser whose beliefs are the direct opposite of the young soldier she is travelling with . She makes good points throughout , but director Ralph Nelson never shoves anything down the audience's throats ; it's not until the end that the real point of the movie comes through , and while the violence is strong ( this film features one of the greatest beheading sequences ever filmed ! ) , it's point is clearly defined and the anti-war message is so much more potent than it would have been if the idea was enforced with a sledge hammer . The film is excellently produced and acted , with Candice Bergen thoroughly convincing in the lead role and getting good support from Peter Strauss ; and the film also features a memorable role for the great Donald Pleasance . Overall , this is a bizarre movie but it is one that is definitely worth seeing and while the climax may be too strong for some , it's hard to deny its power . Highly recommended viewing !
The madness of King Richard !	The team of Roger Corman and Vincent Price is undoubtedly most famous for the adaptations of Edgar Allen Poe's works , but it would be unwise to ignore this interpretation of William Shakespeare's play ' Richard III ' as it's one of the duo's finest hours ! This same story was brought to the screen 23 years earlier with the 1939 film of the same name ( also featuring Vincent Price ) , but Corman's version , although obviously made on a limited budget is still a great version of the tale . The plot features prominent themes of envy , greed and insanity , and the story of one of England's most famous rulers is interesting for its own merits , and Corman's portrayal of it makes it interesting for fans of classic horror also . The plot begins with the death of the current king of England , Richard's brother . The throne is intended to go to the brother's son , but King Richard has other ideas as he begins to murder all those that stand in his path to the most coveted seat in the country . However , what he doesn't count on is his conscience getting in the way ; and before long , he is being haunted by the ghosts of his victims . Every film in the Corman's Poe Anthology is filmed in colour , but here Corman shoots on black and white film , and it does the story no end of favours as the atmosphere always feel thick and foreboding , and gorgeous shots of smoke filled locations help to increase the tension . The fact that the film stars the great Vincent Price is most definitely its strongest element . Price is best at playing villains and people suffering from mental torment , and here he gets to do both in the meaty role of King Richard III . Price's acting style certainly suits Shakespearian roles as he's never afraid to go over the top , and I'm sure Corman was always happy to capitalise on this fact as Price is allowed to let rip completely during many instances of the film . Price also manages to look sinister while he's being hammy , and just small things such as the little hat that Price wears give him an understated villainy that suits the role like a glove . The supernatural elements of the film are well utilised , and Corman is happy to capitalise on the horror aspects of the play at all times . The ending is a little abrupt , but overall , this film is a definite ' hit ' and one that shouldn't be missed by Price , Corman and even Shakespeare fans !
Poetic and beautiful coming of age horror movie	This highlight of seventies horror cinema is a vibrant and lush Gothic fairytale story of a young girl's odyssey as she searches for her father in a world of vampires and demons that wont hesitate to take her innocence at any opportunity that they get . Richard Blackburn's film takes influence from a number of sources across both film and literature , but in spite of this ; the writer-director has managed to mould together a tale that is both haunting and original . The story follows Lila Lee , the daughter of a notorious gangster who , after finding his wife in bed with another man , proceeds in blowing both her and her lover to bits . Shortly after her father had fled the town to avoid the law , Lila Lee receives a letter telling her that her father is on his deathbed and wants her to come and see him . Only thing is , this letter is signed ' Lemora ' . The film plays out like an offbeat coming of age drama , with the innocent young Lila Lee learning that all is not as it seems , and that danger lurks around every corner . The supernatural elements serve brilliantly as a metaphor for the similar dangers in real life . The acting in Lemora clearly isn't the most important aspect of the film , but there are still some notable performances on display . Cheryl Smith takes the lead role as the angelic Lila Lee , and completely looks the part as a bewildered young girl in the centre of a world she knows nothing about . The title role of ' Lemora ' is taken by Lesley Gilb . This actress doesn't have a film credit to her name after this film , and it's not really surprising as despite looking the part ; her performance is wooden in the extreme . Writer-director Richard Blackburn is surprisingly effective in his small role as a reverend . He completely convinces as the odd god fearing preacher . Really , though , it's the more aesthetic elements of the film that rule ; and the atmosphere and the make-up are absolutely excellent . The nighttime filming helps to create a sense of danger at every turn , and brilliantly compliments the fear that the child at the centre of the story is feeling . The make-up is effectively done , but not overdone ; which makes the monsters feel very real despite their otherwise otherworldly appearance . Lemora , despite it's low budget and inexperienced crew , is a surprisingly professionally done film . While most films released at this point in time relied on high body counts and gore levels to draw audiences ; Richard Blackburn has put the focus on story and atmosphere , and that is why Lemora is the enduring , albeit lost , classic that it is today .
Surprisingly good French zombie flick !	French director Jean Rollin is best known for his messy erotic vampire films , but Zombie Lake aside ; he's actually a lot better at zombie films . Along with The Living Dead Girl , The Grapes of Death represents one of the few successes for the cult director . This zombie film stands out for its morbid and surreal atmosphere , and for the fact that , as zombie films go , this one is quite original . The title doesn't suggest a good film , but it refers to the movie's main plot point ; namely , the fact that it's the French tradition of distilling wine that is to blame for the zombie outbreak . It's points like this that make the film profoundly French and despite the fact that France doesn't seem like the ideal country for a zombie outbreak ; the plot and location blend together rather nicely . Naturally , the main character is female ; and we follow her as she makes her way to her home town of Roubles ; a wine producing estate . The journey turns awry when a man infected with the zombie virus boards the train , and our heroine finds her travel companion dead . . . and that's just the start of it ! The plot takes the familiar Night of the Living Dead style idea of the living trying to stay clear of the dead , but Rollin makes the film his own with a fine variety of weird and wonderful characters , and it usually turns out that these are more dangerous than the zombie hoards . The rural setting provides a nice base for a zombie movie , as it's quite different from the usual urban setting , and this also blends well with Rollin's morbid atmosphere . The film is also very surreal , and the director continually gives the viewer the impression that there's something nasty lurking just around the corner . Many of Rollin's films feel cheap and nasty , but this one doesn't ; the cinematography is beautiful , and the acting isn't too bad either ; both of which give the film a higher quality feel than the plot , by rights , should have . The only time there's a lapse in quality is the awful commentary on French politics towards the end ? but it's not enough to spoil it entirely . The film is quite erotic , and even though it's quite different to his usual stuff ; you can still tell that it's Rollin in the director's chair . The ending is really good , and comes as quite a surprise ; and I've got to say that I loved the final message ; I agree , beer is superior to wine . Recommended !
An excellent adaptation of a classic Lovecraft tale !	The nineties were a disappointing decade for the horror genre whichever way you look at it , so it's lucky that filmmakers like Stuart Gordon and Dan O'Bannon were on hand to adapt classic HP Lovecraft stories . Horror fans have got used to seeing a director's credit for the aforementioned Stuart Gordon and a starring role for the great Jeffrey Combs in Lovecraft films ; but even though this one has neither , director Dan O'Bannon has succeeded in brining the classic " The Case of Charles Dexter Ward " to screen . Of course , this isn't the first screen adaptation of the classic story ; as Roger Corman made a rather good one in 1963 with the classic ' The Haunted Palace ' . The plot has shades of Re-Animator , and follows an investigation into a man who may have found a way to cheat death . The story starts when Charles Dexter Ward's wife visits a private detective , asking him to investigate her husband who has become a recluse ; living in a house on their estate grounds . A strange smell of death permeates the air surrounding the retreat , and the neighbours are suspicious after seeing the amount of raw meat being delivered . . . The film doesn't contain a great deal of suspense , but the director masks this nicely with a great aura of mystery and intrigue . The film builds up to finally discovering the mystery behind what Charles Dexter Ward has been doing , and although it takes a while to get there - the film never gets boring because O'Bannon keeps the mystery bubbling . The special effects are a little silly , but they actually work quite well in the context of the film , and O'Bannon gets to show his twisted imagination with abominations such as a still-living mauled torso and many other otherworldly creatures . There's a lot of blood and guts too , and even though the film appears to be trying to imitate A-class horror , O'Bannon doesn't completely veer away from B-movie cinema . The acting is decent enough , but one of the few weak links for me . John Terry is more than a little unenthusiastic , while Chris Sarandon never completely convinces in the Vincent Price role of the villain . That really isn't important , however , as it's the atmosphere and the story that are the stars of the show here - and The Resurrected is strong in both those areas . This film is indeed a lost gem and one that deserves to be more seen !
Brilliantly gripping thriller from the underrated John Dahl !	What we have here is a damn good little nineties thriller that , while perhaps lacking in substance , still provides great entertainment throughout it's running time and overall does everything you could possibly want a film of this nature to do . I saw this film principally because it was directed by John Dahl - a highly underrated director behind great thrillers such as The Last Seduction , Rounders and Roadkill . I figured that if this film was up to standard of what I've already seen from the director , it would be well worth watching - and Red Rock West is certainly a film that Dahl can be proud of . The plot focuses on the overly moral Michael ; a man travelling across America looking for work . He ends up finding it one day when he stumbles upon a bar in Red Rock County - only catch is that the job is to murder a man's wife . He's been mistaken for a killer named Lyle , but instead of doing the job ; he plays both sides against each other and eventually plans to make a getaway . However , his attempts to escape are unsuccessful and he finds himself in a bad situation when the real Lyle turns up . . . John Dahl appears to enjoy setting thrillers on the road ; he did it three years earlier with Kill Me Again , and again almost a decade on from this film with Roadkill . It's not hard to see why Dahl chooses this sort of location , as it provides a fabulous atmosphere for a thriller the likes of this one . Dahl also provides his film with a ' film noir ' like atmosphere , as the plot mainly focuses on the central character and the word he is plunged into is full of dark and mysterious characters . The acting is largely very good , with Nicholas Cage doing an excellent job in the lead role , and getting A-class support from Lara Flynn Boyle , J . T . Walsh and , of course , Dennis Hopper ; who once again commands the screen with his over the top performance . It has to be said that the second half of the film isn't as gripping as the first , but Red Rock West certainly is never boring and the way that Dahl orchestrates the grand finale is excellent in that all the central characters get to be a part of it . Overall , Red Rock West is a film that you're unlikely to regret watching . It's thrilling throughout , and you can't ask for much more than that !
Obscure atmospheric horror gem !	Dementia is one weird film ! To sum it up in a nutshell , I'd say it's kind of like a longer and somewhat more macabre version of The Twilight Zone ! The film doesn't include any graphic scenes - although this didn't stop Dementia being banned upon its release in 1955 . The film creates it's horror through atmosphere rather than violence , and the result is rather effective . It has to be said that the narration courtesy of Ed McMahon is more than a little bit cheesy - some have even compared the film to the ' works ' of Ed Wood in that respect ( I personally wouldn't go that far ) - but his voice-over does have a horrific vibe to it , and it certainly benefits the film . Dementia is not exactly plot heavy , and we simply focus on a woman whom we are told is insane . We then follow this woman throughout the night as she gets involved in a series of activities - things such as encounters with various unsavoury characters and other happenings on the dark streets . The film contains no dialogue , and the only speaking part belongs to the narrator . This sets the film apart on it's own as very few films work in this way , and that only adds to its originality . The film achieves it's genuinely unsettling atmosphere via the way that every single character in the film is completely loathsome . It's not hard to see why this film offended the censors back in 1995 . There are a few macabre scenes , though most of the violence is implied rather than shown , and this serves Dementia rather well . The film is very surreal , and a lot of it feels like a nightmare - which is definitely to the film's credit . Watching the central character drift through John Parker's nightmarish dreamscape is entirely captivating , and this is of huge benefit to the film as it completely relies on this in order to succeed . Dementia is unlikely to appeal to everyone due to its frankly odd nature , but it's definitely a film worth seeing . Atmosphere is important in horror films , and this one is PURE atmosphere - highly recommended viewing !
Another cult hit from Russ Meyer !	Beyond the Valley of the Dolls is the fourth Russ Meyer film that I've seen , and it's also the odd one out . It's got all the sex , violence and gratuity that you would expect from Russ Meyer - but where are the huge breasts ? Anyway , the film is based on a screenplay by film critic Roger Ebert , and focuses primarily on the drug culture in Hollywood . Ebert gives Hollywood a very colourful character , and the film is absolutely great to look at . The humour and goings on are not exactly subtle either , and like most of Russ Meyer's work - this film is great fun to watch ! The plot focuses on a band called " The Connie Nelsons " and their manager , who travel to Hollywood to make it big . They soon hit the big time , but they also discover the joys of sex and drugs and it doesn't take long for these formerly clean-cut girls to immerse themselves in a hive of sleaze as they all find themselves hooked on " uppers " and " downers " and getting in with some very strange and shady characters . . . When watching this film , it really is best to turn off your brain , forget what you know and just let Meyer take over ! The director imposes his style brilliantly , and succeeds in portraying Hollywood as a corrupt nest of sleaze . The characters are all typically over the top and so are their actions . Meyer packs the film with all manner of sleaze including ravenous lesbians , women posing as men and gratuitous sex scenes . It's surprising that this story came from the mind of Roger Ebert - the same critic who tends to write less than favourable reviews of many of my favourite ' trash ' films . The acting is surprisingly good too , and typically Meyer has cast a beautiful lady in the leading role . Dolly Read is stunningly beautiful and plays the part of the sweet and innocent / slutty whore well ! The plot is entirely wayward and it's never obvious where the film is going , so you can always count on a few surprises - and Meyer certainly doesn't disappoint in that respect ! Overall , this is another great slice of cult cinema from one of the kings , and it comes highly recommended !
Oddball seventies horror , and a rare success for Jeff Lieberman	I've learned not to go into Jeff Lieberman's films with high expectations , as although I liked his latest film ; horror-comedy ' Satan's Little Helper ' , both Squirm and Just Before Dawn did nothing for me , despite high expectations before seeing them . However , Blue Sunshine is surely the director's best film , as it works on both a visceral and psychological level . The film is something of a crossover between the zombie horror subgenre , and a drug fuelled mystery plot . The most effective side of the film , horror-wise , is definitely the idea of silly choices you made as a kid coming back to haunt you as an adult . The plot focuses on a batch of drugs called ' Blue Sunshine ' , which was distributed around a certain college ten years ago . Now the drug is coming back to haunt the users by way of hair-loss , headaches , nightmares and an insatiable desire to kill people . We follow Jerry Zipkin , a young man that ends up at the centre of the trouble and decides to get the bottom of the mystery , which centres on a politician trying to get elected by way of a publicity drive . I suppose the main reason why I'm not Jeff Lieberman's biggest fan is because his films often lack bite and don't move swiftly enough . This one is no different on that front , except this time ; instead of merely focusing on a bunch of worms , or yet another troupe of deformed , deranged backwoods killers ; Lieberman has the advantage of an intriguing mystery to base his film on . While it's always obvious where it's going , the director manages to get the audience to care about what's going to happen , and as drugs and their effects are intriguing subjects anyway ; there's always enough to keep things ticking over . Lieberman also injects sequences that see various characters lose their hair before trying to kill anyone and everyone in the vicinity , and these too make the final package more intriguing - the sequence that sees a nanny take out her lust for violence out on a couple of irritating kids being the highlight in that respect . Overall , it has to be said that the film isn't perfect - not everything is perfectly judged , and it could have been streamlined better . Furthermore , it ends prematurely and feels a bit lazy ; but even so , Blue Sunshine is an excellent little flick and comes highly recommended .
All about the acting	Art is the expression that separates man from beast , or at least that's what this film appears to be saying . I say ' appears ' because the message is rather cloudy . . . that's if there's even a message at all . However , when a film is this entertaining ; it doesn't really matter what the message is . Geoffrey Rush stars as the Marquis de Sade ; the main character of the film . His performance is delicious ; over the top and fun throughout . He draws you into the performance with a mixture of charisma and good heartedness ( despite his character being a madman , we are still able to care for him ) . Starring opposite Rush is Kate Winslet . Winslet is a great actress that doesn't get nearly as much credit as she deserves . With the obvious exception of Titanic , Kate has turned in good performance after good performance and yet she's still something of a side-lined actress , that gets more supporting roles than the leads she deserves . She's also incredibly beautiful , but that's another story . Excellent support is given to these two leads courtesy of Michael Caine and Joaquin Phoenix . Another two vastly underused actors that I would like to see more of . Quills is an actor's movie . The film leans on the actors throughout and it is the over-dramatic performances that will stick in your mind once the film is over . The film is flamboyant and oddly beautiful , and this lends it a style that few movies have managed to capture before or since ( although one movie of recent years that is similar in style is Moulin Rouge ! ) . As I mentioned earlier ; the story isn't the most pronounced aspect of the movie ; and this is evident as when the film does try to give you a little bit of story ( Caine's wife's part , for example ) , it isn't as good as when the leads are strutting their stuff ; it is thoroughly obvious throughout that this is based on a play in that respect . Despite this , however , we are still able to get to know the characters somewhat ; although maybe not as much as you would expect given that this is a drama . Quills is an exhibition in acting , and one that is very enjoyable and entertaining . Everyone involved in the movie impresses in their own way and overall ; this is a very decent movie indeed , if not an out and out classic .
Superb classic Japanese exploitation !	Female Demon Ohyaku is the first in a trilogy of films that are often considered a precursor to the Pinky Violence film that became very popular in 1970's Japan . One of the things I love most about the Pinky films is the cinematography ; and the colour schemes used in many of them are a big bonus . This early one is filmed in black and white and so doesn't benefit from a striking colour scheme ; but that really doesn't hold it back in the cinematography department as this film really is beautiful ! Revenge is an extremely common Pinky theme and that is the one shown here . We focus on a young girl who was almost killed by her mother as a child . She's rescued by the circus and grows up to become a tight rope walker . She later catches the attention of a local thief and the pair hook up and try to rob the local mint ; but things go awry when they are caught , tortured and the man she has fallen in love with is killed . Our heroine is sent to a prison camp and forced to work in the mines ; but while there she plots her revenge on those that took her man from her . . . The film doesn't contain as much blood and nudity as some of the later entries in the genre ; and it's an overall artier affair , but there's still more than enough here to satisfy the average Pinky Violence fan . The film moves at a steady pace throughout and is always entertaining enough ; but things really pick up in the final third and last half hour of the film is not far at all from being as good as this genre gets . Director Yoshihiro Ishikawa implements a range of interesting and diverse characters into the mix ; our central character is a fine balance of good looks and athletic ability and certainly fits the bill for this sort of film . Some of the most interesting scenes take place between her and the tattooist lesbian wife of the prison boss - although I do wish more was made of that relationship . Everything builds up to a bloody revenge and once Ohyaku starts to get her own way ; the film is incredible . We get treated to one of the best murder scenes in any Pinky flick , followed by a nail biting torture sequence . Overall , this really is an excellent slice of classic Japanese cinema and I'm certainly looking forward to seeing the rest of the trilogy !
Not entirely effective , but always intriguing little drama	One trend in modern cinema that I'm getting sick of seeing lately is this obsession with small scale indie dramas focusing human relations and actions that are always greeted by glowing reviews from every critic and his dog . It's refreshing , therefore , to see one of these dramas that goes beyond the usual sentiment and dull drama and actually delivers something worth watching . While The Woodsman can't be called a masterpiece or even a modern classic , it presents the audience with a scenario that hasn't seen the light of day much in cinema ( for good reason ) , and makes good if it . Many films deal with criminals and crime , and it's often glorified or shown in a favourable light . Even though it's horrible , it's still possible to get behind murderers and drug dealers ; but one type of crime whose perpetrator it's impossible to get behind is sex related crime , and surely the worst kind is the one portrayed in this film ; paedophilia . There isn't a more despicable crime that I can think of , and this film attempts to analyse what happens when one is let out of prison . While not every idea in the film works , there are enough that do to ensure that this is always at least interesting . It takes some guts to take as a role as a sex offender , especially when you'll be believable in the role ; so full marks for guts goes to Kevin Bacon . His performance is what really makes this film . He's evil , but only an in an understated way ; and that makes the horror that lies behind his shy facade even more uncomfortable . He walks a line between insanity and redemption brilliantly , and that helps to make the film what it is . His character is easy to forgive - but his crimes are not , and this puts the audience in an ingenious situation , which is carried off to great effect by director Nicole Kassell . The film seems to have a woman's touch throughout , and it so it came as no surprise to me that the auteur is female . This film's real brilliance is summed up in a scene that sees Kevin Bacon sat on a park bench with a young girl . Everything that the film had been building up to is put into that scene and that helps to make the film what it is . The tagline , " What's the worst thing you ever did ? " seems a little inappropriate , as there are some things that really are unforgivable ; but this is a good flick almost completely because of the way that it manipulates the audience and the gripping lead performance .
Tourneur's masterpiece gets a sleazy makeover	Let's face it ; this remake of Jacques Tourneur's 1942 masterpiece was doomed from the start . This is the sort of film that people will go into with zero expectations because of the brilliance of the original and dislike it because of the huge chasm of quality between this and Tourneur's film . However , in spite of the fact that this remake isn't nearly as good ; it still stands alone as a more than decent eighties horror flick . The thick and foreboding atmosphere of the original has been replaced by a more sleazy , erotic tone and the film is much more keen to focus on themes of lust and incest than the folklore behind the affliction of the central character , which the original portrayed so well . This offers a different take on the ' Cat People ' theme , and while it never works as well as the tone in the original ; it's still rather nice , and on a personal note ; I just love sleazy films ! Not to mention the fact that a frame for frame remake is never a good idea . The film features a number of corny moments , and the gore and nudity go over the top on several occasions , which won't go down well with many fans of the original , but it isn't a bad thing , as all these things add to the kitschy element of the film and all aid the sleaze , and are , therefore , more than welcome in my opinion . The theme of incest is capitalised upon , and director Paul Schrader doesn't seem all that bothered about making a film that crosses a boundary where taboos are concerned . Malcolm McDowell aids this film massively in this respect , and his performance in this movie is nothing short of fabulous . He's simultaneously malevolent and perverse , and every moment he's on screen is a highlight . The original worked by way of keeping the action simple , and ensuring the audience is always left guessing as to what's going to happen next . Schrader goes the other way with this movie , and he makes sure that we see EVERYTHING , and this is no bad thing in my book . The mystery is retained still , and Schrader manages to leave us on the edge of our seats . When it comes to movies featuring shape shifting , it's nearly always , if not always , werewolves that are the central focus ; so another thing I like about this film is that it offers a different animal for the characters to change into . It has no doubt taken influence from ' The Howling ' , with it's great little change sequence towards the end , and that marks one of the highlights of the movie . The movie is a little overlong , and the ending will leave many ( including yours truly ) cold , but on the whole , while this is disappointing because it's not as great as the original , it's still a damn fine horror film . And besides , at the end of the day ; how many films can you name that have reached the heights of the 1942 version of Cat People ?
A magnificent piece of work and one of the most heartbreaking tales ever told	Animation is often seen as a childish medium , and for good reason as kid's films often are animated . However , every now and then an animated film comes along that extends it's boundaries and manages to deliver a very adult story , and Grave of the Fireflies is one of those films . Through it's well observed and very real characters , Grave of the Fireflies portrays a story of loss , heartbreak and the effect of war on civilians in a manner that is more effective and more firmly based in reality than many live action films about the same subject are . We follow Seita and Setsuko , a brother and sister that have lost their parents in the war and are now forced to fend for themselves in the war torn country . How the two go about doing that and the boy's development from a child to a ( somewhat ) responsible adult due to the change in the surroundings makes up the spine of the movie . I'm not a big fan of animation , but there are some films that are so great that a person's personal preferences are irrelevant , and this is one of those films . The animation is beautiful and certain scenes , including the air raids and anything with the fireflies are amazing works of art . The way the music blends with the images on screen is haunting and beautiful , and helps add to the tragedy of the story . Because we are able to care for the characters , the tragedy is increased ten fold and the story on the whole is a sad one , but few movies have ever matched up to this film's ending in terms of pure despair . The conclusion is absolutely gut wrenching to an extent that few movies have ever matched , let alone animated pictures . The fact that it's so plain and blatant , with no attempt to console the audience takes the tragedy to a whole new level and I don't doubt that many audience members will be holding back tears upon the film's conclusion . This film is a must see .
Horror in a phone box !	The made for TV short Spanish horror movie takes an amazingly simple idea and crafts an inventive and somewhat terrifying film out of it . The film begins with a group of men putting up a new telephone box in the centre of the city . Some time later , a man steps inside to use the phone and finds that he can't get out . The townspeople and various authorities try to free him , and then the same van that delivered the telephone box takes it away again . . . Being trapped in a phone box would be a huge inconvenience , and a nightmare to most people for that reason . By keeping the film simple , director Antonio Mercero manages to lull you into thinking that's the only horror to be found within the film - at first , it's actually quite funny ! But then a series of progressively stranger events unfold and we begin to realise that there's something else afoot . The ending is what most people talk about when this film is the subject of conversation , and indeed it is entirely shocking , but still entirely simplistic in its execution . With La Cabina , Antonio Mercero shows us that for a film to successful , it doesn't need overly complicated ideas - just a simple one will do !
Brilliant pupil-teacher satire	The 1980's was the decade responsible for some of the silliest films known to man , but many of these films actually have something about them - much like this satire on the antagonistic relationship between teachers and pupils . Some people may be dismayed by the massively over the top plotting ; but this is the entire point of the movie . It's unrealistic and silly , but that's what makes the satire hit home . It might not be too over the top these days either , with the shocking violence reported from some schools . The plot follows Andy Norris ; the replacement music teacher at a Lincoln high school ; a school that is run not by the teachers , but by a powerful clique , lead by Peter Stegman . It doesn't take long for the new teacher and the gang leader to develop an acute hatred of one another , which leads to all kinds of trouble for both of them . The plot of Class of 1984 isn't important really , it's the stunts and ultra-violence that is ; and the film features a lot of both . Some of it is actually quite shocking , while other parts of the movie are downright hilarious . Basically , the film is just a good time throughout . The style that Class of 1984 takes on is similar to that of the earlier teen exploitation flick ' The Warriors ' , and the dark atmosphere of the film creates a similarly post-apocalyptic theme . The dark tone of the movie blends well with the events that take place , and despite the fact that this is a satire ; it's actually quite frightening . The gore on display isn't relentless , but it is shocking when it comes . Scenes that see someone have their arm cut off by a circular saw , and someone dropped through a skylight are shocking in an almost humorous way , and are hard to really be shocked by - but a scene that sees a laboratory decorated by dead rabbits definitely succeeds in being macabre and quite disturbing . The acting in the film is largely good , with the ensemble cast putting in performances that are realistic and suit the mood of the picture . The film is exciting throughout , but it takes on a life of it's own once we reach the final twenty minutes . That's when the story comes together and the violence is at it's most prolific . I'm surprised that this film hasn't gone on to receive more of a welcome reception , but nevertheless ; this is really good stuff . Recommended !
Very energetic , corny and enjoyable	Scent of a Woman may well the corniest film ever made . For that reason alone , I should hate it ; but I cant because , despite the ever-present layer of cheese ; this is just a damn good movie . The film allows it's characters to develop throughout , and through a series of silly and unlikely sequences , we actually see them do that right before our eyes . Scenes that see Al Pacino dance the tango with Gabrielle Anwar , or Pacino visit his long lost brother are priceless and although almost every moment of this film is extremely unlikely and is drenched in corny music ; you can forgive it because it's so much fun to watch . We follow a young man named Charlie . Charlie is in trouble at school as he witnessed a prank and , if he doesn't name the perpetrators in public - he'll be expelled . He's also taken a summer job as a babysitter for a blind man , which spirals out of control as this cantankerous old man bungles his babysitter onto a plane and takes him to New York for one final weekend of luxury before ending it all . Al Pacino's character in this film is resoundingly different to any other character I've seen him play in any other film . It must be great for a thespian like Pacino to get a role like this , and he clearly enjoys himself playing it . Maybe even a little bit too much at times , as his constant shouts of ' Hoo-Hah ! ' would suggest ; but the energy and talent that Pacino exudes onto the screen mean that you can forgive even when his mannerisms step over onto the wrong side of annoying . Pacino's co-star is then young Chris O'Donnell , who brilliantly offsets his ham with a restrained and understated performance . He often blends into the background , which isn't normally what you want for a lead ; but the way he stands back and lets Pacino do all the work may be the only truly realistic thing in the entire film - as that's clearly how a quiet seventeen year old would react in this situation . The characters are an important element of the film , so it's lucky that director Martin Brest was able to recruit performers of this calibre . Scent of a Woman sometimes loses it's way where reality is concerned , but it's constant stream of entertainment offsets this brilliantly and what we are left with is a highly energetic and enjoyable film that is really hard not to go along with .
An excellent surrealist fantasy	I can't say that I'm a big fan of director Luis Buñuel . While I admire his visual flair - his movies often lack backbone , and this brings them down . The Exterminating Angel is the first Buñuel movie that I've really enjoyed . I enjoyed it because I never got the impression that the point of this film was simply to be weird . Buñuel has found a premise - basically , a satire on the behaviour of the upper class - and lampooned it brilliantly . The key to this movie is setting up the central plot , and the director does such a good job of it that after a while ; we don't care that the film is based on an idea that makes no sense at all , and are just able to run with it . The film follows a bunch of guests at a dinner party . At the end of the party , none of them make any effort to go home and after a while it becomes apparent to the party that they physically cannot leave the room . We then watch as the upper class , people who are used to sipping champagne and smoking expensive cigars are reduced to surviving in the most basic ways . They have to hack through the wall to find a water pipe and even begin eating paper to quench their hunger ? The satire works because the acting is just so different to the way that the upper class usually conduct themselves - either on screen or otherwise . The structure of the social classes is clearly defined by Buñuel's film also . This is the sort of thing that would really scare the rich , while other social classes have other things to worry about . Before the nightmare begins , various people are commenting on the conduct of one of their own who has had slightly too much to drink . This wouldn't worry anyone who isn't ' high society ' , but the fact that these people do care about it shows the difference in values between the classes . Buñuel directs the film with almost a complete lack of emotion towards the central ensemble - and this stood out to me as it really allows the film to be funny . It's almost like the director is laughing at the situation that he's put his cast of characters into , which suggests that the Spanish director isn't the biggest fan of the upper classes . There's a million and one ways that this film could be interpreted , and that is what makes it great . If you don't like films that don't make sense ; this probably won't do much for you . However , I think that this is one of those films that need to be experienced ; and I definitely recommend it .
Cold and calculated French heist film	There were heist movies before this one , and indeed the likes of Rififi were an obvious influence on it - but The Red Circle is more than just another entry in an overpopulated genre and with this film , director Jean-Pierre Melville has managed to create something that both thrills on the surface and gives its audience something to think about . Being cool is just as important a feature of the modern crime movie as guns and gangsters , and Melville delivers that with this film in droves ; the tone of the film is very relaxed too and Melville allows the bulk of the film to bubble under the cool exterior . The story has a number of angles but the central character is Corey - a thief who is released from prison . His release coincides with the escape of infamous murderer Vogel , who slips from under the nose of Police Commissioner Mattei during a train ride . The first thing Corey does upon release is steal some money from his former boss Rico , and the second thing he does is recruit Vogel and a sharpshooter to help him pull of a jewel heist . But Rico and the police are hot on the thieves ' tails . . . The film is bolted together by four excellent central performances . Alain Delon is calm and calculating as the film's anti-hero , while Gian Maria Volontè looks formidable in his role as the escaped murderer . François Périer is good also as a dubious club owner , while the real standout performance comes from André Bourvil in his role as the police commissioner . The film runs at almost two and a half hours and is not exactly a thrill ride . However , the director keeps things interesting by keeping the action focused on the important elements . The film does feature crime film stapes such as shootings , but they are kept to a minimum . The first two thirds of the movie are really just building up to the suspenseful heist scene towards the end . Rififi was most famous for its heist sequence - an intricately designed scene in which nobody speaks a word . The heist in this film is similar in that it is also wordless , and I have to say that I preferred the scene in Rififi ; but Melville's skill in direction and the calm and composed way that it plays out make good of it . The film boils down to an exciting climax that rounds it all off nicely . Overall , this might not appeal to all crime film fans as the action is more than a little bit slow ; but The Red Circle is an excellent film and deserves its reputation as a masterpiece .
An excellent and bizarre entry in the Krimi genre !	I've only seen a handful of Krimi's so far , but already it's clear that you can expect just about anything to happen , and while the plots don't always make complete logical sense - you can at least be guaranteed a damn good time ! The Trygon Factor is no exception to this rule as the film being together several different plot elements and manages to spin a very intriguing tale of crime and murder out of it ! Like most ( all ? ) of the genre , the film is based on a book by Edgar Wallace and puts it's main focus on a monastery inhabited by both a group of nuns and a strange family . There has been some strange happenings going on in the area ; including murder , and this leads Scotland Yard detective Cooper-Smith to investigate . It's not long before his investigation leads him to the monastery , but gaining a search warrant is a difficult task considering that the centre of it all is a place lived in by nuns . The detective therefore has to try and gather some ' real evidence ' on the crimes which will allow him to gain the warrant and crack the case ! On paper it really sounds like this film will be a disaster as there's a great deal of little subplots and characters ; yet somehow , the story comes together and despite a few moments of confusion ; actually is quite coherent . The style of the film is great ; director Cyril Frankel delivers a great colour scheme and the look of the film really suits its wayward plot line . The acting is very decent too , and the film features a standout performance from Stewart Granger in the lead role . It's clear that the film is not meant to be taken entirely seriously , and this is to its benefit as a truly serious tone would have ruined it . There's plenty to chuckle at in this movie ! The atmosphere is great and the monastery at the centre of the movie provides some nice locations for the action to take place in . The murder scenes are not gory , but they are entertaining to watch - the final one is not to be missed ! Overall , the Krimi genre on the whole certainly takes a bit of getting used to but it's great fun and this film is no exception . Highly recommended viewing !
Another Hammer Horror highlight from Mr Barker !	Throughout the 60's and 70's , Hammer studios have created some of the finest and most loved horror highlights , and this is most certainly one of them . Ingrid Pitt stars as Marcilla , an attractive female vampire who travels from house to house , feeding on young women . Pitt approaches her role with gusto and it is obvious that she ( and the rest of the cast ) enjoyed themselves making this film . Marcilla comes undone when she stays in one house too many and the local townsfolk become suspicious of all the deaths and sickness in the village since her arrival . As is the case with a lot of Hammer films ( and it is a case that I am thankful for ) , Peter Cushing also has a role . He plays General von Spielsdorf , a man that has his own reasons for wanting to hunt the vampire down . He's not in the film for long , not long enough in my opinion , but it's always nice to have him , regardless of how long his appearance lasts . The film opens with a lovely exhibition of atmosphere , which ends with a ' creature ' being killed via a lovely decapitation sequence . From then on , it is obvious that you are in for a treat and the rest of the film doesn't disappoint . Although it does become a little dull at times , The Vampire Lovers retains a lot of what makes the vampire legend so enticing , while also bringing a lot of new elements to the table - most notably an erotic lesbian angle . The film is also very lively and very fun , most of which is brought on by the camp atmosphere , which is commonplace in a lot of Hammer's films . The acting isn't terribly brilliant , but it isn't bad either ( although nobody will be going into this film expecting Oscar winning performances , of course ) . The Vampire Lovers also has one of Hammer's best directors on board ; Roy Ward Barker , whom you might remember from another Hammer Horror highlight ; Dr . Jekyll and Sister Hyde , not to mention the excellent ' Asylum ' . Overall , The Vampire Lovers is definitely recommended viewing for the horror fan , and essential viewing for the Hammer Horror fan . It's not the best vampire tale ever told , but there's a lot to like and I can't see many horror fans being dissatisfied with it . Good stuff indeed .
A completely originally styled film ! Wonders will never cease !	What does one make of Dogville ? I can say , without risking speaking out of turn , that this is the most originally styled movie in the history of movies . The film starts by introducing us to the town of ' Dogville ' , which is basically just a lay out that consists of white lines on a black canvass . Naturally , I expected the film to switch to a more proper set once it started proper - but it doesn't ! Flamboyant Danish director Lars Von Trier leaves us with just this very basic set , and I was expecting to start hating the film very quickly for that very reason . But this style only allows Von Trier to show what a talented artist he really is , as the lack of distractions allows him to put the focus on the acting and story , both of which are immense . The story is rich with themes of acceptance and retribution , while the entire cast - which consists of many smaller European stars - prove their worth by delivering it in a way that is engaging and thought provoking . We follow Grace ( Nicole Kidman ) who , while on the run from gangsters , stumbles into Dogville where the locals agree to take her in . ? at a price . I admire the audacity and bravery of Lars Von Trier for making this movie , which most people , frankly , would have laughed at if they heard the idea before seeing the movie . The movie clocks in at just less than three hours , but you honestly wouldn't believe it while watching . Von Trier has shown that all a movie needs to work is a strong story and some good actors to deliver it . Dogville is story telling at it's most basic as it is delivered with hardly any means other than dialogue and acting , and so requires a talented auteur to tell it , which it has in Lars Von Trier . The director has made many original and inventive films , and has gained quite a good reputation , of which this film only adds to . One thing that many people tend to think of movies these days is that there's no originality left , which is true to an extent , but my response to those people is simple - watch ' Dogville ' and reconsider .
A treat for the horror fan !	This delightful horror comedy romp stars horror legends Vincent Price and Peter Lorre as an undertaker and his assistant , who have problems paying the rent due to a lack of customers . However , the only reason work is slow is because people aren't dying . And that's a fact that our hero has no qualms about changing . The undertaker profession is ripe for making a black comedy out of , and this film makes the best use of that . It is true that the film isn't consistently funny , but most of the jokes in the film work ; and some of them are downright hilarious . Aside from the two legends already mentioned , this film also features a performance from another of horrors greatest stars ; Boris Karloff . This isn't the first time these three great stars have worked together , but seeing them on screen will always be a treat for the horror fan and it certainly proves to be in this movie , especially since it's done with a big smile on it's face and its obvious that all concerned had a good time making it . Vincent Price isn't an actor that I would expect to blend well with straight comedy , as I'm used to seeing him in more macabre outings , but he is really good at it . His delivery of one-liners is faultless , and this performance shows his range as an actor . Peter Lorre has a fantastic screen presence and he's not an actor that you can see and then forget . There's nobody quite like Peter Lorre , and that's what makes him so great . His pathetic persona blends well on screen with Price's amoral and sarcastic one , and the two make an awesome comedy duo . As if this wasn't enough for you , Boris Karloff joins them as Price's father in-law . Karloff doesn't get to do a lot in the film , but he too bodes well with comedy and it's a treat to see him along with another two legends . Also of note is the fact that the film is directed by one of horror's true greats - Jacques Tourneur . This film isn't up there with his atmospheric masterpieces such as ' Cat People ' or ' I Walked With a Zombie ' , but it's a solid film in his oeuvre and is highly recommended .
Another success for Hammer studios !	After their first successes with takes on famous stories , hammer's finest trio teamed up again to make this delightful take on the legend of an Egyptian mummy , imaginatively titled ' The Mummy ' . Peter Cushing is an actor that needs no introduction as he has carried many a Hammer horror production and forever engraved himself in the minds of horror fans across the globe . His performance in this film isn't his finest ever ( or even his finest under Terence Fisher ) , but it's more than solid and , to be honest , Peter Cushing is one of the few actors that could just spend the running time doing nothing and still have this horror fan riveted , such is the power of his screen presence . Christopher Lee has proved himself as the successor to both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi on a number of occasions with his portrayals of the classic monsters , and although he's never surpassed the great masters ; this is another of those occasions . Of course , the one and only Terence Fisher direct the film . Fisher is an under-appreciated director in the horror genre as , although he hasn't done much outside of Hammer , the films he made for Hammer are what have gone on to be some of their most respected classics . This is another one . The film looks great , and despite the fact that it's low budget and was shot well over forty years ago , the colours and locations still bode well , and give the film a fresh feel . The Hammer style camp feeling is very much on display in The Mummy , and for the Hammer fan ; that can only be a good thing . The Egypt setting marks a nice departure for the team , as up until this point , audiences had only seen them together in more urban settings . To be honest , aside from Boris Karloff's performance , I didn't much like the Universal classic . I don't hesitate , therefore , to label this film superior in every respect other than the lead . This version of the story is handled in a way that is much easier to like than Karl Freud's version . The story itself is a more than interesting one , and ties in the intrigue of the Egyptian civilisation , with themes of modern society breaking their sacred code to have a museum full of relics , which is really quite thought-provoking .
Bloodthirsty mutant cannibals in the American wasteland	The question most people ask when it comes to modern day remakes is " why remake a classic ? " , but the question I ask of this one is " why call it The Hills Have Eyes ? " Many films have been made before and after Wes Craven's original shocker with similar ideas , so why not take the basic plot idea and give it a new title ; thus making it a new film . Judged on its own merits , Alexandre Aja's exploitation horror flick is actually a good film , but it loses credibility unnecessarily just because it's a part of the remake crowd . After an explosive beginning which gives you an idea of what Aja intends to do with the remake ; the pace relaxes a little as we get to know the doomed family at the centre of the piece . While this may not be very exciting , it pays dividends towards the end when the mutant cannibals start to get their own way . We follow a family who decide to take a holiday that involves driving through the desert . After fuelling their car , the helpful petrol station attendant tells them of a shortcut in the desert ; but after they have a crash , it soon becomes apparent that they aren't the only ones amidst the nuclear hills . Towards the start of the film , Aja packs the film with references to nuclear testing which leads us to believe that he wants to go deeper with the plot . However , by the end it all feels very half-arsed , as apart from a few references towards the mentality of America - these ideas never really bear any fruit . Ted Levine heads a capable cast in a role that is a world away from his turn as Buffalo Bill in The Silence of the Lambs , and actually feels a lot like a Sid Haig impression . The rest of the cast have some impressive film and TV credits between them , but nobody is a particularly ' big ' actor , which actually does this sort of film credit . The real stars of the show are the make-up department , who do a great job with the mutant cannibals . They all look very realistic , and it's easy to believe that the people in the film actually are mutants . The violence and gore is fairly heavy , although Aja is actually quite restrained in this respect , as it only occurs when needed and never goes too over the top . Aja also does well with the scare factor , as he continually creates a foreboding atmosphere by way of lots of scare tactics , including the backwater desert atmosphere , glimpses of the killers early on and my personal favourite - the voices that come over the walkie talkies . The main reason that this film works is not because of the violence , however , it's the way that Aja almost makes the audience a part of the central family . The characters are all well defined and realistically done ; and this means that once we get to the horror of the piece , it really is horrific . Aja does go over the top with this towards the end , but in general the characters are very well defined , and I certainly cared a lot more about the family in this remake than I did in Wes Craven's original . It seems obvious that Alexandre Aja approached this film with care , and he definitely did have a lot to live up to after the surprise hit ' High Tension ' the year before . The director certainly has talent , maybe even the potential to become one of the modern masters of horror ; but I'm disappointed that this was his second film , as I really think that if he'd created something original , it could have been something really special . The fact that this film feels like an attempt for him to break into the American market is too obvious also . I do have faith that some day he'll top his debut film - but he hasn't done it with this . On its own merits , however , The Hills Have Eyes 2006 is a good film , and Aja can certainly be proud of himself for doing Craven's original justice .
A great film about perverted passion	I hear that this version of Leopold von Sacher-Masoch's isn't faithful to the original story . Having not read the book ( yet ! ) I can't say if that's true or not , but as a film in its own right ; this version of Venus in Furs really is something special . Massimo Dallamano is best known to cult film fans for his incredible Giallo What Have They Done to Solange , as well as the less successful follow-up What Have They Done to Our Daughters , although this is a film that is a success for very different reasons . The plot focuses on a nobleman named Severin . He believes that a man is the sum of his childhood traumas ; and his childhood , which involved punishments for voyeurism , has lead to him exhibiting some perverted desires . He meets the beautiful Wanda and wants their relationship to exist on a plain where he is dominated by his lover . He begins to ferry her around as her chauffeur and enjoys watching her have sex with other men . . . but as their relationship continues , he begins to question his own motivations . Venus in Furs is an incredibly beautiful film . The cinematography is scintillating and this really helps to bring on the story . Lead actress Laura Antonelli is beautiful also and the director uses her and her character well . Régis Vallée is the main standout on the acting front with his understated , yet believable performance as the central perverted character . It's clear that the film relies on atmosphere more than story and the character's decisions are what drive the plot forward more than anything else . The film could easily have been turned into a low rent skin flick in the hands of a less talented director ; but Dallamano clearly values his subject material and treats it in a respectful manner . The film does manage to justify the lead character's motivations and while masochism may be an alien concept to some people ; the film should be fairly easy to get on with even for someone with no prior knowledge of it . However , this is not a film for everyone and if you like your films plot heavy then Venus in Furs will do nothing for you ; but for me , this is a beautiful and memorable film and tracking down a copy is well worth the effort .
As weird as they come with some ' interesting ' ideas !	The only ' pinku ' film I'd seen before this one was Masaru Konuma's Wife to be Sacrificed , but that didn't prepare me for the oddity of this Japanese ' classic ' ! Quite what the writers and directors were on is anyone's guess , but whatever it was ; it lead to them creating an interesting and unique film that is memorable thanks to it's strange storyline and the way that the ideas are presented without a lot of fuss , which only increases the potency of what the film has to say . The basis of the story is sadomasochism , but director Yasuzo Masumura seems to want to go further as the pleasure-pain idea that S & M is based on is completely overruled by the idea of absolute pleasure through the sense of touch . The film focuses on a blind sculptor who , along with his mother kidnaps a young model after he heard some young kids talking about how exquisite she is . He takes her to his warehouse , which is filled with huge statues and naturally she wants to escape as soon as possible . After a couple of failed attempts , however , she begins to buy into the sculptor's ideas , and soon develops his fixation . This film definitely is shocking , but not because of any large amount of gore or particularly brutal sex scenes . Director Yasuzo Masumura has done an amazing thing in that he's made a film that is shocking thanks to the ideas that it promotes . Naturally , there's a fair amount of nudity ; but it's very soft and clearly wasn't what the director valued most when it came to making this film . There is a rather visceral sequence towards the end which is sure to get the audience cringing , but it's not the most shocking thing about the film - which again is amazing since this would have been the standout in most other movies like this . The atmosphere is surreal throughout , and this is good as it allows the director to throw in just about anything and it comes off as being believable in spite of the fact that a lot of the ideas in the film are really quite ridiculous . I always find it difficult to judge things like acting when a film is subtitled ; but the lead duo are at least believable , while Yasuzo Masumura's cinematography and attention to detail is the finishing touch that makes the film what it is . Overall , Blind Beast is a bizarre oddity that verges on brilliance . Well worth seeing !
British Indie flick gives the Americans a run for their money	My Summer of Love pretty much flew under the radar upon it's release in 2004 ; and this is unfortunate , as this film is at least as good , if not better , than the Independent American releases of 2004 , such as Sideways or Garden State . The film takes place in my home county of Yorkshire , and follows the interweaving stories of three individuals . ' Mona ' Lisa is a tomboy that lives in a pub ran by her brother , Phil . She meets the exciting and rich Tamsin , and as their friendship develops ; the two girls become more than just good friends . Meanwhile , Phil has found god and , after giving up drinking and getting into bar fights ; he's decided to turn the drinking establishment into a place of worship . The main theme of the characters seems to be selfishness . The triangle relationship comes under pressure from all angles during the film , and this is always a result of one ( or more ) characters ' desire to do what they want to do , without considering the others . The characters are definitely the main focus of the film , and it is through them that the film manages to be so good . From the opening credits , we are grabbed instantly by a sombre scene in which ' Mona ' Lisa is alone in her room . The scene is striking anyway , but it's made more so by the haunting sounds of Goldfrapp's " Lovely Head " . After that , the film forsakes style and gains it's magnetism through the characters . All three of the leads are very realistic , and their thoughts and desires are well thought out and believable therefore . Great characters do , of course , need great actors to portray them ; and this film has that too . Nathalie Press and Emily Blunt take the central roles , and their relaxed performances add to the sombre Yorkshire setting and suit their characters perfectly . Paddy Constantine is an actor that I've heard likened to the likes of Robert DeNiro ; and although his performance here doesn't quite echo DeNiro - he's obviously got talent , and it will be interesting to see what he does next . The BBC produced this film ; and this does translate into the film somewhat , as it can feel like a TV movie at times . Still , that's a small criticism in the middle of a mass of praises and on the whole ; this is a very fine movie indeed .
Pornography with style !	Pornography isn't a film type that you would usually associate with substance and imagination , but The Devil in Miss Jones bucks that trend in style as it manages to entail everything you could want from a porn film , but it does it with class and actually manages a very interesting wraparound story to go with the hardcore smut . I've heard this film described as ' deep ' , and while it definitely is deep considering its genre - it's still not exactly Shakespeare ( but would you want it any other way ? ) . That being said , the film does do something for both the proverbial ' heads ' , and that's not something that can be said for every porn film . Actually , it's something that can't be said for the vast majority , which wins The Devil in Miss Jones a lot of acclaim as far as I'm concerned . The plot is still rather thin , but here we focus on Justine Jones - a woman so bored with life that she decides to commit suicide . She then finds herself in purgatory , where it is decided that she will be able to return to Earth providing she live according to a deadly sin - and naturally , she chooses lust . . . One of the first things I noticed about the film was that its star - Georgina Spelvin - isn't exactly your average porn star , and indeed this is actually mentioned at one point when her ' teacher ' describes her body in a none too favourable light . I can't say that this odd casting choice really helps the film ; it does give it some sort of realism as the title character is an ' average woman ' , but I'm sure most people would have preferred a more buxom lead . That being said , the lady certainly doesn't disappoint when it comes to doing what most men would want her to do , as she gets put to good use with everything from men and women , to fruit and snakes . The sex is sleazy and dirty , and the film never holds back when it comes to showing everything . Indeed , you certainly do get your ' moneys worth ' when it comes to The Devil in Miss Jones . The film was apparently one of the pioneers of ' porno chic ' , and while I'm not exactly well qualified to say whether or not that is true ; looking at the film , I'm sure it probably is . The film could have packed more of a punch with better production values , I think , but even so ; this is a must see porn flick and comes highly recommended !
Excellent , and different , classic noir	Nightmare Alley was once an obscure film , but with recent DVD releases on both sides of the Atlantic ; I suspect it will now become slightly less obscure . That's a good thing too , because a film noir as classy and as dark as this one really shouldn't be ignored . The film follows the familiar noir themes of a man getting himself into trouble , and the plot here is wound up in a tight cocktail of lies and trickery . The plot is notable for its dark themes , but it also stands out because of the fact that it's so different from the majority of noir plots . The plotting is more freewheeling than usual , and this helps to give the audience the impression that anything could happen next . The film professes the danger of using lies as a foundation for your life , and this is explored through the tragic story of a promising young man named Stanton Carlisle . We see him in his early days working on a circus , and then his rise to fame as nightclub mystic . However , if you aim too high , you're always going to be brought down ; and our hero finds the truth in that the hard way . The film starts off on a circus ground , which is a location not often seen in film noir . Tod Browning's " Freaks " proved what a great environment for a film to take place in a circus ground can be , and this film proves it further . After the first half , the film moves into more familiar locations ; but director Edmund Goulding keeps the sense of mystery and intrigue on board . The plot has a mystic angle to it , and this works very well within a genre that usually gives us straight , rough-edged stories . The plot has lots to say , and there is a very definite message to be learnt from it ; although , admittedly , some of its potency is removed by way of said mystic angle . Technically , Nightmare Alley is surely one of the best films of the classic film noir age . The acting is superb , with Tyrone Power shifting gears several times , but always keeping his portrayal of the lead character coherent and consistent . Coleen Gray does the familiar female side of noir thing excellently , and her beautiful face is a highlight every time it appears . On the whole , Nightmare Alley is a film that needs to be discovered no more ! Most people in the world should have easy access to a copy of this . . . and I highly recommend getting one .
Excellent sequel to the nineties classic !	I was a fan of the original Clerks when I first saw it a few years back , although I was sceptical when I found out that Kevin Smith was to make a belated sequel to it . However , it turns out that I had nothing to fear - as Clerks II is an extremely entertaining little film that works for all the same reasons as the original Clerks did . Kevin Smith has recruited all the stars that made the original film so much fun , and despite this being twelve years on , they all take up their old roles with gusto and this helps to ensure that Clerks II has a great energy that blends well with Kevin Smith's offbeat yet strangely insightful writing style . The basic plot is that Dante , the star of the original film , has decided to move out of Jersey with his girlfriend , much to the dismay of his friend Randall . Dante and Randall are now working at a burger bar after their shop burns down . It's Dante's last day before he goes away to get married and his friends aren't going to let him leave without a send-off - and a certain someone also has him distracted . As you would expect , Clerks II is extremely childish at times ; but it's usually funny , and Kevin Smith also manages to implement several scenes of brilliance that manage to be funny at the same time as making a point ; the whole ' porch monkey ' sequence being a major highlight . The actors in this film are not the best you're ever likely to encounter , but it's not important as they all perform well and Smith's dialogue is always enough of a distraction anyway . The film is definitely aimed more at fans of the original than the general public , but this is only another feather in its cap if you ask me . Smith made this film for his fans . Aside from the silly humour , there is a really good little story here and it's all the better for the fact that you can actually care for the characters . Randall's speech at the end is actually one of the most rousing that I've seen in a film , and while that may just mean that I constantly watch the wrong films , it's a good speech and will appeal to slackers like myself . Overall , Clerks II is a good film in its own right and a must see for fans of the original .
Excellent Amicus anthology	Amicus are famous for the anthology films , and that's hardly surprising since they made so many . The majority of the anthologies they made are entertaining , and I don't think I've ever really seen a bad one ; Asylum , The Vault of Horror and The House That Dripped Blood usually , and rightly , are the highest regarded among the films that Amicus made . From Beyond the Grave is one of the lesser known anthology films ; but don't let that faze you , because this collection of four short horror tales is good fun , and while I cant say this is the best Amicus omnibus , it's definitely up there ! These films usually feature some sort of creepy wraparound story , and the one here focuses on an old antique store . Not very original , but the store is staffed by Peter Cushing ( complete with dodgy accent ! ) so I could forgive the lack of originality . Cushing antique shop owner doesn't like it when people try and rip him off , but plenty of his customers do ; and they all come a cropper when they discover the terrible secret of the item they've just bought ( or robbed ) from his store ! These films don't usually put the best story first , and this one doesn't either . The first tale , titled " The Gate Crasher " stars David Warner and has a sort of Hellraiser feel about it , as he buys an old mirror from the antique store and it turns out to be inhabited by a ghost like thing that entices Warner into bringing it fresh blood . It's not a bad story , though I feel that more could have been made of it . Story number two is the best and focuses on a man who steals a war medal from the antique store to impress a former army man and ends up getting more than he bargained for . This tale is very strange and stars Donald Pleasance in one of his weirder roles . It's imaginative and inventive , and therefore interesting as it's impossible to tell where it's going . Story number three , " The Elemental " is a fun little story , though there isn't really a great deal of point to it . The fourth and final tale would appear to be the centrepiece and focuses on an old wooden door that gives way to an expansive blue room . This is a decent little story and we get to watch Lesley-Anne Down wielding an axe , which makes it worthwhile . Overall , From Beyond the Grave is everything an anthology should be : it's fun and interesting in the right places . There's plenty of plot holes , but also no need to pay them any mind . From Beyond the Grave comes highly recommended to horror fans !
Smart and intriguing Satanic horror !	The French have pretty much proved themselves to be the kings of modern horror cinema over the course of this decade . Films such as Malefique , In My Skin and Inside show what the French can do ; and as a result of these films , I generally go into any modern French horror expecting great things . Sheitan is yet another excellent French horror film that works thanks to its untypical approach , mysterious atmosphere and great lead performance by Vincent Cassel . The plot focuses on a group of friends that exit a disco late one night after a fight that resulted in one of them taking a bottle in the face . They hook up with a girl called Eve ; who suggests that they escape to her house in the country . They get to the farmhouse and are greeted by a bunch of goats and the strange housekeeper , who takes a strange sort of liking to one of the boys . The group enjoys themselves at the house and spend most of their time trying to get the girls into bed ; but soon it becomes apparent that something is wrong with the housekeeper . . . The way that the plot moves really is the best thing about this film . It's all held together very loosely and the plot itself has free reign basically to go wherever it wants ; and this results in a film that constantly feels fresh and inventive as you never really know where it is going to go next . The film relies on its characters to move the story forward and they are a colourful bunch ; the housekeeper and the boy he ' befriends ' in particular share an interesting relationship . The way that the film plays out is very strange for a Satanic horror film as despite some symbolism and discussions of religion during the film ; there's not a great deal in the way of hints that the film even is Satanic horror . Vincent Cassel's character is the real standout of the film in terms of the performances ; and he truly succeeds in creating an extremely intriguing horror villain that is interesting and detestable in equal measures . The film does begin to crumble somewhat towards the end and I was really worried that we were going to get a Switchblade Romance-style cop out ending , but luckily it gets corrected in time and the conclusion is a shocker . Overall , Sheitan is an excellent movie and one that will surely improve with subsequent viewings . Recommended !
Another excellent Giallo from Paolo Cavara !	The Giallo style may have been losing some of its popularity by 1976 , but that didn't stop Paolo Cavara from delivering this excellent little Giallo ! Paolo Cavara is best known for his brilliant ' Black Belly of the Tarantula ' , and while this film is not as good as the earlier one ; Plot of Fear delivers most of the Giallo trademarks ( murders , mystery , sleaze etc ) with style and it has to be said that Plot of Fear is another success for the director ( who sadly only made two films in this genre ) . The Italian title ' E Tanta Paura ' roughly translates into English as ' Too Much Fear ' , and while that may sound like a bad title ; it actually does have some relevance later on . Like many of the best Giallo's , this one begins with a murder . We see a middle aged man killed by a transvestite prostitute , and from there director Paolo Cavara shows he isn't going to be doing too much waiting around as he quickly delivers another murder . The police soon catch on to this , and quickly work out that it's the work of the same killer . Pictures from a fairytale book by a man called Hoffman are found at both scenes ; and it all seems to tie to an animal friendly organisation . . . The plot portrayed in Plot of Fear is , like many Giallo plots , very convoluted ; but director Paolo Cavara does a good job of making sure that it comes off as coherently as possible and despite the many different angles , the film never becomes overly confusing . One of the main reasons for this is the fact that the director manages to keep a high level of suspense up throughout the film , and this ensures that Plot of Fear is always thrilling . It would seem that sleaze was the main intention with this film , and while it's not as raunchy as some other genre films , there's certainly no shortage of sleaze here , which of course is a good thing . The film is well acted by a somewhat experienced cast , which sees Michele Placido taking the lead role and always keeping the audience engaged in his performance . The murders are fairly brutal though most aren't overly gory . Director Paolo Cavara succeeds in giving the film a dark and macabre atmosphere which always benefits the film . The ending is a bit of a mess , but it doesn't spoil what went before it , and overall , Plot of Fear is a very good Giallo that is worthy of more attention !
Second only to Goldfinger !	To be honest , I'm not a massive fan of James Bond films . I do , however , tend to enjoy the ones starring Sean Connery ; and while it doesn't touch the masterpiece ' Goldfinger ' , From Russia With Love is definitely one of Bond's better adventures . It's also one of the few films that has managed to keep a solid reputation after it's release . While many of Bond's adventures are strictly cult flicks , or just not very well liked ; this one is often cited as great film by critics from all corners , and there's a reason for that . This is the Bond film that set the staples of the series , including the theme music and many of the regular characters . The story is typical of the sixties and fires James Bond straight into the thick of the Cold War . We follow the maverick secret agent as he attempts to foil a plot by the evil corporation S . P . E . C . T . R . E . to steal a Lektor ( Russian decoding device ) . As James Bond walks straight into their trap , he must thwart both their agents and the Russians , as the East faces the West a la the Cold War . My main problem with this plot is that it's not on a big enough scale . The only thing at stake is a decoding device which , while still not a bad prize , makes the film feel like a big song and dance for a very small payoff . Still , the plot is handled with great skill and while the film doesn't feature any stunts that rival some of the more recent Bond offerings ; the ones that do feature definitely work and succeed in getting the adrenaline flowing . The film is definitely a lot better as we get past the hour mark . The first hour features rather a lot of talking and not much action ; and while I don't really have a problem with this , most people tune into Bond flicks for smart wit and action sequences . The second hour makes up for the slow first , as we are treated to a climax that takes place on rail , road and water . Sean Connery is , without a doubt , the best man to ever play James Bond . His persona and mannerism fits the character brilliantly and , in my opinion , was never properly replaced . On the whole , this isn't as great as Goldfinger ; but it is a very good film . From Russia With Love is one of the few that will appeal to Bond and Non-Bond fans alike !
Daring and original portrayal of romance	This movie is often described as ' When Sally met Sally . . . ' , and that is an accurate portrayal of what this movie is . It's a love story like any other , but this story is different . We have the normal ' two people meet and fall in love ' scenario , but the difference here is that these two characters are the same sex , and that's what sets the film apart from it's counterparts . The central character is the lady from the title ; Jessica Stein . Jessica is caught in a New York metropolis ; populated by shallow people , people that are more interested in setting dates up with their friends and learning the dictionary cover to cover than they are in forming proper relations with people . This is the reason that Jessica can't find herself a man , she isn't happy to settle for second best and she wants more from a relationship than any man she knows can give her . So , after being told why she can't find herself a man by her big-headed colleague , Josh Myers ; Jessica decides to step outside of her box a little and answers an ad in the ' women seeking women ' section of the newspaper . Enter Helen Cooper ; the lady that placed the ad , and seasoned bi-sexual . She's sexy , quirky , funny and all together lovable ; as Jessica says at one point ; " Who wouldn't want to have sex with you ? " , and that is my thoughts entirely . At first , Jessica is cautious , she is predominantly straight at the end of the day and she's in over her head at first . However , the two hit it off almost immediately , and we get to watch their romance blossom . The fact that lesbianism ( or homosexuality in general ) is taboo is always apparent throughout this film . Helen is more of a free spirit , and the only friends of hers that we see are gay anyway , so she is always open about it . It's not the same story for Jessica , however ; she's always been straight , so being open about such a relationship isn't so easy for her . That's the second half of this story ; not only is it a comedy ; it's also a social commentary , and it rings true not just for this subject ; but just about anything that people do that isn't of the norm . The two leads are played very well by Jennifer Westfeldt ( Jessica ) and Heather Juergensen ( Helen ) . These two not only do the acting , but they also wrote the film . It is evident that women wrote it , as it has a very feminine feel throughout . There is no sex in the movie , which might disappoint some viewers and instead the movie focuses on the relationship between the women and the impact that it has on their lives . This is a very good thing , as what could have been lost in a myriad of nudity and sexual innuendo , actually comes off as a very personal study of a taboo relationship . The film is also very funny . The humour on offer isn't overly blatant , and is mostly very dry ; but it's definitely there and certain moments of the film literally had me in stitches . Despite all that I've so far , however ; this movie isn't perfect . The character of Jessica , although obviously born of the social-conscious New York atmosphere , and therefore it is to be expected , sometimes goes over the top and can come across as being very annoying . Aside from that , the film features far too much music . It's practically saturated in it , and it's always that sad women's elevator music that I hate . The film also loses steam in it's third act , and never regains the humour and pace of the first two . Like ( too ) many romance films , Kissing Jessica Stein features an ambiguous ending . Call me old fashioned , but I like a film to end properly and therefore I don't like ambiguous endings , so that was a turn-off for me . However , Kissing Jessica Stein is an underrated gem and is most definitely romantic comedy at the top of it's game . See it , you won't regret it .
Absolutely great for the first two thirds .	The Coens definitely have made some of the best movies of the past two decades ; I won't profess to be among their biggest fans , but it's hard to deny the likes of Fargo , Miller's Crossing and The Big Lebowski . After a dip in the form over the last few years , this film became hotly anticipated ; often being touted as a ' return to form ' for the Coen Brothers . Well , it is definitely a return to form and undoubtedly their best film so far this decade - but I do have to say that I'm somewhat surprised at all the praise this film has gotten . The film is based on a novel by Cormac McCarthy and focuses on Llewelyn Moss , a man who is lucky enough to stumble onto a drug deal gone wrong after following a wounded animal . He soon discovers a case containing $2 million left at the scene and does what any man would do ; takes the case without reporting the crime . However , he is discovered by the sadistic and psychopathic Anton Chigurh who tracks him down by any means necessary ; and he has no qualms about mercilessly murdering everyone who gets in , or around , his way . The tone of the film is very relaxed and this bodes well with the Southern setting . It's also a stark to contrast to the bulk of the plot ; at its heart , No Country for Old Men is a chase movie and the Coens somehow managed to make the film relaxed and tense at the same time . Almost every supposed great film has some sort of point to make , and while this film does touch on a few ; it's never very focused and to be honest left me wondering why they didn't discard any muted ' points ' and stick with the thriller elements . The cast is great ; it's really good to see a film that puts gritty looking actors in the leading roles and every performance is perfect - Javier Bardem is particularly great as the psychopathic killer . The film is really great for the first two thirds ; the chase is thrilling , the characters are interesting and the dialogue will keep any viewer glued to the screen - but then the film takes a shocking twist and it really all goes downhill . I do like a good twist , and perhaps this one worked well in the book ; but it certainly doesn't on the screen . It's a real shame too as everything about the film is working brilliantly right up until this point . Overall , this is certainly a good film ; it's very well made and interesting . . . just a shame about the ending .
Stylishly shot and constantly interesting thriller	Night Train is the first film I've seen from highly rated Polish director Jerzy Kawalerowicz and it's a highly impressive film too ! The film takes on a Hitchcockian style , although Kawalerowicz ' directorial style is more sombre than Hitchcock's and the film straddles the line between thriller / mystery and drama excellently . As the title suggests , the film is set aboard a train , and the director really makes good use of this setting as the claustrophobia of the vehicle is constantly imposed , and other elements such as the chance of meeting strangers on a train and the idea of a lot of different people being together in one place also come into play . The film focuses on Jerzy ; a mysterious man who boards a train on course for the Baltic coast . It soon becomes apparent that the man has a high need for privacy , and this is disrupted by Martha , a woman who he finds in his compartment . At first he seems keen to get rid of her , but later reluctantly agrees to let her stay . It later transpires that the police are on the hunt for a man who murdered hid wife . . . and Jerzy finds himself under suspicion . The film is stylishly shot and Kawalerowicz ' style reminded me somewhat of the " Nouvelle Vogue " style that was popular in France around the early sixties . The black and white picture helps to impose a dark atmosphere on the film and this in turn helps to build the mystery surrounding the central character . The characters themselves are all interesting and the way that the director feeds us more information about each one as the film progresses is well done and helps to keep the audience interested in the film . The acting courtesy of Leon Niemczyk and Lucyna Winnicka in the central roles is excellent and both performers give their characters plenty of credibility . The murderer plot often feels like something of a spare wheel to the other things going on in the film , but I think this was intended as by not putting the full focus on this plot , more time is given to developing the characters . The results of this plot are stunning , however , and the sequence that finally sees the murderer chased down is well shot and highly memorable . As the film winds down , Jerzy Kawalerowicz gives us an interesting take on the twist ending and this helps to separate Night Train further from the majority of other thrillers . Overall , this is a fascinating little thriller and comes highly recommended !
Brutal and gritty gangster flick - hugely underrated !	I'm shocked that I've been a film fan for many years , and have only just seen this gem ! In a world where The Godfather and Goodfellas are at the top of most people's lists of favourites , it's hard to believe that a film as strong as State of Grace could be so criminally under seen . The film is about love , friendship and betrayal ; and takes place in New York's infamous Hell's Kitchen . The fact that it was released in the same year as Martin Scorsese's more acclaimed ' Goodfellas ' probably didn't do it many favours ; but if you ask me , this is the better film . Boasting a strong cast , director Phil Joanou's film follows Irish-American Terry Noonan as he returns home after an absence of ten years . He soon hooks up with his old friends , including Jackie and his brother Frankie ; who is now the head of the Irish mafia . However , it doesn't take long before Terry's rekindled relationship with his old friends and his new loyalties to another party become at odds with one another , and our hero soon finds himself torn between the two . State of Grace has all the violence , foul language and hot-headed characters that are part and parcel of this sort of film ; but at its core is a very well worked plot , bolstered by some great characterisation . The characters are the main focus point in this film , and it's through their motivations that the plot is allowed to move . A film that puts so much focus on its characters needs a strong cast in order to work , and this film certainly has that . Sean Penn takes the lead role and delivers an early version of the strong lead performance that would go on to earn him high praise from the critics . He is supported by the underrated Ed Harris , who grows on me more and more every time I see him , in the film's most level-headed role - but the real star of the show is Gary Oldman . This actor has the ability to completely steal any film that he's in , and he really does stand out here ; delivering what is surely one of his all-time best performances . Familiar faces such as John Turturro , John C . Reilly and Robin Wright Penn do well ; but it's the main trio that take home all the acting plaudits . Hell's Kitchen is beautifully brought to the screen in the most downtrodden manner possible , and the music and atmosphere combine with the shockingly realistic violence to ensure that the film is always gritty and unrelenting . State of Grace comes with high recommendations .
Absolutely great tale of terror	The Oblong Box is a delightful treat for the horror fan . Starring two of the genre's great legends - Vincent Price and Christopher Lee and ( albeit loosely ) based on a story penned by the master of the macabre , Edgar Allen Poe , could it be anything but an immense slice of horror entertainment ? The answer would seem to be no as this tale of disfigurement , voodoo , premature burial and revenge hits all the right spots . There are a lot of themes going on in the movie , and because of this the storytelling gets a little messy at times - but it doesn't matter , as whenever the story takes a downturn , it's strong leads are always on hand to ensure that it never gets boring . The story follows a man who keeps his brother , who has been hideously deformed as a result of a voodoo curse , locked up in the attic . After his plan to escape goes awry , the deformed brother finds himself in the laboratory of Christopher Lee's mad scientist . . . It's true that neither Vincent Price nor Christopher Lee deliver their best performance in this movie , but come on - it's two legends , in the same movie together . They could just sit around and throw coins at a wall and I'd be riveted ! The expansive plot gives way to a tale of terror with many different angles , and this allows the film to take in many intriguing elements . Poe's favourite topic - being buried alive - features quite heavily , and is done in a very effective way towards the end . Voodoo will always be a fascinating subject as there's so much that can be done with it , and the idea of having someone disfigured as the result of a curse borders on genius . There's no black cat in the film , but we do have a strong revenge theme that echoes such classics as " The Invisible Man " in the way it's presented . As mentioned , it does get a little messy ? but there's enough intrigue in each section of the story for it not to really matter . When the brother's face is finally shown , it is a little disappointing but it hardly matters as it's backed up by a great ending that actually manages to be quite frightening !
When extreme holidaying goes wrong . . .	I had relatively high hopes for ' The Descent ' before going into it . Neil Marshall proved that he has a good understanding of the horror genre with his debut , ' Dog Soldiers ' , which is also a film that I like very much and don't hesitate to name as one of the best horror films of the new millennium . This follow up to that film works on the same terms ; with tension and atmosphere being more important than characters and substance , and I'm pleased to say that Marshall has created another worthy modern horror flick . It's clear that he wanted to be more original this time round , as the monsters here are of his own creation rather than being classic horror icons , like the werewolves in Dog Soldiers . The plot follows an all girl group of cavers who descend down into a cave somewhere in the UK . Things quickly go awry for our team , when , in a surprisingly tense scene , part of the cave collapses and seals them inside . Things get worse still when it turns out that they're not the only ones down there ; and what is down there with them isn't exactly friendly . . . Through a gritty and realistic plot pacing , Marshall has managed to take a simple premise and turn it into a slick and extremely suspenseful horror thrill ride . The film is slow to start , with only one exciting event in the first half hour , but once the movie starts properly ; the thrills come thick and fast , and even when the plotting slows down ; you can always count on there being another moment to drag you back into the action . I'm not usually a person that jumps during the ' jumpy ' movie scenes ; but this movie actually did the trick ! Marshall obviously knows what makes horror movies work too , as he spends much of the film building a foreboding atmosphere , which is complimented by the isolated setting of the cave , which is two miles underground . He keeps the atmosphere going with a plethora of different tricks , including ' Argento-style ' lighting , which he realistically blends into the movie by way of the lights that the girls take down into the cave with them . The film always breaths a sense of the horror of journeying into the unknown too , and this along with the tension filled atmosphere and realistic way that the horror is presented ensures that the film always sticks firmly to it's horror style . It's clear that Neil Marshall is more interesting in creating a film that shocks more than anything else , and this is shown by the complete lack of characterisation . Marshall does give his girls something of a story , but it's never the focal point of the film and , in fact , it's hard to really care about it . This does bring the film down , as the girls are clearly in the movie just as an excuse to show the horror , and this makes sure that the film is as empty as it is stylish . This isn't all bad though , as the style is consistent ; and the way that monsters have been designed reflects that . Much like the werewolves in Dog Soldiers , the fiends here look great and despite the fact that they're a work of fiction ; they even have some sort of reality about them . The scenes with the monsters in , however , bring the film down . For some reason , Marshall has opted to fast edit the sequences , and while this succeeds in being disorientating and true to dark surroundings of the film's environment ; it also makes it very difficult to see what's going on - which is never a good thing . The Descent isn't a great film , or even a great genre film , but it's style , effects and fair amount of gore will ensure that horror fans will be pleased ; and if that doesn't grab you , the vast amount of tension in the film certainly will . It definitely is nice , however , to see a modern film that isn't afraid that show blood and gore , along with a bit of imagination . It's even better to see , due to the wave of Japanese and American remakes getting unjust high praise , that the film is home-grown right here in the UK ! Overall , The Descent isn't ' must see ' , but it's well worth seeing and I recommend it .
Excellent and sadly unknown mystery thriller !	Fragment of Fear is a film that has somehow slipped under the radar since its release in 1970 and that's a real shame as while the film does have a few narrative problems ; this is excellently produced and well worked mystery thriller that really does deserve to be more seen . The film is halfway between a murder mystery and a psychological thriller and director Richard C . Sarafian gives both halves of the film equal credence as the focus is stretched across the central character's questionable mental health and the murder of his aunt that he is investigating . The central character is Tim Brett ; he's a reformed drug addict living in Italy . He returns to London when his aunt is found murdered and begins asking people who knew his aunt questions . It's not long before strange things start happening to him ; his flat is broken into , he receives a letter that was written on his own typewriter and gets strange phone calls . It soon transpires that someone doesn't want Tim investigating . But naturally , considering he was a drug user , nobody will believe him . . . Some have labelled this film as a British Giallo ; I don't agree that such a thing exists personally , but Fragment of Fear does feature some staples of Italy's finest type of film . The murder mystery is a given , but we also have an unseen killer and adding to that is the fact that many Giallo's feature a lead character with a fractured state of mind . The film is lead by the great David Hemmings who puts in a good performance . I was unsure of how he would across as a former drug user given his debonair screen presence , but he actually fits into this role really well and is not hard to believe . Director Richard C . Sarafian keeps the film streamlined and the action focused on the mystery which ensures that Fragment of Fear is always interesting and entertaining . The film gets more exciting as it goes along and it all boils down to a good ending that provides a nice twist and also manages a bit of ambiguity . Overall , it's a real shame that this film is so obscure as it deserves a wider audience and hopefully it will soon be picked up for a DVD release . Recommended if you can find it !
A golden start for Pierce Brosnan !	GoldenEye is often reputed to be the best of Pierce Brosnan's outings as Bond , and one of the best of the series period . There is a reason for this . Brosnan and director Martin Campbell had a big job on their hands - reinventing Bond for the nineties while still retaining that classic Bond atmosphere can't be easy , but it's safe to say that they achieved this aim admirably . Brosnan would actually go on to become one of my least favourite Bonds with subsequent outings , but here he fits the lead role like a glove . The plot is typically overblown , but I'm sure nobody would want it any other way . The plot focuses on a rumoured nuclear weapon named ' GoldenEye ' , and , as always , it is up to James Bond to sort it out . He teams up with a female survivor of an attack on a Russian research centre by Russian agent Xenia Onatopp , under the orders of General Ourumov . Together Bond and the girl discover the location of the nuclear device , but it soon becomes apparent that there's more than just a terrorist plot at work as the man behind the plot wants revenge on Great Britain . The thing that sets GoldenEye apart from later Brosnan Bonds is that it features a plot line that is interesting throughout , and one that doesn't ever become silly . Director Martin Campbell excellently fuses this plot with a barrage of special effect sequences , the majority of which are spectacular and engaging . The support characters on display are strong this time round , with Alan Cumming providing entertainment as a Russian researcher , while fellow Brits Sean Bean , Judi Dench and Robbie Coltrane jump on the Bond bandwagon with gusto . The female talent comes in the form of the lovelies Famke Janssen and Izabella Scorupco , both of which provide enough in the way of eye-candy . The way that most of the Russian roles have been cast with British actors works better than you would think too , as all the talented performers do well in their respective roles . The plot of GoldenEye may not hold much weight in terms of substance or emotion , but the Bond series isn't meant to - and Martin Campbell has successfully captured that fun , over the top and entertaining style that James Bond needs , and made it work for a nineties audience .
Maybe not Argento's best , but still an excellent Giallo !	The Cat o ' Nine Tails is Dario Argento's second feature as a director , and is often seen as a lesser Argento Giallo . While I agree with that somewhat ; the only reason why is because the others are so good . Despite being a lesser film by Argento's standards , The Cat o ' Nine Tails is still an excellent Giallo and stands tall above many other genre entries . One reason why this film doesn't get a great reaction from many fans is probably because it doesn't feature nearly as much blood as the likes of Deep Red and Tenebrae , as well as the fact that the story follows a rather straight detective narrative . The plot begins with a murder at a research institute . Blind man Franco Arno and his niece Lori happen to be outside when the murder happened , and when Arno bumps into a reporter named Carlo Giordani , the pair begin to work together to solve the case . Their initial investigation leads them to look at the scientists who work at the institute - who are researching a theory similar to that of Italian criminologist Cesare Lombroso : the idea that criminals have a certain genetic make-up . Their investigation reveals nine leads . . . This film is the second in Argento's loose ' animals ' trilogy , the other two being The Bird With the Crystal Plumage and Four Flies on Grey Velvet . Unlike the other two , this one doesn't feature an actual animal anywhere in the plot ( The Cat o ' Nine Tails results from the detective's nine leads ) , though it does feature Argento's obvious attraction to scientific research springing a murder mystery . Despite the fact that there isn't as much blood as usual , there are still some good murders done in interesting ways ; someone is pushed under a train , a man falls down an elevator shaft etc . The characters really stand out in this film too . Karl Malden delivers an interesting and very different leading performance as a blind man , while the suave James Franciscus is his polar opposite as the other side of the makeshift team . The two have a surprisingly good chemistry on screen together . Argento seems keen to include some humour too , and his camera-work is masterful as usual ; a sequence involving poisoned milk really stood out for me . Overall , this may not be Argento's best ; but it's still a very good Giallo and fans of this great style of film-making won't want to miss it !
An excellent follow-up to the masterpiece , A History of Violence .	Normally I'd consider it a shame when a horror director breaks out of my favourite genre and starts making other types of films ; but when that director is making films as good as Eastern Promises and 2005's A History of Violence , who can possibly complain ? Cronenberg has never followed the mainstream , and while he didn't write this and A History of Violence himself , both films are still very anti-mainstream and it's not hard to see why he took on both projects . I didn't really think there was much room left for ingenuity in the crime genre ; but by setting the film in London and putting the focus on the Russian Mafia , Cronenberg has found an area not often explored . The film focuses on the Vory V Zakone crime syndicate , and in particular a restaurant owning family headed by a man named Semyon . The story starts when a young girl dies during childbirth on a midwife named Anna's shift . Anna finds the diary of the deceased and it leads her to Semyon's restaurant . There , she is introduced to Semyon's bad son Kirill and a driver named Nikolia , and the diary turns out to be of great importance for the family . As you would probably expect , the film is professionally made and the production values are excellent ; so I wont waste too much of this review going on about that . The most important thing about this film is the story , and it's carried off excellently . Full of double meanings , most of them surrounding retribution ; it's a story that entertains on the surface and has enough depth for anyone wanting to look a little further into it . Eastern Promises is bolstered by an excellent performance from Viggo Mortensen . This actor has really impressed me , having surfaced as a result of Lord of the Rings ; and Mortensen has proved himself as an actor capable of great performances during his two collaborations with David Cronenberg . He thoroughly convinces in this film , and it would be hard for anyone not already knowing that he's American to think that he is not Russian . Luckily , the film was passed uncut by the censors in the UK , and that is a very good thing as the brutal violence is one of the key elements , though it is never overused . The film kicks off with a bloody throat slitting , and the best sequence in the movie features Mortensen fighting in the nude with two rival gang members . The ending is the only thing that disappointed me ; generally I think that ninety minutes is about the optimum running time for a film , but I'd have been happier for this one to go on twenty minutes longer and ended with more closure . Still , Eastern Promises is one of the first truly great films that I've seen this year and I'll be surprised if I see many better . A great achievement for everyone involved !
Perhaps not as good as the hype , but still a major highlight of 2006	After reading all the reviews and praise for Children of Men , I can't exactly say I was blown away by the resulting film - but it's certainly a very good movie in that it manages to make you care for the characters and makes you think ; something that can't be said for many movies released recently . The film is based on a novel by P . D . James , which I haven't read . The story takes place in the future , although it's not the futuristic world seen in most other films set in the future . Rather , the landscape of the film is a lot like the present world , and if anything seems even less technologically advanced . The basic plot revolves around the idea of women , for some reason , becoming infertile . No child has been born for over eighteen years and the only hope of saving the human race is a rumoured organisation known as ' The Human Project ' . However , there seems to be hope from elsewhere as after being dragged into a plot by his ex-wife , Theo Faron discovers a pregnant woman and agrees to help her get the baby to safety . Director Alfonso Cuarón has managed to walk a thin line between style and substance , and he's done it well . The film features a handful of star names who all deliver good performances , but these are never at the centre of the film and the director always makes sure that the story remains at the forefront . The film is not exactly a visual feast , but the downtrodden locations have a sort of eerie beauty to them , and the special effects , when used , are dazzling . The build up to the climax , the sequence that sees an army firing at a dishevelled building was a particular highlight in that respect . Clive Owen takes the lead role , and while he's still his usual one-note self ; his role here really suits his on-screen persona . He receives good support from experienced performers Michael Caine and Julianne Moore , while lesser known actors such as Pam Ferris and Claire-Hope Ashitey perform well alongside the bigger names . I'm not a big fan of the way the film ended , although I can see the reason for cutting the story off where they did . Overall , Children of Men is an excellent film and I can certainly recommend it .
Excellent slice of sleaze from Jess Franco !	Jess Franco made a hell of a lot of films over his vast career , and it's not surprising that most of them are trash . When speaking of his best films , it's usually The Diabolical Dr Z and this film ; Venus in Furs that get mentioned , and there's a good reason for that ! I can't say that this film is better than the fantastic Diabolical Dr Z myself , but it's certainly a great slice of Eurocult and I won't hesitate to say that Franco has outdone himself with this film ! Venus in Furs is a sort of mixture of sleazy exploitation and , bizarrely , film noir . This does give the film a very odd tone , though it's made good use of . The film starts off in Istanbul and focuses on a trumpeter who finds himself in the middle of a mystery . While strolling on the beach one day , he comes across the washed up body of a woman . After studying her face , he realise that not only does he recognise her - he was there at the party where a group of people mutilated her ! The trumpeter then decides to go to Rio , where he meets a singer named Rita ; and bumps into the girl he found washed up on the beach . . . There are a few films called Venus in Furs - this being the only one that I've seen , though it would seem that this one is unrelated to the rest as it is not based on a novel by Leopold von Sacher-Masoch . Like a lot of Eurocult films , this one gets rather confusing at several points and occasionally you just have to go along with it - even if what you're seeing doesn't make a lot of sense . While this might be a huge flaw in some films , in this one it actually isn't , as even when the story isn't up to much ; Franco ensures that the visuals are . Venus in Furs is a hugely trippy affair , and Franco pays a lot of attention to detail in most scenes and the fact that the film features a whole host of beautiful women certainly doesn't do it any harm either . The film boasts a very decent cast , with James Darren doing well in the lead role and getting support from beauties such as Barbara McNair , Maria Rohm and Margeret Lee ; as well as from cult stars Dennis Price and the great Klaus Kinski . It all boils down to a decent conclusion , which works well within the context of the film . Overall , Venus in Furs is an excellent slice of sleaze and certainly comes recommended to fans of this kind of cinema !
A change of environment proves lucky for Woody Allen	Every film that Woody Allen releases is automatically a point of interest for me , especially when the film in question has won itself a lot of favourable reviews . Match Point sees Allen in new territory as his beloved New York has been swapped for London , England . Despite this relocation , however , Match Point is still very clearly a Woody Allen film . The film is mostly a romantic drama , but as the story moves forward ; thriller elements start to creep through , and best of all we get a very potent streak of black humour to round things off . The plot typically features the central character in turmoil . We are introduced to former tennis star turned coach , Chris Wilton . He's looking for a meaning to his life and wants to do something different from tennis . After meeting a man named Tom , Chris finds himself the object of Tom's sister Chloe's affections . However , our tennis star has his eyes on Tom's finance ; Nola . After having an affair with Nola , Chris finds himself at decision-making time . Because as we all know ; you can't have two women for long . The film starts off with a sequence in which the protagonist tells us about a tennis ball hitting the top of a net during a game . If it carries on going , your luck is in ; but if it falls back , it isn't . Woody Allen keeps this luck theme going throughout the film , and the way that he harks back to the opening scene towards the end of the film is just great . Being from the UK myself , I was interested to see how Allen would handle the London setting . I've got to say , however , that I'm a bit upset about the fact that he has decided to set the film in the upper crust of society . It's not so difficult for me to relate to upper class New York because I'm not from America ; but as far as I'm concerned , the environment seen in this film doesn't really exist . . . but at least the English characters have English accents . The acting is fine , with Jonathan Rhys Meyers doing well in the lead role and hitting all the right notes as his character changes his stripes later on . Scarlett Johansson is his opposite number and delivers an emotional portrayal as the put-upon mistress , while Emily Mortimer is suitably posh to round off the central threesome . I loved the way the tale climaxes and I'm glad that Allen didn't continue along the lines that many films of this nature are happy to stay between . Overall , I can't say that this is Allen's best effort ; but it's a very good one , and the director has been showing good consistency over the last few years .
The better Paranoia !	A Quiet Place to Kill is not be confused with the earlier Orgasmo , though unfortunately confusing the pair is very easy as they're from the same director , both feature American actress Carroll Baker and they were both released under the title ' Paranoia ' ! Quite what the reason for both films featuring the same title is anyone's guess : I know that Italian filmmakers were more interested in making money than anything else , but surely releasing two films under the same title would do more harm than good when it came to the box office . . . but oh well . It's usually Orgasmo that gets most of the fans ; but if you ask me , this second version of Paranoia is the better of the two . Like Lenzi's earlier ' So Sweet , So Perverse ' , it would appear that the plot has been lifted from the French classic ' Les Diaboliques ' , and focuses on a love triangle . Playboy Maurice is married to Constance , a woman who decides to invite Maurice's ex-wife Helen to stay with them . Helen doesn't question it too much and accepts the invitation , and soon learns that the reason she's there is to help Constance kill Maurice . The first half of the film is much better than the second , as A Quiet Place to Kill unfortunately looses a bit of steam once it gets the first part of the plot out of the way . In spite of that , however , the film is certainly a very interesting Giallo and definitely delivered many of the things I love about this type of film . Umberto Lenzi manages to ensure that all of the major players are interesting , and Lenzi also ensures that all are guilty in one way or another , which ensures that everyone deserves what they get by the time it finishes . Carroll Baker is not my favourite Giallo heroine , but I liked her in this one . She seems to enjoy acting alongside Jean Sorel , who is as charming as ever . Unknown actresses Anna Proclemer and Marina Coffa round off the cast , along with the experienced Alberto Dalbés - all of which fit into their roles well . The upper class setting does the film a lot of favours , and the locations and fashions are all nice to look at . The plot mostly flows well and while it's usually fairly clear where it's going , A Quiet Place to Kill still manages to be interesting . This is not the best Giallo that Lenzi made ( that would be Seven Blood-Stained Orchids ) , but it's certainly a good one and I recommend it .
A veritable feast of gore and trash movie making !	1963's Blood Feast is not particularly well known to most people that are not hardcore horror fans , but it's actually quite a remarkable film ; and one of the first to use extreme gore , which makes it rather influential also . On paper , it's not all that surprising that such as a remarkable film got a sequel - even if it is almost forty years on from its release - the surprising thing about this film is the fact that it wasn't just made by someone who wanted to imitate Blood Feast's creator , it's actually The Godfather of Gore himself , Herschell Gordon Lewis , sitting in the director's chair ! And despite the fact that it's thirty years on from his previous director's credit , he has lost none of his thirst for blood and guts ! Essentially , the film is just a remake of the original and features an almost identical plot . We focus on Fuad Ramses III ; a chef who just happens to be the grandson of the killer in the first film , and he also just happens to worship the same Egyptian God - so naturally it's not long before girls start being butchered . . . Aside from a bucket of gore , Herschell has also kept the other things that made his older films such a blast in place - and that includes awful acting , poorly written characters and a very simple plot . He does appear to have moved with the times slightly as the effects are a bit better , plus the film features modern fashions . . . but other than that , the film could have been made in The Godfather of Gore's heyday . Lewis has lost none of his sense of humour either , with hilarious dialogues , ridiculous situations and even amusing character names ( Bambi Deere , Laci Hundees ) features . The plot basically just skips from gore scene to gore scene , but there's some interesting stuff in-between the gore ; including a police investigation that even the most dim-witted of officers would have solved in about five minutes . Lead actor J . P . Delahoussaye unsurprisingly doesn't have many other film credits to his name ; but he really is a blast in this one and gives a lead performance very much in Herschell's trademark style . Of course , it's the gore that is the real star and the film really does feature plenty , so HG fans rejoice ! It all boils down to a typically ridiculous ending , but who cares ? Blood Feast 2 is an absolutely great gore flick and while it's certainly a lot more redundant than the original - in its own right I wouldn't hesitate to call it one of Herschell's best and any fan of the director will surely want to track this down !
One of the finest British horror films	Horror omnibus films were popular in the seventies . I'm not very fond of them myself , but this one is an undeniably excellent slice of British horror cinema . The House That Dripped Blood is a horror omnibus , featuring four stories that surround a creepy old house in the country and are being told to a Scotland Yard officer by an estate agent . This film is headlined by three well known stars of horror cinema ; Peter Cushing , Christopher Lee and Ingrid Pitt , whom horror fans will recognise as one of Lee's co-stars in the greatest British horror film of all time ; The Wicker Man . The first segment of the film , titled " Method For Murder " tells the story of a horror storywriter , whose creation ; a strangler named " Dominic " is brought to life by his own imagination . This story builds suspense very well ; through his girlfriend , he , and the audience is lead to believe that what he is seeing is a figment of his imagination . This story certainly isn't very original , but it makes up for its lack of originality through the atmosphere it creates and it's final twist ; which works incredibly well and came as a genuine surprise . The second story , titled " Waxworks " , stars Peter Cushing and is my least favourite of the four . This tale follows the story of Phillip Grayson ( Cushing ) , a man that discovers a wax museum and decides to venture in . Inside , he discovers a woman that is familiar to him and who we later find out is a murderess . Quite what the woman's relationship with Phillip entailed is never really explained , but the tale relies more on the mystery to build the suspense rather than plot details . Cushing is later joined by his friend , Neville Rogers ( played by Joss Ackland ) and that's when the tale really starts to pick up . The setting of a waxwork museum full of murderers for a horror film isn't a new idea ; the same setting was used to great effect in the excellent 1966 horror film , " Chamber of Horrors " . Although the one here isn't as grand as the one in the aforementioned film , the power of the setting is used to no lesser a horrifying effect , much of which is achieved by a feeling of claustrophobia , brought about by the limited area of the museum . Peter Cushing is always interesting to watch , and seeing him avoid an axe-wielding madman is a treat for the horror fan . Despite being my least favourite , this story is still entertaining and interesting enough to not let this anthology down . The film continues with " Sweets for the Sweet " , which is without doubt the best of the omnibus . This story stars the legendary Christopher Lee as a seemingly overprotective father . The beauty of this story comes from the way it is played out . It leaves the audience guessing ; we know that there is something wrong with either the father or the daughter , but we don't know who , or what , it is . Christopher Lee , as usual , portrays his character with a great degree of sinisterness ; the audience is left to simmer over his actions regarding giving his daughter a doll , and the fact that she isn't allowed to go to school or have any toys . The card of exactly why is held close to the chest until right near the end , epitomised by the truly chilling line in which Lee tells his babysitter that he is , in fact , afraid of his daughter . The ending to this section is superbly played out , in my opinion it's one of the finest endings to any horror story ever told , and will stay with you long after the end credits roll . The omnibus finishes with " The Cloak " , which is definitely the most comedic of the four . This tale is about a hammy horror film star that , unimpressed by his latest film's technical side , goes out and buys himself a cloak . Naturally , this cloak turns out to be a real vampire cloak . Unlike the other three tales , this one seems to be played out mostly for laughs . That is no bad thing however as the majority of the humour is funny and it serves as a nice contrast to the rest of the film . The ending to this tale coincides nicely with the ending to the wraparound story of the film , which is a very sinister yet humorous ending to a very good film . Also , look out for the little jibe regarding Christopher Lee in Dracula . A nice touch , I think . Overall , if you want a horror omnibus , you really cant go wrong with The House that Dripped Blood . The third tale alone makes the film worthy of your time and this is a very solid horror film indeed .
Lovely little crime caper from Woody	The Curse of the Jade Scorpion is a change from what film fans have come to expect from Woody Allen , but it's a welcome change in my opinion . It is true that this isn't his best work ( that would be Annie Hall ) , but The Curse of the Jade Scorpion is still a very nice movie . It lacks the depth that most of Woody's body of work has , but the void that is left by the lack of depth is filled by a great sense of fun ; and that is a welcome replacement . As usual , Woody Allen stars , this time as C . W . Brigs , an insurance claims investigator . Woody Allen is his usual , neurotic self and his character makes a nice change from the sort of detective we are used to ; i . e . strong , tough and dangerous . As it happens , this stereotype of an investigator comes out more in his opposite number ; Helen Hunt . Hunt plays Betty-Ann Fitzgerald ; a woman who has been brought in to streamline the company that Allen works for . Helen Hunt's character is one of those ' strong women ' , she herself says that she can do anything a man can do , and judging by her character ; she probably can . Starring alongside these two are Dan Akroyd and Charlize Theron ; in the roles of a fellow insurance man and a femme fatale respectively . The story is rather silly , and it follows Woody Allen and Helen Hunt , who are hypnotised into doing the bidding of a criminal mastermind . It is rather strange seeing Woody Allen in a film like this , mostly due to the fact that we're used to seeing him in more realistic films . Helen Hunt is a welcome addition to any film ; she has a great persona , and she works well with Allen here . The two are very believable as a couple of people that hate each other , and that , coupled with Woody Allen's dialogue makes for a very nice partnership . Woody Allen has written better films than this one , but the dialogue here is worth a mention . Some of Woody's lines are priceless ( " you'd take your word over mine ? " ) , and a lot of the other dialogue had me in stitches . He has written funnier dialogue than this ; but that's not to say that the dialogue here isn't hilarious . The support cast don't come off as well on the dialogue front as the two leads do , as Woody Allen has grossly underwritten them . His characterization isn't brilliant in this film , not even for the main characters ; but as I said , this movie is clearly meant to be fun , and therefore it doesn't matter as much as it would if he had underwritten his characters in one of his more serious movies . From it's two fantastic leads , to it's hilarious dialogue ; The Curse of the Jade Scorpion is a winner all the way . Don't watch it and think of how great some of Allen's other movies are , just look at it what it is ; an entertaining crime caper with a neurotic central character . You won't be disappointed if you do .
Beautifully surreal character study	I'm not the biggest fan of Federico Fellini ; and that's putting it lightly . This probably won't reflect very well on my part ; but I found 8 and La Dolce Vita to be two of the most extraordinarily boring films I've ever seen ( hey , at least I'm honest ) . I am pleased to report , however , that La Strada is nothing like the previous two Fellini films that I've seen - and that's nothing if not a very good thing ! This film follows a nice straight narrative , and Fellini never strays off the central path . The film , therefore , is easy to watch ; and this in turn makes it easy to care for the characters and take in the various themes that the movie offers . It's nice to see the director not overdoing his film , and Fellini shows here that he's not a bad storyteller . The film follows Gelsomina ; the daughter of a poor family , who is sold to a travelling fairground wrestler named Zampano . As the two travel together , a bond forms ; but Zampano is mean to the young girl and it isn't long before she wants to escape him . . . even though he may love her . The film takes in themes of love , family and redemption , among others ; and the way that Fellini implements these elements into his film is very skillful , and ensures that we can care for the characters and their fates . The ending of the movie is particularly beautiful , and it's hard not to feel for the characters , after watching their story unfold .
Classic drama , rife with paranoia	I don't profess to know anything more about ' the McCarthy era ' than any other non-American that wasn't around in the fifties , but this film serves as both a great slice of entertainment ; and something of a history lesson . The film is said to be a comedy , although it would seem to be played out more for the drama side as aside from Woody Allen's usual neurotic quips ; there aren't actually any jokes in the film . That certainly doesn't harm it , however , as Martin Ritt's film has more than enough in reserve , as the story is interesting enough on it's own ; and themes of ' the witch-hunt ' , as well as the idea of being guilty until proved innocent shine through . The story follows Howard Prince ( Woody Allen ) a cashier who , when asked by his friend who is on the ' blacklist ' , poses as a TV writer so the blacklisted writer can still work . The film takes place in the time when paranoia over communism was rife in America , and anyone that is suspected of associating with communists was no longer allowed to work . The scam goes on , but the more Prince is dragged into it , the harder it is for him to get out . Like I say , I didn't know much about the era before going into the film ; but I'm sure it's an important part of American history ; if only for the fact that it's inspired a lot of great films , including the great original version of ' Invasion of the Body Snatchers ' . I've been a big fan of Woody Allen ever since I first saw one of his films , and his performance here takes in all the best elements of his persona . The character ; a talentless man garnering praise for someone else's work , suits Allen's personality like a glove , as the paranoid actor gets to show us how neurotic he can be . Support comes by way of the likes of Zero Mostel , Michael Murphy and Andrea Marcovicci ; and all give nice supporting performances . Director Michael Ritt ensures that the themes of the story are always rife , as the film presents a great sense of foreboding , and scenes such as the one that see an innocent writer told that he can't be got off the hook because he hasn't done anything help to ensure this . On the whole , The Front is a great classic film , and sees Allen in one of his best roles .
An original and intriguing slice of period horror !	Avoiding death and what happens when we die have been recurring themes throughout all art forms since the dawning of time . Despite the fact that there are a lot of films that handle similar themes , The Asphyx stands out for it's original and intriguing exaction . The film hasn't gained itself the best reputation in the three decades since its release , and it was apparently ignored upon its introduction to the general public . This isn't surprising - The Asphyx takes elements from supernatural horror and there's a little bit of sci-fi involved , but selling this film couldn't have been easy as there's no way to pigeon hole it . The plot focuses on Hugo Cunningham - a man who discovers that when we die , what's called an ' Asphyx ' appears . After conducting a few experiments , Hugo presupposes that if one were to capture this Asphyx , then that person would never be able to die . He then proceeds to test the procedure on himself , and after becoming immortal decides he wants his young assistant and daughter ; who want to get married , to become immortal also ? The Asphyx is a British film set in Victorian times , and director Peter Newbrook does an excellent job of producing the period setting . The film was obviously made on a budget , and as such it doesn't exactly compete with some of the bigger budget films set around the same time ; but still the director gets the point across . The special effects are a little hokey , but they work really well . The main standout where the effects are concerned are with the ' Asphyx ' itself , and personally I'd much rather the effects shown here than the CGI rubbish we have nowadays . The acting is decent , with Robert Stephens being the main standout in the lead role , and receiving good support from Robert Powell . Jane Lapotaire is something of a weak link in my opinion as she's a little flat , but it's not too important . The film has a great premise , but in order for a premise to work , it needs a good plot too and this film certainly has that . The film is not predictable for most of its duration , and the drama between the central characters is always interesting enough to hold the audience's attention . The ending is both haunting and memorable , and overall ; it has to be said that The Asphyx is a film that deserves more wide recognition !
Eerie and atmospheric masterpiece from the director of Onibaba	Director Kaneto Shindô is most famous for his 1964 ghost story Onibaba ; and anyone that enjoyed that film will certainly enjoy this one . The two films are very similar in style , and that's a good thing for both as the thick and surreal atmosphere created by the director creates a perfect atmosphere for a horror story to take place in . The title of the film translates in English to ' The Black Cat ' - a staple of the horror genre ever since Edgar Allen Poe penned his classic story ; although this film has nothing to do with the writings of Poe and is an original story written by the director . The film takes place in feudal Japan and our focus is on a mother and daughter-in-law living alone in the swamp . Its war time and all the samurais are out fighting . However , one day a group of them happen on the pair and after eating their food , the samurai's rape the women . Shortly thereafter , many samurai are being found dead in the area ; they are drained of blood with their throats ripped out . Naturally the lord of the land comes to the conclusion that a monster is behind it , and sends a young hero to deal with the problem . Kaneto Shindô is keen to fill his film with rich symbolism and striking visuals ; but also finds time for some visceral horror . The opening scenes are shocking and later the films builds into some truly memorable and surreal sequences that , when combined with the atmosphere , do manage to be quite frightening . The swamp location is a really great place for the film to take place also ; and the director makes the best of it , especially during the parts in which the younger of the two women is leading the stray samurai's to their death . The film is more than just the central story ; and we also follow things going on around it ; such as the eventual hero's fight that earned him the right to seek out and kill the demons . The central story is definitely the most interesting , however , and while the sub plots are not boring ; I did mostly find myself waiting for the film to get back on track . The way that the story builds into the end , which really brings all the stray subplots together , is really good and the film ends on a very strong note . Overall , The Black Cat is not quite as great as the director's masterpiece Onibaba ; but it's certainly a very good horror film .
Entertaining action fare . . .	Vampires and werewolves in a Romero and Juliet style story ? When you think about it , Underworld really should have been great ; but despite being disappointing on the whole , special effects guru turned director Len Wiseman has still managed to turn out a good film . In fact , he's done quite well ; as when you consider that Underworld is a story of a century old war , a love story , a Matrix-style actioner and sees the creation of a ' new ' monster , it could have been a hell of a lot messier than it is . It's clear that Wiseman thinks this movie is better than it is , as it constantly takes itself too seriously and the frequent attempts at storytelling try to hard to create a story around the vampires and werewolves ; but on the other hand , the mythology is well done and I'd rather Underworld be too serious than a complete joke . The plot , as mentioned , follows a war between vampires and werewolves . It's been going on for ages , but there's been a new development in the form of Michael ; a ' carrier ' who could become the link between the two warring sides . Visually , the film looks great . It can be said that it looks a lot like a music video , but the slick dark visuals bode very well with the action set pieces , and music video or not ; at least the style suits the film . The star of the show is very much Kate Beckinsale . I like her anyway , but she looks far hotter in this movie than in any others I've seen her in previously or since . The movie makes the best of having this fine lady wearing a tight cat suit and long leather coat , and although it does this so much that a lack of other ideas becomes obvious ; I really aren't complaining . The rest of the cast is mostly made up long haired , " European " men , with only Bill Nighy standing out among them in his role as a vampire elder . The action set pieces are way over the top , yet always entertaining , and since vampires and werewolves don't really exist . . . they can be forgiven for going overboard . The special effects are pretty good too , considering they're CGI . They're almost always shown in darkness . . . but I prefer dark and good , to clear and rubbish . On the whole , this really isn't great . The romance is hardly touched on , there's better action in The Matrix and it's a little messy ; but I really enjoyed it , Kate Beckinsale is awesome and it's entertaining on the whole .
A true American classic	As many people know , George Lucas is most famous for the fact that he wrote a certain series of fantasy films . Most of those films certainly were a great achievement , but one thing that many Star Wars fans overlook is the other entries in Lucas ' list of directorial credits ; one of which is this film , American Graffiti . The movie tells the story of the last night in town for a bunch of school kids about to leave to go to college . Now , this might not seem like a great base for a classic movie to work from ; and it isn't , it's the handling that makes it great . In spite of his latest batch of movies , Lucas has shown with this movie that he has the talent to create an innovative and groundbreaking movie in spite of the plot . It's this fact that made Star Wars work so well , and it's nice to see the same effort transplanted into an earlier film that doesn't have the special effects and grandiose that Star Wars had . The energy and vitality that Lucas gives his multiple stories makes for a great ride , and American Graffiti is a lot of fun throughout . The film is most notable for the way that it captures the American youth of the sixties . It benefits from a great soundtrack that adequately helps to achieve this , and includes the likes of Buddy Holly and The Beach Boys . The film takes place in one night , and makes use of a number of different characters and story lines ; all of which are interesting and unique . A lot of which are also really funny , and this is where my favourite part of American Graffiti comes in . The film works because it's such a good time , and the way that Lucas shows us that ensures that we have just as good a time as the characters on screen are having . The events that befall the characters in the movie will no doubt touch a nerve with anyone that has gone through childhood - things such as splitting up with your girlfriend , to being forced into doing things that could get you into trouble . . . all the way to asking an adult to go into a store to buy alcohol for you are shown with great care , and show that Lucas obviously knew what he was doing when he took on this movie . On the whole . . . it's very good stuff indeed .
Hellish romance in the core of the British punk era	Sid and Nancy depicts the morbidly fascinating story of the tragic love between the Sex Pistols bassist , Sid Vicious and his American girlfriend , Nancy Spungen . The film is set in the peak of the British punk era , and aside from the story at the centre of the tale ; the film makes the best of it's surroundings . Depicting numerous controversial incidents , director Alex Cox puts us firmly in the centre of this era . The location choices of seedy bars and even seedier lodgings help to give the film a downtrodden " I don't care " sort of feel , and this compliments the love story excellently . The love story itself isn't your conventional boy meets girl romance , as the two parties are clearly high on drugs throughout most of the film and there isn't a lot of the touching side of romance on display . However , as the band at the core of this film were keen to stick two fingers up at conventions , the film does the same for the common love story . The scenes that see Nancy take her love home to her grandparent's house show this best , and are skilfully done , and are funny in an absurd , hellish sort of a way . The acting is fabulous , particularly from the male side of the two leads . Gary Oldman gives a stunning performance as the punk rocker Sid Vicious , perfectly capturing both the uncaring punk side of the man , and also the deeper , darker side of his personality . Chloe Webb isn't quite his equal , however ; as although her performance as the highly strung American broad isn't bad by a long shot ; she has a tendency to get very annoying at times , which takes some credibility away from her performance . Throughout , the film is like a car wreck ; despite the hellishness of the events that unfold , the film remains interesting and it is nigh on impossible to take your eyes away from what's befalling the lead characters . Alex Cox's scene staging is really well done , and several sequences will stay with you long after the film is over . The aforementioned dinner scene , which also doubles up as my favourite scene in the movie , is one ; while Vicious ' rendition of Frank Sinatra's " My Way " marks another . On the whole , while this isn't one of the truly great love stories that cinema has produced , it's a very good one ; and you don't have to be a fan of the Sex Pistols to think so .
Much better than you would expect	Because it's a newer version of a classic horror movie ( and it went directly to video ) , I have been putting off watching Stuart Gordon's take on Edgar Allen Poe's classic story , but after finally catching it ; I can honestly say that I don't know why I didn't see it earlier ! While the Roger Corman / Vincent Price version of the tale is far better , this update still has a lot in store for the horror fan , most notably it's superb European styled atmosphere , and a fine performance by Lance Henriksen , which may even be the best of his career . While these elements are contributors to the film's success , the main reason why the film works is the story behind it . Of course , it's based ( albeit loosely ) on Poe's classic tale , so the story is bound to be solid ; but it doesn't take all of it's influence from Poe , and so Dennis Paoli can take a lot of credit for the screenplay he wrote for the movie . The idea of ' the pendulum ' , along with a ' pit ' can conjure up many feelings of dread and pain , and this film adequately capitalises on that with it's excellent torture filled finale ! As mentioned , Lance Henriksen gives what is maybe his best performance in this film . He is both powerful and frightening in his role as Torquemada , the head witchfinder of the Spanish Inquisition . When he says " I am the inquisition " , it's enough to make your hairs stand on end . Henriksen is a criminally underrated actor and one that certainly deserves more praise . . . it's just unfortunate that he tends to shine in movies that don't get noticed . Also in the cast is ' Re-Animator ' himself , Jeffrey Combs , who shines in a small role as someone in the inquisition . The film isn't wholly serious , and Stuart Gordon has seen fit to add some comic relief to the proceedings , which is OK but I feel that the movie would be better off without any ' relief ' . Certain elements from other Poe stories appear , such as a man being bricked in behind a wall , and this film seems to treat it's subject material with respect . The European horror style is a major plus factor in my opinion , and should please fans of movies from the sixties and seventies . On the whole ; surprisingly good !
One of the best films so far this decade	Some films are heavy on style and lack substance somewhat , other films have a lot of substance but lose out in the style department . Ying Xiong , however , doesn't lose out in either ; it is the perfect fusion of style and substance . The story of the film , is most definitely secondary to the amazing visuals and stunning direction , but it is not incidental ; the plot of the movie is also very important . The film is set in ancient China , which at that time was divided into seven kingdoms . The ruler of one of the kingdoms , Qin , has found himself under threat from assassins ; the three greatest of which are named Sky , Broken Sword and Falling Snow ; stupid names ? Indeed . When a young man claims to have defeated all three of these martial art masters , he is summoned to the palace in order to tell the king his story . The way that the plot pans out very much resembles the classic Japanese film , Rashômon ; in that several people end up giving their versions of events . The film switches back and fourth from past to present effortlessly , and manages to do it without being convoluted or confusing . The narrative of the film is very well structured in that way , and despite the relative complexity of the plot ; the film never becomes challenging for the viewer ; but that's not to say it isn't thought provoking either . If someone was to ask me what Ying Xiong was about , I would predominantly say sacrifice . All of the characters in the film sacrifice something , whether it be their love for another character , or their life for the cause that they believe in . Their actions are always explained , and nothing seems out of place or like it's happened by accident , which makes the story flow well and allows the film to be strong in the story department . The thing that will stick out in the viewer's mind once the credits role is without doubt the vibrant use of colour that Zhang Yimou delights in portraying . The fight scenes are spectacularly beautiful ; they're well choreographed and extremely aesthetically pleasing . I'm not a fan of the use of slow motion in fight sequences as it detracts attention away from the action , but Ying Xiong manages to use slow motion in a way that it ends up being of benefit to the movie . Most of the time it looks fake , and like the movie is trying to be overly arty ; but here it adds to the beauty . Ying Xiong is one a few films released so far this decade that is set to achieve classic status in years to come , and it demands that you see it , if only for that reason . This film is not one that you will want to miss .
Excellent character-lead drama	Films like this don't usually interest me , but it's hard not to be taken in by Bagdad Cafe's energy and brilliantly put together characters . This lushly shot film follows the fortunes of a family that runs a café in the middle of the desert , and their friends that live close by . The story really starts when German woman , Jasmin , has an argument with her husband and ends up staying at the motel owned by the café owners . It isn't long before she's interacting with the family , much to the dismay , at first , to the head of the family ; Brenda . The point of the film seems to be one about family and the importance of friendship . The film makes it's points well , and with a smile on it's face . The way that the story moves is not unlike some of John Luc-Godard's work , in that it works more through the vitality and energy of it's characters than actual plot . The crisp photography blends well with the tune that plays through a lot of the film , and this helps to instil the atmosphere that the story needs to flourish ; namely , a fun but brooding one . The cast is mostly made up on unknown / lesser known actors . Marianne Sägebrecht , a German actress takes the ' lead ' role as the German woman that finds herself at the café . She does a brilliant job in making sure that her character's ascent into being a member of the café's family is always believable . Films like this can sometimes get too over sentimental , but her downbeat performance ensures that if there is any sentiment to be detected ; it is realistic . CCH Pounder stars opposite her as the head of the family and gives a nice performance . She goes through a range of emotions , and every one of them is believable and well played out . The only real ' name ' on the cast list is Jack Palance . Again , he adds to the ensemble and helps to ensure that the film is strong in the acting department . The plotting isn't quite consistent throughout , with the nice start being followed up by a downturn for the middle . The film picks up again towards the end , however , and the completely uncharacteristic ( of the film ) dance turn at the climax helps to ensure that Bagdad café goes out with a bang .
Another ingenious Mario Bava gem !	Horror maestro , Mario Bava directs this intriguing and ingenious horror highlight nightmare that delves deep into the mind of a madman . Stephen Forsyth is John Harrington , the aforementioned madman . Unlike most lunatics ; John knows that he is insane . He confesses this to audience right near the start of the movie . The sequence in which he confesses is one of the creepiest and most surreal moments in the film . John confesses this to us like it is the most normal thing in the world . This confession also gives this film it's own unique edge over most giallo's ; normally , we spend the film trying to work out who the killer is , but here Mario Bava not only lets us know who it is ; but allows us to explore the murders with him ; giving us the other side of the common mystery film . Aside from being mental , John is also the owner of a wedding dress shop . He murders women on their wedding night , and every time he kills someone ; a little more of the murder of his mother is revealed . John also has a wife ; a callous lady , who says she'll " never leave him " , and a lady whom he despises . As usual with Bava ; the film is stunningly directed . Mario Bava is a man that is on top of his craft with every movie . Even when he only has a weak script or a dull story to work with ; Mario Bava's films can always be given credit on the directorial side . His influence and importance to cinema far exceeds what he is credited for . Hatchet for the Honeymoon features several memorable and electrifying sequences . See the skilful way that Mario directs the sequence in which our protagonist is talking to the police , while the hand of his freshest victim slinks silently through the rails of the banister . Few directors could direct with such skill and precision to build up tension for a character that we don't actually like ; but Mario Bava manages it admirably . The film also features hardly any blood at all ; which is much to the film's credit . Bava concentrates on the mood and the atmosphere of the film , and therefore he simply doesn't need buckets of gore . Where other directors might have put some in to help sell their film ; Bava just concentrates on what's important . Also worthy of note , as usual with Italian horror , is the music . Music helps this film massively ; it is striking and unforgettable and it establishes a foreboding mood , of which the film makes best use . The character of John Harrington , aside from being insane , is given a place in reality thanks to a brilliant performance by Stephen Forsyth . The film conveys the message that looks can be deceiving , and Stephen Forsyth is the perfect man to show that . On the outside , he is handsome and likable , but behind this facade ; he is completely insane . Stephen Forsyth manages to capture both elements of the character ; he somehow manages to do both things , despite them being complete opposites of each other . Hatchet for the Honeymoon is just another highlight in a long list of highlights from master director Mario Bava .
Superb plot , superb execution and the most horrific ending in years . . .	There's far too many ghost related films coming out lately , and to be honest I'm getting a bit sick of it . That was the reason why I didn't see The Skeleton Key upon its release , as I figured I'd have seen it all before - but damn , am I glad I changed my mind ! Not only does this film stand apart from the rest of it's ilk in terms of originality and execution ; it's one of the best horror films of the decade , and offers up the only truly terrifying ending in recent memory . Rather than carry along the same ' haunted house ' lines that a million movies before have done ; The Skeleton Key introduces the idea of ' hoodoo ' to its audience . Original ideas in movies always impress me , and the fact that this film centres on a type of magic that I've never even heard of puts it in good standing where originality is concerned . The film immediately becomes intriguing from the very beginning , as a young wannabe nurse decides to take a job as a live-in carer for an old woman's husband , who suffered a stroke after venturing into the loft . However , it isn't long before she finds out that there's more to the old man's ailment . . . and what's behind that secret door in the attic ? One subject that interests me greatly is psychology ; so the fact that , instead of monsters and demons , this movie's real villain is the human mind makes it immediately interesting to me personally . Hoodoo ( which is nothing like voodoo , by the way ) only works if the person it's been used on really believes in it , and this makes it sound easy to avoid - but the mind doesn't make it so ! The swampy setting that the dilapidated house inhabits makes for a great , and largely unique setting for this sort of story . This what I really like about this film - it's taken story elements that are similar to other movies , but it's adapted them in a way that makes the movie unique . The acting is stunning , with the beautiful Kate Hudson taking the lead role , and doing a good job in getting the audience behind her . The support cast , again , is excellent ; Gena Rowlands really makes the film with her devilish performance , while John Hurt lights up the screen , despite the fact that he barely utters a coherent word during the running time . The Skeleton Key boils down to a truly excellent and conclusive finale , which really does repay all the time and effort that the audience have put into the film . And that certainly can't be said for a lot of horror films these days . Overall , if you expect The Skeleton Key to be ' just another ghost story ' - think again ! This is horror the likes of which doesn't get made very often anymore . This film would fit right in alongside the classics of the seventies , and while I realise that's a big statement to make ; I feel I'm justified in making it . The Skeleton Key is highly recommended !
Another big success for Stephen King and Frank Darabont !	Films based on the writing of Stephen King have a habit of not translating to the screen very well ; although director Frank Darabont made what is often considered the best of the Stephen King films in The Shawshank Redemption - and now with The Mist he's directed what is surely one of the major contenders for the title of best horror film to be based on a Stephen King story ! When I first heard the plot description , I was expecting the film to be a cross between John Carpenter's The Fog and modern horror disappointment Feast ; and while it does have elements of both those movies , it is thankfully much better than both . The film starts with a violent storm that leaves the Drayton family home in tatters . David Drayton sets off to the local store along with his son and a neighbour ; but the town is soon plummeted into trouble when it is surrounded by a malicious mist . It soon transpires that there are otherworldly creatures within the mist and the townsfolk in the local store find themselves battling against the creatures as well as themselves . . . The film takes on a real classic style horror feel and never tries to be exceedingly clever or overly gory and that is one of its main strengths . Frank Darabont puts his focus mainly on the tension between the characters and the atmosphere and this benefits the film as there's always enough to keep things interesting - and that is particularly impressive when you consider the thin plot and the fact that it's over two hours long . Thomas Jane takes the lead role and gives a great performance which is nicely pitched between family man and action hero . The rest of the ensemble perform well alongside the lead actor , with Marcia Gay Harden as a fanatical Christian and Toby Jones as the quiet shopkeeper stand out most . The special effects are used sparingly but are very well done and show some great imagination . The creatures that come out of the mist are varied and interesting . There is a lot of talk about the ending of this film and I have to say I'm not really surprised ; you'll either love it or hate but personally I found it to be a refreshing end to a commercial modern horror film . Overall , The Mist is an excellent horror film and can be considered a must see for anyone who is a fan of the genre !
An entertaining spectacle with a nice comment on justice	Courtroom dramas are well known for providing thrilling films , and that is exactly what ' A Time to Kill ' thrives on ; entertainment value . It is clear that the film , in spite of having some very potent themes , puts most of it's focus on being entertaining and it's actually not a bad film for it . Sometimes , films that want to be entertaining and have themes fall down because they're too entertaining and the themes get left by the wayside ; but A Time to Kill puts its cards on the table from the start , and it's always clear what this film wants to do with itself . The plot follows a man who , after his daughter is raped and almost murdered , decides to take the law into his own hands . However , this man is also a black man living in a white supremacy state , and so the film injects a racism theme into it's plot , which is always going to mean that it will have some sort of social commentary within it . However , that isn't the most interesting comment that the film wants to make ; as that plaudit falls to the idea of justice , and exactly what justice is . The film , based on a novel by crime writer John Grisham , presents an impossible situation to the viewer and central characters ; what do you do when justice will prevail whatever the verdict ? The viewer and the characters must then make a choice between the law and general morality , and it is there where the film draws it's most interesting plot point from . While , as mentioned , it's always clear that this movie is meant to entertain you ; it's always nice to be given something to think about as well . A Time to Kill benefits immensely from an absolutely fabulous cast , which includes the likes of Samuel L . Jackson , Sandra Bullock , Kevin Spacey , Kiefer Sutherland , his father Donald Sutherland , Ashley Judd , Chris Cooper and more , all of which are lead by Matthew McConaughey . It is the lead that most lets the film down , as although McConaughey can definitely act , he's not quite charismatic enough to deliver a lead performance in front of that cast . Still , the movie is definitely very decent and although you probably wont hurt your brain watching it , it will entertain you .
Very cool crime caper from Umberto Lenzi	Umberto Lenzi is best known for his gory zombie flicks , Giallo's and Italian Cop movies ; but there are a few gems from other genres dotted around his filmography , and Kriminal is definitely one of the best of them ! The film is based on a comic book and follows the fortunes of a ' cartoon ' criminal out to steal whatever he can . The obvious film to compare this to would be Mario Bava's pulp fiction thriller ' Diabolik ' , although this one is ( slightly ) more grounded in reality and while it doesn't have the comic book grandeur of Bava's later effort ; all in all , I wouldn't hesitate to call Kriminal a better film . Glenn Saxson takes the lead role as ' Kriminal ' - a notorious yet incognito thief who wears a skeleton suit and somehow manages to get the better of the police every time they try to stop him from stealing . The plot starts properly when an opportunity to steal a large amount of diamonds from a safe deposit box in Instanbul presents itself . Kriminal masterminds a plot to liberate the jewels ; but first has to worm his way into several people's affections . The film has a great comic book style and Umberto Lenzi effortlessly manages to give the film a real stylish verve that benefits the plot immensely . Glenn Saxson might not be a great actor , but he fits the bill as the title character and actually looks like he might be a drawing from a comic book himself ! The film features Kriminal wearing a suit painted as a skeleton ; although unfortunately this part of the film doesn't come off as being as cool as it could have been ; but it does give the film an extra interesting element . There are plenty of characters to move the plot along , and while the plotting does get a little confusing at times ; it's generally interesting enough . Lenzi manages some really beautiful locations and he definitely gets the best out of ' high society ' in Istanbul . There are also a number of lovely ladies on display , which is always a bonus too ! There's no real point to the film ; but the ending is good enough and the film finishes in a ' fun ' way . Overall , I'm not surprised that this isn't one of Lenzi's better known films - but it's certainly not a bad one and I highly recommend seeing it . . . if you can find it !
Excellent low budget psychological horror flick !	The eighties produced a lot of horror films that were clearly made just for people to rent on Friday nights to ignore while they had a few beers and a laugh with their mates . While most of these films were instantly forgettable , some were actually quite good and unfortunately have been forgotten along with the forgettable ones . Pin is one such film . While the movie isn't a horror classic , and it takes essential elements from a range of sources , most notably Psycho ; it still represents a good success in the psychological horror sub-genre . So , if you like your films to be dark and moody ; you can go wrong here ! Based on a best seller by Andrew Neiderman , Pin blends the story of a young boy growing up with murderous schizophrenia to horrifying effect . The plot follows a brother and sister , Leon and Ursula , whose father uses ventriloquism and an anatomical dummy as a learning tool for his children . What he doesn't count on , however , is Leon taking this act too seriously and believing that the dummy really is alive . A childish idea that leads to a very dark future for Leon . While the film lacks any real potent bite , it blends it's elements together with a good plot pace well enough to ensure that the film always offers compelling viewing and although the action gets a little predictable at times , we always want to carry on watching to see what happens . The dummy itself is the centrepiece of the film and director Sandor Stern has managed to create a malevolent atmosphere around it . The thing looks creepy anyway , but when combined with it's put-on voice ; I can imagine it giving some more easily scared viewers nightmares . Ventriloquism is a hobby that has always lent itself well to horror movies ; from the dummy tale in ' Dead of Night ' , to this film and more ; you can always count on a creepy movie if one of it's core subjects is the act of someone lending their voice to a plastic doll . The acting in the film is typically eighties ; but it's not all that bad considering the type of movie that this is . On the whole ; Pin is a nice atmospheric chiller that deserves more attention , so if you get the chance to see it ; I highly recommend that you do !
Ingenious horror sequel !	Phantasm 2 is a proud member of a select group of films - sequels that are better than the first . The pace of the movie doesn't let up for a second and it does , therefore , manage to stay exciting and entertaining for it's duration . The sequel picks up , at first , where the first film left off ; with Reggie Bannister battling dwarfs that have overrun his home . From there , the film switches to seven years later . Mike ( James LeGros , in the role of one of the hero's of the first film ) is now being released from a mental hospital after seven years of therapy . Despite this therapy , and admitting that it didn't actually happen , Mike still knows that the horrible goings on that landed him in the hospital in the first place actually happened and when he gets out he means to do something about it , and that is something that he does . As Mike says to Reggie at one point in the film , " I'm a nineteen year old kid and you're a bald , middle-aged , ex-ice cream vendor " ; and that's what sets Phantasm aside from all the similar films in this vein of horror . The characters here , despite being in an abnormal situation , are not comically overblown and they don't have subhuman abilities ; they're just normal people thrown into an abnormal situation . Reggie Bannister who , as mentioned , takes the role of ' Reggie ' in the film , makes a great horror hero . Although not up to the high standard of Ash ( Evil Dead ) or most of the other hero's that the horror genre has given us , Reggie has a niche of his own . Most hero's aren't bald , middle-aged , ex-ice cream vendors but the fact that Reggie is not only highlights the tongue in cheek theme of the Phantasm series , but also gives the film a place of it's own within the horror genre . You'll be glad to know that this sequel features a chainsaw . The chainsaw is a weapon of such undeniable greatness that I find it hard to understand why anyone wouldn't want a chainsaw in their movie . The weapon is so far apart from all other melee weapons in terms of horror credibility that it almost has a life of it's own , just the way it sounds is enough to strike fear into the heart of many a viewer . The chainsaw enters the fray in a delicious sequence that sees our hero's raid a hardware store and tool up , a la Evil Dead II . At first , I thought that the movie would tease me in terms of the chainsaw ; as in the early stages of the movie , it only features in a few scenes that see Reggie tear doors down and such , but the film doesn't disappoint as later on we get treated to a great sequence that involves Reggie battling another chainsaw wielding foe . I love chainsaws . One of the most memorable things about Phantasm were the silver spheres that flew up and down funeral parlour corridors , and we've got more of that here . The sequel is a lot more gory than I thought it would be , and that is no bad thing . The flying spheres feature a lot in the movie's more gory scenes , and I for one think that they are an ingenious creation . These balls attach themselves to their victim via two prongs on the front and then proceed to drill a hole through their head , which results in plenty of bloodshed coming out of the other end of the sphere . Lovely . Also like the first film , a lot of this movie takes place in funeral homes and other such morbid areas , and that creates a great horror feel that few horror films have matched . Overall , Phantasm 2 is a must see for fans of the original , and a must see for those that aren't yet fans of the original after they have seen the original . Don Coscarelli would later go on to direct one of 2002's best films in ' Bubba Ho-Tep ' , but it easy to see that the Phantasm series is his labour of love . The kind of heart that has gone into this series is overwhelming and even if you don't like the movie , you have to admire it , if only for the obvious amount of love that Don has for the series he created .
Unfairly neglected seventies thriller !	Plots like this have been done before ; and done better in some films , but that doesn't stop Burt Kennedy's little known thriller ' Wolf Lake ' from being a very well done and constantly intriguing little thriller . The film is not perfect ; there are pacing problems and a series of annoying / confusing flashbacks that break up the narrative ; but it also features some strong characters and an interesting plot line with some ideas that actually do hold some weight . The film takes in themes of patriotism , vigilantism and vengeance , and fuses it with a thriller narrative . The base of the plot is very simple and centres on a wood cabin by the side of a lake known as ' Wolf Lake ' . A group of war veterans turn up for a week of shooting , drinking etc , but find the cabin being looked after by a young man named David and his girlfriend . One of the group discovers that David is a war deserter and warns him that all hell will break loose if the leader of the group were to find out about it . He then goes and tells the leader ( ? ) , and all hell breaks loose . The film stars Rod Steiger and the actor gives a real powerhouse performance and is definitely the best thing about the film . His character is the most complex in the film ; and even though his actions are extreme , they are justified and Steiger manages to make the role believable ; which is testament to his acting talent . The film is rather slow to start although this time is used well in building up the plot line and characters . We get a good impression of the central players early on and this makes the film more involving by the time we get to the inevitable conclusion . The location used is excellent in that it creates a real feeling of loneliness for the central characters ; they really are out in the middle of nowhere with no chance of help coming for them . The central plot and the problem between the two main characters are open for debate , and also give the audience plenty to think about . Overall , while this film does have some flaws ; it's still an excellent thriller and it's very unfair that this is so little known ! See it if you get the chance .
Polanski doing what he does best	Bitter Moon once again sees the master of the macabre , Roman Polanski , doing what he does best . With echoes of his earlier film ' Knife in the Water ' , Bitter Moon is a story of lust , revenge , betrayal , dependency and most of all ; love , wrapped tightly around a coil of taboos and sexual perversions . While not as good as some of Polanski's other works , Bitter Moon still stands out as a highlight of his filmography and is certainly a lot better than many people have reputed it to be . The film follows two very different couples on a cruise ship ; An English couple , Nigel and Fiona and an American cripple , Oscar , who is married to the French seductress Mimi . After meeting Mimi in the ship's bar , Nigel becomes entranced by her and later meets her husband and proceeds to learn his and wife's story . . . and it's not exactly pretty . With this movie , Polanski has obliterated the barriers of decency , and sometimes even makes you , the viewer , uncomfortable due to the goings on . And that's the mark of someone that knows how to handle his audience ! The acting in the movie really is first rate and there isn't a weak link there , especially not within the four leads . I'm no fan of Hugh Grant , in fact I hate the man , but he's exactly the right casting choice for this movie and it's almost a shame that he went on to make lots of rubbish movies after it . The two women , played by Kristin Scott Thomas and Emmanuelle Seigner are well done in terms of the characters and the acting , but it is Peter Coyote who steals the show as the abominable Oscar . His character in this film is the sort that actors can really get their teeth into , and Coyote bites down hard in this movie . Polanski's direction is excellent as usual and the gritty style mixed with the great director's edgy camera-work help to create a claustrophobic environment that allows Polanski to perfectly portray his characters ' mindset . The themes on display are impressive , and in spite of the fact that it oversteps the mark on several occasions , Polanski's film always feels real and the lesson in the love that the film teaches is duly noted . Bitter Moon is a film that will get under your skin and stay there and not only that but there's enough happening to ensure that this is always a fun watch . Recommended viewing .
Completely bizarre French black comedy !	Films where animals are given a persona and a human voice have long been a staple of children's entertainment , but I can't think of a single film made for adults where this is the case . With the exception of oddball French flick ' Baxter ' , of course ! Any film with a premise as weird as this one is bound to become a must see for yours truly , but this is an idea which , when fused with black comedy , certainly has the potential to be great , and Jérôme Boivin's film comes close to fulfilling that promise . The film has a couple of points to make , and tries to fuse them with the perspective of a dog . The film follows Baxter - a bull terrier given to an old lady by her daughter . Baxter isn't fond of his owner , but she keeps him because she's lonely . However , it's not long before Baxter decides he's had enough and the old woman meets an untimely end . Baxter then moves on to the young couple across the street , where's he's happy for a while again , right up until their baby is born and he gets his nose pushed out . Baxter is searching for a human like him ; and unfortunately , he soon finds one . The film shows that no matter how evil a mind an animal has , there's always a human with a worse one . Baxter succeeds in showing life from the point of view of a supposedly obedient animal , and the most powerful things in this respect are the things that show the dog at it's most instinctive - things like mating with another dog and bending to his masters ' will . The dog in this film may be a comical impression of the real life ' mans best friend ' , but somehow it doesn't feel so unbelievable that you can't buy into the film . The main reason why this film is so eerie owes to the voice artist behind the dog . Maxime Leroux's voice gives Baxter a distinctive air of evil and authority , which suits the dog well . The things that the dog says are always interesting and often insightful , which helps the film to create an absurd atmosphere as dogs aren't usually associated with intellectual intelligence . The conclusion to the film is undoubtedly shocking and completely surprising , and works really well . Overall , Baxter is too weird a film to ignore and for that reason if nothing else , it gets my full recommendation .
Fantastic finale to Hammer's fantastic Frankenstein series !	The sixth and final film in Hammer's Frankenstein series is yet another treat from the studio ! The Frankenstein series is massively better than Hammer's more popular Dracula series , and easily deserves the much higher praise that the latter receives . Sporting the ultra-camp title , ' Frankenstein and the Monster From Hell ' , this film is important for reasons other than the fact that it's a lovely slice of camp horror , as it also marks Terence Fisher's last film for the great Hammer studios . In spite of that , Hammer's favourite director still directs with all the competency that he instilled on his earlier pictures and manages to do something that Hammer films of the seventies so often failed to do - namely , capture the innocence that earlier Hammer films wore so proudly . As we entered the seventies , Hammer films tended to lean more towards the gritty euro-style that made a success of other horror films , and it was a huge shame as the colour scheme and the way that the films carry on regardless of how silly the plot lines were was one of the things that made Hammer so wonderful in the late fifties and sixties . It was maybe even the change in style that caused Hammer's downfall - but at least this film didn't suffer from it . This time round we find everyone's favourite Baron in a mental hospital , after being arrested for sorcery . However , you cant keep a good mad scientist down , and before long Frankenstein has found himself a new apprentice and is on his way to creating an all new monster ! Peter Cushing returns to the role that he so obviously loves playing , and once again epitomises the character of Baron Frankenstein to a standard that most actors could only dream of . It's amazing how well Cushing becomes the character , so amazing that it's hard to believe that Cushing isn't like this man in real life . The vigour and cold heartedness on display really is scintillating , and Cushing's performance makes the film a pleasure to view , just as it did in the previous films . The monster this time round isn't as ingeniously pronounced as it was in the earlier ' Frankenstein Created Woman ' and ' Frankenstein Must be Destroyed ' , but it still represents a great central fiend . The monster suit is hokey , no doubt about it , but the monster almost succeeds in being frightening because of this and I would even go as far as to say that it's ridiculous looks helps the film ! . . . it certainly shows that Fisher isn't afraid to do camp horror in a time when more serious films were the order of the day anyway .
Mr Brown and his awesome mind controlling powers !	He's played Russian Roulette , he's held a séance . . . he's done . . . some other stuff , but now Derren Brown is using his awesome mind control powers to subliminally influence four lucky contestants to steal £100 , 000 from a security guard on a quiet London street ! I like Derren Brown because , aside from being good at what he does ; you can tell that he genuinely believes that he is great . He also makes a great host , and unlike a lot of other TV ' magicians ' , he's willing to try stuff that hasn't been done before , and therefore new and original television is the result . This show proved interesting for me , as a lot of the methods are used are linked to psychology , which is an area of fascination for yours truly ; shown by the fact that I'm studying it at University . The way that Derren subliminally influences people is genius , and also very funny . There is a part during the show when the contestants are convinced to steal some sweets from a newsagent . Naturally , it starts to arouse the suspicion of the shop assistants after ten or so people wearing suits have entered the shop and tried to steal something ! Overall , this isn't the best thing I've seen on television - but it one of the best shows recently , and I hope to see more from Derren in the future .
Lesbians in the 19th century	This drama apparently caused a bit of a stir six years ago when it debuted on television - not taking in much TV news myself , it passed under the radar ; but after having seen it , I'm not surprised that it did cause a stir . Not particularly because of the content ( although it is a bit more ' offbeat ' than the usual TV fodder ) - it has more to do with the reactionary media in this country . Anyway , this three part series is based on a book by Sarah Waters and puts its main focus on lesbians - although the plot also has room to explore some other ' dark ' sides of sexuality . Our main character is an oyster girl named Nan ( short for Nancy ) from Winchester . She is bewitched by female to male drag performer Kitty Butler after seeing her at a theatre show and soon begins attending all of her shows - eventually catching the eye of the performer and becoming her dresser . It's not long before Kitty is offered a chance to play on bigger stages in London and having become good friends with Nan , she invites her along for the ride . The act gets bigger when Nan takes to the stage also and the pair becomes a stage duo . . . but Kitty breaks Nan's heart , leading her into an odyssey within London's seedy underbelly . I must admit that my DVD collection contains no shortage of sleazy and sordid films so there wasn't anything in this one that was enough to shock me . Despite being rather jaded to it , I have to say that I'm still surprised at anyone who says this film went too far ; naturally there is some lesbian sex and other stuff , but it's never exploitative or overused and the film really couldn't have been made without it . The main focus is always on the story ; and the story is really well done . The film is almost three hours long in total , but if anything that isn't long enough to get everything across . Sarah Waters is obviously an inventive writer , and the film remains interesting for the duration . The acting is solid as you would expect , but I must admit that I found lead actress Rachael Stirling awkward and hard to get on with at first ; although she grows into her role well as the film progresses . The execution is a little bit of a problem and director Geoffrey Sax is a bit too gimmicky for my liking . The story does get a little bit sappy towards the end also , which is a shame because this film is at it's strongest during the dark moments ( episode 2 being the high point of three for me ) . There's not really a defined point to the film - or at least not one that I could see . That's not important as far as I'm concerned ; however , as Tipping the Velvet tells a good story and more than surpassed my expectations . Worth checking out , for people that like this sort of stuff .
Another excellent adventure for detective literature's greatest duo	Sherlock Holmes films are always better when they have a horror edge to them - The Hound of the Baskervilles and The Scarlet Claw prove this best - and Sherlock Holmes Faces Death makes another nice entry in the list of Holmes films with a horror slant . The story this time round takes place in a foreboding old house where people are turning up dead . Holmes is brought in to investigate , along with his good friend Dr Watson and Scotland Yard's most inept inspector - the hilarious Lestrade - joins in the fun also . The acting from the central three is great , and they offset each other brilliantly . Rathbone gives another great performance as the brilliant detective of the title , while Nigel Bruce provides some of the more inept moments as Dr Watson ; and Dennis Hoey always amuses as Inspector Lestrade . The mystery itself is a little messy at times , and can become a little slim on logic at times ; but it all comes together at the end . The ending itself is great as usual for Universal's Holmes series , with the title character thwarting the villain with a combination of intelligence and skill . I would much prefer the movie if it cut off before the ending speech , however ? even Watson looked like he was about to fall asleep ! The title is perhaps a little over-dramatic for what the film is , and the supporting cast can be a little drab at times ; and although this isn't one of the absolute best Sherlock Holmes films , it's certainly a very worthy entry in the series and comes with high recommendations .
Another excellent Holmes mystery	I'm a big fan of Universal's Sherlock Holmes series , and Sherlock Holmes in Washington is definitely one of the better entries . The best Sherlock Holmes films tend to be the ones with a horror element ( such as The Hound of the Baskervilles and The Scarlet Claw ) , but even though this one offers nothing in the way of horror ; it still manages to present an excellent mystery for Holmes to unravel . He has been sent to Washington on the trail of some stolen microfilm containing important government information . This mystery is set apart from the rest of the series because of the fact that it is set in Washington DC , as opposed to Holmes ' native London . The film is conscious of it's surroundings as it spends a lot of time talking about the difference in convention between Britain and America , which is shown best in a sequence involving the hilarious Doctor Watson . As usual with Holmes films , this one features two great performances from the leads ; Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce , and it's obvious that these two have worked together on many occasions , as their chemistry is flawless . The mystery itself is well plotted and plays out in a way that is both exciting and full of tension . The film's standout moment is draped in irony , and takes place during a dinner party in which the guests take it in turns to handle the microfilm . On the whole , if you like Holmes films ; you'll like this one !
A lovely Woody Allen comedy that is not to be missed !	This movie is often said to be a ' miss ' on Woody Allen's filmography , but I have no idea why . It is true that this isn't his best work ( that would be Annie Hall ) , but it's certainly shouldn't be regarded as a blip . Like most of Allen's best films , this one stars the man himself in the leading role . I'm a big fan of Woody Allen as an actor ; he's certainly not very versatile , but the character he tends to play leaves a lot of room for some very funny comedy , and that is capitalised on in this film . The story follows Lenny ( played by Woody Allen ) and his wife ( played by the usually magnificent Helen Bonham Carter , that has something of an ' off ' day here ) who adopt a child that turns out to be a genius . Somewhat because he is bored with wife , Lenny decides to hunt down his child's natural mother , only to find that she's a dumb prostitute called Linda . Hilarity ensues , and Woody eventually decides to help her ; maybe because he doesn't want his child to find out that his biological mother is a hooker , or maybe for some other reason . . . As usual , this film features Woody's trademark wit . When Woody is good , he's real good , but when he isn't he can be annoying ; but suffice to say , the majority of the jokes in this film work , and the ones that don't can easily be forgiven for the ones that do . It's familiar territory for Woody , a man that is more than familiar with light hearted comedy , but this movie is somewhat different to his others , as the story is intertwined with Greek tragedy , and he has employed a Greek chorus line to play along with what's happening on screen . This makes the film surreal and also rather silly and for that reason I didn't like it at first ; but I got more attuned to it as the film went on . The story itself is a good one , and one that has ample opportunity for comedy ; but it's the subtext of it that's most important . Many themes are intertwined within the central tale , such as the ills of disturbing a sleeping dog , curiosity killing the cat , and there also seems to be a commentary on environment affecting a child's development . Whether or not this is intentional , I don't know ; but it's definitely there . Allen has also soaked the film in irony , and the ending is superb in that respect . Of the sixteen Woody Allen films that I've seen so far ; this is one of the best . It's not perfect , and there's things in it that don't work ; but the dry wit will have you laughing out loud at times , and if you like Woody's style ; I cant see any reason not to like this .
A lovely little chiller from Val Lewton	Val Lewton made a name for himself within the horror genre by producing atmospheric chillers , and The Seventh Victim is one of the best of them . Although not as great as the likes of Cat People and The Body Snatcher , The Seventh Victim represents another successful fusion of intriguing mystery and atmospheric chiller . The plot revolves around a girl in a boarding school whose sister has gone missing . Upon travelling to New York in an attempt to find her , she learns all kinds of things about her sibling and the mystery increases until we eventually learn the truth about her disappearance . Like most of Lewton's films , this film is very short at just seventy minutes long but it certainly makes the most of it's running time as included in that seventy minutes is a compelling and entertaining mystery that gives many similar films that are on release today more than a run for their money . Nowadays films seem to want to be as long as they can possibly be , but a story can be adequately told with a lesser running time - and this movie proves it . The acting in the film ranges from good to not so good , with Kim Hunter being at the top end of the scale with a great debut performance , and Hugh Beaumont being at the other end with a not so great performance . It's far too over the top and gives the film a rather silly edge . However , there's a role for Lewton regular Tom Conway who plays the same character that he played in Cat People . The atmosphere in the film isn't as great as it was in The Body Snatcher or the Jacques Tourneur collaborations , but Mark Robson does a decent job with it , and the audience is always on the edge of their seats and believing that something bad is about to happen . My only taste of him before this film was his later collaboration with Lewton ( and Boris Karloff ) , ' Isle of the Dead ' and I was somewhat less than impressed so it's good to see that he didn't squander this film as well . One bad thing about this film , however , is the ending . It feels rushed and almost like it was tacked on at the last minute . It doesn't ruin it , but a more complete ending would have made this the classic it could have been .
Kind of like The Odd Couple , with explosions	A Fistful of Dynamite is often seen as the black sheep of Sergio Leone's commercial releases ; and there's a good reason for that , as despite the fact that it's still a spaghetti western ; it's a completely different kettle of fish to both the Dollars Trilogy and Once Upon a Time in the West . A Fistful of Dollars features common western themes such as bandits , guns and bank robberies - but , as he did with The Good , The Bad and The Ugly ; Sergio Leone has implanted war themes into the plot , and we've also got the bizarre idea of one of the major characters being an IRA bomber ! All this stuff doesn't quite come together cleanly , and as the tone of the movie changes often ; it seems obvious that Leone has bitten off a bit more than he can chew . . . but luckily enough , A Fistful of Dynamite remains a fun movie for most of its duration . The plot follows a bandit named Juan , who bumps into a dynamite-laded bomber one day in the desert . Spotting an opportunity for robbery , he manages to recruit the IRA man to his cause ; but he doesn't count on being dragged into the revolution that's going on at the same time . The first half of the movie features some very astute elements of tongue-in-cheek humour , and it seems obvious that the director isn't intending the plot to be completely serious . However , at around the halfway point ; the movie turns in completely the opposite direction , and the fun and silly first half gives way to a more deep and serious finale . For me , this is the movie's main problem ; I like a movie that's unpredictable , but this change in plot feels disjointed and doesn't go down well . The second half of the film isn't as enjoyable to watch either , which harms the fun . However , Sergio Leone's direction is as impressive as ever , with some lovely wide angle shots capturing the beautiful landscapes ; while , of course , Leone enjoys giving full focus to his actors for some extreme close-ups . Like the movie , the cast is a mixed bag . James Coburn looks the part , but his silly put-on accent makes him feel like he's having a laugh at times ; and similarly , Rod Steiger dons an arguably even sillier accent and doesn't quite get away with it . Overall , A Fistful of Dynamite is not a film to please all viewers . I found it to be enjoyable despite many niggles , but I can understand why a lot of people disagree .
Another success for Woody Allen	I definitely consider myself a fan of Woody Allen , although I've realised ; over the 25 films I've seen from him , that he doesn't always hit the nail on the head . On his day , Allen can be one of the funniest men you could ever hope to see a film from - but sometimes , while attempting to hit the nail , he ends up catching it just on the edge ; thus meaning he can't hammer it all the way home . I'm pleased to say , however , that while Broadway Danny Rose isn't a complete success for Allen - he did manage to hammer the nail most of the way in with this film . This is one of those mock-documentaries that Allen loves doing , and it sees him in a role that everyone in the wraparound story is talking about . Allen plays an artist manager in New York . We pick up during a story that revolves around him and one of his acts , Lou Canova , who has been given the chance of a comeback . Lou wants his girlfriend at his next show ; only problem being that he's married . Therefore , he asks his agent to help him out by taking the girl to the show as if she were his girl . . . leading to disastrous consequences . Allen opted to shoot this picture in beautiful black and white , and that was definitely a good decision . The movie looks great , and the old style film used gives it the essence of a classic . I like Woody Allen films best when the man himself takes the lead role , and he does brilliantly with it here . He has fun in the central role ; Danny Rose is , as usual , quite a lot like Allen himself , and hence the actor-director fits it well . The rest of the cast is made up of comedians and singers , who all do rather well ; and the film is rounded off by Mia Farrow , who is sultry and seductive in the role Allen's opposite number . The jokes are the usual high brow Allen stuff , and mostly exist in the form of one-liners . Allen's delivery of them is great , and while I have to admit that some of the humour went over my head ( not being into anything Broadway ) , there's something for everyone ; and Broadway Danny Rose is always a fun time . There doesn't seem to be a definite message here , and the film is pretty much just the story of a man who tries to help people and ends up coming a cropper himself . On the whole , this might not do much for non-Allen fans ; but I enjoyed it , and anyone that likes Woody will too , I'm sure .
Fantastic little horror gem	Any film featuring both Christopher Lee and Boris Karloff is an instant must-see for any horror fan . Alone , either one of these can carry a film ; but together they make a force to be reckoned with indeed ! Karloff stars as the central character ; a doctor who , through trying to find a way to separate pain from the knife ( create an anaesthetic ) , becomes addicted to the chemicals he is working with . The character that Karloff portrays here is a world away from his most famous role ; that of Frankenstein's Monster , but Karloff has proved time and time again throughout his illustrious career that he can handle all sorts of different roles , and he handles this one brilliantly . Karloff draws you into his character and really makes you believe that his ultimate , and only goal is to create something to ease the pain of his patients . When his character takes a more sinister turn after becoming addicted to his chemicals , Karloff impresses more . The way his eyes look and the atmosphere of weakness that he portrays is fantastic and just by looking at the man you can tell that he is extremely unwell . Karloff is one of horror's finest assets , and he more than proves himself with his role here . Of course , he doesn't need to prove anything to anybody ; it's well known that he is one of the masters of the genre . As mentioned , starring alongside Karloff is another horror master ; Christopher Lee . Lee doesn't have a great deal of screentime in the movie ; but , as Lee would go on to show time and time again in his later career ; with just his presence , Lee can create a foreboding atmosphere about his character that is unmatched by almost every other actor out there . The film isn't so much a horror as a thriller charting a man's decent into addiction , but the movie still features a lot of horror moments ; most notably the screams of the patients on the operating table and every scene with Christopher Lee in it . Director Robert Day manages to create a foreboding atmosphere that firmly places the viewer in 1860's London . I didn't doubt it for a second , and that is very admirable ; especially when the budget is considered . Corridors of Blood isn't a very well distributed film , and that is a shame as there is much to enjoy about it . However , if you do ever get the chance to see it ; be sure to take it . You'll be glad you did .
C ( an't ) H ( think of a ) U ( clever ) D ( abbreviation )	I was once a big fan of cheesy eighties horror movies ; but just lately , mostly owing to my having seen a number a bad ones , the eighties trash flick just hasn't done much for me . This ensured that I went into C . H . U . D . with the lowest of expectations ; but to my surprise , the film turned out to be one of the very best pieces of eighties trash that I've seen ! While it's very obvious at all times that the film was made by people of little talent and with no budget to work with ; somehow , C . H . U . D . manages to stay effective , interesting and entertaining for the duration . The film takes place in New York and the story focuses on a series of murders that have been happening in the city and seem to have some link to the underground sewer system . A journalist , as well as a soup kitchen guy and a police officer , suspect that there's something down in the sewers ; and their story is supported by a young girl who claims that a ' monster ' took her grandfather . Naturally their stories are passed off as insanity at first , but soon it becomes apparent that there really is something in the sewer . The sewer seems to be a popular place for eighties horror to take place ; Slugs , Alligator and The Blob to name but a few are all heavily linked to the sewer system . It's not really surprising either ; as this setting helps to give a film a truly dank and dirty atmosphere ; and C . H . U . D . really benefits from that as we really feel like we're in the underbelly of New York . Perhaps the best thing about the film is the two lead actors who apparently were the major driving force behind the film getting made . John Heard and , in particular , Daniel Stern , give excellent performances in the lead roles and manage to keep the film entertaining for its duration . Typically for a no budget horror movie ; the effects are not particularly great , but the creature design is imaginative and the effects are at least fun to watch . The film is not greatly suspenseful for its duration and the plot hinges on a lot of clichés ; but things do get tenser as we rev towards the ending and the last set piece is very well done . The final climax itself is disappointing , however , and feels like they simply ran out of budget . Overall , C . H . U . D . is far from great ; but it is fun to watch and is a must see for any fan of eighties horror !
Bram Stoker's classic gets a makeover . . . . Hammer style !	Often regarded as the highlight of Hammer horror's oeuvre , The Horror of Dracula stands up today as a fresh and inventive take on what is maybe the best story ever written . Hammer is a studio that has had many a fine hour , and although this is one indeed ; I think that there are several other films from their ranks that just top it . Just , being the operative word as this is certainly up there with the best of them . As you might expect , the story follows that of Bram Stoker's original novel ; with a young man travelling to Dracula's castle , and not returning . This attracts the attentions of Professor Abraham Van Helsing ; an authority in the field of vampirism who then sets out to slay the malevolent fiend that is the source of all the foul play in the movie ; Dracula himself . Although this is based on the classic story , Hammer very much makes it their own . Of course , the campy horror styling that that the studio has become famous for features strongly in the movie and serves in giving it that classic Hammer feel . Furthermore , this movie features both of Hammer's greatest stars ; Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing . Christopher Lee may be no Bela Lugosi , but if there was anyone other than Bela Lugosi that I would want to play Dracula ; Christopher Lee is that man . He isn't actually in it that much , but the moments when he is are the best in the movie . He has an incredible amount of screen presence , and all of that is transferred into the character of Dracula . In a similar way , Peter Cushing plays Van Helsing . Like Lee , Cushing has buckets of screen presence , but it's all in a very different style . While Lee is a defined evil , Cushing is more subdued , which allows him to adequately play the hero as well as well as he plays the villain . I've got to be honest , I prefer Cushing in the bad guy role ; but he still makes an excellent hero . Terence Fisher , one of Hammer's premier directors , directs the film and does a great job with it . The atmosphere of the Gothic period setting is spot on , and a constantly foreboding , and intriguing atmosphere is created throughout . The way that the smoke drifts across the graveyard in the movie is among the most atmospheric things Hammer ever shot . Dracula is a great story , and this Hammer yarn more than does it justice .
A brilliantly paced Giallo thriller	The Bloodstained Butterfly is more artful than most Giallo's , and doesn't adhere to the often followed tradition of over the top stylish murders and a bucket load of naked women ; but instead we are treated to a finely tuned plot , which involves a court case , few murders and some well defined characters . Some Giallo fans may find this film a little dull , but I couldn't disagree more ; as Duccio Tessari's film continually draws the audience in and presents its plot in a clever and different way . The murders in the movie aren't very bloody , and appear in the film merely as a plot point rather than an event - which actually helps the film as it ensures that the focus is always on the plot . But that's not to say that the film is continually caught up in the murderer's trial , as the director makes sure that it's the characters that get the most screen time . The plot follows the murder of a young girl in the park . Several witnesses come forward , and the finger of suspicion points to Alessandro Marchi . Unlucky for him is the fact that his lawyer is having an affair with his wife , and it's not long before he finds himself rotting in a jail cell . The court room sequence makes up a large proportion of the running time , but director Duccio Tessari keeps it from becoming merely a courtroom thriller by implementing several flashback sequences , which explain key plot points . Flashback sequences aren't a strongpoint of Giallo if you ask me ; largely owing to Aldo Lado's disappointing Short Night of the Glass Dolls ; but here it really works and the director allows the audience to work with the jury in deciding whether the accused party is guilty or not . This film doesn't benefit from the lavish cinematography that features in many films of this type , and it has to be said that the look and feel of The Bloodstained Butterfly is rather drab ; but given the gritty , urban feel of the story ; this actually isn't a bad thing . Another common feature of Giallo that the film doesn't feature is an incoherent plot , as the film is continually well paced ; and Tessari does an excellent job with the final twist , which comes as an unexpected surprise and also rounds the story off nicely so that everything makes sense . Overall , I won't hesitate to give The Bloodstained Butterfly the highest of recommendations to anyone that appreciates plot heavy Giallo .
Dark and well made Italian cop flick	Director Mario Caiano is not one of the better known Italian directors ; but he's certainly one of the most underrated and has proved himself more than capable of delivering the goods on a number of occasions with films such as Calling All Police Cars , Night of the Doomed , and this film . The Polizi genre is best known for it's fun action flicks with a focus on car chases and shootouts ; but with this film , the director has taken the theme and added an extremely grim atmosphere to it , and this bodes well with the plot line which takes in a robbery gone wrong , a resulting war between the criminals and a police investigation . The film opens with a bank robbery in which the crooks make off with a load of money which was intended for some workers ' pay packets . This interests Police Commissioner Foschi as the wages are normally paid in cheque . Things haven't gone well for the criminals either , as two of them have decided to rip the other one off , leading him to track down his former partners with the cops on all of their tails . The film is not as action packed as some other genre entries , but there's certainly enough to entertain the audience . The leading characters are all fleshed out nicely and provide one of the most interesting things about the film . The leading standout is undoubtedly Claudio Cassinelli who impresses as the amoral and very nasty criminal at the centre of the film . He gets good support from a very capable supporting cast . By 1976 , the Giallo genre had almost completely died out ; but Mario Caiano , as he did with Calling All Police Cars a year earlier , has still seen fit to implement some Giallo style scenes which certainly help the film . There are a handful of murders , which include stabbing , shooting and burning , and it helps to give the film its nasty edge . It soon becomes clear that the film is not going to end on a happy note , and Caiano delivers just the sort of depressing ending that you would expect from the film . Overall , Bloody Payroll may not be one of the best Polizi films to come out of 1970's Italy , but it's certainly a very good one and is well worth the trouble of tracking down !
Weighty film , and as dark as they come	In a Glass Cage isn't an easy film to get on with , as despite the fact that it doesn't contain a lot of blood and gore , the film is horrifying thanks to the power of suggestion and the implications of its characters actions . The film takes in themes of the horrors of war as well the implications of child molestation , and puts these two heinous ideas into one character ; Klaus . Klaus is a former Nazi doctor turned paedophile who has found himself paralysed from the neck down after attempting to commit suicide . He now lives in a house with his wife and daughter , but must reside at all times inside a glass tube , which is referred to as his ' glass cage ' . After breaking into the house , a young man named Angelo blackmails Klaus into taking him on as a nurse , despite the wishes of Klaus ' wife who doesn't warm to the young man . However , it soon transpires that Angelo harbours a wish to become like Klaus , and begins to torture the former Nazi by instigating events to reflect what he used to enjoy , and by reading him passages from a diary detailing the man's obsession . While In a Glass Cage may not be a very enjoyable film , it has to be said that it does give its viewer a lot to think about , and writer-director Agustí Villaronga ensures that his film packs a lot of emotional weight . The way that the director keeps everything bathed in darkness helps to ensure that the look of the film is dark as its subject matter , and this helps to convey the horrific themes on display . The relationship between the doctor and his nurse always makes up the backbone of the movie , and it's also the most interesting aspect as subplots involving the wife and the daughter never reach the same dark highs . The tone of the movie is very serious , and this helped by excellent performances from all concerned . Günter Meisner's performance takes in both evil and regret , as while he doesn't get to do much physical acting ; he plays his part well . The main acting plaudits go to David Sust , however , who continually impresses with his role as the nurse ; also the meatiest role in the film . It has to be said that this isn't a movie for the feint of heart , as scenes involving young boys are not nice to watch and the nihilistic tone of the movie doesn't make it much fun . Still , if you can stomach unpleasantness ; this movie is a treat .
Well done true crime flick	David Fincher really made his mark 12 years ago with the excellent ' Seven ' . Since then , however , he's been disappointing - Fight Club was massively overrated , while The Game and Panic Room were both merely decent thrillers - but it would seem that Fincher is ( nearly ) back to his best with Zodiac - a sprawling epic mystery / crime thriller based around a real life unsolved crime . This is no doubt a very ambitious film - it doesn't quite work as a rounded whole - for a start , the characters don't really get time to develop well - but all in all , Zodiac is certainly a very good film . The film is based on books by Robert Graysmith and follows the events surrounding the Zodiac , an anonymous killer who murdered several people in the late sixties and early seventies . The film follows reporters and police officers as they investigate the Zodiac killings and endeavour to find out the identity of the killer . Eventually , the protagonists end up becoming obsessed with this investigation and the Zodiac consumes them . . . The film is extremely well put together as you would expect , and Fincher has done an excellent job of recreating the time period in which the film is set . As the story spans over several years , the film does tend to make jumps from one time to another often , and this means that the characters and their personal situations have to take a backseat to the investigation , which is the backbone of the film . This is the way that the film has to be otherwise it would have ended up going on for several hours . . . but it does mean that the film doesn't feel like a complete whole . Zodiac is lead by three good central performances , Jake Gyllenhaal never really looked ' obsessed ' to me , but at least he's an engaging lead . Mark Ruffalo was an odd choice for the police officer role , but it seems to be the right choice - and the film is topped off by Robert Downey Jnr , who gives yet another memorable performance . The mystery itself was enough to keep me interested , the ending was always going to be disappointing , but the film does manage closure in spite of the real life details of the case . Overall , Zodiac falls short of being a masterpiece ; but it's certainly a very good thriller and it comes recommended .
A change in style results in another excellent Romero zombie movie !	I was once a big fan of zombie movies ; but then I saw a spate of dreary , cheap and trashy modern ones and my love for the genre dwindled . But you can trust the man responsible for creating the modern zombie film to come back and make a great zombie movie ; and in 2004 , Romero did just that with Land of the Dead . Romero obviously regained the taste for making films within his favourite genre again after Land , and back he comes three years later with another entry in his series - and thankfully , decided to put a different spin on the common zombie film . The film could be called a " blair witch project style " take on the zombie film - but don't let that put you off as unlike the 1999 tragedy , this film is eventful , unsettling and even has a point to make ( albeit it a muddled one ) . The plot is very much along the same lines as the classic Night of the Living Dead and simply focuses on a zombie outbreak . The only difference is that this time the focus isn't on the world at large , but the reverse . We focus on a small group of film students who get caught up in the nightmare while shooting a horror movie and decide to film their story for the benefit of any survivors . Romero clearly wanted to make this more than just a zombie movie - and it has to be said that he has succeeded in doing that - but still , the most important thing about a film like this and the main reason why many people will tune in is obviously the gore and while there maybe isn't quite as much action as in previous Romero zombie flicks ; we do still get some good gory set pieces and Romero clearly hasn't lost his appetite for blood and guts - scenes that see a zombie have it's head burned by acid and a double sickle murder are the highlights . While Dawn of the Dead made a point about consumerism , this film tries to make a commentary on how the modern world works - a lot of the focus is on the internet and individuals making their own news , as well as how putting something on film can ensure that it never dies . Romero is a bit heavy-handed in these areas and the points are a bit muddled behind the rest of the film , but still ; it gives the film an extra edge . Romero also manages to give the film a genuinely unsettling atmosphere and there's plenty of tension too , which ensures that the film is uneasy viewing ? exactly as it should be . When I found out how this film was going to be shot , I was worried that it might suffer from the shaky camera problems that befall a lot of movies like this - but luckily Romero keeps this under wraps and it does feel like a real movie . Overall , Diary of the Dead is one of the best of the modern zombie movies and proof that Romero still knows how to make a good horror film . Recommended !
An absolute classic tale of science gone wrong !	What an absolute classic film ! The Fly works from the offset because of the presence of an intriguing mystery , and from there we move on to a classic tale of suspense and mad science . The film is based on a story by George Langelaan , and follows the terrifying idea of an experiment going horribly wrong for the brilliant scientist behind it . This story has spawned numerous other films based on similar ideas , but this is the original and - aside from the eighties remake by David Cronenberg - still the best . The film opens when François Delambre receives a phone call from his sister-in-law , Helene Delambre . She tells François that she has just killed her husband ( his brother ) in a hydraulic press . The reasons for this tragedy are unclear at first , and after she is declared insane ; Helene Delambre decides to recite the tale to her brother-in-law and the police inspector . She tells them of how Andre Delambre built and later became obsessed with a machine that can be used to teleport matter . The problems started for him when he tried to teleport himself , and a fly got into the chamber with him . . . This film was one that helped to establish the great Vincent Price as one of the masters of the horror genre . His role here isn't the central one , although he certainly does stand out among the rest of the cast . David Hedison is given the leading man role as the unfortunate scientist , and while he's not bad - he doesn't really convince that he's got much of a brain if you ask me . Patricia Owens is the leading lady , and screams well when needed , while also impressing during the desperate parts where she and her son are frantically looking for a fly . Special effects are obviously important in a film like this , and although the film was hampered by a low budget and the fact that it was made almost fifty years ago , the special effects do still retain their campy ' fun ' feel . The Fly is one of the few films to have been bettered by a remake , and while this film is nowhere near as terrifying as the eighties version , it has a great innocence to it and because of the distinct difference in style , the two cannot be compared on the same merits . Overall , this version of ' The Fly ' is a great little film and one that must be seen by all lovers of the great horror genre !
Spectacular follow-up to At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul !	As most people reading this will already know , This Night I Will Possess Your Corpse is Coffin Joe's follow-up to the excellent At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul , and as good as the first film was ; for my money , this one is even better ! The legendary Brazilian comic book character may be cheesy , and José Mojica Marins ' films may be cheap and silly ; but he certainly has an eye for horror and this film features everything that made the first film great - and more ! Once again , we have a plot without meaning , although there is some direction this time as Coffin Joe steps up his chase to find a woman to bear him a child . He doesn't go the direct route , however - and we get treated to scenes of torture as well as Coffin Joe preaching to his audience about the non-existence of God . The film works in spite of the ending of the first film , which is passed off by way of Coffin Joe being nursed back to health by the people he terrorises , before being cleared of his crimes on the grounds of ' lack of evidence ' . . . even though most of them were committed in front of a crowd of people . Still , it's all in good fun ! With a name like Coffin Joe , you've got to expect the man to have an eye for horror - and the director delights in packing his film with delicious horror imagery , from spiders and snakes to skulls and deformed assistants ! The wayward plot once again allows the director to do pretty much anything he likes - and for a man with so many ideas , this certainly isn't a bad thing . Despite a running time of nearly two hours , Coffin Joe's film never becomes boring or trite , and just when you think that the film can't possibly deliver any more surprises ; Marins throws in a delightful colour sequence that takes place in Hell ! The dialogue is once again a stand-out aspect of the film , as hearing Coffin Joe preach his own set of beliefs never becomes boring and the actor clearly delights in delivering them . The eerie atmosphere is always welcome , and the fact that the film is so clearly designed for entertainment is of huge benefit to it . I'll close this review with a word of warning ; do not see this film unless you've seen At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul , but once you have seen said movie - this one becomes must see !
Great camp B-movie fun	Larry Cohen has made a name for himself for producing offbeat horror movies , and this story of a killer deformed baby certainly belongs in his filmography . It's Alive is a huge highlight of the horror genre , and one that doesn't get the praise that it deserves . The film is notable amongst other films of similar plotting because of the way that it fully explores it's premise . Rather than focusing on the monster and the murders , Cohen sees fit to show the audience the effect that the birth of a murderous monster has on the family at the centre of the story , the government , the family friends and various other entities ; all of which helps to aid the film in it's bid to be a complete horror thriller . Of course , the film is too silly to be truly touching , but the idea of trying to get the audience to empathise with the characters in this sort of movie is nice , and it adds to kitsch campness of the movie , which does it no end of favours in this kitsch fan's opinion . The acting adheres to the typical , and much loved , B-movie styling and that is another plus point to add to this movie's resume . John P . Ryan in particular is superb as the upset father , and we see him go through a range of emotions in response to the birth of his ' son ' , which is a treat indeed . The script isn't the greatest work of art ever to be brought to the screen , but it's always inventive enough to ensure that the action stays interesting and It's Alive hardly suffers from becoming trite and boring . The creature effects aren't the best ever seen , but Larry Cohen hides this fact by never completely showing the creature . This hampers the movie in a way , as it will no doubt get on many viewers ' nerves as seeing the monster is normally a highlight of this type of movie ; but on the other hand , seeing the monster usually results in disappointment - so at least Cohen's film stays away from that ! On the whole , while this film will do nothing for fans of serious art movies ; horror fans , particularly very B-horror fans , will be in heaven . Highly recommended !
An amazingly violent and brilliantly entertaining seventies film !	For fans of seventies exploitation flicks , Northville Cemetery Massacre is a must ! The film is typically thin on plot , but this isn't important as directors William Dear and Thomas L . Dyke have ensured that the film is packed with the important stuff - that being gunfire and tons of blood ! The film appears to take influence from Easy Rider in that it features a troupe of bikers coming under scrutiny from the local community and police force simply because they ride bikes and don't have jobs , but it's clear that most of its inspiration comes from the robust violent flicks that were all the rage throughout the seventies . I don't doubt that this film was a major influence on Walter Hill's popular gang flick The Warriors . The plot focuses on a gang of bikers ( calling themselves a biker's club ) . The local police force is none too happy about them hanging around the town , and after a brutal rape is committed ; the blame naturally falls on the gang . A number of their troupe are slaughtered by unknown gunmen , and after their rival gang is dismissed as suspects ; the real culprits come to light . . . The fact that there isn't a lot of plot is completely unimportant . This film is all about atmosphere , and that is delivered through the gritty picture ( the film obviously had little to no budget ) , the soundtrack and the grubby look of most of the central characters . Northville Cemetery Massacre is wickedly entertaining throughout , and despite the numerous continuity errors ; remains enjoyable thanks to the entertainment value . The way that the guns are used is excellent , as we get to hear every shot , and each one usually results in a lot of blood being spilled - the budget certainly had room for a lot of squibs ! Despite the fact that the budget is low , the violence is brutal and realistic ; and it's all owed to the gritty cinematography . There are a number of standout scenes throughout the movie but , as the title suggests , the ending features a huge shootout ; and that's where the film really takes off ! Of course , it's mostly just mindless violence - but the constant stream of shooting and bloodshed makes for fantastic viewing , and this ensures that a very entertaining film ends on a major high . Overall , Northville Cemetery Massacre is an under seen seventies gem and I highly recommend tracking down a copy !
Plenty of violent action in Lenzi's masterpiece cop drama !	Umberto Lenzi tried his hand at just about every popular type of film in Italy during the sixties , seventies and eighties , and while he has some very nice entries on his list of directorial credits ; it has to be said that he isn't the best director to try his hand at the likes of Giallo , zombie and cannibal movies . However , when it comes to crime films ; Lenzi comes into his own , and just like Almost Human a couple of years earlier , Violent Naples is an entertaining and nasty little crime thriller . Like every film in this sub-genre , the major influence comes from the masterpiece American film ' Dirty Harry ' , and here we follow a copper not too far removed from Clint Eastwood's famous character . Commissario Betti is your typical disgruntled cop that favours violence over proper police procedure . He's fed up with the way that Naples is being run by the criminals , and so sets his sights on The Commandante . However , this man isn't easy to bring down , and since Betti is receiving no help from his fellow townsmen , the task of ending crime in Naples is left to our leading man . The title of the film leads the viewer to expect lots of violence , and Lenzi certainly doesn't disappoint in this respect . We've got bowling balls to the head , a young woman having her face scraped off on a moving train , a man impaled on a sharp fence and many other such delights . Overall , it has to be said that this film isn't very original , but Lenzi injects some freshness into it with a barrage of exciting chase scenes ( the best of which take a point of view shot from the front of a motorbike ) and violent shootouts . The good thing about these Polizia movies is that they are played out for pure entertainment value , meaning that Lenzi is free from trying to be arty , and can pack in as much violence as he likes ; a fact which is often capitalised on . The film benefits from a strong Italian cast , including Maurizio Merli ; who may be no Clint Eastwood , but still delivers a strong and entertaining lead performance . John Saxon gets to join in the fun also , and there's also a place for fellow American actor Barry Sullivan , in the role of the villain . Overall , if you're into Italian cop movies ; this isn't one to miss !
One of Lenzi's best Giallo's !	Umberto Lenzi Giallo's range in quality from sublime to trash , but his earlier genre entries tended to be the best ; and So Sweet . . . So Perverse is certainly at the higher end of Lenzi's Giallo achievements . One of the trademarks of Giallo is a high dosage of sex scenes ; but despite the fact that this film has the word ' perverse ' in it's title ; So Sweet . . . So Perverse is actually not all that perverse at all , especially not by Giallo standards . Rather , the film focuses more on the plot details than perversity , and it just about serves it well . Italian directors were famous for ripping of successful films from other countries , and the plot here is clearly lifted from the French classic ' Les Diaboliques ' . We focus on a couple with marital problems ; Jean and Danielle . When Jean hears a woman screaming in the upstairs apartment one day , he immediately decides to investigate . There he finds Nicole ; a woman frightened of her boyfriend Klaus . The pair soon begin to fall in love , but it later transpires that this was just a trap set to snare Jean . . . So Sweet . . . So Perverse is a classy little thriller and much unlike later Lenzi Giallo's such as Eyeball , almost everything about the film is well done . The film benefits from a good cast , which feature early Lenzi muse Carroll Baker in the central female . Baker's role here initially appears to be a lot like her role in the earlier ' Orgasmo ' , but she soon gets to switch to a more interesting character . Baker is joined by the sexy Erika Blanc , and like most Giallo's with two sexy leading women ; the pair do get to get it on , although you shouldn't go in expecting a full blown lesbian sex scene . Jean-Louis Trintignant rounds off the cast , but isn't given as much to do as the ladies . The plot does get a bit slow at times , but the film never slows down to the point of becoming boring . The second half is much more exciting than the first as that is when the plot gets into full flow . When the twists start to come into play , So Sweet . . . So Perverse really is an intriguing thriller and unlike many Giallo's , this one also features an ending that wraps most of the plot up nicely . This film is highly recommended to Giallo fans !
Classic Ealing Gem	The Man in the White Suit is one of those delightful comedies that Ealing studies made so well in the 40's and 50's . The plot of this one follows a man that invents a cloth that neither gets dirty nor breaks . Of course , this is a huge breakthrough in the world of textiles . However , things are not that simple as the cloth will threaten the way of life of many people , including cloth manufacturers , the cloth mill's workforces , and even an old lady that does her washing every week . The Man in the White Suit is a film about scientific advances , and the way that they don't always help ; as the old woman says at one point in the movie , " Why cant you scientists just leave things alone ? " Like a lot Ealing comedies , this one stars Sir Alec Guinness . Alec Guinness is a fantastic actor ; he has the ability to light up the screen with his presence ( and he does in this film , literally ) , but he also manages to portray his characters in a down to earth and believable way . He is suitably creepy in this film , and he captures just the right atmosphere for his character ; an intelligent and ambitious , but slightly naive scientist . Along with Guinness , The Man in the White Suit also features Joan Greenwood , the deep voiced actress that co-starred with Guinness in the simply divine " Kind Hearts and Coronets " and Michael Gough , a man that would go on to get himself the role of Alfred in the Batman films . The acting in the film isn't always great , but it is always decent , and it's fits with the film . The Man in the White Suit is an intelligent , thought-provoking and witty comedy with a moral . The comedy isn't always obvious , and it doesn't always work , but the film is not meant to be a film that provokes belly laughs , so that is forgivable . I recommend this movie , basically , to anyone that is a fan of movies .
Realistic and hateful ; an excellent portrayal of depression	The Merchant of Four Seasons is a film about a lack of love . The film starts off with the main character ; Hans Epp , returning from a spell in the foreign legion . He returns to his mother , not to be told how much she loves him , or how much she's missed him ; but to be told that he is worthless and , even worse , that she would have preferred the man he went with to have come back instead . It is the character's relation to women that makes this film so hateful ; the fact that his wife is taller than him is symbolic of his relation to the other gender ; he is consistently humiliated by them , and it is through his relations with them that his life isn't as great as it could have been . This is also shown clearly by the way he treats his wife after a drink . He lost his job as a policeman through lust for a woman , and even his wife ; a woman that is supposed to love him , never really shows any affection for him . Even at the end , his wife is more bothered about what her and her daughter will do than the state of her husband . The Merchant of Four Seasons is a thoroughly unpleasant film . There isn't a scene in the movie where someone is happy , and not only that ; but the movie seems deliriously blissful to wallow in the misery of it's central characters . The movie is certainly not recommended to anyone who is currently having a hard time , that's for sure . Despite all the misery , the film never steps out the bounds of reality ; every event in this movie can - and most probably has - happened , and that only serves in making the movie more shocking . The film is , of course , helmed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder ; the cult German director that committed suicide in 1982 . This is only my second taste of the man's work , but through just two films , it is easy to get an idea of the type of art that he creates . Both films are downtrodden and gritty - yet realistic pieces of art . His characterization in this movie is subtle ; we only ever get to know the characters through their plight's and not through their character . This is a very clever way of showing the audience that it is their surroundings that define the people in the film , not the people themselves - and as nearly everyone that sees the film knows what living in an urban society is like , it wont difficult for the majority of people to relate to . The Merchant of Four Seasons is not a film that is easily forgettable ; the movie is high on substance and low on style , and that makes for a very memorable picture , and one that everyone who considers themselves to be a fan of cinema should experience . It is with that in my mind that I give this film my highest recommendations ; it's not sweet and it's not pleasant , but you will not see a more realistic portrayal of depression , and this is most certainly a movie that will stay with you .
Probably the best of the modern day horror remakes	Yes , it's pointless . Yes , the original didn't need an update and yes , this isn't as good as the classic film that spawned it . . . but , to be honest , I really like it anyway . One of the reasons that you can't remake a film like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre effectively is because it's the influence , not the film itself that makes it great - and you can't remake that . Rather than being a remake , I see this film more as being just one of the slashers that the original inspired , and the fact that it was made in 2003 is fitting ; as it came about in middle of the reprisal of good , gory horror that this decade has seen a lot of already . The film does , of course , revolve around much the same macabre elements that made the original a success ; with the chainsaw wielding leatherface heading most of the grisly action . This time , he's got a group of five , brand new kids to toy with . As you might expect , it isn't long before they encounter the horror that lie in wait for them ; and we get to enjoy as they're horrifically mutilated one by one ! One of the things that the original is famous for is the grainy film stock that it was filmed with . Naturally , this version of the film doesn't take advantage of that ; but the ' MTv style ' lavish camera work actually doesn't hinder it . The film is packed with lots of incredibly beautiful sequences - maybe even too many - but they are always nice to look at . The shiny camera also helps the film to distance itself from the original - which is a good thing if you ask me . Like most horror films these days , the cast is mostly made up of young actors . These guys actually do a decent job of leading the film - and ex-music video director , Marcus Nispel , has done a great job with casting the leads . Jessica Biel looks absolutely great in her cowboy hat - and she is joined by the amazing Erica Leerhsen ; both of which light up the screen every time they're on it . The scenes of gore as disgusting as you would expect a film with the words ' chainsaw ' and ' massacre ' in the title to be . The scene in which someone has their leg forcibly removed while running through a load of sheets sticks out the most ! On the whole , I probably like this a little more than most serious horror fans because of my disturbing love for the greatest melee weapon of all time ; but basically , if you like your gore shocking and disgusting . . . you can't go wrong with this film , remake or not .
Nasty exploitative trash classic	Tenement may clearly be a very cheap production , but this is excellently masked by the thoroughly mean exploitative style . The film is along the same lines as urban exploitation such as Assault on Precinct 13 and The Warriors and is similar in style to both also ; although the film actually reminded me a lot of the Lamberto Bava trash classic " Demons " , also released in 1985 , as the main focal point of the film is on a disorganised group of people trapped in a claustrophobic building and facing off against a group of ravenous thugs . The central setting is a run down block of flats in a poor area of The Bronx . The flats come under attack from a violent street gang and naturally the residents call the cops and get them hauled off to the station . The gang doesn't take lightly to this , however , and after being released a short while later ; they decide to take revenge by returning to the flats and trapping the residents inside . The gang hold the residents to ransom with brute force , but things take a turn for the unexpected when the locals turn the tables . . . Despite obviously being made on a budget , director Roberta Findlay clearly put aside enough of it to ensure that the film features plenty of gory kill scenes . The violence is not constant though it is gratuitous when featured and I'm sure that will delight anyone with a mind to see this film . The style of it verges on post apocalyptic and the costumes worn by the central gang reflect this . The block of flats at the centre of the film provides an excellent location for the film to take place and the director does a good job of enforcing the central situation on the audience and ensuring that the claustrophobia comes across as well as possible . The plot doesn't contain a lot of surprises and it's always obvious where it's going , so it's a good job that getting there is a lot of fun to watch . You can be sure that there's going to be another kill scene just around the corner and the film is pulled off with a pitch black sense of humour which bodes well with the unpleasant goings-on and atmosphere . Overall , this is a cheap and cheerful eighties gore-fest and I'm sure that it will please anyone lucky enough to track it down . Recommended .
Lovely little Leone tribute !	As soon as the familiar Spaghetti Western tones hit , you know you're going to be in for a treat and that's what this film certainly is . Franco Nero plays the character that would eventually become synonymous with his name ; the mythical Django . The story takes more than it's fair share of influence from Sergio Leone's ' Dollar ' trilogy , and the plot of this film is pretty much a re-run of the plot that Leone took from Kurosawa's Yojimbo to make ' A Fistful of Dollars ' . We follow the title character , a man that carries his ' burial suit ' around with him ( that's a coffin to you and me ) and saves a young woman from being killed by a group of bandits . When Django takes her back to town , he finds himself in the middle of a feud between those bandits and a group of Mexicans , a situation that he hopes to make the best of for himself . . . It's impossible not to see how Leone's westerns have influenced this film . However , Sergio Corbucci hasn't merely stolen and the result is somewhat original . The classically styled score blends well with the images shown on screen , and some of the sequences in the film are truly powerful . Franco Nero may well be no Clint Eastwood , but he brings charm and credibility to his character and does well with the role , even if he is perhaps slightly too pretty to pull it off to the extent that it could have been done to . The film features lots of mud ( yes , mud ) , and this gives it the dirty , downtrodden feel that is congruent with what audiences have come to expect from the spaghetti western sub-genre . The title tune , which is about the central character is very over the top , and almost comes across as being comical ; but it's a part of the Django film and like the rest of it ; very fun and easy to like . If you like Leone's westerns ( and let's face it , who doesn't ? ) , you'll like this .
Excellent Italian crime thriller !	Films like Milano Calibro 9 are the reason I watch this sort of film . After trudging through so many disappointing Italian thrillers , it's always great when you find a diamond in the rough - and that's exactly what this well crafted little gem is . The film is a thriller bordering on the ' Polizia ' style of films that would go on to become Italy's version of the Dirty Harry franchise , although the main plot focus here is on crime and the mafia . It has to be said the plot isn't overly deep - as the themes of stealing and treachery exist only to further the complex and twisted plot , but the film is great fun to watch and a success for that reason . The plot focuses on Ugo Piazza ; a convict just out of prison . He soon meets up with his sexy girlfriend Nelly Bordon , and with the unpredictable and sadistic Rocco , who revels in committing acts of violence , and we later learn that £300 , 000 has gone missing , and the local crime syndicate believes that Ugo has it - as does the local police inspector , who has his own opinion about why Ugo went to jail in the first place . The main reason why this film excels is thanks to the fantastic performances . Gastone Moschin leads the film with a performance that reminded me of something Ray Winstone would deliver . He provides a likable anti-hero , while Mario Adorf gets to enjoy himself with the meatiest role in the film . Barbara Bouchet co-stars and looks great , especially in her dancing scene in a bar . Bouchet is one of my absolute favourite Italian actresses , and I always enjoy seeing her in films - especially when they're up to the standard of this one . The film does somewhat adhere to the pitfall plaguing many Italian thrillers - that being that the story doesn't always make sense , but generally ; the plot flows really well and the twists and turns ensure that it never gets boring . The climax of the film is excellent , and director Fernando Di Leo excellently pulls off the double twist at the end , which both resolves the story and provides neat entertainment . Overall , Milano Calibre 9 may not be the most well known cult Italian film - but it's one that shouldn't be missed by fans of this sort of stuff , and therefore comes highly recommended .
An excellent showcase of suspense cinema !	Claude Chabrol is sometimes known as ' The French Hitchcock ' , and while the two didn't exactly make the same type of thriller ; it's easy to see where the comparisons come from , and both of these great directors are masters of their crafts ! This is only the third Chabrol film I've seen , but once again I'm extremely impressed and looking forward to seeing more ! Though I have limited experience of his films , Chabrol's thrillers to me are more brooding and personal than Hitchcock's ; and while they lack the brazen thriller element that made most of Hitchcock's oeuvre so good to watch , it's made up for in panache and intrigue ! The Unfaithful Wife puts its focus on an upper class French family in a big mansion somewhere just outside of a big city . We follow them for a short while until it becomes obvious to the husband that his wife's constant trips into town are a clue that she is having an affair . The husband then decides to hire a private detective to investigate his wife , and after having his fears concerned ; the husband turns up at the lover's house with murder in mind . . . The film appears to be so relaxed that at times you may wonder whether you are actually watching a thriller . But that is what makes this film so effective ; Chabrol often lets his film settle , but there is always tension bubbling beneath the surface and the film is always intriguing , even when there is little going on . I won't spend too long talking about the acting and production values as obviously both are thoroughly professional and give the film infinite amounts of credibility . Most of the action focuses on the couple inside their big house and this benefits the film greatly as we soon get to know the characters . The central scene is clearly the murder sequence , although again Chabrol focuses on the build up rather than the actual pay off and the murder is as cold and brutal as it was obviously intended to be . The Unfaithful Wife is clearly a lesson in how suspense cinema should be ; even more subtle than Hitchcock , this film manages to be constantly fascinating in spite of the fact that not a great deal transpires over the course of the film , and once again it's another great film on Chabrol's resume !
Interesting thriller from John Frankenheimer	Based on a novel by Elmore Leonard , 52 Pick Up is a thriller based on blackmail and murder . The film is directed by John Frankenheimer , who previously made his mark on the thriller genre with the likes of The Manchurian Candidate and Seconds . 52 Pick Up doesn't exactly stand alongside those films as part of Frankenheimer's best work ; but this film delivers an entertaining and easy to follow plot , fleshed out with interesting characters and a nicely sleazy atmosphere . We are introduced to Harry Mitchell ; a war veteran turned successful businessman . Harry has been having an affair , and it soon transpires that three men have found out about it and decided that Harry has to pay them $105 , 000 or they will let the cat out of the bag to his wife , which will affect her political ambitions as well as put him in the dog house . But Harry has decided that he doesn't really want to give $105 , 000 of his money away to blackmailers , and so instead he tries to pit them against each other in the hope that the group will implode and save him from having to pay out . The plot we have here has a number of different sides to it , but it never feels overly complicated thanks to the way it usually just focuses on one or two points . The film remains interesting throughout thanks to this , and while the plot has a few problems ; the fact that it's entertaining mostly ensures that these problems aren't too important . The film benefits from a good cast , which is headed by Roy Scheider in the lead role . Scheider gives a good performance and he suits his character well . The support cast is also good and features John Glover in the most interesting role , as well as the likes of Ann-Margret and Clarence Williams III , as a delightfully sadistic character . The plot points such as the snuff film and links to sex clubs ensure that the film has a heavy lining of sleaze , which is right on the money . The conclusion isn't all that inventive , but it works well within the context of the film and doesn't let the audience down . Overall , 52 Pick Up is an interesting and well done little thriller , and I'd certainly recommend seeing it .
Great and very original take on the classic vampire tale	Blood for Dracula definitely takes the prize for the most odd take on the classic story that I've ever seen . Not that I'm saying that in a bad way , however ; not at all , it's most definitely a good thing ! Director Paul Morrissey has created a horror movie that is camp to the point that it pokes fun at the European style that it is a part of . Udo Kier stars as the title character , but he's not the Dracula that have horror fans have come to expect . . . not at all . It is with the character that this movie's main element of originality comes into play . We are used to seeing the count being all-powerful and drinking the blood of numerous victims , but here the king of vampires doesn't quite appear to be himself . The Dracula in this movie is a frail man , almost at the point of death . He needs the blood of virgins in order to maintain himself , but the girls in his native Romania are somewhat less than innocent . He therefore decides to travel to Italy , as it's a religious country and that is leading him to believe that the girls there will still have their innocence intact . The story picks up when Dracula is invited to stay at the home of a family with four daughters . Blood for Dracula is an extremely sleazy movie , and despite being primarily about vampirism ; there's far more nudity than gore in the film . In fact , the film isn't even all that gory for the most part , and it's only the ending that goes all out for sick gore . The story is well done and inventive , particularly during the moments when Dracula drinks the girls ' blood , only to find that she wasn't a virgin after all . Seeing the count writhe in pain after drinking the wrong blood isn't something you will see in many takes on the classic story ; so this version gets plaudits for that . It also gets plaudits for an outstanding performance from the great cult actor Udo Kier . His screen presence fits the role that Morrissey has given him like a glove , and Kier impresses throughout the film . The obscure element of humour is nice and gives the film a real cult movie feel . Because the film is so absurd , it wont be enjoyed by all viewers . But if you like your horror to be different and inventive , you could do a hell of a lot worse than this flick !
Eastwood doing what Eastwood does best	John Wayne fans may well disagree , but if you ask me ; Clint Eastwood has no equal when it comes to westerns . His mere presence ensures that the film will be well worth seeing , and like all his previous and later westerns ; that statement is true of The Outlaw Josey Whales also . Not that this film is an Eastwood performance and nothing more , of course - his starring role definitely benefits the proceedings , but the story Eastwood presents is certainly nothing to be sneered at ! The film is an epic in every sense of the word , and through the sprawling locations and lengthy plot , Eastwood's fourth film as director and star serves as both a fitting tribute to Sergio Leone ; the director whom he made his name with , and an excellent western in its own right . The plot follows a farmer whose family is murdered by Union soldiers . He joins up with a Confederate guerrilla unit , and eventually finds himself living within a community . Overall , we follow him as the war turns him from a simple farmer into the most wanted man in the west . You can always count on a strong lead performance from any film that has Clint Eastwood's name at the top of the actor's credit list , and The Outlaw Josey Whales certainly doesn't disappoint in that respect . It's obvious the director and star put his heart into this film , and even though he's merely playing the anonymous drifter that is synonymous with his name , the performance comes off with real verve and the man is always believable in his role . As you might expect from a western , the film is heavy in the action department , and Eastwood ensures that his film is never too far away from another shootout . However , the real impact of the movie doesn't come from a weapon , but from the progress that the central character makes throughout the movie . Any other person in an Eastwood film is always going to be second to the man himself , and this is certainly the case here . However , the likes of Chief Dan George and Clint's then girlfriend , Sandra Locke still manage to make an impression ; even if it is obvious why the latter is in the movie . On the whole , this film is sure to please western fans , particularly those who are a fan of the great man behind this one . Well worth seeing !
Slightly flawed - but only slightly !	Luciano Ercoli is famous for making three Giallo films ; two of which are among the best that the genre has to offer , and along with The Forbidden Photos of a Lady Above Suspicion , Death Walks on High Heels is among the best of the director's films . It would be fair to level criticism at this film , as it is slightly overlong and I guessed most of the major points before they happened ; but that doesn't change the fact that this is a fun film and well worth seeing . One common element of the Giallo is a convoluted plot - and this film delights in featuring one of the most convoluted of the whole genre . The story takes in a number of characters , all fuelled by desires of lust , revenge and / or greed . The plot picks up after the attack on Nicole Rochard . The attack seems to have something to do with a stash of diamonds , but when questioned ; she appears to know nothing about them . She decides to travel to England along with an eye doctor , and gets followed by her French boyfriend ; a man that she believes may be the attacker . They move to a quaint English seaside village , where all appears to be safe . . . Luciano Ercoli does a good job of setting the scene for this film , and the English village at the centre of the story provides a nice tranquil location for a murder fuelled film like this one . The vast amount of characters involved do bring the film down a little bit , but they also ensure that there's always something going on ; and most would agree that it's better to have an overcomplicated plot than an underdeveloped one . Unfortunately , however , there isn't a great deal of gore in the film . The ensemble cast do well , and once again Ercoli's then spouse Susan Scott heads the cast . Scott does well at delivering the seductive and sultry lead performance that we're used to from her ; although it's unfortunate that she doesn't get a great deal of screen time . The rest of the cast is good also , with Ercoli's other frequent collaborator Simón Andreu giving the best performance of the support . It's fairly easy to get confused during this film , but unlike many other Giallo's , at least almost everything here makes sense by the end . Ercoli tops the film off with a strong ending that sees all the characters get their comeuppance , and overall ; this is a strong film and comes highly recommended !
Easily one of the best thrillers of the decade !	I've got to admit that I didn't have very high hopes going into this film , but to my surprise ; Running Scared turned out to be one of the most inventive and most entertaining modern thrillers that I've seen in YEARS . While the plot is highly unlikely and relies on coincidences at just about every turn , it's great fun to watch simply because you never know what's coming next , and writer-director Wayne Kramer has an obvious talent both for imagination and creating tension and suspense . Every situation in the film is extremely well handled , and it's easy to fully get behind all the right characters at every turn . Running Scared gets off to a rather generic start as we witness a bunch of thugs murder some fellow gangsters , one of which turns out to be a cop . They give the gun used for the murder to Joey Gazelle and instruct him to get rid of it . However , he doesn't count on the next door neighbour's kid taking the gun and using it to shoot his abusive step father . Now our hero has a problem , as the cops are on to the fact that the gun used by the kid is the same one that the gangsters used to murder the cop ; and he's got to find the gun before his friends find him ! One of the main reasons why I wasn't expecting much from this film was the fact that it stars Paul Walker . Not that I have anything against the guy , but the last film I saw from him was the rubbish thriller ' The Fast and the Furious ' . However , Walker is a definite asset to the film and he both looks and acts the part that he's playing . Walker is joined by talented child actor Cameron Bright , who previously put in a good performance alongside Nicole Kidman in the odd film ' Birth ' , and does well here . Fans of blood and guts will be glad to know that director Wayne Kramer doesn't cop out on that front , and succeeds in showing it as often as possible . Some of the scenes that see people being shot are extremely gritty and visceral , well over and above what I've come to expect from modern thrillers . The way that the plot moves is superb , as the director manages to tie in a number of different characters , all of which move the plot on in their own way . The fact that a lot of the film is unlikely isn't a problem either , as you can't expect too much realism from a film like this , and Kramer capitalises on that fact throughout . He even manages to throw in a surprising twist towards the end ! Overall , while this film may not break too many traditions , the fact that it fully succeeds in being entertaining and rather nasty throughout easily compensates for this . HIGHLY recommended !
A detailed and thought-provoking account of war	Before watching this epic masterpiece , I never quite understood what it is that makes people want to fight a war that was started by some politician , and after watching this film ; I'm even more baffled . With it's ambiguous portrait of war , All Quiet on the Western Front never actually condemns ( nor condones ) the act of war , but through it's portrait ; the anti-war message more than shine through . Multiple scenes show the hideousness of war , and through watching this film it becomes apparent that war is futile and a disgraceful waste of human life . We follow the ( mis ) fortune of a group of young adults who , due to the patriotic words of their teacher , decide to join the war effort . The rest of the film pans out as a sort of coming of age story in the middle of a great feud . We watch the protagonists as they stare death in the face and learn what is and isn't important when you risk your life at every passing moment . This was one of the first films to announce America as a major film-making nation as with it's epic battle sequences and first class acting , All Quiet on the Western Front impresses on a technical level , as well as impressing with it's detailed and thought-provoking account of war . The film features numerous excellent scenarios , all of which are thought provoking in the context of the film , but also in life on the whole . Consider the part where one young man is told that maths problems are a waste of time as he could stop a bullet at any time , or the sequence that sees a soldier try to save the life of his fellow man that he has stabbed in the stomach ( a French soldier , but still a fellow man ) . Not to mention the classy finish . Whichever way you look at it ; this film is a masterpiece . It succeeds on a technical level and also does what films were created to do ; entertain and inspire thought from their audiences . There are some films that every film buff must see regardless of their genre preferences . This is one of them .
A typical Wilder film - one where everything works !	Nobody has an understanding of American cinema quite like the great Billy Wilder , and even though this isn't his strongest effort ; Wilder still makes sure it works . Billy Wilder is a name commonly associated with American cinema , but this film takes place in Germany . The film is both a romantic comedy and a nod towards post-world war 2 Germany , when the country was divided up between Britain , France , Russia and the United States . The way that the great writer-director combines these two elements is brilliant , and too much is never given to either one ; thus ensuring that the film works as a whole , rather than one that seems too caught up in delivering two sides - and that is testament to the talent of the main creative force behind the movie . The plot is typical for Wilder in that it doesn't focus on the mundane , and follows a congress officer investigating army morals in the US sector . While there , she stumbles on evidence that says ex-Nazi turned café singer , Erika , is being protected by an army captain . Captain John Pringle is on hand to help her out . . . only she doesn't realise that the man protecting the café singer and Captain John Pringle are the same man ! You can always count on Billy Wilder to pull great performances from his cast , and he's done that here . The central threesome of Jean Arthur , Marlene Dietrich and John Lund put in excellent performances , which create the right mood for the piece and ensure that their characters are believable . This was one of the last screen performances for Jean Arthur , and she certainly makes the best of it ; her character is the linchpin of the piece , so a lot of the movie's success is up to her . This film was released during a tentative period with regards to the rebuilding of Germany , so it's both a brave endeavour for a man who had to flee the country to escape becoming embroiled in Hitler's propaganda campaign , and a film that will always be interesting for its historical relevance . The comedy element does play second fiddle to the more important factors , but it doesn't matter too much ; as I wasn't watching this expecting to laugh my head off , and what humour there is , is generally quite funny . Overall ; this isn't one of Wilder's top quality movies , but it's definitely one his better secondary ones ; and well worth seeing for that reason .
Delicious black comedy horror movie !	Ravenous does for cannibalism what Near Dark did for vampirism ; in that it features a character that gets drawn into something they don't want to be a part of against their will . The film , aside from being an excellent horror movie , is also a metaphor of Benjamin Franklin's proverb ; " Eat to live , don't live to eat " , and it probes into the immoral side of the human mind through that . The plot follows the story of army captain , John Boyd , who wins promotion through defeating the enemy command in the Mexican-American war . However , due to his actions stemming from an act of cowardice , he is given a promotion as third in command at a rubbish base ; Fort Spencer . When a stranger named Colquhoun turns up at the base , frost bitten and close to death ; he tells his disturbing story ; one of starvation and cannibalism . Three very good actors head the cast of Ravenous . Guy Pierce , who really is underrated , gives a great performance here as the cowardly army captain John Boyd ; he creates just the right atmosphere for his character and therefore we are able to feel empathetic towards him when he finds himself in an unenviable position later on in the film . The second starring performance comes from Robert Carlyle ; a man who has gotten a name for himself by playing unstable characters , and this movie features another of those performances . I don't think they could have cast the part of Colquhoun any better ; Carlysle does the insane madman side of his character admirably , and he also manages to get the other side of the character ; that of an immoral and emotionless human being spot on too . The third starring role is lesser than the other two , but comes from Jeffrey Jones . Jones has been in a few well-known movies , such as Sleepy Hollow ; another 1999 horror movie , and yet has never really won any acclaim . I recognised him in the movie , but I didn't know his name . One of the best things about Ravenous is the music , which is played almost constantly throughout the film . This collaborates with the images on screen brilliantly ; bringing a great atmosphere to the film as the music changes with the mood . The music makes the images on screen more powerful and memorable as it fuses so well . Another thing about Ravenous is it's abundant comedy angle ; from the start of the film I thought I was in for an absurd black comedy , and I was half right as the film does feature several moments of comedy alongside it's buckets of gore and disgusting make-up effects . The comedy in the movie isn't misplaced either and it overall makes for a very strange feel to the film , which is most definitely to the movie's credit . Ravenous is a unique , darkly comic and very gory movie , and should please horror movie fans no end and this film therefore comes with the highest recommendation .
Made for TV cult classic !	On the face of it , Bad Ronald doesn't look like it has much going for it , but despite some silly plot devices and the fact that it was made for TV back in the seventies ; this is actually a very decent little cult gem . The film capitalises on the idea of creepy old houses being haunted ; only this time the house at the centre of the tale is not inhabited by ghosts , but rather by the psychopathic son of the previous owner . The premise works from what is probably the most obvious plot device ever , as we watch the title character ; an odd young man obsessed by the fantasy world that he himself has created , accidentally murder a young neighbourhood girl . That's just the start of the chain of events , and when he comes home to tell his mother that he's killed a girl and buried the body in a shallow grave , she immediately decides that he must convert the downstairs bathroom into a secret hideout . He stays there while his mother brings him food , but tragedy strikes when she dies in hospital , leaving Ronald on his own . It's not long before a new family moves in , and Ronald isn't moving out . . . I'm probably overrating this film a little really , but the way that the story is delivered is completely undemanding , and that makes this a very fun film to watch . Too many films these days are too complicated , but Buzz Kulik's film focuses on the important elements , and the resulting film is very simple and easy to get into . The film isn't heavy on characterisation , but the central situation has more than enough to make up for this , and the character of Ronald is easy to get behind , despite the fact that he's the villain of the piece . The fact that it was made for TV is obvious as the film looks very cheap and the acting is largely diabolical , but I've seen a lot worse from theatrically released films . There's no blood and gore in the film , partly because it was made for television , and partly because the story really doesn't need any gore to succeed . Bad Ronald is a real bona fide cult gem ; it may never achieve classic status , but its well worth tracking down and I highly recommend this film to anyone that gets their hands on it . I know I'll definitely see it again !
At the top end of Polizi genre !	Colt 38 Special Squad does pretty much everything you would want an Italian crime flick to do - and it does it in style ! Like many of the best Polizi flicks , this one takes most of it's influence from Don Siegel's masterpiece Dirty Harry , with the weapon used by Clint Eastwood's disgruntled copper obviously being the main point of interest . As is the case with many of these films , the rising crime in Italy takes centre stage , and the plot is based on the police's attempts to halt the crime through an innovative new means . Hard bitten police captain , Capitan Vanni , is fed up of the way that his city is being run by criminals - " The Black Angel " in particular , whom Vannia has an old feud with . So , he gets clearance from his superiors to set up a ' special squad ' - a team made up of four of the police's best shooters , all armed with Colt . 38's for maximum impact on organised crime ! But the stakes are raised when The Black Angel steals some dynamite , and starts putting his time to good use by blowing up various things within the city . . . The film is directed by Massimo Dallamano , who is of course , most famous for his ' Schoolgirls in Peril ' trilogy . Dallamano does another excellent job here , as he manages to keep up the fast pace throughout and the film is never boring for a second . The characters are surprisingly easy to get on with , and for an Italian crime flick ; it's all rather believable too , which is a bonus . French actor Marcel Bozzuffi takes the lead role and does an excellent job with it . While he is clearly meant to come off a bit like Clint Eastwood in Dirty Harry , Bozzuffi makes the role his own and gives himself sufficient distance from the classic Eastwood character to ensure that he's not just an imitation . The great Ivan Rassimov co-stars and gives another convincing bad guy performance . The Black Angel is surely one of his most interesting roles , and fans of Rassimov won't want to miss this ! It all boils down to an invigorating and worthwhile conclusion that does the film justice . Overall , Colt . 38 Special Squad is certainly at the top of the Polizi genre and comes highly recommended !
Just another masterful movie from the master of masterful movies	Akira Kurosawa's tribute to the western is a marvelous piece of cinema . Toshirô Mifune stars as a ronin ( samurai without a master ) that goes to a small town , which is divided by two gangs of criminals . While there , he decides to play one off against the other in order to defeat both gangs . Yojimbo lacks the depth of some of Kurosawa's other films , such as Rashomon or Seven Samurai , but it is , on the whole , more entertaining and much more accessible than those two mentioned films , and most of the rest of Kurosawa's oeuvre . That's not to say that Yojimbo lacks substance however ; there's more than enough here to please fans of Kurosawa's other works . Just like the majority of Kurosawa's films , Yojimbo is spectacularly well filmed . The black and white cinematography looks absolutely incredible , and the some of the scenes , in particular that involve rain , are extremely atmospheric and lend the movie a great gloomy style . Toshirô Mifune's performance in this film is , in my opinion , his best . Mifune has been in some great films and given some great performances , many of them under the direction of Kurosawa ; but the one here eclipses them all in my opinion . In this film , Mifune is most definitely the ' star ' . In many other Kurosawa films , Seven Samurai especially , Mifune hasn't been alone , and although he isn't alone here either ; he has to carry the film a lot more than he has had to with other films , and he does a great job of it . The answer to the question of whether or not he is believable in his role isn't even debatable ; he is . So believable in fact that it's hard to believe that he's an actor playing a samurai , and not an actual samurai . Like a western , Yojimbo features several weird characters that add to the feel of the movie . The actors playing these smaller roles aren't as pronounced , or indeed as great as Toshirô Mifune ; but they all still excel in their small roles , making the support cast a very nice ensemble indeed . Yojimbo's influence can be felt across cinema . I dread to think how great cinema might not have been if the Japanese master ; Akira Kurosawa had never picked up a camera . His body of work has influenced so many styles and genres that the mind literally boggles . If he never had made a film . . . well , it doesn't even bear thinking about . It is well known that for one , Yojimbo was remade into Sergio Leone's ' A Fistful of Dollars ' , which in turn kick started Leone's career . That's just one great director we may have been without had it not been for Kurosawa . That's not all Yojimbo has had an impact on ; the Spaghetti western sub-genre is littered with influence from this film , and even recent favourites such as Kill Bill have obviously taken influence from this masterpiece . Of course , cinema would be no worse off if Kill Bill was never made ; but it's still credit to Yojimbo . Overall , every film fan should see Yojimbo . It's too important a film to miss , and not only that but it's guaranteed to give you 105 minutes of enjoyment . Highest recommendations from me .
Good western action	Five Man Army may not be as epic or as groundbreaking as other Spaghetti Western films , but it's a lot of fun to watch and overall , provides a good slice of western action . My main reason for tracking down and seeing this film is due to the fact that it was co-scripted by Italian horror maestro and one of the men behind Sergio Leone's masterpiece ' Once Upon a Time in the West ' , Dario Argento . Argento worked on scripts for a number of Spaghetti westerns , and while this is only the second that I've seen ( Leone's masterwork being the other one ) , it's the one that gets mentioned second most often , which leads to believe that it's one of his best . The plot centres on a man named ' The Dutchman ' , who hatches a plot to rob a train of $500 , 000 worth of gold . He can't do it on his own , however , and so recruits the services of four men with expertise in different areas . They all have something to prove , and the $1000 he's offering for their help gives them the initiative to try and prove it . The film then follows the makeshift ' Five Man Army ' , as they steal the gold . The film begins with a man going round asking the prospective members of the army to join the foolhardy scheme . This sort of plot device is common in the movie , as it's all rather simply told . However , if you ask me this is a good thing as some films like this tend to get a bit too complicated , and it can take something away from the enjoyment of watching . There's plenty else to enjoy too , as Argento and his fellow scriptwriter have managed to create a varied assortment of characters that play well off one another and , of course , there's all the explosions and shootouts that Spaghetti Western fans have come to expect . It does have to be said that there's not as much violence in this film as there is in similar movies , as much of the movie focuses on the train robbery at the end , which is pulled off with very little bloodshed . The acting is decent enough also , with veteran actor Peter Graves heading up a good versatile cast , which fit into their roles well . Ennio Morricone provides another good western score , and overall , this film is always going to be a target for fans of Argento's work . I won't recommend going into the film with high expectations , but it's a fun viewing and I enjoyed it .
Great drama that doesn't get swamped by fake sentiment	This sort of movie isn't my thing at all . Normally these dramas are draped in fake sentiment and it leaves me feeling very queasy to say the least . However , I found myself with high hopes for this one because it's directed by one of today's best new directors ; Alejandro Amenábar , and after seeing his debut ; Tesis , along with the follow-up's Open Your Eyes and The Others , it's obvious that this man knows his stuff . For a movie that deals with the subject of euthanasia , you've got to expect a degree of sentiment ; and this movie certainly has more just a degree of it , but the sentiment is never overdone and Amenábar never looks like he's manipulating the audience into the plight of the protagonist . This is the difference between this film ; one told by a talented auteur , and the rush of sentiment dramas helmed by auteur's who are less than talented . Amenábar simply presents the plight , gives you a wealth of viewpoints , and it is then up to you to make your mind up about what you think . When it comes to the genuinely touching moments , therefore , we care because we WANT to care , and not because the movie is being forced down our throats . The story is that of Ramón Sampedro , a real-life Spanish man who fought a 30-year campaign for the right to end his life . As you would expect from a story of this nature , the film raises many questions about the value of life and whether it is worth living a life without dignity . The film plays out with a real life-affirming vigour , and there are several instances in the film that really will make you think . If a film can make you look at your own life and get you thinking about important issues , it's obvious that it's doing something right . The film is very bleak in it's approach , but this is offset by the uplifting way that we are able to see the character . Even though his biggest wish is to end his life ; we get behind him , and wanting our hero to die is a strange situation for an audience to be in . Javier Bardem gives a great performance as the unfortunate victim , and he heads a very believable cast of actors that give it their all and help to make the film the success that it is . Despite the greatness of this movie , I really would like to see Amenábar return to horror-thrillers for his next flick ; but at least he's proved that he can do other types of films too .
Complex and thought-provoking masterpiece	Ikiru is a film about life . Constantly complex and thought-provoking , although simple at the same time ; it tells a story about life's limits , how we perceive life and the fact that life is short and not to be wasted . Our hero is Kanji Watanabe , the most unlikely ' hero ' of all time . He works in a dreary city office , where nothing happens and it's all very meaningless . Watanabe is particularly boring , which has lead to him being nicknamed ' The Mummy ' by a fellow worker . He later learns that he is dying from stomach cancer and that he only has six months to live . But Watanabe has been dead for thirty years , and now that he's learned that his life has a limit ; it's time for Watanabe to escape his dreary life and finally start living . What follows is probably the most thoughtful analysis of life ever filmed . Ikiru marks a departure for Akira Kurosawa , a man better known for his samurai films , but it's a welcome departure in my opinion . Kurosawa constantly refers to Watanabe as ' our hero ' throughout the film , and at first this struck me as rather odd because , as I've mentioned , he's probably the least likely hero that Kurosawa has ever directed ; but that's just it ! This man is not a superhero samurai , but rather an ordinary guy that decides he doesn't want to be useless anymore . That's why he's ' our hero ' . Kurosawa makes us feel for the character every moment he's on screen - we're sorry that he's wasted his life , and we're sorry that his wasted life is about to be cruelly cut short . However , despite the bleak and miserable facade that this movie gives out , there is a distinct beauty about it that shines through . The beauty emits from the way that Watanabe tries to redeem his life ; because we feel for him and are with him every step of the way , it's easy to see why Watanabe acts in the way he does . Ikiru is a psychologically beautiful film . It could be said that the fantastic first hour and a half is let down by a more politically based final third - and this is true . The movie needs it's final third in order to finish telling the story , but it really doesn't work as well as the earlier parts did . However , Kurosawa still delights us with some brilliant imagery and the shot of Watanabe on a swing is the most poetically brilliant thing that Kurosawa ever filmed . Together with the music and the rest of the film that you've seen so far ; that picture that Kurosawa gives us is as moving as it is brilliant .
Another great crime flick from the great Umberto Lenzi !	If you ask me , Umberto Lenzi is the king of Italian crime flicks ; the director worked in a lot of different genres , and while he has certainly had a lot of success with Giallo and zombie flicks , it's clear after seeing films such as Free Hand for a Tough Cop and the pinnacle of the genre , Almost Human , that crime flicks are where he is at his best . And when you add the fabulous Tomas Milian into the mix , you're never likely to hit upon a bad example of the genre ! While it's clear that The Tough Ones is not his best crime flick , it's certainly a very good one and I doubt many fans will be disappointed with it ! The whole genre takes most of its influence from Don Siegel's classic Clint Eastwood flick , Dirty Harry , and this one takes more influence from that than most . There isn't really much of a plot ; the film merely focuses on Maurizio Merli's disgruntled police officer , Commissioner Leonardo Tanzi . Tanzi is tired of crime and even more tired of the way that the police are bound by restrictions on how to deal with it , and when hunchbacked maniac Vincenzo Moretto starts throwing his weight around , Tanzi has to take the law into his own hands . . . The lack of plot is never really a problem in this film . Tanzi goes after a number of criminals and even if sometimes the plot doesn't get furthered by this endeavour , it's still great fun to watch . The Tough Ones is an extremely robust and action packed crime drama and plays to it's strengths at all times with a myriad of car chases , shootouts and fist fights ; all of which is very enjoyable . Merli obviously took his inspiration from Clint Eastwood as the two performances share a lot in common , but the Italian actor makes the role his own and it never really seems like he's imitating Eastwood . The film also stars two other Italian luminaries in the form of Tomas Milian and Ivan Rassimov . Milian lights up the screen in all of his performances , and while he has done better work than what we see here and we don't get to see him enough ; it's still another fine performance . Rassimov doesn't get a lot of screen time either , but any cast with Milian , Rassimov and Merli is unlikely to get a thumbs down from many cult film fans ! Overall , this is a balls to the wall thrill a minute crime flick and should not be missed by fans of this genre !
Intelligent , witty and biting dark satire	Drop Dead Gorgeous is a film about a teenage beauty pageant . As you might expect ; it features plenty of young girls in skimpy outfits , dancing , singing and all that crap . However , unlike a lot of films of the same ilk ; here , hidden behind a facade of teen beauty and all the other trademarks of the teen comedy genre , is an intelligently written , witty and very dark satire on the consumer society . Drop Dead Gorgeous is a filmed in the style of a documentary , a la ' This is Spinal Tap ' and follows the escapades of a group of contenders in the annual beauty pageant . The contenders are introduced via a very amusing sequence , which sees them tell the audience about themselves . It's very MTV in the way it's done , with all the girls introducing themselves as shallow , fussy , typical teenage girls . After that , the film starts to set its dark tone , with one of the girls being blown up , and is the tone that will be carried throughout the rest of the movie . Some of the humour in this movie is so dark that even I , a fan of very black comedy , couldn't decide whether to laugh at or not ; a woman that gets a beer can melted to her hand , an anorexic previous winner , and the pageant winner being blown up on a huge float are all included in this movie . It's lighter and more tongue in cheek moments are also done very well , such as the part in which one of the judge's brothers gets caught in the car door , or a hilarious ' home video ' of an explosion . The characters in Drop Dead Gorgeous are all , with the exception of Amber Atkins , disagreeable , shallow and overblown stereotypes . This is one of this movie's main assets ; it has the parodying of stereotypical people spot on ; we've got an " I'm not a pervert " pervert judge , an insensitive , egotistical head of the richest family in town , the overenthusiastic boyfriend and many other colourful and amusing characters . Some of the lines said by these characters are priceless ; stupid , but not overly stupid and you really could imagine people like these saying things like the characters in this film do . The entire cast of this movie excels ; it features a lot of small characters and each one plays their part to perfection . The main acting plaudits come for Kirsten Dunst in the starring role of Amber Atkins . Kirsten has the ability to act , and act well and she's also extremely good looking . Many actresses look good and can't act , or vice versa but Kirsten has both abilities , which makes her a very good lady to have in your film . With a few more hits under her belt ; Kirsten may well be remembered as the finest actress of her generation . Two other stand out performances come from Kirstie Alley as the former winner of the pageant and mother of one of the contestants ; and Ellen Barkin , who brings the characters of Amber's mother to life brilliantly . Drop Dead Gorgeous is a film that will be overlooked by many because it's a teen comedy . This is a great injustice ; here we have a film that is extremely funny , well acted and actually has something to say .
Amazingly grisly and sure to delight fans of the extreme side of cinema !	If someone told me a house was haunted , I'd probably go in . If I found a tape recording that might have the ability to awaken ancient evil ; I'd probably play it , and if there were a music box that supposedly could open the gates of hell , I'd probably mess around with it . But , I would never , ever , under any circumstances , enter the Amazonian jungle - and films like Cannibal Holocaust and indeed this film , are the reasons why ! As if the vicious wildlife wasn't enough reason on it's own to stay away , if these films are to be believed - the jungles are also riddled with filthy cannibals ! Umberto Lenzi's shabbily produced follow up to Ruggero Deodato's masterpiece may not be well made technically , but it makes up for the atrocious acting and poor screenplay with a great atmosphere , which includes both cannibalism and the jungle wildlife itself and lots and lots of disgusting , bloodthirsty gore - which is sure to delight anyone with the conviction to see this film . If you thought Cannibal Holocaust was nasty - brace yourself , because this film is far nastier ! The plot - or rather excuse for lots of savagery - is that a trio of students travel to the Amazon in order to research cannibalism and whether or not it really exists . While there , they meet a couple of fugitive drug dealers . . . a chance encounter that proves deadly for all concerned . Make no mistake , this little Italian flick doesn't hold back ! Dubbed the most violent film ever made , Cannibal Ferox may well be just that . Many countries ( including my native UK ) still don't have a fully uncut release on the market - which is why the US release is the only way to view the film . Well . . . if you can stomach it , that is . Scenes including a castration , arm amputation , brain eating , gutting and a woman being strung up by her breasts won't be ideal viewing for everyone . Many will say that the film is too gratuitous , and won't be able to understand how some people can enjoy it - but the fact is , the gore is the whole point of the film . Some movies try to scare the audience with psychological terror ; but here , Umberto Lenzi has gone purely for the visceral ; and unlike a lot of ghost stories - the Italian director has succeeded in making a film the likes of which horror fans want to see . Cannibal Ferox is frightening !
Nothing on the originals , but still a good film	I am a life-long Star Wars fan , but there's no denying that the long awaited prequel , The Phantom Menace , wasn't exactly a great movie . Lucas went wrong with that film because rather than retaining the style of the original trilogy , he was too keen to make the movie friendly to new audiences , and more specifically ; a young audience , which made the film lacking in many older Star Wars fans eyes . Thankfully , by the time of the second sequel , Lucas seems to have learnt his lesson and the film has a much more adult slant to it , plus it has that lovely ' Star Wars ' feel , so it comes across as being much more linked to the original trilogy of films . The story this time round makes for an exciting ride , and it sees the first real steps towards the original trilogy of films . We catch up with our lead characters sometime after The Phantom Menace , in the midst of a galactic war . Separatist leaders have gathered their collective armies and now , under the command of the mysterious Count Dooku , are posing a serious threat to the Republic , and when you add this to an assassination plot and a love story between Luke and Leia's parents , Anakin and Padmé , we've got a film on our hands ! In spite of being a hell of a lot better than the first prequel , this film doesn't even come within spitting distance of what Lucas has already shown he can do . The original trilogy of films is better than this one in every respect , but at least Lucas ' talent is allowed to shine through . The way that he created his Star Wars world shows his genius , and this film expands on that world in a much bigger way than The Phantom Menace did . The new worlds on display are nothing short of amazing , with the water planet of the cloners sticking out in particular . Lucas has also given the Star Wars fans something to think about with the inclusion of Jango Fett and his cloned son , whom fans will know as the notorious bounty hunter Boba Fett . The CGI effects hinder the film more than help it , however , and although the effects in the original films weren't all that brilliant ; at least they were true to the ' B ' movie feel of the films . Computer generated effects just don't look right , and not only that but they give the film a very lazy feel . At least with proper effects , you know that someone put some effort in . One thing I like about George is his respect towards British actors ; the casting of Alec Guinness and Peter Cushing in the original show that , and I personally was pleased to see Cushing's Hammer Horror regular co-star Christopher Lee make an appearance as the villain of the piece . While Lee isn't given enough screen time to aptly show his talent , it's nice to see him in the movie and his screen presence alone ensures that he's believable as the baddie . Casting Anakin Skywalker was always going to be difficult as it's such a central role , and all that audiences know of him from the original trilogy was a man in a suit , so Lucas wouldn't have all that much to go on ; but Hayden Christensen really wasn't the best choice for the lead . He has the right look for the role , but his acting talents leave a lot to be desired . Lucas ' script can be blamed somewhat for Christensen's poor performance , but for such a central role ; an actor with more talent should have been selected . Speaking of the script for this movie . . . it's definitely an aspect that Lucas let himself down with . While there aren't too many truly horrible lines in the movie , there's enough to warrant the writing a thumbs down . Still , Star Wars was never about great writing anyway . Attack of the Clones is most definitely an entertaining ride . Ironically , when the battle starts in the final third , the film loses some of it's vitality and the first two thirds are far more interesting . Still , Star Wars fans will be pleased with this film . I just wish he'd got it right with Episode I .
Rarely seen but well worth tracking down !	Deadly Strangers takes a rather familiar horror film situation as it's base ; that being the idea of someone hitching a lift with a stranger . This is a classic horror film situation because of all the danger it presents and has lead to many classic films . With this film , director Sidney Hayers clearly did not have very much to work with ; but he gets past this admirably by ensuring that the central situation and the characters are always interesting , and also puts a different spin on the situation - and in doing so proves that with talent , that is all that is needed to make a successful thriller . The plot begins in an asylum where a mental patient has escaped . We then fast forward to a young woman alone on the road after getting out of a car in which the driver requested too high a ' fare ' . She ends up hitching a lift with a drunk , yet friendly , driver who agrees to give her a lift to the train station . However , it soon becomes obvious that the driver and the escaped mental patient may well be the same man ! Deadly Strangers is a British production ; and it's refreshing to see a film like this take place in the unfamiliar setting of the British countryside , which makes a more than worthy place for the action to take place in ; despite not being a particularly picturesque location . Simon Ward is the male half of the leading duo and does really well with the role ; he plays it so as to make it obvious that his character has a defect , but for the most part it could be passed off as him being merely a bit strange . Hayley Mills is the other half and delivers the real standout performance ; she gets to go through a range of emotions in the film and delivers a really effective portrayal of her character . The film runs at a steady pace throughout and draws the audience into the characters very well indeed . The film always gives the impression that it's building into something ; and it doesn't disappoint . The final twist is hinted at throughout but still manages to be a surprise once it is finally unveiled and provides a strong ending for the film and ensures that most things make sense . Overall , this is rather difficult to find but its well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Lushly Gothic visuals , a great score and Barbara Steele . . . . what more could you want from an Italian horror film ?	My main reason for seeing this film was the fact that it's on the Redemption label . Redemption films are often not all that good , but they have great cult value and are usually worth seeking out . Of course , Barbara Steele offered up another reason for watching - but still , my expectations for this film weren't very high . After the first twenty minutes , however , my low expectations turned into hopefulness ; as I prayed that the remaining eighty minutes would be as great as the first twenty ! The film grabs you instantly with it's combination of crisp black and white photography , morbid subject material , Gothic locations and a score courtesy of the great Ennio Morricone . The film is pure cult class , which really doesn't let up until the final credits role . The plot follows a man who , after finding his wife with another man , proceeds to torture them both . However , she takes the upper hand when she lets him know that all of her wealth has been left not to him - but to her imbecile sister ! Our protagonist isn't taking this lying down , however , and it isn't long before he's returning to the castle with a new bride ? Just like she did in Mario Bava's masterpiece " Black Sunday " , Barbara Steele takes on a dual role . Despite being obviously the same actress , it's easy to buy into the fact that she's playing too different characters . Her roles are suitably different , and she plays them both to perfection . Steele is often passed off as merely a horror film actress ; but she really does have talent . The rest of the cast's performance is marred somewhat by some really awful dubbing and a script that isn't much better , but it doesn't matter too much because the focus of the film is never on the acting - it's clearly on the atmosphere . The plot gives way to a beautiful set of locations ; the lushly Gothic castle photographed in the same cinematic style as the best black and white films that Italian cinema has to offer . At times , the film is incoherent and the plot doesn't always flow well ; but it doesn't matter much , because there is always enough of the style element to ensure that the film remains interesting . The fact that the plotting isn't soaked with silly jump moments and out of place imagery makes me love the film even more ; as it's clear that the director cares more about delivering story and atmosphere rather than simply trying to scare the audience . On the whole ; the film has flown under more than a few radars , but that's unfair as it's damn good ! Take that as a recommendation .
Creepy exploitation classic !	Despite a slow start , Amando de Ossorio's Tombs of the Blinddead soon picks up and morphs into the exploitation highlight that you were no doubt expecting going into it . Naturally , it's full of plot holes and dubious character decisions ; but it doesn't matter , because it's Ossorio's story surrounding the knights , along with the terrifying spectacle of the Templars rising from their tombs that makes this film what it is . The intro to the film gives you an impression of what you're in for , as we glide through an ancient monastery . This creepy sequence is very much coherent with the style of this film . Amando de Ossorio seems more concerned with making sure that his creations , the knights themselves , look as decomposed and disgusting as possible - and he truly succeeds . The gore takes a backseat , therefore , but it doesn't matter at all . The plot follows three friends on a train , one of which decides to leave that safe haven and spend the knight in the deserted town surrounding the monastery . Unbeknown to her , that's the same place where Templar knights were left to the crow's years earlier - and they're still mad about it . When you think of zombie movies , it's always George Romero's gory classics that spring to mind - and that is another thing that is great about this movie . Tombs of the Blinddead has completely made it's own style , and originality is something that the horror genre could use more of . Of course , similar plots to this one have been used before , but never in exactly this way . Another thing I admire about the director is the fact that he's obviously more concerned with the horror of the story than anything else . Exploitation flicks like this tend to show a lot of nudity or other things that aren't really relevant - but this flick has made a real effort to stay away from needless elements as much as possible . Fans of intellectual cinema wont find much to like here - the dialogue is trite and the acting is rubbish - but there's no denying that this film has at least something resembling a respectable status within the horror genre . The fact that it's been remembered over thirty years on shows that - and if you're a fan of this sort of film , then you should definitely make sure you see Tombs of the Blinddead !
Excellent story of a man walking the streets at night	I wasn't really sure what to expect of this film going into it ; it sounded nothing like the gory horror movies that Stuart Gordon made his name with , and I had little faith for him branching out after seeing the disappointing King of the Ants . Edmond is a simple thriller ; just focusing on one man and if I had to compare it to other films , I would say this is something like After Hours meets American Beauty . While the film doesn't have a lot of plot , the director actually uses this to his advantage as the freewheeling approach gives the plot more opportunity for anything to happen , and the story isn't bound in any way . The film begins when Edmond is told by a fortune teller that he " doesn't belong here " . He then goes home to tell his wife that he's leaving her because he's bored and doesn't love her . Edmond then sets off into the night , apparently in search of a woman but more likely not really in search of anything . Edmond walks the night and meets various people , eventually leading to violence and a place for Edmond to find himself . A lot of the burden of this film is put on lead star William H . Macy , and of course the actor that has impressed in almost everything he's been in since Fargo doesn't disappoint . Macy's performance is uncomfortable to watch and pathetic , but always fascinating . There is a range of events that happen in the movie and the way that plot pans out ensures that the audience is always interested to see what happens next . The majority of the film takes place on the streets in one night and director Stuart Gordon does an excellent job of building up a dark and muggy atmosphere to go with the dark themes of the story . The screenplay is written by ace screenwriter David Mamet and is adapted from his own play . This film sits nicely alongside his work in the thriller genre with films such as Glengarry Glen Ross and House of Games . You can never predict how this film is going end - and indeed , the way it ends is anything but predictable . I'm not sure how well it will go down with most viewers - but there is one thing you can't deny , it is memorable . Overall , Edmond comes highly recommended .
Does justice to Hitchcock's Rear Window - an excellent modern thriller !	Like most serious horror fans , I'm not pleased by the way that the genre is being flooded by too many remakes ! A modern re-imaging of Alfred Hitchcock's classic ' Rear Window ' therefore didn't seem too promising on paper , but director D . J . Caruso has done an excellent job with this film ! It takes all the things that made Rear Window a classic , adds in a modern twist and keeps the whole piece just different enough for Disturbia not to feel like a rip-off ! Rather than a broken leg , our protagonist this time around is housebound via a modern means . After a family tragedy , Kale finds himself frustrated and angry , and a smart comment from his Spanish teacher ends up with the teacher on the floor and the Kale under house arrest , enforced by an electronic tag that puts an automatic call into the police station if he's more than 100 years away from his house for more than 10 seconds . Bored , he turns to the window , where he discovers sexy new neighbour Ashley . . . and something more sinister in the form of ' Mr Turner ' - the next door neighbour whom Kale comes to believe may be a Texan serial killer . . . Disturbia is brought to life by an excellent cast , who all perform excellently in their respective roles . Shia LeBeouf is thoroughly likable in the central role ; giving it a nice mix of angsty teenager and curious rogue . Sarah Roemer and Aaron Yoo fill out the other two young persons ' roles nicely , while Carrie-Anne Moss convinces as the mother - and David Morse gives his best performance in years as the villain of the piece ! Being more used to seeing him in more gentle roles in films such as The Green Mile , it's surprising to see just how well he fits into the bad guy role . Director D . J . Caruso , who previously made the less than brilliant Taking Lives , does a real good job of providing the thrills with Disturbia . The film works on two levels ; on the one hand , it's a teen drama and on the other it's a thriller and these two elements mix brilliantly . At times , the tension is almost unbearable - and it's that which made Rear Window such a blast fifty three years earlier ! Overall , this might not be completely original - but it's a great thriller in spite of that fact , and I'm sure it will appeal to most members of the audience . Highly recommended !
Last but by no means least for Lang !	For his final Hollywood film , Fritz Lang decided to expose the pitfalls of capital punishment for circumstantial evidence . For this film , Lang has kept it simple ; with the entire movie focusing on the central premise and not a lot of anything else going on . Filmmakers can sometimes saturate a film with lots of sub-plots , and it can have a huge detrimental effect on what the film is trying to achieve . By keeping it simple , Lang gives himself time to fully explore the implications of his plot and the film is made more compelling because of this . The story follows Austin Spencer ; a person of stature that is continually campaigning against circumstantial evidence being used as a means to send someone to the electric chair . His efforts are unsuccessful , until he has the bright idea to have a man sent to death row on circumstantial evidence , only to be pardoned at the last minute by means of the evidence to prove his innocence being brought to light . Enter Tom Garrett ; Austin's son in law to be , and the man that agrees to frame himself for murder . . . This is perhaps Lang's best assault on the American justice system ; he has created a story that is interesting and very plausible and it works a treat in that it gets you thinking about the fact that with this kind of law ; someone really could be killed for something they didn't do . Of course , the chances of someone risking being put to death to expose this are unlikely , but then again ; it's only a movie , so you can expect to suspend your belief a little for a point to be made . Beyond a Reasonable Doubt also features one of the most finely tuned plot twists that I've seen in a movie . Lang shows us everything about the plot ; from the first ideas , to the setting up , all the way to the trial and because of this ; the final twist comes as a complete surprise . It's been done and done a million times since this film , but despite this ; Beyond a Reasonable Doubt still has the power to shock the viewer . Beyond a Reasonable Doubt is one of the highlights of Lang's illustrious filmography . It has an unfairly low IMDb rating , and I hope that you will not use that as a means of deciding whether or not to see this film . It is efficient story telling at it's best and this is one of the highlights of the film noir era .
Fun Italian crime thriller	The whole Polizi sub-genre owes itself mainly to the release of Don Siegel's classic cop flick Dirty Harry , but this one breaks the rules a little as it takes more influence from gambling classics such as The Cincinnati Kid and The Sting . The Polizi trademarks - things such as fistfights and car chases , still feature heavily , although it's clear that the main focus of the film is on the card games . The idea of an Italian crime film about gambling appealed to me as I'm a big fan of poker , and while that game does feature here ; unfortunately , it's the less exciting games of five and seven card stud that take centre stage . The plot focuses on ace gambler Luca Altieri , who impresses crime boss ' The President ' after cheating some poker player out of a lot of money . The President offers Luca a chance to put his cheating skills to use for him , and Luca soon accepts . However , trouble starts when the gambler's wandering eye catches the beautiful Maria Luisa ; a woman who also happens to be the mistress of the boss's son Corrado , who doesn't take too kindly to Luca's presence . . . Naturally , the film is completely over the top and while the influence from the aforementioned films ' The Sting ' and ' The Cincinnati Kid ' is clear , it's also obvious that this is a full blooded Italian thriller as Sergio Martino keeps the focus on the action and the film features far more punch-ups than a film about gambling probably should . The plot that ace scriptwriter Ernesto Gastaldi has put together is interesting for the most part , and gives the film more credibility than your average Italian rip-off thriller . The cast is good too , with the suave Luc Merenda leading the way , and receiving good support from the likes of Dayle Haddon and Corrado Pani . Martino does well at implementing the classic Italian style , and although the musical score gets a little silly at times ; it's catchy enough to go well with the film . Overall , I wouldn't call Gambling City a masterpiece or even a must see ; but its great fun to watch , as films like this should be , and it deserves kudos for that . Recommended to all fans of Italian cinema !
A fabulous slice of Euro Gothic !	Emilio Miraglia's crossover between Gothic horror and Italy's finest cinematic export , the Giallo , really is a delightful film for the fan of cult horror . While the movie is certainly no masterpiece , the story moves well and the imagery on display and imagination on the part of the director that is shown throughout elevates a rather simple tale of insanity and murder into an amazing slice of cult cinema . The title alone is graphic and lurid enough on its own , and I'm pleased to say that the film itself carries on this style throughout , with some well worked and ingenious death scenes , as well as plenty of nudity and some truly beautiful cinematography . The story takes place in a castle just outside London , England . We are introduced to Lord Alan Cunningham and a hooker that he is taking home . After brutally torturing and eventually killing her , we discover that his mental trauma is due to the loss of his wife , Evelyn . His friend and doctor talks him into remarrying to ease his mental anguish , and that's a piece of advice that he takes upon meeting the ravishing Gladys . . . Despite the fact that this film is very much a piece of schlock cinema , the director appears to have taken it very seriously , and the result is a film that puts a lot of emphasis on the plot and characters , and ultimately this means a stronger show as Miraglia takes time to draw his audience in , rather than just showing blood and nudity and leaving it at that . The acting performances aren't bad , and even though Spaghetti Western star Antonio De Teffè is a little hammy , he convinces in his role ; while Marina Malfatti provides eye-catching eye candy . The murder sequences on display are typically gruesome and beyond the immediately obvious , as we watch a woman being ripped apart by foxes and a scene that sees a man burn in a pool containing sulphuric acid . Bruno Nicolai's rock score works very well and brilliantly accents every scene . The film all boils down to a satisfying ending , which despite seemingly coming out nowhere ; works well and adequately describes many of the loose ends up until the conclusion . Overall , while this film isn't the best of its kind ; it's certainly a very good one and I'm sure that fans of cult cinema won't be disappointed !
Excellent psychological thriller	The Road Builder is sadly not very well known , and that's a shame because this psychological thriller is a real gem and would certainly benefit from being more widely seen . The film is based on a book by Joy Cowley , although there were apparently some changes made to the story ( I don't know what since I've not read the book ) . One of the more surprising things about this film is the fact that the screenplay was written by popular children's author Roald Dahl , although clearly he did also have a taste for the macabre if Tales of the Unexpected as well as his children's book ' The Witches ' are anything to go by . The film is a strange love story at heart and we focus on a house inhabited by an old spinster and her middle aged daughter Maura . Their lives are changed one day when a young stranger on a motorbike turns up and they agree to let him stay . The young man becomes a popular figure in the house rather quickly , especially with Maura . However , there's something strange about him as evidenced by his sudden bursts of depression , apparently owing to the tragic death of his parents . Most of the plot takes place in a grandiose mansion and it makes for a really good location for the movie - it's very isolated and is nice to look at . The atmosphere is very good throughout and this excellently compliments the plot which is thoroughly dark and largely unpleasant . The plot doesn't move particularly quickly , but it's always interesting thanks to the way that the characters are built up progressively and director Alastair Reid focuses on their relationship with one another . The acting is very good and the film stars Roald Dahl's then wife Patricia Neal in the lead role . She gets on well with the other two main players , Pamela Brown and Nicholas Clay and these actors help to ensure that the film works well . There's not a great deal of shocking moments , but the way that the unpleasant happenings are handled works very well as it's nasty yet completely believable . It all boils down to a very good ending and The Road Builder is certainly a film with a ' sting in the tail ' . Overall , I really hope this gets a decent release soon because it's a great thriller and well worth seeing !
Great fantasy porno !	It would seem that there is more to porn flicks than merely sex , as many of the best examples of the genre blend in other themes , and the resulting film is often more erotic . Through the Looking Glass is surely one of the best ' themed ' porno movies from the seventies , and this film manages to blend in a strong fantasy undercurrent with hardcore pornography , and while there still isn't a great deal of substance ; director Jonas Middleton does well in creating a fantasy atmosphere that holds intrigue while there isn't any sex going on ; and not every porn film has that going for it . The main inspiration seems to be ' Alice in Wonderland ' , and we follow a rich socialite named Catherine as she is shown a world rich with wanton sex . She's devastated after the death of her father , and decides to console herself by masturbating in front of a mirror in the attic . This summons the ghost of her father , who quickly goes awry , and ends up taking her through the mirror . The land beyond the mirror is an alternate reality where sex rules and nobody really cares about anything else . . . The main standout of this movie , for me at least , actually wasn't the sex ; but rather the beautiful dreamy visuals that Jonas Middleton delights in portraying . The fact that the classic story of Alice in Wonderland was an influence is always evident , as Middleton creates his own ' wonderland ' , although here there's far more perversion . Naturally , there's a heavy amount of sex and the film doesn't exactly hold back , as we get full on nudity from both genders . The sex is , perhaps , not as dirty as that seen in some other smut films from the same period ; but I'm pretty sure that it will satisfy any fan of hardcore porn . You can't expect great acting from a film like this , but the performances here are actually a cut above most porn films . Catherine Burgess suffices both as an actress and a beautiful woman , and makes a good lead for the film for both reasons . She is joined by prolific porn star Jamie Gillis , and they get on well with the rest of the cast . Overall , this is not merely another trashy seventies porn movie . Jonas Middleton's film is a cut above most porn and therefore comes highly recommended !
Seductive , slick and sexy ; great entertainment !	Wild Things is a fantastic example of what can be achieved by not worrying about substance and having a film play for straight entertainment value . Here we have a film that takes elements such as beautiful stars , beautiful locations and a bucket load of plot twists and blends it all into a highly enjoyable film experience . Of course , Wild Things doesn't always come across very realistically and , at times even , it's downright ridiculous ; but it's done in such a way that it doesn't matter , and because of that we have a film that can do what it wants . The film is helmed by John McNaughton , who had his first success with the cult horror flick Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer . It has to be said that the scene setting and way that the plot moves is somewhat ham-fisted , as sometimes it's painfully obvious that certain sections of the film exist only to give it another selling point ; the argument that starts out between Denise Richards and Neve Campbell beside a swimming pool being a case in point . However , McNaughton makes good of these selling points , and for every three way sex scene and absurd plot twist , the film gains an extra point for trashy entertainment value . It's not immediately obvious what Wild Things is going to be about , as the first twenty minutes serve only in setting the scene and from that base , the film could easily turn into any teenage school flick . However , it turns out that this time is well used ; as by nulling the audience into a false sense of security , the film is able to make sure that every twist comes as a surprise . The film benefits from a great big name cast , which is anchored by Matt Dillon ; who gives one of his best performances . Dillon clearly enjoys himself , and his persona is able to suit both the sleazy and upstanding nature of his character . Kevin Bacon sleepwalks and isn't really able to show his true talent , and similarly Neve Campbell looks out of place ( sexy with it ) in her role as a teenage junkie . However , Denise Richards rounds the piece of nicely with a charged performance and the ensemble is nicely topped off by the likes of Bill Murray , Theresa Russell and Robert Wagner . The settings that the movie takes place in look great , and ensure that there's more eye candy than just the female leads . Director McNaughton presents a fabulously mysterious atmosphere which obviously bodes well with the plot and , on the whole , if you want a couple of hours of entertainment ; you can do a lot , lot worse than this twisty little flick .
Great entertainment with a lot of heart	A little known fact about me is that I'm a big fan of fluffy romantic comedies . Why wouldn't you want to spend 90 minutes or so watching a film ; laughing and ultimately feeling good at the end of it ? I don't consider fluffy romance films to be at the absolute top of cinema , but they're good fun , and therefore get a thumbs up from me . The Wedding Singer , however , gets not one thumb up ; but both thumbs , firmly , up . So , why does The Wedding Singer succeed more than most films in it's sub genre ? Is it the jokes ? The beautiful female lead ? The gratuitous helping of 80's pop songs ? No , it's that this movie has a lot of heart ; that's what makes it a winner . Adam Sandler stars as the quintessential ' loser ' . He's a wedding singer , and not a very good one either . He specialises in doing terrible covers of 80's songs . It's not the sort of act that I would want at my wedding . His life gets worse one day , his wedding day , to be exact , when someone doesn't turn up . The bride , that is . Now in a deep spiral of depression , our hero doesn't see any way forward . His next gig is a washout and there's love all around him ; even his newfound friend , the cute little waitress that works at the same place as him is getting married . And to a man who doesn't deserve her , I might add . I don't think I really need to tell you what comes next , but even though it's a predictable ride ; trust me , it's a ride you want to be on . Adam Sandler tends to be a very annoying actor ; and for that reason he is almost universally disliked , but it is undeniable that he is good in this movie . Nobody else could have given the character what Sandler gave him ; his performance is both entertaining and believable , and therefore is just right for the movie . Drew Barrymore was also perfectly cast . She is the perfect girl in this movie ; all smiles and sunshine , and it's impossible not to fall in love with her . The movie also features great little turn from Steve Buscemi , who provides the film with one of it's funniest moments towards the start . As mentioned ; The Wedding Singer has a lot of heart . From the way that the characters interact with each other , particularly Sandler and Barrymore , it is obvious that they are in love . The movie also has some points to make on the subject of love ; The Wedding Singer portrays that being in love is overall better than being a ' Fonz ' type , womanising character . The message at the movie's centre is also a worthwhile one ; the movie professes that it isn't important who you fall in love with ; it doesn't matter whether or not he's merely a wedding singer , all that matters is the love between two people . The movie says that love is all you need ; and that is a worthwhile message in any movie . The movie's message is lost somewhat under the barrage of jokes ; but it's most certainly there and I for one think that it's a shame that a movie that is entertaining and funny can't be considered in the same league as other , more serious movies with a similar message . Overall , The Wedding Singer is at the very top of the romantic comedy genre . It will make you laugh , and you will ultimately feel for the characters . The fact that this movie has something to say is only another reason to recommend it ; especially as it says it with a great big smile on it's face . The Wedding Singer is not a film that you will want to miss ; it's feel-good at it's best .
Hilarious John Cleese farce	Anything featuring the immense talents of John Cleese is automatically worth seeing , and this eighties comedy is certainly no exception . Aside from the great john Cleese , this film benefits from a great number of other positives , including a finely worked script ; that manages to stay realistic and down to Earth despite the highly unlikely nature of much of the plot , and the highly farcical nature of many of the events ; which bode extremely well with the lead star , as Cleese finds himself in his element in the role of the strict headmaster . Indeed , the major reason why this film works so well is down to the former Monty Python star , as he blunders his way through the film and somehow manages to retain and air of authority while doing so . The comedy styling is one of " it can't get any worse ! " , and it continually does ; as constantly punctual headteacher , Brian Stimpson , finds himself in a world of trouble after missing the train to Norwich , where he is set to make a speech to a meeting of the best headmasters in the country . After acquiring the services of one of his sixth form pupils , he gets back on track to Norwich ; but not without a number of problems . The comedy comes by way of both gags , and the plot itself , which always manages to garner a laugh or two due to its superbly silly nature . Cleese is joined by a number of British stars , who all do well in their respective roles . Sharon Maiden stands out as Cleese's travel companion for much of the film ; and somehow manages to look cute despite a truly awful hairstyle . Smaller British stars such as Pete Walker's muse , Sheila Keith , Alison Steadman and Eastenders ' John Bardon , who would go on to star as Jim Branning in said soap opera help to liven up the supporting cast . The film does feel typically eighties , but stays away from the more silly side of the decade's cinema and many of the jokes bend more towards the intellectual side . The film is in very good humour throughout , and therefore offers an enjoyable time for its audience . Seeing John Cleese deliver an assembly towards the start will no doubt remind anyone that was schooled in England of that time , and Clockwise does a very good job of presenting it's plot and setting . Overall , this film comes highly recommended to anyone that enjoys fun films .
Dirty and sleazy tale of madness	Tales of Ordinary Madness is the first film to be based on a book by Charles Bukowski and focuses on the story of one man as he descends into a life of loose women and alcohol . I have not read the book that this is based on so I don't know how it compares to the source material ; but as a movie , it's very good and I was surprised to find that the writer himself did not approve of the film . The plot is fairly straight forward in the way that it focuses on just a single character ; but the film changes often and this odyssey is a long way from a commercial movie and thus is not for all tastes . Our central character is Charles Serking ; a writer who also happens to be an alcoholic . He goes out looking for booze and women and finds both inside a seedy Hollywood . The story really starts when Charles meets a prostitute with a penchant for cutting herself named Cass . He brings her home to meet his ex-wife and have sex ; but it's not long before he begins on a downward spiral of depression and turns to the drink for comfort . This film presents a completely downtrodden view of the world and director Marco Ferreri completely succeeds in creating a dirty and sleazy atmosphere for everything to take place in . There's plenty of full frontal nudity and sex in the film and it's all portrayed as being very dirty and thus is not erotic at all . The style of the film is excellently matched by a stunning performance from Ben Gazzara in the lead role . The actor fits into this role amazingly well and always convinces as the central character . The film doesn't hold back when it comes to showing things such as nudity either , although it's all done in such a ' matter of fact ' way that sometimes the film is not even shocking . The female lead is taken by the stunning Ornella Muti , who is a real beauty and convinces alongside Gazzara . The film feels too smart to not have a point , and while the substance comes from the central character and his plight ; there's not really a defining point to the film . Overall , Tales of Ordinary Madness is a film that is well worth seeking for the cult fanatic and I can recommend it .
Up there with the best of Meyer's work !	It's clear from the outset that Up ! is going to be in extremely bad taste - and the rest of the film certainly doesn't disappoint ! This film was made later in Meyer's career and is more along the lines of Supervixens and Beyond the Valley of the Ultra-Vixens rather than Beyond the Valley of the Dolls and Vixen - and that's OK with me . Naturally the plot doesn't make a lot of sense and seems more like an excuse for lots of buxom women to take their clothes off - and again , that's OK with me ! There is a slim plot line in this film - revolving around the murder of a man named Adolf , who looks a lot like Hitler . This plot is rather inconsequential , however - a buxom blonde narrator pops up ever now and then to remind us the film has a murder backdrop , but it's hardly the main focus of the film . The film really focuses on the absolutely stunning Margo Winchester , a sexy lady who waltzes into town shortly after the murder and gets into a scuffle with a man who tries to pick up her up , and ends up killing him . The local cop gets her out of trouble , and she takes a job at a local cafe . . . Russ Meyer endows his film with a truly surreal style , and that helps to ensure that Up is the hilarious fun time that it is intended to be . As is usually the case with Meyer films , it is not the plot or the style of the film that is the main standout , but the beautiful lead actress and this film is certainly no different as it features the hottest of all Meyers stars , Raven De La Croix . This girl is absolutely amazing and pretty much makes the film worth watching on her own , the fact that the rest of it is so good only increases the appeal of Up . The narrator idea comes off as being a bit corny , but it fits in well with the style of the film and the way that the topless girl telling the story goes about her business never fails to amuse . The fact that the film stars a Hitler look-alike might make you think that Meyer has some sort of point to make - but if he did , I didn't catch it . It all boils down to a hilarious ending that sees the women show off their assets , and it turns out that nobody is quite what they seem - the final revelation is the best ! Overall , Up isn't my favourite Meyer movie , but it's a very good one and comes highly recommended !
Brilliant and inventive sci-fi kitsch	Day of the Triffids is a delightful sci-fi horror movie from the sixties , and it will be a sure-fire hit with fans of this sort of cinema . The film stands halfway between a serious disaster movie ( although it's definitely one that is much more ingenious than most actual disaster movies ) and a silly B-movie complete with absolutely ridiculous monsters . Some viewers will most probably be deterred by the second side of the movie - but not me ! I found the ridiculous monsters to be an absolute treat , and although the film is certainly messy ; on the whole I think it came together rather well . Certainly no worse than you'd expect from this sort of movie . The film follows the story of a meteorite shower that beings down a new species of plant - the man-eating triffid ! And , not only that , but the glare of the shower has blinded almost the entire population of the world ; which is bound to lead only to trouble . Right from the word go , you know that you're in for a cool piece of kitsch as the voice-over introduces the new species of plant and the film keeps this atmosphere going throughout . While many viewers will be put off by the silly special effects , the only thing that annoyed me about this is the pacing of the plot . The first fifty minutes at least are highly inventive and very involving so the running time just slips by as you lose yourself in the camp classic that you're watching . However , as we approach the hour mark , the plot slows down to walking pace , and although the inventiveness is still there ; it never reaches the highs of the first half of the movie , which featured excellent flashes of brilliance as we see panic on an aeroplane as the pilot is blinded , trains crashing and the hapless , now blind , population of the UK trying to make their way through London station . Howard Keel makes a fine leading man , especially for a film like this . He has an almost cheesy aura surrounding him , and this helps the unintentional humour side of the movie when it's mixed with the rather awful and very corny script that the film works on . On the whole , while this movie won't do anything for fans of artistic and serious cinema , if you like to have fun with your film viewings ; this one is recommended .
Violent and thoroughly entertaining thriller	I really had no idea what to expect going into Trespass having never heard of it before catching it on TV - but having seen Bill Paxton's name flash up on screen , and having that followed up by The Warrior's director Walter Hill ensured that I would be watching it anyway . And I'm really glad I stuck with it because Trespass is a brilliantly entertaining modern day blaxploitation thriller with a heavy helping of strong violence and morally destitute macho characters . The plot is not particularly important , but certainly interesting nonetheless . We follow two Arkansas firemen who , having found out that a valuable stash of gold may be hidden in a factory in East St Louis , set off to claim it . However , upon arriving at the factory ; they are soon joined by a group of black gangsters and end up witnessing one of them being killed . Naturally , the gangsters want the witnesses dead ; but when the fireman manage to hole up in one of the factory's rooms ; a standoff between the two groups ensues . The film is not completely devoid of themes or a point . Naturally the central point is the idea of blacks vs . whites , which adds in an element of controversy , and also we've got themes relating to greed emanating from the idea of the trespassers being in the factory to chase gold . These two do make the film slightly more interesting ; although clearly the main focus of the film is on the violence and entertainment stemming from the violence , and that's what really ensures Trespass is successful . Director Walter Hill creates a thoroughly nasty atmosphere ; helped along by the fact that not a single character has much more than a shred of decency . The acting is very good , with Bill Paxton providing the only thing like a hero and doing really well with the role . He gets good backup from William Sadler along with a handful of rappers including Ice T and Ice Cube . The film is engrossing for the duration and is not short on action . The way that much of it is focused in just one place ensures that we are able to get into the lead character's plight ; even if we don't particularly like them . I was a bit worried that the soundtrack might be saturated with rap ; but the director manages to keep this to a minimum which is definitely to the film's credit . Overall , Trespass is a very well done little thriller and one that I certainly wouldn't hesitate to recommend !
More trash and sleaze from Jess Franco !	Prolific director Jess Franco made a lot of crap during his career , but in his filmography there are several hidden gems - and Faceless is definitely one of them ! True to Franco's style , the film is trashy and sleazy throughout , but it's the eighties atmosphere that sets this film apart from the majority of Franco's opus , as Faceless takes in trashy eighties pop and themes of vanity , which ensure that the film is always obviously a product of the eighties . The story has been used many times before - mostly in films made in the sixties ; films such as Eyes Without a Face , Circus of Horrors and Franco's own The Awful Dr Orloff ( which gets a nod in this film ) , but never before has this sort of been given as much blood , gore and nudity as it gets in Faceless . The film begins with the disappearance of a model named Barbara Hallen . Her father hires a private detective to find her , and while on her trail in Paris ; the detective eventually makes his way to a private clinic where strange experiments have been going on . The not so good doctor has a woman whose face he wants to fix - and he's using skin from young women to do it ! The film's biggest plus point has to go to the scenes of gore ! Sequences that see things such as a needle in the eye , a drill through the skull , a chainsaw decapitation and numerous surgery sequences are well done , and bound to delight gore fans . The cast is also a standout element of the film , as Franco recasts Howard Vernon in the role of Dr Orloff , and we've also got performances from the likes of Telly Savalas , Anton Diffring and Jean Rollin's beautiful frequent collaborator , Brigitte Lahaie . The story isn't massively strong , but it's not bad either as Franco strings a few different threads together and that , along with the gore and skin going on throughout , tends to ensure that the film is always interesting . The music that Franco has chosen is good in that it suits the style and feel of the film , but Franco uses the central song a bit too often , and it starts to grate after a while . Overall , Faceless might not do much for fans of serious films , or for those that dislike Jess Franco in general ; but Faceless is one of the better films that the director has worked on , and comes recommended to the right sort of people .
Slick and stylish action flick	Based on the TV show of the same name , Brian De Palma's stylish thriller stars Tom Cruise as Ethan Hunt ; a James Bond-esquire secret agent working for a certain section of the government . As the title suggests , many of the scenarios in the film are extremely unlikely ; but then again , the film wouldn't be living up to it's title if they weren't . It's one thing to criticise it's stunts for being overblown , but if they weren't , critics would be on it's back and calling it things like ' Mission Possible ' , so really you've just got to go with it . Brian De Palma makes it easy to just ' go with it ' by way of an intriguing plot line , a constant array of high-octane sequences and lots of his trademark style ! The plot does get a little too convoluted for it's own good at times , and sometimes it's a little hard to follow ; but it gives the film a good basis for all manner of impossibilities , so it serves it's purpose . We follow Ethan Hunt and his team . After a botched mission , Hunt finds himself on the run from his employers after being accused of disloyalty . Hunt must now pull out all the stops to stay one step ahead of his pursuers and get to the bottom of why their mission went wrong . The film features a number of stunts , the best of which sees Tom Cruise breaking into the CIA via the roof . This sequence is brilliantly executed , with De Palma managing to inject bucketloads of suspense into the scene . This scene fits the tone of the film as it's brooding and cerebral , but the film ditches that idea for it's conclusion , which sees a bullet train , a helicopter and the Channel Tunnel combine to great effect ! The problem with all these stunts is that the parts between the action sequences aren't all that interesting , and at times can slow the film down to walking pace . This isn't a big problem , however , because there's always more action around every corner and that keeps the film going . Tom Cruise obviously has charisma and can lead a film , but I often find it hard to buy him in action roles . This one suits him , though , as although his character is still more than capable , he comes off as being quite vulnerable , and lucky at times , and that suits Cruise's persona . On the whole , while this isn't a great film ; it makes for good entertainment and if that's what you're in the mood for , Mission : Impossible wont disappoint .
Entertaining film noir documentary	Jules Dassin really made his mark on film noir in the mid-fifties with the fantastic Rififi , but he made this film some years earlier ; and it's not bad ! The Naked City is a semi-documentary take on the investigation of crime within an urban metropolis . The documentary elements are secondary to the central theme ; and that is nothing but a good thing if you ask me , as the last time I saw a noir film with documentary elements was the less than completely successful ' The Street with No Name ' ( coincidentally also released in 1948 ) , which was brought down by it's constant FBI advertisements . Jules Dassin fuses his story with the handling well , however , and neither side of the film ever ends up interfering with the other . The film takes place in and around New York City , and the story begins with the murder of a blonde model in her apartment - apparently part of a robbery . The film then follows two police detectives on the case of the murder , and the way that they tie up the connection with it and the robbery . Director Jules Dassin does a good job of capturing his central location , and New York City provides a good place for a story like this to take place . Noir is famous for its dark picture , and the director also does well in providing that , and this is a dark and gritty film throughout . The story has obvious implications of crime and murder , which bodes well with both the atmosphere and location . The story works mainly due to it's characters and most of them are well done and interesting enough ; although if you ask me , Barry Fitzgerald's Irish detective is a little too comical , and as the comedy moments are often awkwardly implemented given the plot ; he does the film no favours . The voice-over narration is one of the major points of the film , as it helps to tell the story and bodes well with the documentary style of the movie . The plot never gets too deep , and therefore is mostly played out for entertainment value . It seems obvious that Dassin was more interested in the technical elements of the film ; as the plot comes second - but overall , this is a fine noir film and comes recommended to fans .
Probably the second best western of 1966 !	In 1966 , Lee Van Cleef was a part of the greatest western of all time ; he also made this film . Naturally , The Big Gundown has nothing on Sergio Leone's masterpiece The Good , The Bad and The Ugly ; but it's still a more than decent little western that will surely satisfy anyone who considers themselves a Spaghetti Western fan . The film is directed by Sergio Sollima , who directed a handful of westerns in the late sixties before going on to direct successful Polizi flicks Revolver and Violent City . He's no Sergio Leone but his direction is certainly solid and the film benefits from the Spaghetti Western style . The plot focuses on the common western theme of one man chasing another through the desert . The lead character is Jonathan Corbett ; a gunslinger turned police sheriff put on the trail of Cuchillo Sanchez ; a Mexican bandit believed to have raped and killed a young girl . The Mexican is no match for the hardened gunman and he is tracked down quickly - but he has an uncanny ability to escape capture , and this drags the chase out long enough for the sheriff to realise that there may be more to the criminal than meets the eye . The film benefits from two excellent leading performances . Lee Van Cleef made his name in Spaghetti Westerns for a reason ; and that reason is performances like this one . He fits the style of the film very well and effortlessly fits into his role ; which he has played many times before and since . His opposite number is the great Tomas Milian , who once again proves his versatility as the Mexican bandit . Milian has an amazing ability to make any role work for him and he's a constant source of entertainment . The Spaghetti Western genre is often best known for its entertainment value and this is true of many genre films ; but this one stands out somewhat in that respect as it actually has some kind of point to make . It's not a great point and the film is hardly life-affirming but it still offers a little more than the average western . Of course , there are still plenty of gunfights , chases and general posturing and the director ensures that there's always enough going on to keep things worth watching . Overall , this is an excellent little film and well worth checking out . Recommended !
Slightly misguided , but still works well as a psycho thriller	Twisted Nerve doesn't seem to have a great reputation , and while the film ( like its lead character ) certainly does have some problems , I enjoyed this one in spite of them . The main problem people seem to have with this film ( so much so that the filmmakers actually had to tack on an apology before the film starts ! ) stems from the fact that it seems to be professing that siblings of mongoloid children were more likely to become psychopaths . This idea is somewhat silly and I can see why it would bother some people ; but seriously , this is just a thriller and while the idea is unlikely and misguided , it didn't bother me too much . It also should be noted that ' nurture ' plays a big part in the lead character's mental health problems . The film focuses on Martin Durnley . His mother treats him like a child , his stepfather dislikes him and his mongoloid brother is institutionalised . He meets a young girl named Susan Harper , who takes pity on him ( or rather , his alternative personality ' Georgie ' ) after a shoplifting incident . But this soon leads to obsession for the troubled young man . . . If you go into this film expecting something deep or brilliant , you will be disappointed . As mentioned , the point that the film tries to make is not well imposed and not much else about the film has any depth . Still , as a thriller it works well . The main influence for the film is clearly Hitchcock's masterpiece ' Psycho ' and the two share a lot in common . The central character is interesting for the fact that he's so strange . Hywel Bennett really succeeds in creating a character that is both bizarre and completely sinister . The supporting cast isn't as great in terms of performances , but the two leading ladies are much nicer to look at . Hayley Mills delivers the typical young British female lead , while Billie Whitelaw is the real standout for me as the young girl's mother . Twisted Nerve also features a memorable tune , and possibly takes influence from Fritz Lang's M as the lead character often whistles it . The film flows well throughout and delivers the intrigue from the character actions and the situation rather than through suspense . I can see why this film is not often hailed as a classic ; but if you're looking for an interesting watch and don't care about some silly ideas , Twisted Nerve comes recommended .
Excellent Krimi thriller !	I've only just really started getting into the Krimi genre and most of the ones I have seen so far have been the later entries which were in colour . As such , one of the things I like most about this type of film is the wacky colour schemes ; yet although The Sinister Monk is shot in black and white and thus doesn't feature one , it's still a very nice film to look at and also provides an interesting and entertaining mystery - ensuring that The Sinister Monk is one of the very best Krimi flicks that I've seen so far ! The plot is , as usual , based on a novel by British crime writer Edgar Wallace and this time focuses on a family in turmoil over the distribution of a family will . It turns out that the late patriarch of the family intended to leave all of his wealth to his favourite granddaughter Gwendolyn ; a fact that doesn't exactly go down well with the rest of the scheming family . Naturally , they plot to ensure that the granddaughter doesn't get what's coming to her ; but things are complicated when a monk with a whip shows up and starts picking people off ! The plot is not exactly original and has literally been seen a hundred times before in mystery thrillers - but the film is made good by Edgar Wallace's strange approach and we get a plot peppered with things such as the whip wielding monk ( evidently a Wallace favourite ) , a wall full of death masks and a revelation involving carrier pigeons ! Naturally , the film doesn't always completely make sense and sometimes you just have to go along with it ; but really , that is what makes this film so much fun to watch . There's plenty of entertainment and since the film is only short at about eighty minutes , the runtime is rather crowded - but that is a benefit if you ask me ! The cinematography is just great ; the black and white picture adds a real foreboding atmosphere to the film and the fog-drenched castle in which most of the film takes place makes for a really great central location . It all boils down to an unexpected and silly conclusion ; but it's satisfying enough , despite feeling a little bit too rushed . Overall , The Sinister Monk is an excellent little film and I can certainly recommend it !
Dark and gritty - a great film !	In the middle of the mass of blockbusters , dumbed down horror movies and samey Indie dramas ; it's nice to see that some filmmakers still feel the need to push the bar and deliver something different . The Machinist is a deeply dark and disturbing movie that sees Christian Bale as a worker in an industrial factory . If he were any skinnier , he wouldn't exist and he hasn't slept in a year ; but still he manages to carry on his mundane existence . Things aren't quite rosy in his life either ; strange things are happening to him without explanation and it isn't long before our protagonist doubts his own sanity . Christian Bale lost an amazing 63 pounds for this movie , and while it might have been a struggle for the actor ; it certainly wasn't in vain ! Bale's stick-like , ill appearance adds immensely to the film and if director Brad Anderson hadn't got himself such a dedicated performer in Christian Bale , The Machinist wouldn't have been half the film it is . Bale has impressed on numerous occasions , and it's about time he got praise he deserves . Christian Bale's main co-star is most definitely the atmosphere . Brad Anderson is keen to get down and dirty with this movie , and he's given it a truly downbeat , gritty style . This is absolutely great to look at , especially for fans of macabre movies . The claustrophobic camera angles add to this atmosphere and help to enforce the idea that the machinist is living in his own surreal environment . The plot works more from a premise than an actual story ; but this is good as it allows the director to put the focus of the story squarely on the protagonist , and his decent into insanity provides an ample base for an intriguing movie . The Machinist is a very encouraging film , as it shows that there is still room for dark , macabre films in modern cinema . Brad Anderson's earlier feature ' Session 9 ' shows that the man has a real flair for atmosphere , and it will be interesting to see how his remake of George Romero's less than brilliant ' The Crazies ' turns out . On the whole , this film is excellent . The atmosphere is beautifully done , the acting is superb and the film manages to keep your interest throughout . What more could you ask for ?
An original and refreshing fusion of two genres	In 2003 , Britain tried it's hand at the zombie film ; and failed , with the frankly miserable ' 28 Days Later . . . ' . Then the zombie sub-genre was given another film in 2004 ; the hugely disappointing remake of the classic ' Dawn of the Dead ' , and both of these things were leading me think that this parody of the zombie genre might miss the mark as well ; but suffice to say , this one doesn't disappoint . If you're expecting to be rolling around on the floor laughing at this movie , you'll be disappointed , but although it's never hilarious , it does keep itself going with a series of giggles , which is sure to delight any viewer . The plot follows Shaun ; a young slob that spends most of his time drinking in the pub and playing video games with his even lazier friend . When his girlfriend dumps him on the grounds of him being an unreliable loser , he thinks it's the end of the world . . . . and actually , it is ; as , for some reason , the population of London has been transformed into flesh eating zombies and it's now up to Shaun , with the aid of his trusty cricket bat , to save the day ! I often find myself disliking films that spoof the horror genre as there's just something I don't like about someone taking the Michael out of something I love , but some of the sequences in Shaun of the Dead really are inspired moments of comedy . The parts that see the Shaun go about his daily business , completely unaware that people around him are eating each other show a rare brilliance that few comedies have ever matched . As you've probably heard , Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright have labeled this film a'RomZomCom ' , which , of course , means that it is a romantic comedy , with zombies . That's almost exactly what it is , with the romantic comedy making up the structure of the movie , and the zombies being thrown in afterwards . Ironically , since most people will see this for the zombies ; the romantic comedy elements of the movie are , on the whole , funnier than the parts with the zombies . After a great initial forty minutes , after which is when the zombies start to really come into play , the movie loses steam and you don't find yourself giggling so often . However , it's forgivable as the comedy gets replaced by some great horror sequences , many of which are lifted from the zombie classics , such as Romero's ' Dead ' trilogy and The Evil Dead films . Shaun of the Dead stars two of the main players from the cult comedy ' Spaced ' ; Simon Pegg and Nick Frost , along with a couple of other regulars from that show , and some other players from various British comedy shows . I have to admit to never having watched Spaced , but I can see that it's written by two obviously talented people , and I may well give it a try on the strength of this film . Simon Pegg's performance is silly , but believable at the same time . He does , actually , appear to be doing an impression of The Office's David Brent for most of the movie ; but that's fine with me . Pegg and Frost get to play with a nice assortment of weapons for this film , from cricket bats to snooker cues to shotguns and more ( but no chainsaw . . . ) and it's a lot of fun seeing them running around and bashing the undead on the head . This film is a lot of fun on the whole , and I am proud to say that this decade finally has a good zombie film , and I'm even more proud to say that it originates from my home nation . . . even if it's cast do drink Carling Black Label . . .
Ripping off The Exorcist - Alberto De Martino shows us how it's done !	I've only seen a handful of Italian Exorcist rip-offs ; but I've seen enough to know that this type of film generally isn't very high quality . The same can't be said for Alberto De Martino's The Antichrist , however , which is so far in front of all the other Exorcist rip-offs that I've seen that you could just about throw all the rest of the Italian devil / demons films into the mix ; and this one would still rise above the majority of them . Of course , the film has something of a bad reputation for a reason - and how much you enjoy this film may well hinge on just how important a coherent plot line is to you ; but if you can ignore that , what we have here is a very good horror film . The plot is not far removed from William Friedkin's 1973 film and focuses on a wheelchair bound woman . Her psychiatrist believes that her problem may be mental rather than physical and sets out to cure her . However , in doing so he brings back memories of her past life ; which involved her worshipping Satan , and the woman is soon possessed by the Devil . . . This film really is very similar to The Exorcist both in style and execution . The victim here spouts vomit and atrocities just as Regan did in the earlier film and of course we get an exorcism scene to go with it ; but the film still rises head and shoulders above most films like it thanks to the visuals . Alberto de Martino really put care into how the film looks and many frames are extraordinarily beautiful . The house in which most of the action takes place is a lavish construction that is a pleasure on the eyes - while sequences such as a devil worship orgy as well as the numerous scenes that depict the result of the possession will stick in the memory long after the film has finished . It's clear that the scriptwriter wanted to shock his audience and some of the things that the leading lady spouts really are quite vulgar and blasphemous , which is a highlight . It all boils down to the big exorcism scenes ; and De Martino certainly doesn't disappoint here either as its loud , brash and entertaining throughout . In fact , if it wasn't for the turgid opening scenes - this could easily be considered a masterpiece ! Don't miss this one !
A solid Mexican horror flick	The Witch's Mirror is a film that mixes numerous horror ideas into one incoherent , but brilliantly fun little film . The Witch's Mirror is directed by Chano Urueta , who also made the completely bizarre Brainiac in 1962 . It's clear that Urueta has an eye for visuals and isn't too bothered about telling a story , as both The Witch's Mirror and Brainiac are heavy on the style without putting too much focus on the plot . This film has borrowed from numerous horror classics , from American films such as Mad Love to the French classic Eyes Without a Face . The plot focuses on witchcraft and sorcery , and more specifically ; the act of mastering the use of a mirror . A witch named Sara enchants a mirror in order to protect Elena , her adopted daughter , from her nasty husband Eduardo . However , the enchantment doesn't work as planned , and when it fails ; Elena is murdered , which leads the witch to try and get her revenge through a series of supernatural spells and sorcery . The fact that the plot is incoherent obviously hinders the film , but there's so much going on that it's not a big problem . The Witch's Mirror isn't dull for a moment as there's always something going on to hold the audience's interest . The film includes themes of witchcraft and sorcery , as well as a big dose of mad science , as the film's doctor attempts to reconstruct his wife's deformed face . The special effects are superb considering the film is almost forty five years old , and they're also a marked improvement over the largely silly effects seen in Brainiac . The film is rather arty - more so even than The Curse of the Crying Woman , but that's not a negative comment as The Witch's Mirror features some truly beautiful sequences , which are well utilised and make the film more memorable . Overall , I can't see a good reason not to enjoy this film . It's not dull for a second , features some of the best art sequences in horror and does well at mixing a number of different horror ideas . It's not the best film from the recent batch of Casa Negra releases , but it's still well worth watching !
One of the better ' lower-key ' slashers	Sleepaway Camp is one of the most clear-cut cases of Friday the 13th mimicry in all of horror cinema . It's so clear cut because it's so shameless - we have a holiday camp , a murderer on the rampage because of something that happened at the start of the film , a completely unlikely killer etc etc ; yet despite all this , Sleepaway Camp does manage to put all of these elements together to form a fairly decent slasher flick . The first half of the film won't lead you to believe this , however ; as it's really quite boring , but once the film gets going , Sleepaway camp starts to justify it's reputation as one of the best of the non-Friday / Elm Street slasher films . The plot is a simple excuse for lots of butchery , and sees a camping holiday turn to tragedy as a father and child are killed in a boating accident . We then fast-forward eight years , and it's time for Ricky and his cousin ; the survivor of the accident at the film's opening , to partake in the all-American tradition of spending the summer at camp . Unfortunately , a ruthless killer has decided to do the same thing . . . This film has been described as an essential film for horror fans ; but that really isn't true . Sleepaway Camp is merely another entry in the eighties slasher tradition ; and I would say that it's only worth seeing once you've run out of actual classics to watch . I do have to admit , however , that I've never been a big fan of this sort of film ; so slasher fans are welcome to disagree with me . The murders here aren't all that bloodthirsty , but they are quite vicious , despite the vast majority of them happening off-screen . I do have to give credit to this film , however , for the fact that it doesn't merely go with the boring knife killings that many of its peers adhere to . Modes of dispatch include scolding , beheading , drowning and my personal favourite - the beehive ! There is a knife sequence , but it's actually quite well done . This leads me to the film's ending . The ending is here is often touted as being one of the most shocking in American horror cinema history , and it's easy to see why . However , it isn't that shocking when it comes to mystery - as the twist becomes all too easy to guess at about the halfway point . Still , this certainly isn't a bad film - and while it's not essential , it's a decent way to spend eighty-odd minutes .
A true seventies exploitation classic !	I do love a good sleazy seventies crime flick , and Bonnie's Kids is certainly a very good sleazy seventies crime flick ! The main reason this film works so well is because everything about it is absolutely spot on - writer-director Arthur Marks creates a real gritty and sleazy atmosphere that fits his plot brilliantly , while lead actresses Tiffany Bolling and Robin Mattson both manage to pull off performances that are sexy and tantalising as well as being deceptive and as far away from ' innocent ' as you can get ! The film makes best use of its elements and what we end up with is pure drive in gold ! The plot focuses on two girls , Ellie and Myra , the daughters of deceased town tramp " Bonnie " . After their no good stepfather tries to rape the younger daughter , the older one blows him away with a shotgun and the two daughters decide to go and stay with their only relative , Uncle Ben , in his lavish mansion in El Paso . The two get involved with their new lives , and soon enough the older daughter is asked to run an errand for her uncle , but when a chance to steal a load of money presents itself ; she takes it . . . The plot of this film is great in that we get a basic premise and from there it's never clear where it's going to go . Arthur Marks ' script has plenty going on in it ; the main story always revolves around the girls , but there's enough going elsewhere and with other characters to ensure that it's always interesting and the 105 minute runtime is certainly not packed with filler ! The film is also good in that it's clearly a product of the time in which it's made - everything about the film clearly sets it in the seventies ; the fashions , the music , the cars , houses etc are all exactly what you'd expect from a film like this . There's a real lot of themes that are common in seventies exploitation that made it in too , from sex and shooting to lesbianism and teenage angst . The fact that the film is not predictable is carried on all the way to the end , and the climax really does come as a big surprise and was not what I was expecting ! Overall , this might not appeal to all tastes , but for my money , Bonnie's Kids is an out and out drive in classic and should not be missed by anyone who considers themselves a fan of films like this one !
Another brooding and intriguing film from Claude Chabrol !	I was very surprised upon reading some of the comments for this film after having seen it - not only is this not a lesser Chabrol movie or a non-entertaining one , for my money its Chabrol at his subtle and intriguing best , and no doubt up there with the likes of The Unfaithful Wife and Le Boucher ! The plot is not particularly original , but it's not too important as it's Chabrol's style and attention to detail that really makes the film what it is anyway . The plot seems to take a lot of influence from the classic ' The Postman Always Rings Twice ' and focuses on murder due to an illicit love affair . Lucienne Delamare is not so happily married to town major Paul Delamare and , unbeknown to her husband , is currently engaged in an affair with her husband's assistant Pierre Maury . The two are able to spend time together because Paul is often away on business . Pierre's wife Clotilde is weak and sick and when she dies suddenly , the town suspect suicide ; but the truth is more sinister , as revealed by Pierre's confession to Lucienne . . . The film is kept interesting as Chabrol always focuses on the important elements and ensures that the chemistry between the leads is always engaging . The acting is once again superb with Chabrol's beautiful wife ( at the time ) Stéphane Audran being suitably brooding and mysterious in the lead role and receiving excellent support from Michel Piccoli and Claude Piéplu . The village in which the film takes place is also well thought out and Chabrol manages to create a foreboding atmosphere stemming from that . As usual with Chabrol films , this one is beautifully shot and realised and it's clear that the director put a lot of care and attention into the film . As usual , the suspense is generated through intrigue and the way that the characters are developed rather than through scenes of tension , though there are some brilliant sequences in the film - a pivotal scene towards the end involving a car accident being particularly noteworthy . I wouldn't recommend this film as a starting point for someone who has not previously seen a Claude Chabrol film , but I'd be surprised if fans of his don't enjoy it . Highly recommended !
Excellent thriller with a profound message	Alan Parker's Mississippi Burning is a surprisingly good police thriller that mixes the intrigue and mystery of a police investigation with a commentary on American culture in the 1960's , and said people's attitudes towards racism . It's rare for a film to combine these elements properly , and many have failed at it , but through it's efficient pace and competent piecing together , Mississippi Burning achieves it's aim admirably . Mississippi Burning is a very professionally handled film and credit for that has to go to the director , who has a habit of putting together very professionally made films . The influence that this film has had on later crime investigation films such as the magnificent ' LA Confidential ' is evident throughout , and that adds yet more credibility to the proceedings . In spite of it's turbulent plot , Alan Parker never sets out directly to shock the audience , and despite several scenes of violence , it's always the film's plot that takes centre stage and Alan Parker doesn't stray from that as many other directors have done . This film doesn't need to shock and offend to get it's message across . The plot follows the disappearance of three men - two of them white Jews and the other a young black man . We then follow the fortunes of two FBI men that come into town to investigate the disappearance . The acting in the movie is strong throughout , with William Dafoe and Gene Hackman heading a strong cast . The two stars do a great job of drawing the audience into the movie , and the two shine throughout . They are joined by a host of lesser-known stars , such as Frances McDormand , Brad Dourif , Stephen Tobolowsky and a great little turn from Michael Rooker as a racist KKK member . The themes that are implemented into the plot are impressively portrayed , with the social study being the most prominent of them . Mississippi Burning adequately denounces hatred , and does a great job of getting across the stupidity and pointlessness of it . The film is also notable for a great atmosphere throughout , which is matched by a great soundtrack that creates a very foreboding and tension filled feeling . My only real criticism of the movie is due to it's ending , which goes on a bit and kills the atmosphere that the film has done such a good job of creating . Still , this is a very good movie and one I don't hesitate to recommend !
Beautiful , atmospheric , thought-provoking .	Based on a novel by Philip K . Dick , this futuristic urban Sci-Fi film is a masterpiece indeed . Director Ridley Scott has managed to turn Dick's story into a dark and complex film-noir styled mystery , that packs as much punch on an aesthetic level as it does on an emotional and substantial one . It's clear throughout the film that the movie makers ' intentions was to make this more of an intelligent character study cum thought-provoking drama rather than the thrill seeking movie that the Sci-Fi genre movies usually are . This is shown by the way that the action in the movie is kept down to a bare minimum , and the way that the film always seems to want to put forward an idea rather than an action sequence . The plot , which covers themes such as what it takes to be considered alive , follows a group of four androids ( " Replicants " ) that have escaped their masters and come to Earth , where Replicants are illegal . Their intention is to seek out ' the maker ' and try to add to their maximum four-year lifespan , given to them to ensure that they wont have sufficient time to develop emotions . On their tail is Deckard ; a policeman in the business of hunting Replicants ; known as a Blade Runner . Through a grim setting and dark characterization ; Ridley Scott has truly succeeded in giving Blade Runner a classic film-noir style . This bodes well with the futuristic metropolitan version of Los Angeles that the film takes place in . Both of these elements blend excellently with the characters , which are intriguing as they are dark . Harrison Ford steps into the role of Deckard ; the classic noir protagonist . We never really delve into his character ; but at the same time , that ensures that the mystery surrounding him is kept up , which serves in making our protagonist all the more intriguing . Rutger Hauer , who gives a career-best performance as the leader of the Replicants , matches him . Hauer treads the line between pathos and pure evil brilliantly , and it's always easy to believe that he is the doomed android that the movie presents him as . The main thing I love about this movie is it's style ; the dark Gothic undertones are superb to look at , and once the film enters it's final third , the atmosphere takes over and the way that it builds to it's beautiful and classic conclusion is absolutely superb . Blade Runner may have been met with negativity on it's release ; but today it's an absolute classic .
The crème de la crème of adult cinema !	Sensational Janine is a high quality , plot-driven porn film ; and it stands head and shoulders above the vast majority of the genre . ' High Quality ' is not a term usually associated with adult films ; but it can certainly be applied here as this film is extremely well made and that's one of the things that help it stand out so much . The plot line is very interesting also and the central character is very easy to get along with , which ensures that the film draws you in thanks to the interesting story and not just the sex . As the title suggests , we focus on a young girl named Janine ( actually , Josefine ) as she goes from being a sweet virgin to a sex hungry Madame . We follow her as she gets her first sexual awakening ( watching her parents having sex and later getting it on with her step brother ) . From there she begins to get more and more curious ; and luckily for her , she just so happens to live in a den of iniquity so finding men to practice with isn't difficult , and she's a very willing student . . . The sex scenes in this film really are excellent and the fact that they are featured numerously is a big help to the overall success of the film . Most of the runtime is taken up with sex , but unlike some of the lesser genre examples ; each individual sequence here is long enough to get the point across , but doesn't outstay its welcome . They're also very erotic ! The lead role is taken by Patricia Rhomberg ; and she is just as sensational as the character she's playing . She is perhaps not a natural beauty , but the buxom maiden is very sexy and manages to get both the curiosity and innocence of her character across as well . Another thing that sets this film apart from much of the rest of the genre is the fact that most of the main characters are ' normal ' people rather than all-out porn stars , and that does make the film feel a lot more realistic . The film does have a very arty feel to it , but this shouldn't be enough to put anyone off as director Hans Billian ensures that the film is very accessible . Overall , Sensational Janine is an absolute classic of adult cinema and should not be missed by anyone . HIGHLY recommended !
The most frightening episode of The Twlight Zone ?	This episode of The Twilight Zone is somewhat different to most of the rest ; as instead of being a bizarre tale ; it's based more on human morals , and is also something that could very easily happen . " The Shelter " follows a street , where only one person has a bomb shelter . After nuclear war is threatened ; the street is thrown into disarray , as everyone wants a piece of the shelter . This story might not have as big an impact nowadays as it did when it was first aired in 1961 . In the middle of the Cold War , the nuclear threat was very real ; and knowing that the events of this show could be just round the corner must have been terrifying . The tale is very well written , and the exercise in morality is very well felt . Unlike the rest of The Twilight Zone , this story takes place in our world , and has a very realistic feel throughout . The final words on morality and civilisation sums it all up perfectly , and while it might not be what you'd expect from The Twilight Zone , this is still an ingenious little tale and it still makes you think . Another episode that comes highly recommended !
A true Grindhouse classic !	Switchblade Sisters is an undoubtedly silly and unrealistic slice of Grindhouse exploitation , but it's also an absolute blast and a real must see for any fan of cult cinema ! The film will likely get compared with later but better known gang flick ' The Warriors ' and I suppose you could determine Switchblade Sisters to be the female version of Walter Hill's classic exploitation film . But just because it focuses on the fairer sex , don't let that fool you into thinking that Switchblade Sisters doesn't have its own nasty edge ; as while you cant really take this film seriously , there's certainly plenty to please exploitation fans . The plot actually has more layers to it than you might expect considering the type of film but the main focus is on a gang named ' The Dagger Debs ' . The Debs are controlled by Dominic ; the leader of ' The Silver Daggers ' . The plot kicks off properly upon the introduction of Maggie ; a new girl in town who makes a splash when she beats one of the senior Debs in a knife fight . However , Maggie also exposes jealousies within the gang and adding to the problem is the rival lead by a man named Crabs . . . The film is difficult to take seriously , mostly owing to the terrible acting and unfocused plot line . You never really know where the film is going , though that's more down to the fact that it just seems to do whatever it feels like without following a logical progression ; although to the film's credit , this does work rather well . I wasn't surprised to find that most of the main player's didn't make much else aside from this film ( Monica Gayle being the only exception ) and most of them fail to convince with their performances - though again , it's actually to the film's credit as it helps to instill the Grindhouse style . The film is mainly set around a school and this is hilarious as all the actors clearly left school years before the filming of this movie took place ! Despite the numerous problems ( which would only really be problems in a serious film ) , Switchblade Sisters is still an awesome trash flick as it's just so much fun to watch . There's always plenty going on in the film , most of the lead characters are very amusing and the liberal attitude to violence that is displayed makes for great entertainment . This film is an absolute must see for fans of this sort of stuff !
Hilarious and great fun - a masterpiece from Russ Meyer !	Russ Meyer sure did know how to deliver an amazingly good time , and Supervixens is without doubt one of his very finest hours ! Like all Russ Meyer films , this one is completely over the top and every bit an epic , as Meyer crams in a ton of sex , violence and ample chested girls into the sprawling and often hilarious plot line . The film is completely wayward and since the base of the plot is solely focused on one guy travelling without aim , it means that Russ Meyer can pretty much do whatever he likes - and that's clearly what he did do ! The lead character is Clint , a gas station worker married to ' Super Angel ' . Clint has a problem - women can't keep their hands off him , and this is not pleasing his wife who believes he is playing away and kicks him out after a fight . She then hooks up with the local policeman , whom she ends up winding up and later finds herself dead . Naturally , Clint is the number one suspect for the murder ; so he decides to skip town . He then sets out on an aimless odyssey , and meets numerous characters along the way , many of which happen to be big breasted ladies . . . Supervixens really is a dream film for anyone who loves over the top gratuity . The film is pure comic genius from start to finish and Meyer provides the audience with a constant stream of ridiculous goings on , and it's always great fun to watch . The lead ample chested vixen is Shari Eubank ; she only made two films in her career , and that's a shame as she has real charisma and , like the rest of the girls in this film , looks great too ! Charles Pitts is good enough as the leading man , but Charles Napier is the one that really stands out as the psychotic copper ! Napier is really at home in this role and clearly enjoys it too . Supervixens is great entertainment throughout and doesn't get boring for a second . There's a constant source of amusement and I'm sure that this film will please most viewers . Some of the scenes in this film ( particularly around the start of the film ) are absolutely stunning and it has to be said that Meyer has really done something special with this film . Overall , it's probably quite clear what I think of this film - it's seriously good stuff ! And everyone should give it a go !
Incredibly funny comedy	What makes The Naked Gun so funny is it's small moments ; things like when Leslie Nielson knocks a fisherman of the pier when parking his car , when he and Priscilla Presley come out of a movie laughing , only for the audience to see that the movie they just left was ' Platoon ' , the part at the baseball game where a fan shouts " It's Enrico Pallazzo ! " ; those are the really funny moments in The Naked Gun . That's not to say the bigger gags , such as the part where Detective Nordberg is shot or the thing with the fish don't work , but it's the film's attention to detail that is most definitely it's main asset . The Naked Gun opens with an utterly hilarious sequence which sees a police siren , obviously atop of a police car parade through all sorts of areas that it isn't supposed to , all done to a backdrop of very farcical music . From this point on , you know you're going to be in for a lot of silliness , and if it's silliness you want , The Naked Gun is definitely your film . The plot of the movie is largely irrelevant , and serves only as a means to spoof several clichés of the police thriller genre ; which is all the plot should serve as in a gag based comedy such as this . Leslie Nielson is the perfect man for this sort of film , as he has proved over and over ; even when he's stood doing nothing he looks silly ; he has a look that is made for comedy , and this is his finest hour . This movie is also the finest hour for the ZAZ team ; unlike with the messy and largely unfunny " Airplane ! " , they've managed to get almost everything spot on here . The jokes are funny ; for every one that doesn't work , there's twenty that do , the lead man is on top form and the situation is silly enough to provide lots of room for gags , and that room is filled as far as is possible . If you're more a fan of intelligent comedy , then I recommend checking out The Naked Gun anyway because I very much doubt that anyone can sit through this movie without laughing . Forget " Airplane ! " , THIS is the finest ZAZ comedy .
An amazing achievement for horror cinema	Along with Tod Browning's Dracula , Frankenstein was one of the films that launched Universal as a major horror studio ; and even now , over seven decades since its release ; James Whale's cinematic interpretation of Mary Shelly's classic novel is still an outstanding expose of horror . The film is famous for several things ; the image of Boris Karloff ( credited as ' ? ' ) in the role of Frankenstein's Monster being the most famous of them . This is the role that announced the great Boris Karloff to the world of cinema , and he justifies that with an outstanding portrayal of the monster . Karloff takes what could have been a cold , lifeless role and gives it warmth - so much , in fact , that it's actually very easy to believe that ' ? ' really is Frankenstein's Monster . The plot will be familiar to anyone who's ever heard the name ' Frankenstein ' and follows a mad genius with the idea of creating a corpse and giving it life . Before long , he's harnessed the power and lightning and is screaming " it's alive ! " But when the monster escapes its creator , Frankenstein's position in high society , his marriage and even his life comes under threat . The fact that the story is so well known harms the film in a way , as you pretty much always know what's coming next . Director James Whale combats this with a constantly foreboding atmosphere , from which he springs high amounts of tension - and even though we know what's coming , Whale makes us want to see it come . The story is rich with moral themes , most notably a parable about the ills of man playing God . This comes across well in Whale's film adaptation , and by the time the stunning climax appears on screen ; we are left with no doubt that Dr Frankenstein was wrong to push the limits of science . Some of the acting is a bit wooden ; but this is made up for by Colin Clive's energetic performance as the title character . He revels in this role , and that is always obvious as he commands every scene that he's in . If I had to nitpick to find negative elements , I'd highlight the fact that despite the morbid themes on display ; the film is largely too pleasant . Maybe it's because of the time it was made ; but a darker tone would have fit the tale better . It's a small criticism , however , and overall , Whale's classic tale of horror is still an amazing achievement and will always be a must see for fans of cinema .
The Lady of the Flies vs Argento's twisted horror imagination !	Opinions on Phenomena are divided amongst Argento fans . It's not quite a love it or hate it film , but rather a like it or dislike it one . There's enough of Argento here to ensure that his fans will enjoy it , but it also marks a change of pace for him . While his previous films focused mainly on the mystery in the plot , the focus this time is clearly on the action ; and the heavy metal soundtrack shows that Argento wanted to make this more of a thriller than a Giallo , and I think he's succeeded admirably . Argento has said that this movie came about after the great director heard about insects ' supposed telepathy , and the fact that the film has stemmed from this sort of idea shows by the way that the plot pans out . First of all , we are bombarded with the idea of insect telepathy , and when we get round to the murders and murderer , it almost feels like something from another film . However , while the plot is messy ; it does give Argento lots of room for horror , which he capitalises on at every opportunity . We follow Jennifer Corvino , an actor's daughter who attends a school in Switzerland , which is also having problems with a local murderer . She's not quite like the other girls , however , as she has a strange connection with the insect population . . . Dario Argento has piled many ideas into this plot , and it's clear that it's not very well thought out as he seems to drop another idea in every time he feels like the plot needs spicing up a little bit . This is a problem for the movie , as it feels underdone and very messy ; but on the other hand , this is also the movie's finest asset as it ensures that the film is always unpredictable and therefore constantly thrilling . The heavy metal music that accompanies the death scenes seems odd in this movie , as we're used to very pungent music scores in Argento films . It does suit the film's mood , however , and it helps give the film that trashy eighties horror movie feel , which is much loved by eighties horror fans like me . The cast is a good one and it features Argento regular , Daria Nicolodi along with established horror actor Donald Pleasance and a very young Jenifer Connelly . None of the cast massively impress , but they come together well as an ensemble and the acting is of a quality that is high enough to carry this sort of film . On the whole , this isn't Argento's best work . It's messy and convoluted , but it's also fun to watch , thrilling and very inventive .
Highly original French horror . . . though not for all tastes	In My Skin certainly has some problems ; but one of these problems isn't originality , and while things such as a lack of a true plot formula and explanation for the central character's actions may put some viewers off , the film deserves huge credit for stepping out of the mainstream and delivering something a little different to what most film fans will be used to . France has emerged over the past few years as one of the major forces in modern horror cinema , and while this film can't really be judged on the same terms as some of its fellow gory French horrors ; it surely does help to bolster the nation's position at the top of the pile . The film represents a big personal project for Marina de Van ; who wrote , directs and stars in the film ! The plot begins when the central characters injures her leg fairly badly at a party . She is confused by the fact that despite the injury , she didn't really feel any pain and it's not long before she begins experimenting with her body and pain tolerance ; eventually becoming unable to refrain from slicing herself open . The film is very different to the average mainstream horror and will not be well received in all circles . However , this certainly is a fascinating journey into a woman's ' discovery of herself ' ( for lack of a better term ) . The film does lack a defining point and becomes a voyeuristic look into what can only be described as the central character's disease . The film must then rely on its central character and set pieces , and the writer / director / lead actress definitely does deliver in this area . The film is not short on blood , but it's all used well and never feels gratuitous . The real power of the film comes from depicting the character's experiments on herself ; I can generally stomach any amount of disgusting gore , but seeing the character here slice herself open had me squirming and that is testament both to the way we are made to care for the character and the very realistic way that the film is portrayed . The film is carried by the lead actress who is always the star despite some good supporting performances . Marina de Van can certainly be very proud of her work on this one ! The appeal of this film can only go so far , but personally I loved it and will not hesitate to recommend that everyone at least gives it a look !
Awesome in every respect	From the glorious start all the way down to the frenzied climax , James Whale's sequel to his huge hit ' Frankenstein ' delivers the goods and more than deserves the status it's earned as one of the greatest films ever made . In classic sequel style , Whale has taken everything that made the first film a success and added to it . The introduction to the film is the prime example of this , with Frankenstein writer Mary Shelly and two friends discussing her work . This scene sets the perfect atmosphere for the film , while also determining that what you're about to see isn't going to be exactly serious . This sequel is much more tongue-in-cheek than the first film , and the audacious idea of having the storywriter herself in the film aptly shows this . The scene also appears to be surprised to the fact that such a macabre tale could be written by a woman - but who wrote it isn't important . The story is fabulous , and Bride of Frankenstein has the advantage of telling the side of the story that not everyone knows . We pick up immediately after the events of the first film , with Frankenstein and his monster in the burning barn . Both escape unharmed , but it's not the end for Dr Frankenstein - even madder scientist , Dr Pretorius , has other ideas for the rest of his career . . . The story of Frankenstein is very macabre - what with grave robbing and bringing the dead back to life , and James Whale is always keen to capitalise on this . The whole film looks dark and sinister , and the locations that Whale films in reflects this brilliantly . The themes in the story mostly concern the ills of man playing god , and this is very well done as the themes are always prevalent - even the monster itself knows it shouldn't exist ! Boris Karloff steps back effortlessly into the role that made him famous , and once again delivers a first rate exhibition of acting . Karloff has proved time and time again that he can handle all sorts of different roles , and this is definitely one of his very best . In fact , the whole cast excels in their own way ; but the actress I'd like to give a special mention to Una O'Connor . She was great in The Invisible Man , and Whale obviously knows that judging by his re-casting here . The special effects are great considering that this was made in 1935 , and the ending shows that best . The way that Whale creates the illusion that the characters really are atop of a castle is awesome . As is Elsa Lanchester's short and sweet performance as the title character ! Overall , this is without doubt one of the best films Universal ever produced - and one of the great horror classics of all time .
A belated sequel that certainly doesn't disappoint !	I have to say , I'm not usually a big fan of belated sequels to films made years ago - but I have to make an exception here as Die Hard 4 offers an amazingly good time and is surely the best of the sequels - possibly even the best Die Hard film period ! The film is almost completely made up of relentless and heart pumping action sequences , and while it might not be life-affirming stuff , you wont care about much else while you're watching it - so it's safe to say that the third Die Hard sequel more than does it's job ! As you would probably expect since this is the first Die Hard movie of this millennium , the plot this time round focuses on the internet . Most of the USA is controlled by computers , so naturally they find themselves with a big problem when someone hacks into the system and begins a ' fire sale ' - in which all the essential elements of the USA ( transport , communication , power etc ) are systematically shut down to create confusion and chaos . Detective John McClane is dragged into this plot when he's sent to pick up a computer hacker wanted by the police . One of the things I loved most about this film is the fact that it's just a straight action thriller and doesn't ever pretend to be anything that it isn't . There's no false patriotism or sentiment - it's all very straight up , just the way it should be ! The film is directed by Underworld director Len Wiseman and it's clear that the man knows his way around an action sequence , as this film features plenty ! The stunts involve all sorts from the standard trucks and cars to helicopters and fighter jets ! It's not just the vehicles involved either that makes these scenes great to watch ; someone has actually put some thoughts into them so they're not just merely the same old stuff . You've really got to hand it Bruce Willis too ; he's 52 but fit as a fiddle and never looks out of place running round and fighting bad guys . He is joined by Justin Long , who is likable as the computer hacker who spends most of the movie running around with Willis , and Timothy Olyphant who is a surprisingly effective lead villain . Overall , so long as you don't go into Die Hard 4 expecting substance , there's no reason why this movie can't be enjoyed by all . Its pure action and entertaining throughout , and you really can't ask for any more than that ! Just make sure that you see it in cinema .
A truly first rate thrill-ride !	It's hard to believe upon seeing The Hitcher that the film never saw the inside of the cinemas . It was video rental that got this film known , and thank god it did because The Hitcher is a truly first rate thriller ! The film doesn't waste time with intricate plot details or explaining character motivations ; instead , The Hitcher puts all the focus on the central theme and that does the film no end of favours when it comes to thrilling the audience . The central plot line follows the ' cat and mouse ' structure , as we see a young man pick up a hitcher , only for the hitcher to turn out to be an unrelenting madman . What follows is a relentless chase across a desolate desert setting as the young man tries to escape the man that he tried to do a favour for . The idea behind the film had been used before in films like the brilliant ' Hitch-Hike ' , but The Hitcher makes the plot line it's own simply by not letting up for a minute . Every time there's a slow moment , the film quickly turns around and delivers more shocks and thrills ; and it's that mentality behind the film that ensures the audience will be kept on the edge of their seats . A huge reason for The Hitcher's cult success is Rutger Hauer's performance at the centre of the movie . His portrayal of the title character is rich in ambiguity and is one of the few genuinely frightening performances in all of cinema . Hauer ensures that he's frightening by never giving any reason for his attacks and that , coupled with his very cold persona ; make the character the last person you would want to pick up on a deserted desert highway . C . Thomas Howell is the exact opposite in his role as frightened kid , and he and Hauer make a very good cat and mouse . Jennifer Jason Leigh rounds off the cast with her performance as a trashy waitress . Despite being made for cable television and not having the biggest budget in cinematic history , The Hitcher never seems stretched and this reflects best during the car chases and the gas station explosion scene . The film never goes over the top with the special effects , but the ones it does have work and this ensures that you never question the film , resulting in a plot line that an audience can easily buy into . On the whole , The Hitcher is easily one of the most exciting films ever made and comes with high recommendations to everyone !
Vastly underrated entry in the classic Sherlock Holmes series	You gotta love the classic Sherlock Holmes films - and I certainly do ! To be honest , I wasn't expecting all that much out of Terror by Night - it's not often mentioned alongside the best of the series , and I'm not really sure what the reason for that is . Set aboard a speeding train , Terror by Night breathes a claustrophobic atmosphere throughout and does everything that you could possibly want one of these classic pictures to do . The last film in the Sherlock Holmes series , Dressed to Kill , was sub-par ( but certainly not bad ! ) so it's good to see that the entries in the series leading up to that lapse didn't go the same way . The cast outdo themselves as usual , with Basil Rathbone providing the central role as only he can . Nigel Bruce joins him in support as the inept but lovable Dr Watson , and their chemistry is superb as usual . Perhaps not quite as great as some of the earlier films ; but then again , they had done this twelve times already by this point . Finally , Dennis Hoey in the role of Scotland Yard inspector Lestrade makes up the cast . His presence really is underrated in the series , and he helps to give the film all-important extra comic dimension . A few of the Holmes films made during World War Two annoyed me because of the rampant and often ham-fisted propaganda themes , so maybe one of the reason why this film appealed to me so much is that it stays away from any such themes . What we have instead is a streamlined and simple plot , which allows for more of what we tuned in for ; namely , Holmes solving a mystery . The great detective has been hired to guard a lady carrying a rare diamond , The Star of Rhodesia , aboard a train bound for Edinburgh . I won't give anything else away , but I will say that while a few of the plot twists become apparent before they happen ; most of them don't , and Terror by Night represents a solid hour of mystery . The classic style that makes the other films such a joy is here too ; and because of the fact that this film ( or any others in the series ) never makes a direct bid for greatness , it is easy to enjoy and ignore any flaws that may ensue . This film isn't often mentioned when talking about the best Sherlock Holmes films - and it is topped by certain entries in the series . However , Terror by Night is a more than solid entry and you'll do well not to skip it !
An absolutely GREAT tale of terror !	I've got to say , I'm surprised . After all that I'd heard about this film , I really wasn't expecting it to be very good ; but Stuart Gordon has once again proved his worth as a horror director with this excellent tale of terror ! Castle Freak sees a great director doing what he does best . Gordon's love for HP Lovecraft is well documented , and Castle Freak sees him in distinctly different territory from where he was with previous successes From Beyond and Re-Animator . Castle Freak is a slower film than those two mentioned , but it's all the better for it . The story is the strongest element of the movie and at all times is at least as interesting as the central horror theme . We follow a family who move to a castle in Spain after it is inherited by the father . However , they are marred by tragedy ever since a car accident cost them their young son , and the daughter her sight . The tragedy continues when they move into their new home only to discover that they aren't the only inhabitants within the sinister castle's walls . Like all the best Stuart Gordon films , this one is lead by the great cult star Jeffrey Combs . Like the director , the lead star has found himself with a role that is nothing like the one that made him famous . However , Combs doesn't falter and his performance here sees him really prove himself as an actor . The script puts a lot of weight on the characters , and it is this that ensures Castle Freak is a cut above the majority of nineties horror films . Combs gets into his character excellently , and as the script allows his motives to be adequately explained , the cult star is given more than enough opportunity to ensure that he stands out . Combs is joined by From Beyond and Re-Animator co-star Barbara Crampton , as well as Jessica Dollarhide in her only film role and Jonathan Fuller , who had a role in Gordon's The Pit and the Pendulum . The rest of the cast is largely made up of European stars , which help to cement the film's Spanish location . The castle at the centre of the tale , with its many rooms , provides an excellent environment for horror of this kind , and Gordon makes best use of this to draw in a claustrophobic and horrific atmosphere . Overall , this film is highly underrated ; Castle Freak manages to take in elements of horror , tragedy , love and loss all tightly wound around a distinctly Lovecraftian horror story . Highly recommended !
Prime episode of the show !	It's a Good Life is one of the best known episodes of The Twilight Zone - and for good reason , as it's easily one of the best episodes of the classic TV show . Of course , the great parody that The Simpsons did of it contributes to its well-known status , but there's far more here than merely a base for a ' Treehouse of Horror ' segment . We are introduced to a little town ; a town with no cars , no machines and it's in a world with no cities or other settlements . We are told that this town is the victim of a monster who controls it with his mind - and just wait until you see who the monster is ! The best episodes of The Twilight Zone are the ones that combine mystery with intrigue and ingenuity ; thus making this one of the best episodes . It's a Good Life is also very humorous , and when the characters say everything is ' good ' , it's hard not to at least crack a smile . There isn't a great deal of ' bite ' in this episode , as it mainly concentrates on the implications of the storyline , and it's mostly dialogue based ; but it doesn't matter because the words uttered are always entertaining and overall ; this is a major success .
Excellent classic horror	The sixties were responsible for many of the classic horror films that are still highly revered today ; and What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? is certainly one of them . Playing out with all the tenacity of the American classics of the golden era of Hollywood cinema ; the film is a resounding classic all the way . And what else could a film that features the awesome talents of two of the greatest actresses to ever live be ? Joan Crawford and Bette Davis take the lead roles as a pair of sisters . Bette Davis plays Jane Hudson ; a former child star ( once known as Baby Jane Hudson ) who was eclipsed by her sister Blanche ( Joan Crawford ) as she got older . After a terrible car accident ( that may or may not have been ' an accident ' ) that left Blanche crippled , the two sisters have been forced to live together in Blanches house . Blanche lives as a prisoner in all but title , in the upstairs bedroom , and all this time alone with only someone she hates for company has ensured that Jane isn't feeling very well mentally . The film is very melodramatic throughout , but this doesn't hinder the film as although it could have done so in the realism stakes - it doesn't , and it actually adds to the madness and horror of the tale . The film echoes the likes of The Apartment and Sunset Blvd on numerous occasions , and it's nice to see the atmosphere that those films breathed being moulded onto the frame of a horror movie . It's the stars that are real highlight of this movie , however ; and both the leads are incredible . Bette Davis is repulsive as the nightmarish Baby Jane . She really lets you buy into her performance and it's easy to believe that the woman on screen really is the aging actress that she is portraying . Joan Crawford has less to do , but she is still excellent in her role as the crippled sister of the pair . My only slight gripe with the film is the ending , which seems to take a little bit too much from Sunset Blvd and offsets the originality and suspense of the film thus far . It just seems out of place . Still , this is a first rate horror movie and one that fans of classic film will no doubt enjoy . Highly recommended !
An excellent Mexican thriller !	As you can probably work out from the title , Terror and Black Lace is Mexico's answer to Italy's popular Giallo export , and it's a damn good answer too ! As this film is head and shoulders above many of the ( many ) Giallo's I've seen , and even stands up among the best of the films to come out of Italy ; and that is high praise indeed coming from someone who loves Giallo as much as I do ! The film doesn't adhere to all the Giallo standards , and indeed it is closer to the dramatic side of the genre than it is to the horror ; but this is sexy and sleazy , and director Luis Alcoriza tells a damn good story ! The plot focuses on Isabella ; a bored housewife who is tired of the way her husband is treating her and the fact that he wants her to stay at home all the time . While out one day ( against her husband's wishes ) , she bumps into a handsome stranger who takes an interest in her . Meanwhile , there's plenty going on at her apartment block : the pretty maid is poking her nose where it isn't ( and is ) wanted , there's a party going on in the apartment downstairs . Oh , and there's a maniac with a hair fetish living there too ! Most of the film is build up to the last twenty minutes , and while this might not sound like much fun ; it is because the build up is interesting and the director paints an interesting portrait of all the leading characters , which pays off when we finally do get to the end . Unlike the proper ( Italian ) Giallo's , there is no score in this film ; which feels rather odd as the music is such a big feature of the Giallo . The only music in the film comes out of the stereo in the party apartment ; and unfortunately it's all eighties trash ! There isn't much violence in this film , and the focus is never on the horror . Rather , Luis Alcoriza puts the focus on the storyline and it paid off if you asked me . The director also clearly has an eye for beauty , and the buxom leading lady is always a pleasure to see ( especially when she's wearing that black lace ! ) It's true that the film does drag at times , but the slow build up of the storyline really allows the viewer to get on board with it all , and the way that everything is wrapped up at the end is good . There are a few things in the film that don't make a lot of sense ( the pivotal scene involving the maid and the maniac in particular ) , but I didn't worry about those things and found this be a highly entertaining thriller . Very much recommended !
Great performances in an excellent fantasy film	The Ghost and Mrs Muir reunited the Dragonwyck lead actress Gene Tierney , and its director Joseph L . Mankiewicz for an even better film . The Ghost and Mrs Muir , while a little pretentious at times , stands out as one of the finest romance films of Hollywood's golden period , and an interesting and entertaining fantasy film to boot . Over four decades before Demi Moore fell in love with a ghost in the sentimental , sappy trash flick ' Ghost ' ; Gene Tierney was doing it in far better style with this film . As you might expect from a film that features a woman falling in love with a spirit ; there's more than a few plot holes on display . However , the film has this great ability to make the audience believe in it - and that is mostly down to the fabulous performances from all concerned . The plot follows a widow who moves into a house by the sea in order to escape her meddling in-laws . She knows that the house is haunted before she moves in , but the idea of living in a haunted house fascinates her ; and she's fascinated further when she finds herself falling in love with the ghost of the previous owner . It has to be said that , with the characters , what you see is pretty much what you get . Gene Tierney , whom I'm becoming a bigger fan of every time I see one of her movies , is the headstrong widow - while Rex Harrison is the cantankerous seaman . The characters mostly bathe in their own traits , but this helps the film immensely as it means that it's their relationship that always takes centre stage , and that is the biggest draw of the film . The film is very romantic , but it never gets dull or sappy . The ending brilliantly shows the film in its best light , as it's as heart-warming and tragic as the film deserves . Aside from romance , there's a strong comedy element in the film - and the best is often made of that , most notably in the hilarious sequence that sees the in-laws visit our heroine's new house . One thing I love about old films is the way that they show how different things are nowadays - this is best shown here by the fact that , in one scene , Rex Harrison is told off for swearing ; after saying ' blast ' . Overall , this is an excellent and criminally under seen movie that comes with high recommendations !
Hugely underrated and very fun little flick	After his initial success with the offbeat Harold and Maude , cult director Hal Ashby would go on to make this fine film . The story of The Last Detail follows two navy men who must transport a young navy man to a prison on the other side of the United States . The young man is going to prison for eight years due to him committing a ridiculous crime , so on the way down , one of the men , Billy " Bad Ass " Buddusky , decides to show the kid a good time ; and a good time is had by all ! Hal Ashby's film offers a lesson in life without ever becoming sentimental and making me cringe , which can only be a good thing . It's very irritating when films try and teach a life lesson with a hugely sappy story ; but suffice to say , this one doesn't suffer from that . The Last Detail works principally because it's so much fun - you might feel a lot of things during this flick , but boredom certainly isn't one of them . The script is very well written , and it makes sure that all the characters are different enough from one another to come together as a complete whole . The biggest reason for this film's success is definitely Jack Nicholson . This film was released shortly before the great actor would go on to achieve universal acclaim as one of the best of all time , but during the production of this flick , his rise to stardom must have been obvious to everyone he was working with . It's great to see an early Jack Nicholson performance as they're so full of energy and , personally , I prefer to see the great actor in earlier films like this one to his later releases because you're more guaranteed of a good time . It's always Jack Nicholson that stands out - stealing every scene he's in and basically making the film his own , and so it's really hard for anyone else in the cast to shine brighter . Still , the ensemble comes together nicely and although none of them eclipse the star of the show , they all aid him in making this film a success . The seventies was a great decade for movie-making , but for some reason ; certain films haven't been greeted with the acclaim they deserve . The Last Detail is definitely one of those films , and I can say without any fear of a lie that if you happen to catch it , you wont regret that you did .
Killer mix of Dual and The Hitcher !	Well , I didn't have very high hopes for this one given how many thrillers these days aren't up to much - but to my absolute surprise , Roadkill is full to the brim with tension and manages to succeed admirably in spite of the fact that it borrows heavily from classic films such as Duel and The Hitcher . Yes , it would seem that originality wasn't high on director john Dahl's priority list when it came to making this film , although he does appear keen to buck as many clichés as possible , and the nail-biting tension that features often more than makes up for the lack of originality anyway . The plot focuses on Lewis ; a young man travelling across the desert to meet up with his friend Venna . However , on the way to see her he ends up getting saddled with his prankster brother Fuller , and it's not long before the brother has bought a CB radio and is starting to wind up the local truck drivers . They come across a man calling himself ' Rusty Nail ' on the CB , and after playing a prank on him , the pair find that the truck driver doesn't have a very keen sense of humour . . . There are some really great sequences in this film - from the many chase scenes , all the way down to the hectic and exciting climax - Roadkill is an entertaining thrill ride throughout . The plotting is surprisingly engrossing , as the film focuses on the two central characters for most of the running time , before shifting gears half way through and adding an extra character into the mix . The acting is superb considering the cast members . I saw Paul Walker for the first time in the lamentable thriller The Fast and the Furious - and he really shouldn't have made it , as the kid has talent and that is shown in this film , as well as in the surprise 2006 hit ' Running Scared ' . Walker has great chemistry with the brash Steve Zahn , and the victim side of the cast is rounded off by Leelee Sobieski , who in fairness ; doesn't have a lot of time to impress . The real standout , however , is Ted Levine , whose uncredited voice is that of the central villain . Overall , along with director John Dahl's previous films The Last Seduction and Rounders - Roadkill is a film that hasn't got the respect it deserves . Highly recommended !
Absolutely stunning cult Euro sleaze flick !	It has to be said that The Diabolical Dr Z is a lot like Jess Franco's most famous film , The Awful Dr Orlof ( in fact , said doctor even gets a mention here ) ; but if you ask me , the superior film is this one . This time , rather than deal with facial reconstruction as Orlof did ; sleaze master Franco deals with mind control . The plot , unlike many of Franco's films , is straight forward and here Franco proves that he can actually be quite a good story teller , when he doesn't get bogged down by too many sub plots and things that don't make sense . The film takes obvious influence from George Franju's masterpiece , Eyes without a Face ( as many Euro horror films at the time this was made did ) , but Franco injects a lot more of his own stuff here than he did with Orlof . The doctor of the title doesn't appear for long , but before his death ; he does provide the film with its main plot point - that being a mind control machine . When he suffers a heart attack , his daughter takes it upon herself to gain revenge - and so she takes control of the mind of a beautiful dancer calling herself ' Miss Death ' , who dispatches the doctors who caused Dr Z to suffer a heart attack by way of her long , poisoned , finger nails ! The main talking point where this film is concerned is , of course , the style ! Franco has shot the film in beautiful black and white , which , along with the excellent use of shadows , locations and cast members ensure that the film has both a dark , gloomy atmosphere and a real sense of beauty . Jess Franco's name has become synonymous with trashy Eurocult rubbish - but if you'd only ever seen this film from him , I wager that you wouldn't know why ! The Diabolical Dr Z is art , pure and simple . The locations shot are one thing - but by far my favourite aesthetic element of the film is amazingly beautiful Miss Death , played by Estella Blain . The exotic dancer enters the film in a great sequence that sees her performing her nightclub act , in which she travels across a spider's web to seduce and kill her victims . From then on , she lights up every scene she's in - especially the ones that see her wearing the suit from her act ! The film isn't very gory , but the horror appears from the ideas behind the plot , and scenes such as the one that see Dr Z's daughter hideously burned are definitely very gruesome . I've got to say that I'm surprised at how great this film is - and I'll finish off this review by giving The Diabolical Dr Z the highest of recommendations !
Brilliant classic thriller !	What we have here is a top quality thriller from Fred Zinnemann ! The film is based on the book by Frederick Forsyth and follows a story surrounding the assassination of French president , Charles de Gaulle . The film is , apparently , historically accurate - personally , I can't say whether it is or not , since I don't know much about the situation it follows ; but I do know that the film continually achieves it's aim of thrilling the audience , and that's what is most important from my point of view . The film apparently bombed at the box office ; and that's hardly surprising , as French history isn't a big point of interest for many other countries - and the fact that it stars an unknown actor in the lead role ensures that the film was on the back foot from the beginning . However , audiences back in 1973 don't know what they were missing - as thrillers don't come much more assured and classy than this one ! The film follows the French Foreign Legion as they hire a professional assassin to dispose of the president . We then follow said professional , as well as a French detective as it counts down to the supposed day of the president's death . This is something of an odd thriller , as director Fred Zinnemann continually keeps the action relaxed and there is no music score ; or obvious attempts to build tension . All the suspense flows from the central plot , and by keeping everything relaxed - the film has a ' calm before the storm ' atmosphere throughout , which serves both in being foreboding and ensuring that the audience always wants to know what's going to happen next . Zinnemann hardly shows the target upon which the whole movie revolves around - namely , President de Gaulle , and this is of benefit to the film as it means that the action can focus on the more important plot threads of the assassin and the detective . The acting is good throughout , with unknown actor Edward Fox doing well in providing a frighteningly incognito performance as the Jackal . The plotting is good also , and Kenneth Ross ' screenplay is perfectly pitched in providing thrills , as well as focusing on the implication of the plot itself . Overall , this is a finely tuned and classy little thriller and one that should not be missed by anyone that calls themselves a film fan !
Brilliant mix of horror and drama !	Anyone that thinks good horror movies aren't still being made obviously isn't looking hard enough . Already this decade we've had several lovely horror movies , and this delightfully sick twist on the classic Frankenstein tale is most certainly one of them . In fact , this film isn't a pure horror movie , but rather the movie that I've wanted to happen for ages ; a movie that starts out as an emotional drama ( in this case a young girl that is alienated from everyone around her ) , and then becomes a horror movie . The horror in the movie doesn't really start until the third act , but once it does it comes in droves ! The difference between the final third and the rest of the movie is very extreme , but the movie pulls it off well . Because the start of the movie isn't very horrific , and therefore doesn't concentrate on the horror , we are given a chance to get to know the characters before the horror starts . This is a great advantage for this movie as it makes the horror mean more , and it also means that the gore in the movie is not needless . Which should shut the ' horror is brainless ' crowd up if nothing else . The story of ' May ' follows a young girl who is , indecently , called May . May isn't a normal little girl , oh no , she has a ' lazy eye ' . This requires her to wear an eye patch like a pirate , and you know what kids are like ; so , as you can imagine , May becomes isolated . With only a doll that her mother made for company , May delves deeper into alienation , which makes her miss out on the normal things that most people have ; most notably , friends . The story of the film is heartbreaking , and even when May later starts to engage in some unhealthy activities , we are still able to feel for her . The ending of the movie is the best example of this ; it's very macabre , but it's also gut wrenching at the same time . Few movies can pull something like this off , so this one deserves credit for not only achieving it , but achieving it well . May takes obvious influence from the classic horrors , most obviously Frankenstein , but there's also more than a little of Carrie here . In my opinion , May carries off the story of a girl alone even better than the film version of Carrie did . Here , we are able to feel for the girl more because the movie is made much more personal . When a movie has an emotional impact , it is always a good thing ; and this one certainly has one . The movie also comes off as being very original , despite borrowing certain elements from other films . May is also very well acted . It has a stellar cast , including Angela Bettis in the lead role of ' May ' . Angela's performance is spot on for this movie . She is pathetic when she needs to be , and she's also brooding and evil when she needs to be . She carries off both sides of her character with the greatest of ease , and she holds the movie together very well . I for one hope to see more of her in the future . Anna Faris stars alongside Angela as the lesbian that befriends her . You might remember Anna from the lackluster ' Lost in Translation ' , but don't let that worry you . Anna is a very beautiful lady , I didn't realize it so much in Lost in Translation as I was numb for most of the film ; but it really shows here . The fact that her character is a lesbian only makes it more so . Jeremy Sisto takes the lead male character of the movie . Admittedly , Sisto can get a little irritating at times , but he is still believable in his role as the man that May likes , and that is enough . Overall , May is an original story that is as delightful and fresh as it is sick and twisted . It is played out by a great lead in Angela Bettis and not only that ; but it's clear proof that there's some innovation left in cinema . I recommend this film to everyone , whether you like horror or not . There's something for everyone here .
Mysterious , brooding and bone chilling at the climax !	Don't Look Now is a strange horror film in that it doesn't rely on the usual horror genre staples in order to be successful . Rather than be gratuitous on the gore , atmosphere and shocks front , Don't Look Now simply presents it's story and the horror almost seems like an afterthought . Usually , films like this annoy me because they obviously want to portray the horror , but skirt around it in order to not be put in with the less intelligent offerings from the genre ; but this one clearly cares about it's story and characters , and never really sets out to scare . The film , therefore , comes off as being assured and well handled throughout , and even though the plot is slow ; the film can never be described as boring because there's always enough bubbling under the surface of the immediate goings on in order to keep the viewers ' interest . The plot is shrouded with mystery and follows a father who finds his daughter drowned in a nearby lake . He and his wife then move to picturesque Venice , but the memory of their daughter cannot be laid to rest after a blind psychic tells the woman that she has seen her daughter may still be alive . I love the horror genre , but I admit that a large proportion of it can't be compared among the true classics of cinema due largely to a lack of production values , good acting or a decent script that is coherent with the story and characters . Don't Look Now , however , often appears on film lists amongst the classics because this is one of the films that is strong in those areas . The acting is first rate , with Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie giving brilliant brooding performances that are in line with their characters and the film's plot . Sutherland can be something of a one-note actor , but when a performer is given the right material it allows them to shine and his role in this film fits him like a glove . One of the main compliments that this film gets is the cinematography , as the film expertly captures the beauty of it's central location . Venice's canals and dark alleys are as much a part of this film as the plot itself , and it is testament to Nicolas Roeg's directorial talent that this has been expertly captured in a way that helps the film . On the whole , this is a fine horror film that will be enjoyed by anyone that is willing to put time and effort into it . It's also worth noting that this film pays it's viewers at the climax with one of the best twist endings in the horror genre . Highly recommended !
Giant underground worms , a barrel of laughs and some very nifty special effects - monster movie masterclass !	Tremors was one of my all time favourite movies as a kid , but since then ; only my nostalgia for the film has remained . Upon seeing the film for the first time as an adult , it immediately hit me that I had great taste even as a child . Despite being an overblown and silly monster movie at heart - Tremors is a damn good film . The thing about Tremors that stands out the most is definitely the special effects . While none of them are particularly impressive individually - together , they combine to brilliantly create the illusion that the small town of ' Perfection ' really is under attack from giant subterranean worms ! Kevin Bacon and Fred Ward take the lead roles as a couple of handymen , living out of a truck , that decide they want to move up in the world . A local , and larger , town is their desired destination ; but before they can exit Perfection , they uncover a lot of strange events . Severed heads in a pool of blood , a dehydrated man atop a telephone tower and , best of all , a car that's been dragged underground - radio still playing ! Along with a college student called Rhonda , it doesn't take our heroes long to realise that their quiet Nevada town is infested with giant underground worms ! The main reason why Tremors works so well is because it follows the same plot formula as the classic monster movies such as ' Them ! ' . This makes the film predictable ; but when the plotting is this much fun , it really doesn't matter . Adding massively to the entertainment value are the two leading men . Their conversations are constantly funny , and ensure that the film is never boring for a second . Typically for this sort of film ; almost all of the residents of Perfection like to spend their spare time doing things that make vibrations - bouncing basket balls , driving tractors , playing with pogo sticks etc ; but even this unlikely situation can be forgiven due to the extreme good nature of the movie . The characters on display are really great , the best of them being Burt Gummer , played by Michael Gross . Complete with his basement full of guns and wife who's just as nuts as him ; Gross steals every scene he's in . Something that's often ignored in films like this is the writing . Writers S . S . Wilson and Brent Maddock have put together an excellent story , complete with all the suspense , inventiveness and laughs that you could ever want . On the whole , Tremors is a cut above the average monster flick !
Nightmarish and original - a Giallo masterpiece !	I'm a massive fan of Giallo , but it has to be said that a lot of Giallo's are rather similar to one another and while there are a few exceptions , there isn't a massive amount of diversity in the genre ; especially not when it comes to the lesser films . The House With the Windows That Laugh features the trademark wacky title , but other than that ; this really isn't anything like any other Giallo out there , which will certainly divide opinions ; but for me , this is also one of the best of the genre . The film is directed by Pupi Avati , a cult director most famous for his slow burning horror films with a nightmarish climax . The plot focuses on a man named Stefano , who is sent to a church to restore a fresco representing the suffering of St . Sebastiano , the last painting by an artist named Legnani ; a mentally disturbed man whose every painting represented someone in agony . The painting intrigues Stefano , as do a number of events surrounding his time with it , and he begins to investigate . . . but it's an investigation that turns into a nightmare as he discovers the horrible truth behind the painting . . . The main reason why this film works is down to the atmosphere . There isn't a great deal of action , which is bound to isolate some viewers ; but Avati keeps the foreboding atmosphere bubbling over , which ensures that the film is always interesting . The plot is highly original , and I don't believe I've ever seen another film with the same themes featured as this film . The opening sequence , which features a man being tortured in a sepia montage , will give you something of an idea of what to expect ; though I doubt anyone will guess how the tale will end , and that cant even be said of the some of the best Giallo's . Quite how writers Pupa and Antonio Avati came up with it is anyone's guess , but I'm certainly pleased that they did ! The film does touch on a few other Giallo trademarks ; there are a couple of murders and some red herrings thrown in , but it's not until the film finally reveals itself at the end that the bleak nightmare comes to the forefront ; and it's certainly a climax worth waiting for ! Overall , The House with the Windows That Laugh is an ingenious piece of cinema and one of the best Giallo's ever made !
Excellent drama with a commentary on modern society	River's Edge is an excellent film and it's a shame that it hasn't made more of a mark for itself in cinematic history . There were a number of gritty films based around school kids made in the eighties , but of all the ones I've seen ; this is certainly the most nihilistic and disturbing . The film takes a storyline that is disturbing in its own right and adds the theme of teenage slackers and their uncaring attitude about things , which takes the story onto another level . The film works because the central story is interesting and it's played out by complex characters . The film begins with a murder . We then follow the murderer , nicknamed John , as he goes back to school and tells all his friends about what he has done . Rather than give the expected reaction , most of them hardly react at all and the strongest reaction that the murderer gets comes from Layne ; who makes it his number one priority to help John clear up the mess he's in and get him out of it . The other friends mull over the crime , and before long one of them goes to the police . . . River's Edge features a host of great performances from its young cast . Keanu Reeves has a reputation for wooden acting , and for good reason ; but he fits in very well to this early role and this performance is easily one of his best . Crispin Glover is the biggest standout as the slightly insane Layne . Glover always stands out in every film he's in , and while he does go over the top a little bit ; he convinces well as the lead in this movie . Reeves and Glover receive good support from a talented young cast that includes Daniel Roebuck and Joshua john Miller , as well as the great Dennis Hopper in another wild role . The film features a very gritty picture which bodes well with its nihilistic tone . The central characters are all of the ' slacker / stoner ' generation and the way that they genuinely don't seem to care about the murder of their friend is more shocking than the murder itself ; and the point that the film tries to make about modern society is both strong and well defined . The film is also rather funny , owing to some of the characters ' lines ; but the humour is pitch black and clearly this film was never meant to be a comedy . Overall , this is an excellent and memorable film that is definitely worth seeing !
Seaside gulls go mental in Hitchcock's macabre masterpiece !	Despite spending most of his career within the realms of the thriller genre , Alfred Hitchcock hasn't restricted himself where variation is concerned . Most of his best work represents a different type of thriller , and The Birds is no different . It is often said that Psycho is Hitchcock's first foray into the horror side of the thriller , and it is indeed ; but it's not the complete horror film that The Birds is . Often cited as an obvious influence for Night of the Living Dead , The Birds follows Melanie Daniels as she travels to the seaside town of Bodega Bay with a pair of lovebirds for Mitch Brenner , an eligible bachelor that she met in a pet shop in San Francisco . However , while there the birds of the coastal town begin to attack the residents and so begins a terrifying tale of man's feathered friends waging a war against humanity . . . It could be said that the plot of The Birds is ridiculous , and it is . The idea of birds , a type of animal that isn't aggressive , attacking humans despite living with us for millions of years is preposterous and is never likely to happen . However ; it is here where the film's horror potency lies . Birds live with us in harmony ; we're so used to them that for the most part we don't even realise that they're there , and the idea of something that we don't notice suddenly becoming malicious is truly terrifying . Especially when that something is unstoppable , as the birds are portrayed as being in this film . The fact that the birds ' motive is never really explained only serves in making it more terrifying , as it would appear that somewhere along the line they've just decided to attack . Of course , the film could be interpreted as having Melanie's arrival , or the presence of the lovebirds as the cause for it all ; but we don't really know . This bounds the film in reality as if there was a reason given , it might be improbable ; but there's no true reason given ( although there are several theories ) , so it can't be improbable ! The first forty minutes of the film feature hardly any - if any - horror at all . Hitchcock spends this part of the movie developing the characters and installing their situation in the viewers ' minds , so that when the horror does finally come along , it has a definite potency that it would not have had otherwise . In fact , at first the birds themselves come across as a co-star in their own movie as there are brief references towards them , but they never get their full dues . However , once the horror does start , it comes thick and fast . Hitchcock , the master craftsman as always , uses his famous montage effects and never really shows you anything ; but because you're being bombarded with so many different shots , you'd never realise it . Many people have tried to copy this technique , but most have failed . Hitchcock , however , has it down to an art and this is maybe the film that shows off that talent the best . There are numerous moments of suspense as well , many of which are truly nail biting . We see the birds amassing and ready to strike - but they don't . And this is much more frightening than showing an attack from the off . Hitchcock knows this . The final thirty minutes of The Birds is perhaps the most thrilling of his entire oeuvre . First , Hitchcock gives us an intriguing situation where numerous inhabitants of the town give their views on the events , and also explains the birds ' situation with humans , even giving the audience an angle of expertise from an ornithologist's point of view . He then follows it up with a truly breathtaking sequence of horror that hasn't been matched since for relentless shock value . Hitchcock has made many great films , and this certainly stands up as one of them . Here , Hitchcock gives a lesson in film directing and creates a truly macabre piece of work in the process . I dread to think what the state of cinema would have been if Hitchcock had never picked up a camera , but luckily for us ; he most certainly did .
Kind of like a classic film noir , with sadomasochism and incestuous lesbians	Well . . . it doesn't get much more bizarre than this ! To sum it up simply , Singapore Sling is a work of extreme cinema ; featuring all manner of things from sadomasochism to incest . . . but it's shot in a style reminiscent of the classic film noirs from the golden age of cinema . The two styles offset each other constantly , and this gives the film an extremely surreal atmosphere as well as a completely unique style that ensures Singapore Sling is nothing like any other film ever made . The film was made in Greece , which makes it almost unique in its own right as Greece isn't a country famous for film-making . The plot focuses on a detective who is looking for a girl named Laura . One night , he stumbles upon two women burying a body and we are introduced to what has to be one of the most " offbeat " mother and daughters in cinema . We then follow the daughter as she details the things her and her mother get up to , before the weary detective ; who is given the name ' Singapore Sling ' , stumbles into the pair's home and ends up becoming ' involved ' in more insane games . The film is shot in beautiful black and white , and director Nikos Nikolaidis does an excellent job of making the film as picturesque as possible . In fact , the film is so damned pretty that even morbidly sick practises such as a mother having lesbian sex with her daughter don't seem quite so grotesque when seen in this film . The film only features three performers , but it never gets boring even though the film runs for over 110 minutes . The director somehow manages to keep things interesting despite the fact that the film often retreads similar ground . Much of the credit for the film must go to Michele Valley and Meredyth Herold , who both provide brilliant performances as the mother and daughter central duo . Panos Thanassoulis is good also as the title character , but he remains silent for most of the film and never gets a change to fully impress . The film plays out well throughout , and it all boils down to a suitably sick finale which gives credence to both its pornographic and film noir styles . Overall , Singapore Sling is a fabulous piece of celluloid which needs to be experienced by everyone who considers themselves a fan of cinema !
Supremely sexy Giallo mystery !	The Forbidden Photos of a Lady above Suspicion is a Giallo that is different to what most fans will be used to , as the graphic , over the top murder scenes have been scrapped in favour of a sexually charged plot line . I was worried that this might not work out , as murders are a key element of this sort of film for me - but to my surprise , Luciano Ercoli has turned out another first rate Giallo that makes up for it's lack of blood with a constant stream of intrigue . The film works from a script by Giallo luminary Ernesto Gastaldi , who manages to keep every other Giallo trademark besides murder in the film . The atmosphere is charged with desire and frustration , and the central plot ; which features blackmail , sex and mystery makes best use of its array of amoral and perverse characters . The film focuses on Minou ; the attractive wife of a businessman named Peter . The story picks up when Minou is attacked by a stranger on a beach who informs her that her husband has committed murder and blackmails her into sleeping with him . The plot then takes another turn when the assailant furthers the blackmail with pictures of their rendezvous . . . Luciano Ercoli is never going to get huge respect from Giallo fans simply for the fact that he hasn't made a great deal of films ; but it seems that the ones he has made get rated down too often , and just like Death Walks at Midnight - Forbidden Photos is an underrated Giallo . The director does an excellent job of ensuring that Forbidden Photos fits the plot in terms of look and style . The lighting and scene setting is excellent , and the upper class locations bode well with the central cast of characters . The acting is also surprisingly high quality with Dagmar Lassander impressing in the lead role . She is joined by Pier Paolo Capponi who takes the sinister role of her husband , while the cast is rounded off by the talented Susan Scott , whose husband and director Luciano Ercoli allows her to steal every scene she's in . The bisexual element of Scott's character fits the film well , and provides more perversion to the already sleazy atmosphere . The plot is significantly less convoluted than most Giallo's , but if you ask me ; this is a good thing as it allows the director to put all the implications of the story across without being bogged down by plot details . Overall , this is a great Giallo film and while I know that it's high praise - I really wouldn't hesitate to list it alongside Gastaldi's collaborations with Sergio Martino in a list of premium Giallo films . Highly recommended !
Christopher Lee raises hell in Bava's baroque horror romance !	Mario Bava is often hailed as one of the true gods of horror cinema , and for good reason . His influence extends his filmography , and many Mario Bava films have gone on to have a big effect on the horror genre on the whole . Films such as Bay of Blood and Black Sunday are well known and have been seen by many serious film fanatics , but when you delve deeper into the man's list of directorial credits , his lesser known films tend to be just as good as his major hits . The Whip and the Body is one such film , and after viewing it ; I rate it among the very top of the man's movies . This Gothic horror romance features many of Mario Bava's trademarks , which are the things that have won him such high praise from a number of well-informed sources . The story follows Nevenka , a young woman who is married to Christian , son of the lord of the castle in which the film takes place . However , things aren't so simple as Christian's brother , Kurt , a sadistic nobleman is still in love with his brother's bride and has returned to the castle to reclaim his girl . Things really get interesting when he is found dead , only for his ghost to reappear inside the castle walls . One of things that Mario Bava is often highly praised for is his use of lighting , and this film features what is probably the best use of lighting ever seen in a Bava film . The lights give flair to the scenery , and help to give the film that picturesque cinematography that the former cinematographer creates so well . Despite being excellent , however , it's not the lighting that is the main standout in this movie ; it's the soundtrack . Giving the film a tragic love story atmosphere , the powerful theme bodes with the lighting to help create a tense and powerful atmosphere , in which Bava allows his actors to inhabit . This film represents the only pairing of Bava with British horror icon Christopher Lee , and as usual Lee lights up the screen with his persona and screen presence . The whipping scenes are what made this film notorious in the first place , and seeing Lee enjoying delivering the lashing is haunting and even quite frightening ! The romance element of the story is wonderfully done , and it offsets the horror of the story well , which ultimately brings the film into balance . I rate this Bava film as one of the best the great Italian ever made and it therefore comes with a soaring recommendation .
Excellent variation on the classic story	Frankenstein must be Destroyed is one of the best of the hammer horror series ; and that is saying something , as the studio has produced a lot of horror highlights . Peter Cushing stars as Baron Frankenstein , the mad doctor whom everyone and their dog will recognise instantly from the classic novel . This film is an interesting variation on the classic story , and it sees Baron Frankenstein involving himself in the practice of brain transplant surgery . The film doesn't have anything to do with the classic novel ; it doesn't make reference to it at any time , and it's only notable similarity to that from which it is based is the character of Baron Frankenstein . Saying that ; it doesn't really matter , as this film stands on it's own from the original story . The character of Frankenstein has been changed a lot from the one that we all know and love . The original Frankenstein was an over-ambitious scientist that got in over his head and later found redemption . The one here , however , is pure evil . He has no remorse for any of what he has done , and he treats murder only as an obstacle that is in his way . He is cold , calculating and overall ; not a nice man . The story really takes off when Frankenstein blackmails Karl , a young scientist , into helping him perform the first brain transplant . The two kidnap Dr Brandt , a fellow mad-scientist who has gone insane and is being held in a mental asylum . A lot of the film's horror is drawn from the character of Frankenstein , who is expertly portrayed by Peter Cushing . Peter Cushing is a great actor , and is more than up there on the illustrious list of horror legends . He's not as pronounced as fellow legend Vincent Price , or as malevolent as fellow legend Christopher Lee ; but Peter Cushing has a niche all of his own . His persona is extremely creepy , especially in this film . He's not evil like you would imagine evil to be ; he has a much more intelligent , more calculating presence ; and that is far more scary than any man in a monster suit . Peter Cushing's screen presence is in his authority ; he isn't a big and strong man , but he's not the sort of person that you would want to upset because you just KNOW that something bad will happen to anyone who does . The acting in Frankenstein Must be Destroyed is surprisingly good , actually ; from Hammer films , you don't tend to expect great acting , but this one delivers . Simon Ward stars ( almost ! ) opposite Peter Cushing as the young scientist blackmailed by Frankenstein . He's definitely second fiddle to the awesome Peter Cushing , but he performs admirably . Freddie Jones is the real star besides Cushing ; although no Boris Karloff , his performance as the man turned into a monster is perfectly tragic . Veronica Carlson is the lady of the film , and she does just fine ; and some credit must go to Thorley Walters , too ; the man that plays the hazardously idiotic police inspector . The ending of the movie is great , and draws parallels with that of the original novel , in that it's exciting , flame-ridden and everyone gets their comeuppance . Credit must go to Terrence Fisher ; he has directed a number of Frankenstein ( and Dracula ) films , and following up on a classic novel and doing it well is no easy feat . Frankenstein Must be Destroyed is a horror highlight , and a must for fans of the genre .
A fabulously dark and brooding noir !	Film noir is one of my favourite types of cinema , and Kiss of Death is easily one of the best that I've seen . The film benefits from all the familiar noir elements ; such as a dark and brooding atmosphere , a conflicted lead character and a very dastardly villain . The plot is the film's key element , as it manages to thrill , enthral and make its audience think at the same time . The film takes in common noir elements such as jail time , revenge and doing what you have to do and winds it tightly around the story of one man . Nick Bianco is still suffering from the jail time he did as a youngster and can't get himself a job . So , robbing a jewellery store seems to be the answer ; only that plan turns awry when Nick is caught and thrown in jail . He's given the chance to rat out his associates in return for a relaxed sentence , but Nick refuses . Soon after , however , Nick learns that his wife has committed suicide , leaving his two daughters to live in an orphanage . He soon decides to take the offer of ratting on his friends in order to get himself out , and it's not long before Nick finds himself falling foul of psychotic gangster Tommy Udo . . . Richard Widmark would , of course , go on to feature in many great noir films ; and it's not hard to see why after his debut performance here . Despite not having a lot of screen time , Widmark dominates the film as Tommy Udo and takes a lot of thunder away from the star of the show , Victor Mature . That's not to say that Mature doesn't put in a decent ( if a little flat ) performance as the unfortunate lead , but he's easy to ignore every time Widmark shares the screen with him . The scene that Kiss of Death is most notorious for sees Widmark pushing a wheelchair-bound woman down the stairs . Said scene is the standout of the movie , and really gives the film reason to remember it for . Henry Hathaway takes the director's chair and does an excellent job with it . Kiss of Death isn't Hathaway's first noir and it seems he has learned from previous films as he instils this one with a fascinating gloomy atmosphere and ensures that the film delivers the thrills in all the right places . On the whole , Kiss of Death is a genre film that definitely deserves the accolade ' must see ' , and I wouldn't hesitate to list this among more esteemed classics . Highly recommended .
Italy's version of the classic romantic comedies from the thirties !	Italy didn't exactly hold back when it came to ripping off films back in the seventies - everything from Dirty Harry to Jaws got the Italian treatment , but I must say I never expected to see an Italian sex comedy version of the classic romantic comedies of thirties USA ! Even more surprising than the premise of this film is the fact that it's good ! Sergio Martino , a director who tried his hand at a number of different genres , but will always be best remembered for his superb Giallo efforts such as The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh and The Case of the Scorpion's Tail , has put together a delightful comedy that works thanks to the fact that the action never lets up , and it's really quite funny ! The plot focuses on Commendatore La Noce , a man who has polluted a river . He realises that he has to bribe an honourable to get away with it - but the problem is that the honourable in question IS completely honourable . However , he does have one vice - he likes to sleep with other people's wives . Not wanting use his own frigid other half , the Commendatore lets his assistant find him a prostitute to act as his wife . It was actually quite odd watching this film as after watching a number of Italian sex movies , I've come to expect a lot of sleaze . This one features brief nudity and some swearing , but it's extremely tame overall . Martino has made the film more ' cheeky ' than anything else , as the lead characters are sexually promiscuous , but sex itself isn't actually seen . This is no bad thing , however , as loads of sex would have distracted from the comedy . Of course , my main reason for seeing this film was because it stars the beautiful Edwige Fenech - and although I say this almost every time I see one of her films , she really has never looked better than she does here ! Martino and Fenech worked together on a number of occasions throughout their careers , and it shows as the director really knows how to make best use of his stunning lead actress ! The plot is quite incidental to the set pieces , but it's not important as the film is never boring . The scenes aboard the train midway through are the best , but the film introduces new things to chew every time it seems to be drying up , and this ensures that Giovannona Long-Thigh is absolutely great fun to watch !
An absolute classic	Michael Curtiz has made some great films , yet the only one that tends to be well received among film fans is his contender for the best movie ever made - obviously Casablanca ( and Robin Hood , to a lesser extent ) . However , the man has a wealth of other influential classics under his belt that don't tend to get the recognition that they deserve , and Angels With Dirty Faces is one of those films . To sum the film up easily , one would say that it is a crime drama . However ; like the best crime dramas , this one has multiple themes that elevate it from being merely a film about crime , to being a character study , a portrait of what it is that makes a hero and a condemnation of criminals on the whole . The story follows Rocky Sullivan and Jerry Connolly ; two young New York thugs , the former of which is caught by the police and sent to a reform school , where , ironically , he learns to be a criminal . The latter escapes punishment and goes on to become a priest . The story follows these two men as they meet up as adults and have an effect on the lives of the kids of their old neighbourhood . The focus of the film is always centred on the neighbourhood . This allows Curtiz to show us the effects that Rocky's criminal endeavours have on the kids of the neighbourhood more effectively . This sort of narrative would be employed in later films , such as the critically acclaimed ' City of God ' , and works well here too . The way the film shows how impressionable young kids can be influenced by adults works brilliantly , and Curtiz is able to continue this theme up until the powerful ending . James Cagney would later go on to achieve major fame in the incredible ' White Heat ' , but here he shows us what the quintessential New York gangster would be like . His performance , in short , is incredible and easily ranks among the best gangster roles of all time . The rest of the cast do well in their roles , with distinct New York accents helping to firmly place the audience in the city that the film is taking place in . Furthermore , the film is economic in the way it's plotted and it's also very exciting , and therefore guaranteed to delight it's audience . Angels With Dirty Faces is an absolute cinema classic and quite why it isn't more famous is anyone's guess . Although not quite as good as Casablanca , this is a major notch in Michael Curtiz's filmography and I wouldn't have any qualms with recommending this to film fans at all .
Emanuelle meets nunsploitation !	There is a lot of variety in the Emanuelle series , and as such ; a lot of strange and rather silly ideas ; but having Laura Gemser dressed up as a nun and living in a convent is surely one of the silliest ! I'd even go as far as to say that this plot could be considered blasphemous ! Clearly , this film is just an attempt by director Giuseppe Vari to cash in on both the Emanuelle series and the nunsploitation wave in one fell swoop , and as is the case with a lot of the Emanuelle flicks ; the only thing that really ties this film to the rest of the series is the lovely leading lady , Laura Gemser . Apparently , Emanuelle has decided to renounce her shady past and has taken up residency inside a convent . She is given the task of looking after the young and beautiful Monica ; a girl who was dropped off at the convent by her wealthy father . However , it's not long before the young girl's outlook on life begins to rub off on the previously promiscuous " nun " and Emanuelle begins to question whether or not being a woman of God is actually a suitable career path . . . In the context of the rest of the series , and considering that there is no explanation for Emanuelle's sudden change of attitude , it has to be said that the plot line featured in this film is absurdly ridiculous . However , the film clearly isn't meant to be looked at that way and as a stand alone nunsploitation flick ; Sister Emanuelle is excellent , and by far my favourite of the ten or so Emanuelle flicks that I've seen . The film does represent a real change of pace for the series as for most of the film ; Emanuelle is retracted to a nun's habit and doesn't feature in as many sex scenes as we're used to . That isn't a big problem , however , as this time Laura Gemser is joined by the beautiful Swiss actress Mónica Zanchi , who pretty much takes up the lead role . Unlike most Emanuelle films also , this one actually has a couple of themes going on ; namely , the corruption of innocence , and judging by the ambiguous ending , there also seems to be something in there about how a person like Emanuelle is not going to be able to abandon what it is she stands for . Overall , this is a very good little film and comes highly recommended to both Emanuelle fans and exploitation fans in general !
Absolutely wonderful	Roger Corman's ' Poe ' series is one of the all time highlights of cinema . With low budgets , great stories and Vincent Price ; Corman has created a legacy that is hard to react to with anything but admiration , and it's certainly a style of film-making that will never be utilised again . This film is , actually , not based on a story by Edgar Allen Poe ; but one by the almost equally excellent HP Lovecraft . You will notice Poe's name on the posters , but that's nothing more than a ploy by American International to ensure that people went to see it . However , whoever wrote it is inconsequential , because it's incredible whatever . From the moment it begins , with an incredibly malevolent Vincent Price being burned for witchcraft shortly after putting a curse on the village of Arkham in one of the man's finest monologues ever ; this film grabs you doesn't let go until the words ' The End ' appear on your screen . The subject of witchcraft and burning witches has , and will always be absolutely fascinating and this film capitalises on that . Adding to the intrigue is some otherworldly creatures in the basement that Price feeds young women to , and a village full of deformed residents ! Lovecraft's Necronomicon joins the party as well . . . I don't know how much American International paid Vincent Price for making this and other Corman films , but whatever it was , it wasn't enough . Price holds the viewer's attention like no other actor has ever , and probably will ever do again . He handles his dual role fantastically , and switches between the darkly macabre and an innocent naivety at the drop of a hat . Also joining in the fun is fellow horror legend , Lon Chaney ; who puts in a delightful performance and provides most of the scares ! Corman does an absolutely fantastic job of building atmosphere in this movie , and the village of Arkham is constantly foreboding and intriguing . The use of smoke is right on cue ; as is the music , which is massively over the top ; but very , very effective . The problem with many horror films is that in spite of being excellent , they're often not very frightening ; but there's one sequence in this film that sees a bunch of deformed villagers surround Price and his wife that is positively nightmare inducing ! I have nothing but respect and admiration for this picture as it is an immense achievement in Corman's Poe cycle , and don't let the fact that it's not a Poe story put you off - if you're a fan of Price , Corman or just low budget atmospheric horror in general , see this film NOW !
A brain fluid fountain of youth !	Wow ! I honestly can't believe that I'd never heard of this excellent little eighties horror film ! How The Rejuvenator has managed to stay undiscovered all these years is anyone's guess , as this entertaining mix of splatter and Sunset Blvd does what it says on the tin , and then some ! Science and the human body give way to all kinds of horrific horror scenarios - from the constant attempts to rebuild a face in the French classic Eyes Without a Face , to the teleporting disasters in The Fly , you can usually count on an intriguing , and frightening , film if it's based on something scientific . The plot here focuses on actress Elizabeth Warren ; she's now too old for the good roles , and like most women , wants to recapture her youth . Unlike most women , however , she's prepared to go that extra mile to realise her dream , and she employs Dr . Gregory Ashton to make her young again . He discovers something in the brain that affects the aging process , and soon performs his experiment on her . But it has unforeseen side effects , and pretty soon Elizabeth begins regenerating into a hideous brain eating monster ! Given that it's an eighties horror film , you've got to expect rather a lot of silliness and tacky special effects , which the film has in droves ; but it has to be said that the plot is carried off really well , and despite being cheap and nasty , the special effects fit the film and are a hell of a lot more believable than the CGI that would infect The Rejuvenator if it were made nowadays . The characters aren't exactly well defined , but a film like this needs the audience to care at least somewhat for them otherwise the story won't hold any weight , and director Brian Thomas Jones obviously knows that as he ensures that the situation feels as real as possible . The acting isn't bad , and sees Vivian Lanko doing well in the double central role , and while John MacKay doesn't exactly convince as a genius doctor - he's at least fun to watch , and the two have some chemistry together . The film is interesting throughout , and while there's no out and out standout moments , there's enough going on for it to remain interesting . Overall , The Rejuvenator might not appeal to everyone , but if you like your eighties horror cheesy and imaginative - I'm pretty sure you'll enjoy this !
Mushrooms that are more than just magic !	As a big fan of bizarre cult cinema , there's no way I could resist a film with a title like ' Attack of the Mushroom People ' and resisting this film is definitely not recommended to my fellow cult film fans as this is a highly original and fascinating slice of cinema ! The film obviously takes influence from the monster movie genre in the way that the plot is set up ; but director Ishirô Honda clearly didn't want to make just another monster film as the ' mushroom people ' of the title don't figure much and the real point of this movie stems from the isolation and claustrophobia felt by the central characters . The film gets off to a promising , albeit slow ; start as we see a group of people on a yacht get caught in a storm . Their boats sinks and they seek refuge on the closest island to where their boat sank ; a seemingly lush paradise . However , the situation soon starts to become awry when they happen upon an abandoned research vessel . There's very little to eat on the island , and even though the research crew noted that there was something wrong with the mushrooms that grow there . . . they soon become hard for the shipwrecked to resist . In spite of the title , this is not a ' joke ' film . The director takes the plot completely seriously and it really benefits the film . The ' monsters ' only feature rarely , and mostly towards the end , and the way that the director focuses on the characters and their situation is always interesting and gives the themes of the plot a lot of credibility . Clearly , this is not just a film about funny mushrooms . The radiation theme recalls the director's earlier film ' Godzilla ' , and in turn recalls the Second World War , which obviously had a big effect on Japan . The mushrooms represent a pleasurable escape to the character's situation , although it is one that will cost them their humanity . The atmosphere is one of the key elements of the film too . Ishirô Honda gives the film a unique dreamlike style and the way that the tropical island is presented is very mysterious . The film has also aged surprisingly well considering it over forty years old . This is a very weird film and I have never seen anything quite like it . I often find myself searching for films like this and while it is not what its title suggests it will be , Attack of the Mushroom People is a fascinating film that should not be missed . Highly recommended viewing !
Expertly done film noir classic !	I'm a big fan of fan of film noir , and this film by Otto Preminger easily stands as one of the best that I've seen ! Preminger has reunited two of his stars from the hit ' Laura ' - Gene Tierney and Dana Andrews , for an entirely different sort of crime film . Laura was based around love , and this film is based around hate ; as we watch police detective Mark Dixon , a copper already suffering scrutiny from his superiors for his heavy handed tactics , accidentally kill a suspect and try to pin the murder on a known criminal ; a man by the name of Tommy Scalisi . The plot is brilliantly worked , and Preminger excellently balances several plot points ; but it all comes back down to the main moral implication surrounding our main character . The fact that the film is set in the criminal underground means that the plot is given an excellent base to work from , and director Otto Preminger expertly captures the sleazier side of life by showing the main characters gambling , beating one another ( and their women ) , shooting and more - and this also helps to offset the film from the earlier ' Laura ' , which was very much set in upper class society . The role of Mark Dixon gives Dana Andrews one of the most interesting parts of his career . Here , we have a character that is difficult to like as he's so cold - but the fact that we can understand his motives ensures that he's easy to sympathise with , and that allows the audience the ability to plug into his plight . The character development is well timed , and as we've follows this character and his motivations throughout the film ; everything makes sense by the end . His co-star is the beautiful Gene Tierney , who isn't given as much to do in this film as she was in Laura ; a film that made Tierney its linchpin . She does well with what she's got , however , and the lead duo's chemistry is excellent and Tierney helps to complete every scene she's in . I can't say that this is a better film than the earlier Laura ; that's a hard act to follow , but this film certainly fits into the film noir formula better than Preminger's earlier film . The film also makes a good comparison piece for Laura ; as just about everything in this film is opposite to the 1944 movie , yet it's all strangely familiar . Highly recommended to all !
Another hit for Gervais	After massive success with the hit TV show ' The Office ' , Ricky Gervais decided to turn his hand to stand-up comedy , again to massive success with the hilarious show ' Animals ' . Now , Ricky is back ! This time tackling the world of politics , and once again ; to great success . Although sometimes Ricky goes off the boil a little bit , the show is almost constantly hilarious , and some of Ricky's jokes will no doubt generate belly laughs ; unless you're easily offended . Threads involving Humpty Dumpty , the drought in Africa and the holocaust ( I told you it's not for everyone ! ) are particular highlights . Gervais is great because he goes that extra mile that most comedians wouldn't dare tread on . From the moment it starts , with a hilarious sequence involving Ricky and an Egyptian gay man in a wheel chair ( he's not gay really ) , you know you're going to be in for a stand up show that is likely to offend , and offend it does . But when taken in good humour , Gervais ' humour is witty and intelligent and I recommend this show to anyone that enjoys this style of comedy . Oh . . . and just so you know , he doesn't do the dance .
Overrated , but still excellent entertainment	I remember , back in 1999 ( or it could have been the start of 2000 ) , when I first saw The Matrix . It was big , bold , loud , exciting . . . it had guns , bullet time , Rage Against the Machine , plenty of action , a hot woman in a lead role . . . . I remember thinking " I should like this " . But I didn't . Like Kill Bill , it's hard to believe that a fan of extreme blood and gore like myself could possibly dislike a film that sees one lady pluck out another lady's eye , drop it on the floor and stand on it , but it's true . OK , it's a little easier to believe when you consider that every scene in Kill Bill , apart from that one and the Lucy Lui fight was rubbish , but I'm sure you can see what I'm getting at . Fast forward 4 or 5 years to today , and the rewatch . I have a theory that states that any film that I enjoy cannot possibly be bad , because I watch movies for enjoyment ( nobody watches movies to be bored ) and if a movie fulfils that need for enjoyment , then it has done it's job and therefore it can't be bad . And I enjoyed The Matrix . However , I maintain that it's not a great film . Now , if Pulp fiction has taught us anything ; it's that it isn't what you take , it's what you do with it . . . . but by god , the Wachowski Brothers should definitely consider changing their name to the Wachowski BanditsFor a start ; the film is Star Wars reincarnated . Keanu Reeves is the one that brings balance to the force , and he even has everyone doubting him for a while ( ! ) , Princess Morpheus gets kidnapped and tortured and our hero's must go and save her . . . him , the bad guys have taken over the galaxy . . . I mean the world , and there's only a bunch of rebels to save it , they go and see Yoda . . . I mean the Oracle , who predicts the future and stuff , there's training sequences a la The Empire Strikes Back , Neo must become one with the force , whoops , i mean ' believe ' , Agent Smith is Neo's father . . . oh , OK I made that last one up , but you see what I'm getting at . And it's not only Star Wars that the Wachowski Bandits have ripped off , The Terminator and it's sequel aren't safe either . Of course , they couldn't have made Agent Smith actually be liquid metal , as they'd have a lawsuit on their hands , but he is just another version of liquid metal really . . . isn't he ? Shown by the way he can transform from anyone . And what about the whole ' computers take over the world ' thing , you didn't think I wouldn't spot that did you ? And The Wachowski Bandits obviously aren't fascists , because even shitty movies aren't safe . What about the whole SN thing ? The way that the hackers are made to look cool . . . . Hackers anyone ? But like I said , it isn't what you take ; it's what you do with it . Just like Tarantino did , Bonnie and Clyde . . . I mean Andy and Larry have stolen all these elements , and mixed them up into one coherent , and trend setting piece of cinema . Also like Tarantino , The Doberman Gang haven't just stolen , they've made some stuff themselves as well . Bullet time , for a start . Of course , it's not much of an expansion on the slow motion in films like The Killer ; but still . Also , the idea of the ' matrix ' itself is an original one . ( unless it's been ripped off a film I haven't seen / heard of ) The soundtrack fits too , which is rare when it's mostly rave / heavy rock music . I think there's only Natural Born Killers and Lost Highway that I can think of when it has worked . Anyway , when Rage's " Wake Up " came on before the credit sequence , it fit very well . Also , the scene during the training with the woman in red and the agent worked well with it's music . In fact , that might even be my favourite scene in the movie . It's cool and it works . In fact , the film does ooze a sense of cool throughout , mostly because of the leather jackets . It's not a complete piece of cinema , however . I don't know if it's built upon in the sequels , but there isn't a lot of emotion in the movie . Sometimes , it doesn't matter , some of the best films of all time are very cold on that front ; my top 2 , The Good , The Bad and The Ugly and The Evil Dead both are ; but then again , they didn't try and be soul searching or have a great depth like The Matrix does . For an example of what I'm talking about ; the love between Trinity and Neo . I noticed her saying she is watching him at the start , but other than , the love seemed to be based on the fact that the Oracle said it would happen . . . . so I'm supposed to care ? In fact , none of the characters seemed to have any depth , or anything about them at all . What drives them ? Why does Morpheus blindly believe that Neo is ' The One ' ? Why did Neo take the red pill ? Is it his character ? I don't know . Also of note is the way that people seem to refer to The Matrix as a confusing film . It uses a non-linear style of storytelling ( it runs straight , but you don't find everything out all at once ) , and that's the only confusing thing about it . When you think about it , it's very simple . There isn't a great deal of depth , and the film doesn't pose any real thought-provoking questions either . Of course , there's the central theme ; " it's all an illusion " , but what does that mean ? Of course , it's not all an illusion really . . . so what's the message ? Don't build too many machines ? There is a central question , though , which is " would you take the blue or the red pill " . . . and that's not a bad question ; but the film , through it's non-linear storytelling and imaginative premise , isn't as deep as it appears to be . Bit like Fight Club really . Of course , the premise in The Matrix does get you thinking in a " what if . . . " frame of mind , but so do lots of things , like on British TV show , Kenyan Confronts ; when he exposes credit card scams etc . . . " what if mine was stolen " , so does that make Kenyan Confronts a deep and complex masterpiece ? ( By the way , did anyone think that Lawrence Fishbourne looked stupid during his ' believe ' type moments ? ) Still , like I said ; the film is entertaining . The action sequences are stunning and the film looks lovely throughout , so it gets itself high marks for that . It's well paced as well , and unlike a lot of action films ; the non-action scenes in The Matrix aren't boring . But that's all ; it's like Song 2 ( " wuhoo ! " ) or the " Belly's gonna get you " advert ; fun , but not overly brilliant . However , I'm ' down ' with fun films , so I'm down with this .
Brilliant sleazy trash flick from Ken Russell !	What a great slice of sleaze this is ! Ken Russell certainly has a style of his own and it's on overdrive in Crimes of Passion , as the movie is as much about the bizarre way that Russell tells his story as it is about the story itself . Crimes of Passion is unlikely to appeal to all tastes , but for everyone who likes trashy and sleazy thrillers , you really can't go wrong with this one ! The film is very surreal and at times , even takes on something of a fantasy feel . The way that Russell uses lighting and the rock theme tune ( which often feels slightly out of place ) help to keep things surreal ; and the heavy amount of sex makes this more than your average Hollywood thriller ! A double life is the basis for the plot ; and here we focus on China Blue ; shameless hooker by night and sportswear designer by day . A street preacher meets her and decides he wants to save her soul ; around the same time , a man is hired to spy on her by the sportswear business she works for . He later meets her as China Blue and is shown a good time . . . but soon the preacher starts to get out of control . This might not be particularly intelligent stuff , but Crimes of Passion appealed to me because it's not quite like any other thriller I've seen , and director Ken Russell seems more interested in making the film as bizarre as possible than telling a story - and that is no bad thing as it ensures that Crimes of Passion is original , and that's the sort of thing that gives a film a cult following ! Crimes of Passion has an interesting cast , which is lead by Kathleen Turner , who is just great in her double role . John Laughlin falls into the background a little bit as his role is the least interesting of the three central ones - but he's not bad . The third central role is taken up by Anthony Perkins , and it suits him like a glove ! Perkins wasn't so maniacal since Psycho and Russell definitely picked the right man for the job with this piece of casting ! While the film isn't exactly plot heavy , what story we do have flows well and there's always enough going on outside of the plot anyway - if there's one thing this film isn't , it's boring ! Overall , Crimes of Passion is a great trash flick and it gets high recommendations from me !
A well done mystery thriller from Hammer studios	After their success with The Horror of Dracula , Terence Fisher , Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee would come together again to great success with this fine entry into the Hammer series . I have to confess to never having read the original novel or ever seeing another Hound of the Baskervilles film , so this tale of mystery is completely new to me . Peter Cushing stars as the eccentric Sherlock Holmes ; one of the most famous detectives ever written . He is called in when the lord of the Baskerville family is found dead on the moors , in a way that appears to be reminiscent of the way the former lord of the family was found dead . This ties in with a mythical curse on the family , which tells of a vengeful ghost known as the hound of hell . The film starts as it means to go on ; with an atmospheric and mysterious telling of how the curse on the family came about and from the beginning until the end ; this is a macabre , but not violent , tension filled tale of terror that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat . Peter Cushing has had the pleasure of playing many of literature's finest characters - Baron Frankenstein and Van Helsing among others , and he brings just the right amount of eccentricity , panache and arrogance to this one ; Sherlock Holmes . In fact , this is arguably his best performance ever as this role fits him like a glove . He is given excellent support by André Morell ( Plague of the Zombies ) , who brings class to the role of Dr Watson ; Sherlock Holmes ' friend and fellow investigator . The fantastic Christopher Lee tops off the cast excellently , and as usual approaches his role with the great charm and charisma that horror fans have come to expect from him . Lee wasn't as big a star when this film was released as he went on to be , but I wouldn't be surprised to find that this was one of the roles ( along with Count Dracula , obviously ) that won him the acclaim that allowed him to go on to become the first billed star for many of Hammer's later films . Terence Fisher deserves much of the praise for the fact that this film turned out well ; his rural sets and macabre atmosphere help turn this tale into a fascinating ride and he executes all the sequences wonderfully , so that the finished product is an exciting and invigorating piece of film . Well done , I say .
Gritty and traumatic ; one of the best films in years !	Hard Candy takes an idea that has become the subject of a million warnings since the introduction of the internet , and turns it on its head . The film is extremely brave in the way that the subject matter is handled , and it constantly tackles unpleasant themes head on . I really don't associate this type of film with modern cinema , and so Hard Candy deserves high praise for daring to go where so many films these days dare not . Unfortunately , the story doesn't quite come together as well as it could have done , but it is difficult to juggle so many themes and what we do have here is a tense and traumatic film that brilliantly gets the audience into the heads of both of the main characters . The film begins by showing an internet conversation in which two people - a teenage girl and an older man - agree to meet in a café . The girl comes on strong , and she ends up inviting herself back to the man's apartment after he tells her that he has an mp3 from a Goldfrapp concert . However , the girl has an ulterior motive , and pretty soon their traditional roles are reversed as she takes control of the situation . The way that director David Slade builds tension is extremely impressive , and the central set-piece is likely to result in a lot of chewed fingernails and ground down teeth in audience members . The focus on the characters and their actions become rather skewed during this period and I actually found myself feeling sorry for the paedophile . This may well be the point of the film , however ; as several things are left wide open , leaving the audience members to make their mind up about which actions are right , and Hard Candy definitely succeeds in making its audience members think . Of course , it would be practically impossible for the director to put a slant on the film that would completely satisfy everyone , but what we do have here is a film that makes a point in a way that is a lot more poignant than many more critically acclaimed films . As a thriller , the film works extremely well also ; as mentioned , Hard Candy is extremely gripping at its best moments , and I don't think I've completely ' gotten into ' a modern film this much for some time . I can't say this film is for everyone ; but Hard Candy is very nearly a complete success , and I recommend everyone at least give it a go .
A true seventies exploitation classic !	Seventies exploitation is one of my favourite genres as despite generally poor production values and story lines , they're just so damn entertaining ! The Candy Snatchers is clearly one of the best examples of the genre - as despite featuring the common poor production values , the entertaining plot line is nicely fleshed out with a number of sub-plots and deliriously depraved characters ! The central plot isn't really all that important - it's the stuff surrounding it that makes this film what it is . Well . . . that and the completely sleazy atmosphere , which is achieved through the gritty cinematography , as well as the attention to depravity . The plot isn't exactly original , and basically follows a trio of would-be kidnappers who snatch Candy - the daughter of a man who handles diamonds at a bank , and naturally the kidnappers want a fistful of diamonds in exchange for the safe return of young Candy . However , the crime has a witness - but unfortunately for the young girl , the witness is a young autistic boy who can't talk ! The Candy Snatchers features a handful of violent set pieces that are sure to delight anyone with a mind to see the film . The Candy Snatchers doesn't feature wall to wall violence , but there are enough memorably violent moments to make the film worthy of its high acclaim . It's not the violence that is the most shocking thing about this film , however , as it's clear that director Guerdon Trueblood was keen to make the film as nasty as possible and this is achieved through the way that remains completely nihilistic throughout . Of course , most of what is seen here has been seen in many modern films since , and as a result ; The Candy Snatchers isn't as shocking these days as it no doubt was back in 1973 , but despite that ; the film does retain a lot of its shock value . The acting isn't the best , but the cast of unknowns come together well as an ensemble and most of them are memorable and entertaining in their respective roles . The plot moves quickly and there's never a dull moment - the ending is particularly strong as it manages to be exciting , nasty , and yet strangely funny in a sick sort of way all at the same time . Overall , The Candy Snatchers is a real seventies highlight and comes highly recommended !
The evil that young Catholic girls do !	It's quite unbelievable that this film doesn't have a better reputation , as Joël Séria's Don't Deliver Us From Evil is an intricately worked little shocker that is sure to appeal to fans of European cinema . It's clear that the film was made in France , as the plotting , style and atmosphere of the movie is very French indeed , and this benefits the movie as it wallows in the imperfections of its lead characters ; two sexy , yet underage convent school girls that decide to forsake God and take sides with The Devil . Both characters clearly have the urge to do evil already in them , but the way that director Joël Séria coaxes them into committing sinful acts is good because the characters are easy to care for ; but their acts make them easy to detest ; and as we all know - God hates the sin , not the sinner . The themes of straying from the moral acts that we've all been taught since birth shine through well , as the pair at the centre of the story are completely angelic , and on the face of it ; look like butter wouldn't melt in their mouths . It can be said that the actual plotting isn't all that shocking ; but everything in the film is made more so by the fact that it's stars are so young . The ' evil ' that the young girls do involves reading forbidden material at first , and eventually moves on to teasing men , arson and murdering people's pets . Joël Séria doesn't shy away from featuring nudity in the film ; and the pair of scenes that handle attempted rape don't leave much to the imagination . Don't Deliver Us From Evil benefits from a pair of great performances from young French actresses Jeanne Goupil and Catherine Wagener . Both give the film their all and give mature portrayals of their characters . The film is said to be a horror film ; but it isn't really the case , as the focus is more on the drama and the corruption of youth than the satanic themes . The director doesn't allow the film to descend into comic book styling's , like some other films handling Satan do ; and this benefits the film as it always seems serious and mature . Don't Deliver Us From Evil ( great title , by the way ! ) is not as shocking now as it would have been upon it's release in 1970 - but still the film holds some weight in the shock stakes as many of the ideas that it portrays are still taboo to this day . Overall , this is a fascinating watch and one that should be seen by anyone who has a chance to see it !
Compelling and thought-provoking drama - a must see !	I've had ample opportunities to see Boys Don't Cry over my film viewing career , but have always neglected to do so because of the themes of it's story . Simply put , the idea behind this film doesn't interest me much and that is the reason for me not bothering to finally see the film . However , now that I have seen it , I don't know why I waited so long ; Boys Don't Cry is an excellent film . As rich in themes and life lessons as it is compelling , the film works on a number of levels and is topped off by a truly excellent cast of young performers that give it their all and help to ensure that Boys Don't Cry is the success that it so richly deserves to be . The film follows the intriguing , and oddly true , story of Brandon Teena , or rather Teena Brandon ; a girl who is in the midst of a gender identity crisis and decides to live her life as a boy . After finding a young man and woman in a bar , Brandon quickly finds herself on her way to a small town in Nebraska , where she quickly becomes friends with the locals . . . all the while harbouring her secret . When it comes to good films that are directed by women , there isn't many to list ; but Boys Don't Cry is certainly one that belongs towards the top of that short list . Kimberly Peirce excellently directs the film , and after viewing her past filmography it is evident that Peirce was very dedicated to this story as she produced a short film version of it in 1995 . While Peirce's direction stands out , it is certainly not the star of the show , as that accolade falls to the scintillatingly brilliant Hilary Swank . Swank picked up an Oscar for her performance in this movie , and that momentous event represents one of the few times that the Academy has given the award to the right person . The central role of this movie is the sort of role that every performer wants to get as it allows them to really get their teeth into it , and that is certainly what Swank does . The rest of the cast also does well in their roles , with Chloë Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard being the standouts among them . Every scene in the movie is rich with substance and double meaning , and as we spend the whole movie getting acquainted with the various parties ; what happens at it's conclusion is both shocking and heart-breakingly tragic . The way that the film pulls off it's climax is skilfully handled , and it's also detached enough for the audience to make their own mind up about , which beats the sickening thickly laid substance approach that so many films latch onto . The substance emancipates from the girl wanting to be the other sex , but if you look deeper into the film , it is not just this element that lends it substance . The meaning of Boys Don't Cry can be stretched to any and all moments in life when you're not the person you want to be , and the story while tragic and shocking , is ultimately uplifting , which only adds more confusion to the already potent cocktail of emotions that Boys Don't Cry forces you into . If , like I was , you aren't watching this film because it's subject doesn't appeal to you ; you should book your ideas up . There is something for everyone in this compelling drama .
Excellent black comedy thriller	This film is incredible . Polanski's best film behind Knife in the Water and Rosemary's Baby . The plot revolves around a gangster ( Lionel Stander ) and his partner that seek refuge in a castle on a small island in England . The couple that inhabit the castle are played by the sublime Donald Pleasance and the beautiful Françoise Dorléac . The movie plays out like a three way triangle of hatred ; we have the contempt between the couple and the gangster , who is invading their home ; the gangster's mean streak is inflicted on the couple and the lady obviously holds her husband in low regard when he takes on the role of a wimp in front of the gun toting criminal . However , it is not as simple as that as in several points in the movie , the characters let their guard down and start to communicate with each other in an almost friendly way . This is the real beauty of this film ; it is a character study , studying the relationship between a couple and a third party in their home . Three is a crowd , and the effects of that true to life phrase are felt by each of the three characters . The three main players in Cul-De-Sac are fantastic , Lional Stander in particular who was surely born to play his role in this movie . He has the voice and the persona of a not very bright gangster spot on ; his comic timing for some of his more obviously funny lines is also noteworthy . Donald Pleasance has never been better than he was here either ; his portrayal as the ' lord of the manor ' is both believable and intriguing . Last but not least , Françoise Dorléac , in undoubtedly the most overlooked role in the piece , although no less important than the other two , is also on time and believable in her role ; making up a perfect cast . From a relatively simple plot line and few characters , through excellent dialogue , restrained plotting and interesting scenarios , Roman Polanksi has managed to weave a story that is interesting and entertaining . Roman Polanski has a great flair for human relationships in his movies , the best example of this was in his best movie , Knife in the Water , and that element is abundant here too . The scenes in which all three characters are on screen interacting with each other are this movie's finest moments . Cul-De-Sac is an excellent black comedy thriller that fans of the genre and fans of the excellent Roman Polanski will not want to miss . Recommended viewing
Excellent film noir !	If you're looking for an interesting plot , complex characters and a bona fide thrill ride ; you really need to look no further than film noir . The best of these films have everything you could want from a thriller , and when you hit upon a good one ; you're guaranteed a fantastic movie viewing experience . The Big Clock certainly is a very good example of the style that manages to include most of things audiences want to see in a noir , and keeps up a breathless exciting pace for the duration of the movie . The film takes the ' innocent man plunged into a desperate situation ' course and focuses on George Stroud ; an ace investigative reporter working for news rag ' Crimeways ' . After an argument with boss , George finds himself on the shelf and hits the town with his boss ' mistress , much to the dismay of his wife who , desperate for a honeymoon , sets off for it on her own . It's not long before George has had a tad too much to drink , and after being thrown out of the mistress ' apartment moments before the boss arrives ; he soon finds himself on the trail of her murderer . . . only this time , he's hunting down himself . The film starts off rather slowly , and it doesn't really kick into motion properly until about the thirty minute mark . It's easy to say that the first part of the movie ' is boring ' , but in fact this is the foundation that makes the rest of the film worth watching . Director John Farrow takes time to fully introduce all of the characters and the situation before cruelly pulling it all down ; meaning that once we finally do get into the meaty part of the film , we already have a good sense of what the leading man stands to lose due to the unfortunate situation he's found himself in . The Big Clock stars Ray Milland who as ever , puts in an intriguing lead performance that fits the film well . The supporting cast is lead by Charles Laughton , who also stands out . Director John Farrow creates an excellent atmosphere for the film ; it's constantly bubbling over with the tension , and the way we get to watch the central character work out what to do as he is placed on a double edged sword is fascinating . Overall , there are a lot of great noirs out there ; and this is definitely one of them ! Highly recommended viewing .
A magnificent follow up to a beautiful picture	This follow-up to the cult hit ' Before Sunrise ' takes place nine years after the original masterpiece . The wisdom of making a sequel nine years later to a film that doesn't really need a sequel is questionable . Or at least it would be , if this film was anything less than brilliant . While the first film depicted an energetic and youthful romance between two young people ; this sequel is a more mature tale , all about reflection . Before Sunset plays out almost as a tribute to the one night that the characters spent together in the first film , and analyses what happened to them after those events . The film takes in themes of missed opportunity and the effect that time has on character . Just like the first film , time is of the essence again and we follow Jesse , now the writer of an international best seller who meets up with Celine again , this time in Paris . The two take to the streets and begin discussing their relationship with each other , with their respective partners and how life has been treating them in the last nine years . The tone of this film is very different to ' Before Sunrise ' as the characters are now older and wiser and have lost some of that reckless stupidity that made the first film such a delight to observe . The anecdotes that the characters profess to one another takes a worldlier stance , and this allows the characters to revel in their newfound maturity and also develop even further than they did in the original film . In my opinion , this sequel is not as great as the first film . It comes down to personal preference in the end , but I preferred the higher energy exchanges of Before Sunrise to the more mature reflections in this film . That's not to say that Celine and Jesse have completely matured into well-rounded adults , on the contrary in fact ; the immature irresponsibility that the characters once revelled in still remains , and this comes to a head at the film's conclusion . Amazingly enough , in spite of the fact that it's nine years since their first outing as Celine and Jesse ; both Ethan Hawke and Julie Deply have managed to step back into their characters , and have once again achieved a glove-like fit . Julie Deply in particular is incredible this time round . There's a scene in the back of a car when she explodes into a mass of insecurity that is one of the most heartfelt showings of releasing pent-up emotions that I've ever seen on screen . Paris provides a new setting for the characters to walk around , and it makes for one that is even better than Vienna was in Before Sunrise . The city is beautiful , that's elementary , but it's the way that Linklater captures the life going on around our characters that really makes it special . While the two talk , people chat away on mobile phones , walk their dogs and drive their cars and the life around the two characters creates a wonderful atmosphere . You really need to see Before Sunrise before seeing this follow up in order to appreciate the tones and the beauty of this picture . Of course , you need to see both films anyway as they're essential viewing ; so what are you waiting for ?
Intriguing , macabre and brilliantly acted - a must see film !	Wow , where has this little flick been ? The Little Girl who Lives Down the Lane is an intriguing mystery , an intense character portrait and a dark , brooding thriller all rolled into one rather odd little package - and on a personal note , I liked it a lot ! The film has gained some notoriety ( although not as much as it would have if it was more seen ) for the scene involving a thirteen year old Jodie Foster undressing - but that never offsets the point of the film , and besides that ; it's hardly like the scene has just been thrown in to satisfy the perverts in the audience . Furthermore , the most shocking scene in the film involves a hamster with no naked teenage girl present ! Anyway , The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane is about a young girl , living down a quiet lane with her poet father . Only nobody has ever this man , and it isn't long before nosey neighbours - such as the perverted Frank Hallet and his enquiring , power mad mother comes sniffing round , eager to upset her life . She's not quick to let them know the truth , however , and along with her boyfriend ; a crippled young magician from the neighbourhood , she is forced to take steps to preserve her independence . The most obvious theme running through the film stems from loneliness , and how being brought up on your own will ultimately leave you a different person to if things such as schools are allowed to take charge . This is interesting ; as it preaches the idea of social conditioning makes up the person more than most like to admit . The film is often touted as being a horror , but this is incorrect . While the film does feature several macabre instances , and a foreboding and mysterious atmosphere that is present throughout the run time ; there's very little in the way of actual horror . The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane is much more of a drama-come-mystery than a horror film . The film is probably most notable for it's lead performance . Jodie Foster had already impressed in 1976 with her role in Martin Scorsese's hit film , Taxi Driver - but here she is far better . Despite her young age , Foster commands the screen and despite being a child , her maturity and acting talent shine through to make this a more complete performance than most actresses manage in a lifetime . On the whole , this film was once hard to come by ; but with the new DVD currently doing the rounds , the film should be seen by everyone . The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane fits snugly alongside the rest of the classics of the seventies , and the fact that it has only just resurfaced is one of cinema's biggest injustices . Highly recommended viewing !
Magnificent Gothic horror masterpiece !	From horror's premier team of Roger Corman , Vincent Price and , of course , Edgar Allen Poe comes this menacing , macabre and suspenseful tale of insanity , death and betrayal . This film is certainly one of , but maybe even ' the ' finest Corman-Poe film . It's Poe at his most devilishly malicious as it deals with themes of torture , and the most frightening method of death known to man ; being buried alive . As usual , Vincent Price takes the lead role as the tortured soul of the piece , this time playing Nicholas Medina ; the son of the Spanish inquisition's most notorious torturer . All is not well for Nicholas , as his beloved bride , Elizabeth , has killed himself and the notion that she may have been buried alive has tortured the torturer's son to the brink of insanity . We enter the fray as Elizabeth's brother comes to the castle in search of answers to discover the fate of his sister . . . Through a great Gothic atmosphere and gorgeous lavish sets , Roger Corman has created a macabre masterpiece from Poe's classic tale . Vincent Price is superb ( again ! ) as the almost insane son of a madman . As usual , he captures the essence of his character and through his stark tone that was made for the horror genre ; and he gets his portrayal spot on . Horror fans can thank god that Vincent Price decided to become an actor , as any other actor simply couldn't have pulled off this performance like Price did ( as is the case with most of Price's resume ) . Price is joined by Barbara Steele ( of Mario Bava's Black Sunday ) and a small cast of unknowns . Steele , unfortunately , doesn't get a lot of screen time and it's a shame because seeing her and price on screen together more would have been a treat . The theme of being buried alive is something that appears to have fascinated Edgar Allen Poe as it appears in a number of his stories and it fascinates me also . It's impossible to imagine the terror of being alone in an enclosed space with nobody or nothing to help you escape and that's what makes it so horrifying , and such a great springboard for a Gothic horror film . This film makes the best of that , with Price's brooding adding all the horror that the subject needs . Corman succeeds in making the subject dreadful as well , as he shows the tomb in which the unfortunate young lady was trapped in , and also through the castle's many corridors and steel doors ; it gives the impression that there truly is no escape . The film's flagship sequence - the pendulum scene - is a true masterpiece of horror imagery . For the scene , Corman took out every other frame to give the impression that the pendulum was swinging faster than it actually was . The way the pendulum swings across and gets lower every time depicts another horrible way to die , and through his portrayal of the scene ; Corman makes the best of it . The story itself is brilliant , soaked with irony and the bitterness of revenge ; it truly is one of Poe's best . I don't need to say it , but I will anyway ; see this movie !
Slow burning French classic	Le Boucher is a lesson in suspense from French director Claude Chabrol . There is very little in the way of action in this film ; but it doesn't matter , because the director knows how to handle suspense , and so despite the fact that there isn't much going on ; the film is always interesting . In fact , many modern directors could benefit from watching this film . Through a detached atmosphere and an isolated French setting , Chabrol has created a movie seething with tension , and in a way that always allows the audience to fully take it in . The fact that the movie is beautifully photographed helps the film tremendously , as even if even less happened in the film - the visuals alone would elevate it above the norm . The plot follows the friendship between a local butcher and the school's headmistress , Helene . The pair grow to like each other in the midst of a local maniac mutilating girls in their village . As a birthday present , Helene presents her friend with a lighter ; but things turn awry when the teacher discovers the latest victim . . . with the lighter she bought her friend at the scene of the crime . Le Boucher stars Stéphane Audran in the lead role . This beautiful actress is superb at providing the lead , and also fits into the film brilliantly as she bodes well with the exquisite cinematography . The film is obviously a product of the time in which it was made , as the visuals are similar to a lot of other mystery films being released around the same time . The plot takes obvious influence from the Clouzot French classic ' Les Diaboliques ' , but this is not merely a rip-off - Le Boucher has a style all of it's own . Jean Yanne stars opposite Audran as the title character , and he too is excellent in his role . He creates just the right ambiguous atmosphere around his character , which ensures that the tension is instilled as it should be and the climax is believable . Le Boucher will no doubt annoy many due to the fact that not a lot happens , but unlike other films where nothing happens , such as The Blair Witch Project , there is always enough suspense here to ensure that the film doesn't become boring . On the whole , this is a great little thriller and comes with high recommendations .
Dark and brooding thriller from the master of suspense	It is well known that this film is Alfred Hitchcock's favourite of his own oeuvre , and it's a big favourite of mine also . It is also well documented that for this film , Hitchcock stated that he " wants to bring violence back into the home , where it belongs " and he has certainly succeeded at doing that . Hitchcock spends much of the early screen time building up the family at the centre of the tale , and then allowing the violence to come to them , which shows Hitchcock's mastery of the medium as showing the story develop in this way makes the tale much more frightening than if we hadn't got to know the family at the centre of the story first . Joseph Cotten stars as uncle Charlie ; a man fleeing Philadelphia to escape the law after marrying and then murdering several rich widows . He goes to stay with his sister and her family , which includes a husband , two young children and the eldest daughter ; his niece and namesake ; also called ' Charlie ' . Hitchcock puts the focus of the story on young Charlie and her relationship with her uncle . This gives the story a frightening angle as it follows the classic tale of the strange uncle . It's also well done as young Charlie is shown to be the sweetest of characters , and when the dark uncle Charlie enters the fray , her sweet world is infected by nightmares , which also gives way to elements of the classic ' coming of age ' tale to enter the proceedings . As if that wasn't enough , Shadow of a Doubt also exposes the trust we put in our loved ones , and how any person is likely to try and shift the blame , or ignore it completely , if their loved one has done wrong . This is shown by the way that young Charlie still attempts to cover for her beloved uncle even when all the evidence is pointing to him being guilty . Hitchcock has turned this thriller , which could easily have been routine , into a complex study of a family that retains it's interest throughout due to the multiple themes on display . Joseph Cotten was the absolute perfect choice to play uncle Charlie . His portrayal is picture perfect ; he carries with him an atmosphere of dread and morbidity throughout , even when he's not doing anything wrong . A role of this sort is difficult to get right , as it's all to easy to underplay it so it isn't effective , or to overstate it so it becomes ridiculous ; but Cotten gets the performance spot on . Teresa Wright , who stars alongside Cotten in the role of the other Charlie also does well and delivers a mature and assured performance that fits her character brilliantly . Some of the supporting roles look a little suspect at times , but on the whole the acting from the support is good enough . The ending of the film comes somewhat against the run of play and is maybe a little bit too over the top after the rest of the film , which is largely down to earth . However , it does work and a big ending isn't something I am in the habit of complaining about . This is up there with Hitchcock's best work and therefore is highly recommended .
Another stylish treat from Wes Anderson !	I'm a big fan of Rushmore , but The Royal Tennenbaums was terrible and I was afraid that Wes Anderson's latest film , The Life Aquatic , would go down the road of the latter . I'm pleased to say that it didn't , however , and just like he did with Rushmore ; Anderson has taken his quirky visual style and wound it around a plot that it can work with and the result is a truly sublime film ! Bill Murray has had something of a career revival since the overrated Lost in Translation , but let's not forget that Wes Anderson had been casting him in his movies long before Francis ' hack daughter ever got her hands on him . In this film , he plays Steve Zissou ; an underwater explorer and documentary filmmaker . He , along with his team that includes several quirky characters set out on a mission to find and kill the Jaguar Shark that ate his best friend Esteban . The film then follows the crew as they face various obstacles on their way to finding the shark ; some of them as a result of the mission , and others as a results of their interactions with one another . What makes this film brilliant is not the plot or the action ; it's Anderson's attention to detail . It's the little moments such as the part that see a lizard land on Murray's hand , only to be flicked away , that make this film what it is . Almost every scene has something like that in it that makes it memorable . For the special effects , Anderson has recruited Nightmare Before Christmas director Henry Selick , so as you can imagine ; they're not exactly realistic . They are very good , however , and seeing the actors in a completely absurd underwater environment is striking and works brilliantly . The part where they finally encounter the shark is of particular note . Anderson's humour helps the film too , and it is almost constantly hilarious . The jokes aren't obvious , and stem more from Anderson's use of music and the star's faces than anything , and this is much better than having it being gag-based . The cast is terrific , and the ensemble which includes the likes of Owen Wilson , Willem Dafoe , Anjelica Huston , Cate Blanchett and Jeff Goldblum work brilliantly together . On the whole , while this wont be for everyone ; the elements come together really well and if you like this sort of thing , you're in for a treat .
A Giallo to see once you've seen the classics of the genre	The Giallo sub-genre has produced some really great films ; films such The House With the Laughing Windows , What Have They Done To Solange , and just about everything Dario Argento made ; and with that in mind , The Fifth Cord isn't that good a film . However , as lesser-known Giallo's go ; The Fifth Cord will no doubt prove interesting viewing for Giallo fans . It's not great , but the film never really sets out to be ; it's a Giallo typical of the film style , and features many of the Giallo trademarks , which will no doubt please fans . The Fifth Cord also benefits from having Django star Franco Nero in the lead role ; which lends it a touch of class , and an extra quota of cult value . The plot is typical Giallo , and merely follows a murder investigation . It's the central character , therefore , that is most interesting about this film . Franco Nero stars as an alcoholic journalist , put on the trail of the murder both due to his profession , and the fact that the police see him as a suspect in the investigation . Ennio Morricone is most famous for his scores to Sergio Leone's masterpieces , but he's also done a lot of work for Giallo's . His score here doesn't rival the ones in the Spaghetti Westerns ; but , as ever , Morricone does a good job of setting the right atmosphere for the film , as his score goes from the swinging relaxed mood associated with Italian films , to a more piercing score for the macabre scenes . Nero's performance is a little ropey , and at times he's very hammy ; but his screen presence makes up for it , and I really couldn't imagine this film without him in it . The film is well directed by Luigi Bazzoni , who shoots in a number of locations ; with many of the scenes ( the build up to the ending especially ) being memorable due to his location shots . The murders aren't the most imaginative I've ever seen , but most are suitably macabre ; and more than do their job in creating a foreboding atmosphere . One of the problems with Giallo is that they're often hard to follow , and this film suffers from that ; but the plot is largely well paced , and the ending provides something of a surprise . This film is too insubstantial on the whole to be a ' must see ' ; but I still won't hesitate to recommend it to anyone who is a fan of Italian horror .
Now THIS is a zombie movie !	I've been a fan of zombie films for pretty much the same amount of time that I've been a fan of films , and I thought I'd seen just about all there is to see from the horror sub-genre . So you can imagine my surprise then when I came across this hidden gem ! Let Sleeping Corpses Lie does everything that you would want a zombie film to do ; it has gore , shocks , atmosphere , humour , intrigue and a typically thin plot line , which allows the film to put more emphasis on the more important aspects , rather than swamping itself in needless plot details . Of course , the film does somewhat cash in on the success of George Romero's zombie milestone ; ' Night of the Living Dead ' , but really ; it's almost impossible for a post-Night zombie film to not have that comment lauded upon it , and Let Sleeping Corpses Lie has enough about it to more than adequately rise above the Night of the Living Dead rip-off's . The classically styled zombie film story follows a group of farmers that create a machine to kill insects with ultra violet rays . However , this contraption does more than it says on the tin , as recently deceased members of the public start popping up , just around the same time that George and Edna ; two people that came together after an accident , roll into town . Ray Lovelock takes the title role , and looks the part as a young London man . His style , along with very over the top dubbed in London accent work a treat , and his performance adds something of a sense of humour to the picture . Christina Galbó has less to do opposite Lovelock , but she does well with what she has and makes for a good heroine . The film starts off rather slowly , but the relaxed pace never makes the film boring , but it does add to the film when the horror really starts ; as we're sufficiently on the edge of our seats by then . Director Jorge Grau creates a fabulous atmosphere through his English countryside setting , and I personally thought it made a very nice change for the zombie antics to be set in the English countryside rather than America , as they usually are . Despite the fact that this is an Italian film , the filmmakers have managed to implement a great British feel to the movie , and the movie feels something like a fusion between Italian and Hammer horror . This is certainly a plot line that Hammer would have taken on ! The gore in the film is few and far between , but when it's on screen , you'll definitely know about it , as it doesn't exactly hold back ! On the whole , I think it's criminal that this film hasn't won itself more recognition . Let Sleeping Corpses Lie is a film that I wont hesitate to name as one of the best zombie films ever made , and it therefore comes with the highest recommendation !
Aquatic serial killer in one of Europe's finest cities !	Dutch director Dick Maas clearly has a flair for entertainment . This serial killer film is lifted above the norm by a series of fantastic sequences ; from creepy murder scenes to a hilariously over the top speed boat chase through the canals of Amsterdam , Amsterdamned is a delight to watch from start to finish . It goes without saying that this film takes place in Amsterdam , and it would appear that the film is something of a love letter to the great Dutch city . Amsterdam's streets make for an excellent horror location , while the canal shots are what really give the film its originality . Maas also gives us sequences in which the reputation of the city is discussed . Personally , I love the location shots of this film ; having visited Amsterdam a couple of times myself , it's nice to recognise where the film is taking place . The plot is basically your run of the mill serial killer yarn , but it's lifted above the norm because of the fact that the murderer himself is water-based . Amsterdam's canals make for his home , as the murderous diver drags anyone who comes too close to the river to their doom . We follow the trail of murders and the police investigation into the crimes . The film runs at around 105 minutes ; a running time that would usually lead to me saying is too long for this sort of film . However , despite the fact that the film plays from what is a very basic plot , it never becomes boring . Dick Maas bombards the audience with stunning location shots , deliriously entertaining sequences and some very sinister moments of horror to ensure that Amsterdamned never becomes trite or dull - and besides , every time there's a danger of the film going downhill , our competent director is on hand with another grisly murder sequence ! For a film that runs so freely , it's surprising that it's actually not all that messy . Maas blends several different styles together , but the plot always stays on course . The atmosphere is always foreboding as it is made clear that the murderer could strike at any time . I've got to say that I was a little disappointed by the end , however . After a brilliant 100 minutes , Maas sees fit to tack on an ending that feels very trite and overly used . However , the build up to this let down is fantastic and by the time it comes to the ending , it doesn't really matter how it ends because you've just witnessed what is one of the finest films ever to come out of the Netherlands . Personally , I loved every minute of this great film and really can't recommend it highly enough !
Brilliant and timeless ensemble drama	The Ox-Bow Incident isn't a very well known cinema classic , and therefore it's fan base is comprised mostly of cinema buffs that are willing to go that extra mile to see great films . It's a shame that this film hasn't managed to cement itself better in cinema history since it's release in 1943 , but on the other hand ; anyone who does make the effort to seek it out is definitely in for a treat ! Unlike many other westerns from the golden age of cinema , this one doesn't focus on Cowboys and Indians or other such entertainment friendly subjects , but instead the story is of a much more absorbing and long-lasting nature . The implications of this film can be applied to almost any time in history and it will be relevant , and that is what makes The Ox-Bow Incident such a great film . The story follows two drifters who ride into a town to find that the locals are forming a posse to catch and hang the men that they believe have murdered a local farmer and stolen his cattle . It quickly becomes apparent that the men accused may not be guilty , but the townsfolk are bloodthirsty and hungry to see justice done there and then . The themes in the film are more prevalent and important than the plot itself . The film shows how rash decisions can out-shadow the truth , and this story can be likened to any number of stories over the last few centuries where the American value of ' innocent until proved guilty ' has been overshadowed in favour of a crowd-pleasing decision . The tragedy of the film is always at the forefront , and this makes it difficult to aptly categorise this film as a western . Putting this film in with a genre of film that often focuses on gunfights and chase sequences somehow doesn't seem right . This film is really an ensemble drama , and in just a 72 minute running time , director William A . Wellman has managed to make a film that both intrigues and gives it's audience food for thought . Too many filmmakers these days think that a long running time is what makes a great film ; but Wellman has proved that tight plotting and an important story are the far more important aspects . Henry Fonda is the biggest name on the cast list , and he does well ; but even he struggles to shine amongst this film's real star , which is , of course , the script and the themes on offer . On the whole , this is a great film , which deserves more respect and shouldn't be missed by anyone !
One of the best thrillers ever made	Marathon Man starts off rather slowly , and for the first hour at least , it feels as if you're watching a human drama rather than a thriller . However , unlike a lot of thrillers ; Marathon Man uses this time to create characters and establish the situation , which ultimately pays off later on in the film when the movie really gets going . When the film does step on the gas , it is as thrilling as any thriller you will ever see ; Dustin Hoffman is subjected to all sorts of things , most notably an excruciating torture sequence . This scene is powerful and painful on it's own , but it is made more so by the fact that we have already gotten to know the character and therefore we feel sympathy for him , as well as cringing at the images we see on screen . That scene alone is enough to propel the movie in the realms of greatness , as it is simply one of the most powerful that cinema has ever given us ; but this movie is a hell of a lot more than just a torture sequence . The plot revolves around a car crash that takes place in downtown New York . One of the men in this crash is the brother of the infamous Nazi war criminal , Szell , who has some diamonds hidden in a safety deposit box . From then on , many members of a US defence organisation , known as " The Division " , begin turning up dead and soon after , Thomas Levy , a college student , obsessive runner and the brother of one of The Division's members , becomes embroiled in the plot . It is easy to see the parallels between the plot movie and World War 2 , from the withered ex-Nazi ( indicative of the state of the actual regime ) , to his enemies being American ; the movie has world war 2 written all over it . The film is excellently directed throughout by John Schlesinger . Schlesinger , probably best known for " Midnight Cowboy " does a fantastic job of keeping the audience on the edge of their seat for the duration of the movie . A constant foreboding feel is created , and you're never truly sure of what will happen . This is exactly what you want in a thriller , as nobody likes it when they can predict what will happen next . Dustin Hoffman takes the lead role of Thomas Levy . Dustin Hoffman is a fantastic actor , and he certainly gets to flex his acting muscles here , in a film which sees him go through all manner of unpleasant scenes and also hold up lots of relationships with various characters , as well as drawing sympathy from the audience to accent his situation . Roy Scheider ( of Jaws fame ) stars opposite Dustin Hoffman in the movie . Scheider doesn't get a great deal of screentime in the film , but he still manages to do good things with the time he does have . The third lead role , that of the Nazi war criminal , is taken by Lawrence Olivier , who is also a fantastic actor and gives a great performance in this film . He gives his character just the right atmosphere , and we can tell just by looking at the man that he is cold and uncaring , and also past it ; which is the crux of his character . The film ends with a spectacular sequence , which sees the movie and the two centrals characters come to a satisfying conclusion . The characters are the central theme in this movie , and had the movie have ended differently it could have unravelled everything that it had created , but the movie's end is absolutely perfect and does the entire movie justice . A brilliant piece of cinema .
Grisly and upsetting - fantastic modern horror !	I don't think I'm the only one that has been less than impressed with the bulk of the horror films released in 2008 ; most of what's on offer could be categorised as either a useless Hostel / Saw clone or yet another remake , and it's disappointing considering the excellent releases earlier in the decade . Eden Lake may not score highly in the originality stakes , but the fact that it's so well done more than makes up for the fact that any serious genre fan is likely to have seen films just like this one before . The plot focuses on a young loved up couple ; a primary school teacher and her boyfriend Steve . They decide to go to an old disused quarry for a romantic weekend , but find their idyllic peace disrupted when a group of young thugs begin harassing them . Naturally , the couple won't allow their weekend to be spoiled by a bunch of kids , but as the situation escalates ; the couple begin to realise that the youngsters are rather more dangerous than first thought , and their trip soon turns into a nightmare . Eden Lake would be best described as ' survival horror ' and works mainly due to the realism . The two characters at the centre of the film are both likable and their actions are always understandable , which makes them easy enough to get on with . When the trouble first starts , it doesn't seem like anything too far out of the ordinary ; and the director does a good job of building up to the first problem , before letting things escalate at a steady and exciting pace . One of the things I liked most about the film is the setting . The disused quarry and woods where everything happens is really beautiful and this brilliantly offsets the grisly violence . The violence takes a while to kick in , but that makes it all the more shocking when it does . There's nothing over the top in this film ; everything is kept at a reasonable level , but the fact that the director has made us care about the characters and their fates makes the film hard to watch at times . The antagonists are a group of kids and while they at first seem like only a small threat ; they do become pretty formidable as the film moves on . Overall , this is a fantastic horror movie that fans of the genre won't want to miss , and it also stands tall as one of the best British films in years ! Highly recommended .
Anything but dull	Swimming Pool is a first rate film from French genius François Ozon . This thriller makes best use of everything that makes cinema great , and it is therefore a delight to view . Swimming Pool follows Sarah Morton , a British author that travels to her publisher's dream home in France in order to have a rest while she works on her new book . However , her tranquillity is soon disturbed when her publisher's daughter ; a sex-crazed , good time girl , turns up out of the blue and turns Morton's rest into something quite different . One criticism that could be , and has been , made of this film is that not a lot a lot happens . That , however , depends on your viewpoint ; the action is stretched , but the relaxed tone of the film blends magnificently with the beautiful French scenery , and Ozon's attention to detail with the characters ensures that , although slow , Swimming Pool never descends into boredom and there's always something on offer for it's audience to enjoy . I , personally , was completely entranced from start to finish . The casting of Charlotte Rampling as the uptight British novelist really was an inspired move . She's absolutely brilliant in the role , and you can't imagine anyone else playing that character to such a degree . Speaking of great casting choices , Ludivine Sagnier is similarly brilliant as Rampling's sexy co-star . She brings just the right amount of insecurity and lustfulness to her role , and it's not hard to see why Ozon continues to cast her in his movies . The film is very melodramatic , but never overacted ; and this is a testament to the quality of acting on display . Swimming Pool benefits implicitly from a haunting soundtrack , which perfectly accents the happenings on screen , and certain points in the movie where the soundtrack is used are truly electrifying . François Ozon is truly one of cinema's greatest assets at the moment . This is only my second taste of his work ( the hilariously fabulous ' Sitcom ' being the other ) , and if his backlog and future releases match the quality of the two films I've seen from him so far ; he may well become one of cinema's all time greats .
Brilliant Ealing Comedy	Ealing studios are famous for making very dry and witty comedies ; they're probably most famous for the excellent ' Kind Hearts and Coronets ' and darkly comic ' The Ladykillers ' , but The Lavender Hill Mob , although not as good as the other two , is definitely worth a mention . The Lavender Hill Mob is about a bank clerk ( Alec Guinness ) that , with the aid of his friend Alfred Pendlebury ( Stanley Holloway ) , a man that makes paperweights in the shape of the Eiffel tower , has an ingenious idea of how to rob his own bank . The two realise that the bank cannot be robbed by just them , so they set a trap to catch a couple of criminals , and once they've recruited them ; The Lavender Hill Mob is born . Alec Guinness , a regular of Ealing comedies and a man that I think is worthy of the title " the greatest actor of all time " shines , as usual , in this movie . Alec Guinness manages to hit the tone of his character just right ; he is suitably creepy , as he is , a criminal , and yet at the same time he's also eccentric enough to be considered an upstanding citizen and bank clerk . Guinness is , however , not the only actor who's performance in this movie is worthy of acclaim , the entire cast shine in their respective roles ; Stanley Holloway is more subdued in his role , but that's also suited to his character . There are also excellent support performances from Sid James , who is mostly remembered for his work on the ' Carry on ' films ; Alfie Bass , whom fans of British comedy TV will remember from the series " Are You Being Served " and there's also a very small role for Audrey Hepburn , who's movie legacy is legendary . The Lavender Hill Mob also features many memorable moments that will stick in the viewers ' mind long after the film has ended . Parts of the film such as the chase on the Eiffel tower and the way that the two central characters manage to loose the entire police force are legendary . The Lavender Hill Mob is a small movie , but it's a movie that aims big and it works a treat . This movie also features a brilliant twist ending that rivals the one in the superb ' Kind Hearts and Coronets ' . Overall , The Lavender Hill Mob is , despite its low budget and short running time , a spectacular comedy film that should not be missed by anyone .
Another huge success from that genius Val Lewton !	After their success in 1942 with the fabulous ' Cat People ' , the star team of producer Val Lewton and director Jacques Tourneur would team up twice the year later . First for the compelling and brilliant ' I Walked With a Zombie ' , and second for this film ; The Leopard Man . For the movie , the two filmmakers re-cast the star of their first success , the big black leopard , in this movie , who once again plays a big black leopard . The screenplay this time round makes far better use of the animal at the centre of the film , which allows the impressive creature to make a much bigger impression on the movie , and it also gives the film a unique edge over other horror movies , as there aren't a great deal that can build around a leopard . In fact , one thing that struck me about this movie was it's similarity to the 1980's remake of Cat People , and I wonder just how much influence that film took from this production . Anyway , the story here is deliriously simple and it follows a leopard that has escaped from a nightclub . After a few deaths , the cat is blamed . . . but is there more to this scenario than meets the eye ? Just like Val Lewton's earlier and later productions , The Leopard Man is notable for it's breathtaking atmosphere , which is once again up there with the greatest ever seen in cinema . The use of shadows and lighting is impressive , and when you combine this with Jacques Tourneur's incredible ability to stage a scene amidst this atmosphere ; you've got a recipe for a truly great horror movie . This movie isn't as full of great scenes as Cat People was , but there is still some really good stuff on display , including my favourite scene which sees someone mauled behind a closed door . I'm not a big subscriber to the idea of ' less is more ' , but the scene I just mentioned goes to show just how well it can work if utilised properly . If the film had directly shown the killing , it would have uprooted the atmosphere and the terror of the movie on the whole wouldn't have been as astute . As it happens , The Leopard Man has got it spot on . But then again , would you expect anything less from a Val Lewton production ?
Joe D'Amato on top of his game !	The Alcove pairs Joe D'Amato with Laura Gemser and sees both of these cult icons at their sordid and sleazy best ! Joe D'Amato made a hell of a lot of sleaze films ; and while I do consider myself a fan of his , it has to be said that a large proportion of his output is rather rubbish . . . but not so with this film . The Alcove is as good a porn flick as it is a character study , and that's what puts this film at the very top of the director's filmography - by not focusing on the sex , when we do get to see it - it means so much more . The plot line is actually really good , too . We focus on a country house where the house Mistress , Alessandra , is sharing a sordid affair with the secretary Wilma while her husband is away fighting Zulus . He returns from the war bearing gifts for the women ; and he also brings home a slave girl named Zerbal , whom he was given for saving the life of her father . The slave soon starts to get used to life in the house and decides that she doesn't want to be the slave anymore . After noticing the two women having sex , Zerbal decides to worm her way into the Mistress ' affections . . . This film absolutely could not have been made today and the reason for that is the inherent racism running throughout it . Laura Gemser's character gets all manner of vicious insults thrown at her throughout ; though it doesn't really make for uncomfortable viewing given Gemser's obvious beauty . Her role here is somewhat different from the strong Emanuelle character we're more used to seeing her as ; although the role does become more like what we're used to as the film progresses . The film becomes an expose of sexual desires between five different people all pulling different ways and it makes for fascinating viewing ; the fact that sixty percent of the main cast is made up of beautiful women doesn't do it any harm either ! The jewel in the crown is Gemser , of course , but her co-stars Lilli Carati and Annie Belle are very easy on the eyes too ! Being a D'Amato film you can expect plenty of sex and he doesn't disappoint . There's not quite as much quantity compared to some of his other opus ' , but this is more than made up for in quality as the sex scenes are very well filmed ; particularly those between Lilli Carati and Laura Gemser . Overall , this really is an excellent film that I would class as a must see for anyone who enjoys sleazy Euro-porn . It's a rare one , but finding it is very much worth the effort !
Fantastic seventies flick !	Nashville Girl falls somewhere between an exploitation flick and a drama , but I'm not surprised that this is often considered an exploitation classic ; as there are more than enough exploitative elements and the drama itself is interesting also . The film takes place in the Deep South and primarily focuses on the country music industry , although lots of other things come into play too . The main reason this film is so good is because of the way the narrative works ; so many things happen in this film and it really doesn't become boring even for a minute , which is definitely much to its credit . The main character is Jamie Barker ; a young country girl living in a no good town . She's out skinny dipping one day and attracts some unwanted attention from a no good hick type who proceeds to go ahead and rape her . The young girl is upset and confused and after an argument with her parents , decides to go to Nashville in order to find fame and fortune . So she sets off hitch hiking and gets a lift with two truckers before eventually reaching Nashville and finding that the way to the top is not always paved with gold . Monica Gayle takes the lead role and does excellently with it . She really convinces as the naive young girl at the film's centre and her likable persona is a real credit to the film . There's really nothing wrong with her performance and I'm surprised the actress didn't go on to make more films . Gus Trikonis ( who would go on to direct the low budget horror The Evil a couple of years later ) directs this film well ; creating just enough of a sleazy atmosphere to please exploitation fans . The way that Nashville is portrayed is gritty and sleazy and while there's not much actual sleaze in the film , the atmosphere is a benefit to it . I can't say I'm a fan of this sort of music ; but the songs featured are catchy enough and well sang . I don't know if Monica Gayle did her own singing ; I'd like to think so , but she probably didn't . Anyway , this film is engrossing for its entire ninety minute runtime and it all boils down to a satisfying conclusion . Overall , Nashville Girl is an excellent little film that could do to be better known . Fans of seventies thrillers will want to check this little flick out !
A major highlight for Hammer studios !	Whenever I think of Hammer Horror , I think of bright colourful camp films ; but Hammer also made a handful of black and white mysteries , and many of these stand up as some of their best films . Hysteria , Nightmare and Paranoiac are all very good films ; but Seth Holt's Taste of Fear tops the lot ! This suspenseful mystery draws the viewer in from the start and doesn't let go until the credits role . The film introduces the wheelchair bound character Penny Appleby ; an amiable young girl who strives for independence in spite of her disability . The story picks up upon her return home to the French Riviera for the first time in ten years at the request of her father . Her nightmare starts when she begins seeing the corpse of her father at random places around the house and grounds of the place where she's staying . The friendly chauffeur Bob decides to help the girl get to the bottom of the mystery , but everything is turned upside down when it becomes obvious that nobody in the film is what they appear . Initially , the film plays out like it's going to be quite predictable ; and indeed , my prediction for what is going to happen actually does happen . . . but director Seth Holt doesn't show his hand too early , and there is a major twist at the end that I certainly didn't see coming . Director Seth Holt does a really good job with this film , as he gets good performances out of all his cast , the twists are well worked ; and best of all , the atmosphere is scintillating ! Holt continually imposes an oppressive air of foreboding over the film , and the creepy house provides a fantastic location for a film like this to take place . The film features a relatively small role for Hammer regular , Christopher Lee , who gets to don a silly accent while remaining mysterious . Lead actress Susan Strasberg is the pick of the cast , however , as aside from being stunning ; she's not a bad actress either . The film works principally because it keeps the focus on the mystery , and this means that it retains its thriller intentions throughout . Overall , this might be a lesser known Hammer film ; but it's not lesser in quality , and I wouldn't hesitate to name this as one of the best films the studio ever produced .
Absolutely GREAT seventies trash flick !	I Drink Your Blood is top quality exploitation garbage ! The film brings together a range of trash flick elements , including devil worship , zombies , drugs and violence and moulds them all into one very fun slice of movie viewing ! The film is poorly put together and extremely trashy , but that only adds to its charm . One of the main reasons why I Drink Your Blood works so well is because of the way it brings so many different things together , which means that the film never gets stuck on one theme , and therefore there's always enough going on to keep the audience interested . The plot focuses on a group of Satan worshippers . When one of their rituals is viewed by a young girl , the group take it upon themselves to rape her , before holing up in an old abandoned hotel in town . The girl's grandfather doesn't take too kindly to these actions and decides to go after the group with a shotgun - but quickly gets overwhelmed and ends up having LSD forced on him ! By sheer chance , a rabid dog turns up and the grandson shoots it ; shortly before taking his revenge on the Satanists by feeding them meat pies injected with rabies . . . The first half of the film is something like your usual trippy seventies exploitation fare , and the second half more closely resembles a zombie flick as the gang develop rabies and go round killing / infecting everything in their path . This film is notorious for being gory , to such an extent that it doesn't even have a release here in the UK . The film doesn't disappoint with the gore either - there's plenty of bloody violence in this film , and it's committed with all manner of weaponry , from an axe to an electric carving knife ! While the gore is nasty and somewhat realistic , it also has a great comic edge to it ; and this keeps up with the fun style of the film , and unless you've got a serious lack of a sense of humour ; I Drink Your Blood will mostly likely provide laughs for most viewers . The plot is thoroughly open ended and it's not easy to tell where it's going to go , which again is much to the film's credit . Overall , this may be a trashy flick without much credibility ; but it's a hell of a lot fun , features a lot of good gore and it flows well ; and I don't think you could ask much more of a seventies drive-in flick . Recommended !
A horror masterclass	Following on from The Exorcist , The Omen is a horror film that gained itself instant notoriety for it's dissection of Christian theology to create a horror movie . However , despite it's many macabre incidents and dark mythology , The Omen is actually a family drama . The focus is always kept on the family at the centre of the story , and fatherly love makes up the backbone of the story , while also creating much of the horror . That's what puts this film above many other horror films of a similar nature ; it creates it's scenario first , completes it with interesting characters that you can relate to and care for , and then it adds the horror ; by which point it is all the more powerful , owing to the fact that the audience has some feeling for the characters . Horror works much better when it has backbone and emotion behind it , and The Omen proves that . Of course , the fact that The Omen is more than technically sound isn't exactly incidental to the film's success with horror and art fans alike , as this film features fabulous directing , some great acting and an intelligent , mature script . And , despite the fact that movie is largely story based , we are still treated to some glorious gory highlights , which include a spire being flung through a priest , and what is maybe the best decapitation ever filmed . Gregory Peck , who gives one of his all time best performances , stars as Robert Thorn ; the American ambassador in Britain whose wife had a still born baby . Unbeknown to her , Thorn decides , on the recommendation of a priest that is present , to take the child of another family as his own . However , things go awry for the family when it turns out that this child is the Antichrist . The name ' Damien ' is more famous than the movie itself . Damien is absolutely perfect name for this movie as despite being an everyday , ordinary name ; it has a true horror ring to it . Owing to this film , if there really was an Antichrist ; I would expect him to be called Damien . The film is topped off by a great score , which is very over the top , but it works magnificently nonetheless . The theme song that plays over the opening credits is incredible and belongs right near the summit of the list of best themes ever composed for a movie . Religion has proved itself on many occasions to make a great subject for a horror movie , and it has more than done it in this film . It takes obvious influence from earlier seventies horrors , such as The Exorcist , but it does it in an original way and the result is one of the greatest horror movies ever made .
Another triumph for cinematic genius Billy Wilder !	Billy Wilder is a director with an understanding of cinema that is almost unmatched throughout the medium's entire history - that's why his films are always so good . Witness for the Prosecution is yet another highlight in the great director's history , and it proves that courtroom dramas can be both riveting and a great opportunity for some first rate comedy . Wilder's film features one of the most well paced plots I've ever seen in a film , and it's a plot that includes some very finely tuned twists . Towards the end , Wilder bombards us with twist after twist , each one both making sense and topping the one before it . In a time when people are impressed by films such as ' The Sixth Sense ' , Billy Wilder still shows us how to skilfully attribute a twist into a film's plot . The plot itself follows the story of Sir Wilfrid Robarts ; an ace defence lawyer that has been told that his health won't allow him to tackle anything more than mundane cases , but is brought back into the fray when a case involving the murder of an elderly woman comes into his hands . Wilfrid must now juggle the case and his health as he attempts to keep the young man from being sent down . Like all Wilder films , this one is a very pleasurable viewing . Wilder manages to find a middle ground between substance and entertainment , and so this is a film that will please fans of both aspects . The film is deliriously entertaining throughout , with some truly great lines of dialogue ( most of which is very quotable ) and every twist adds a new level to the story . The substance comes from a multitude of angles , and themes of love , health , sacrifice and most notably , justice , are all more than prevalent . The acting is certainly of note in Witness for the Prosecution . Charles Laughton is absolutely sublime as the undermining and stubborn Wilfrid Robarts ; his performance is very strong , and makes up the backbone of the film . The main supporting performance comes from Marlene Dietrich . I'm not a big fan of hers ; despite having a great pair of legs , she just doesn't do anything for me , but in this film she brings sufficient coldness to her character and really makes it her own . The final main performance comes from Tyrone Power ; he isn't as great as the other two , but does enough with his character to ensure he's believable . Highly recommended viewing !
A magnificent spectacle ; one of cinema's finest	F . W . Murnau's telling of the classic German legend , ' Faust ' is a masterpiece to behold . From both the technical and story standpoint , the film excels and despite being nearly eighty years old , Faust still stands tall as one of the greatest cinematic achievements of all time . F . W . Murnau has become best known among film fans for ' Nosferatu ' , but this is unfair to the man . While Nosferatu is something of an achievement ; it pales in comparison to this film in every respect . Faust is far more extravagant than Murnau's vampire tale , and it shows his technical brilliance much more effectively . The story is of particular note , and it follows a German alchemist by the name of Faust . As God and Satan war over Earth , the Devil preaches that he will be able to tempt Faust into darkness and so has a wager with God to settle things . Satan sends Mephisto to Earth to offer Faust an end to the plague that is making it's way through the local population , and eternal youth , in return for Faust's soul . . . The way that Murnau creates the atmosphere in the film is nothing short of amazing . The lighting and use of shadows is superb , and helps to create a strong sense of dread at the same time as making the film incredibly easy on the eyes . It's the music that's the real star of the show , however , as it's absolutely fantastic and easily ranks up with the greatest scores ever written . The scenery is expressionistic and gives the film a strong sense of beauty ( which is increased by the excellent cinematography ) , especially in the darker scenes ; all of which are an absolute delight to behold . The story is undoubtedly one of the most important ever written , and within it is themes of good , evil , religion and most importantly , love . The points are never hammered home , and instead they are allowed to emancipate from the centre of the tale , which allows the audience to see them for themselves rather than being told ; and that's just the way a story should be . It's hard to rate the acting in silent cinema as being a member of a modern audience , I'm used to actors acting with dialogue and judging a performance without that is difficult . However , on the other hand ; silent acting is arguably more difficult than acting with dialogue as the only way to portray your feelings to the audience is through expressions and gestures , and in that respect ; acting is just another area where this film excels . In fact , there isn't an area that this film doesn't excel in and for that reason ; it easily ranks up with the greatest films ever committed to the screen .
Jacques Tourneur's moody masterpiece	Jacques Tourneur is an under appreciated legend of film-making . His films are consistently overlooked and underexposed , and it's a huge shame because Tourneur is one of the directors that helped shape the film industry as it is today . It can be said that Tourneur's best work is within the horror genre , and that is definitely the truth . His masterpiece is Cat People , but I Walked with a Zombie isn't far behind . Not far behind at all . The story of this one follows Betsy , a young nurse that is dispatched to the West Indies to care for the wife of plantation manager , Paul . Paul's wife is alive , but she has no life . Despite having vital signs , Paul's wife sits and stares ; she's in a perpetual coma . So what exactly is wrong with Paul's wife ? The key to this film is the atmosphere ; from the word go , Tourneur puts us on edge with a morbid tone that he creates from telling the audience that despite appearances , nothing in the West Indies is beautiful , and there is a sense of death everywhere in the vicinity . Tourneur then takes it further by indulging us in the zombie legend through way of voodoo ceremonies and various malicious imagery . With this , Tourneur manages to keep the audience's attention throughout , and even though the title gives away what Paul's wife's condition is ; we still want to find out more . Fans of more recent zombie classics such as ' Dawn of the Dead ' should note that this is film isn't your ' normal ' zombie film , and actually plays out as more of a psychological drama than anything . Tourneur never shows us anything graphic , but unlike many other films ; this one simply doesn't need it . The atmosphere that the film gives off is delicious , and the power of suggestion is more than enough for Tourneur to adequately portray all the horror that the film needs . I Walked with a Zombie is an absolute classic and a must see for any fan of cinema . A good rule of thumb is that if it's Tourneur and horror ; you can't go wrong . If it's Tourneur and other genres ( such as jungle adventure ) , it can be a bit dicey ; but this is Tourneur on very top form , and because of that ; here we have a film that you will not want to miss .
These savages ain't no vegetarians . . .	Cannibal Holocaust follows a film crew as they delve into the Amazonian jungle and end up discovering the true meaning of horror . This plot line sounds remarkably similar to the 1999 travesty ' The Blair Witch Project ' , but I'm pleased to say that's where the similarities end ; as the crew in The Worst Film Ever Made may well have found a true horror if that's what you consider a few sticks and stones to be ; but even so , it doesn't even nearly compare to actual horror , which is what the film crew in this film found . Cannibal Holocaust is a remarkable horror film because , unlike the majority of the rest of the genre , this film depicts events that actually do take place in the world . As the film claims towards the beginning , there's so much we don't know about our own planet , and the dense jungles of South America represent one of the greatest unknowns , and therefore makes for a great setting for a movie . It has to be said also that Ruggero Deodato makes best use of his location , and as the actors venture into the jungle , a constant foreboding atmosphere hangs over them , which does the film no end of favours in the tension department . One of the many things that this film is notorious for is the fact that the animal killings in the film are real . This is something that I definitely don't like , as I can honestly see no reason why animals should die just because Ruggero Deodato decided to make a movie . It's also shocking that the perpetrators of this animal cruelty weren't sent down . Of course , the animal deaths help the film because it adds to the atmosphere ; but really , special effects would have sufficed . The violence in the movie isn't all senseless , however , as the director does have a point to make . At several points during the film , comparisons are made with the cannibals and our society ; and the question that surfaces most often is ; " who are the real cannibals ? " . This is where this movie comes into it's own , as one the surface it's just a violent exploitation flick , but beneath that it's a rather potent comment on society . The gore in the film is brutal and very realistic , which is always nice for a horror fan such as myself to see . If you're not a horror fan , however , Cannibal Holocaust is a film that you should stay away from . But if you don't mind gore , you're in for a rare treat with this movie . It's controversial for a reason , and it really needs to be experienced .
Better than your average sleaze film !	Beyond the Darkness is a top quality slice of sleaze from the master Joe D'Amato . Everything about this movie is morbid ; from the brutal killings , to the twisted central relationships , all the way down to the macabre fate of the central character's girlfriend . The film starts off rather slowly , and keeps this relaxed pace going throughout , which makes the brutal gore scenes all the more shocking . D'Amato approaches every scene in the same light , and scenes that see young women hacked up with a butcher's knife , or unceremoniously gutted feel like the norm . The film takes place mostly inside a picturesque mansion ; another contradiction to the events that the film features . We follow young Frank as he loses his girlfriend . Distraught , he digs up the dead body and proceeds to gut her and place on a bed inside his home . From here , we follow the young man as he brings home several young women , many of which meet brutal ends . Perhaps the most unnerving thing about all of this is the fact that Frank is not the film's main villain ; as that honour falls to his housemaid Iris ! I can't profess to have seen more than a handful of D'Amato films , but this one stands out from what I have seen . Beyond the Darkness feels much more professional than the likes of D'Amato's Emanuelle entries , and it's clear that the film wasn't made just for a quick buck . The gore scenes are surprisingly realistic , and despite a gnarled skull popping up from a bath of acid ; it's clear the film isn't meant to be taken lightly . Beyond the Darkness is often listed among the goriest films ever made , and the reason for that isn't because there's lots of splatter - the gore in this film really hits home ! And it's not just the blood and guts that make this film sleazy , smaller things such as the fact that Frank is breastfed by his housekeeper help to ensure that there is more than enough sleaze here . The over the top soundtrack from Dario Argento's house band , Goblin , makes sure that a tension filled ambiance benefits the film , while surprisingly good acting performances and a script that is a little better than what you'd expect from seventies Italian gore films ensures that Beyond the Darkness is a must see for the cult horror fan . This sleaze comes highly recommended !
Brilliant dark character study	When it comes to dark and morbid thrillers , there's no one around that can handle them like Roman Polanski does . It is with that in mind , therefore , that I say Polanski is the best man for the job of adapting Ariel Dorfman's stage play ; ' Death and the Maiden ' . He proves this with the resulting movie , which is a thrill ride , combined with a character study all wrapped up in a layer of morbidity ; needless to say , the film really hits home . Polanski handles this story , and his actors with the utmost precision and I have no qualms with labelling this movie as one of the man's masterpieces . I have no idea quite why it hasn't been better received , as although it's not up there with the likes of Knife in the Water , Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby ; this is Polanski doing what Polanski does best , and when he's at his best ; the man is brilliant . The story follows a chance encounter between a political lawyer and his neighbour , whom the man's wife is certain , is the same man who brutally beat and raped her while blindfolded under the reign of a fascist regime . What follows is a three-way character study between the victim , the man she thinks is her oppressor , and her husband ; who is caught in the middle . The themes of truth and justice are rampant in this tale and as we watch to see if the villain of the piece really is the man who oversaw torture in the oppression , we are always reminded of the idea of the difference between a right and just punishment , and otherwise . As this is based on a stage play , it is the actors that are very much the star of the show . The three-pronged cast makes for a great ensemble , and every single one of them impresses . Sigourney Weaver gives determination and anger to her victim , and it is easy to believe that this woman really was tortured and beaten . Stuart Wilson is great also as the man caught in the middle of a horrible situation , but it is Ben Kingsley that provides the real standout performance . He manages to skilfully tread a line between an evil madman and a pathetic innocent victim brilliantly , and he ensures that at all times we are asking the question " did he ? " . Polanski's direction is superb , and the thing that most impressed me is the way that he firmly positions the tale in the middle of nowhere . This ensures no distraction , and makes sure that we are put firmly within our character's plight . On the whole , this is one of the best films that Polanski ever made . Considering his prowess as a filmmaker ; that is really saying something and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this film to anyone who enjoys movies .
Stylish , challenging and intriguing	Paul Verhoeven's predecessor to his breakout hit ' Basic Instinct ' is a stylish and shocking neo-noir thriller . Verhoeven has become known for making somewhat sleazy trash films , both in his native Holland and in America and this film is one of the reasons why . The Fourth Man follows the strange story of Gerard Reve ( played by Jeroen Krabbé ) ; a gay , alcoholic and slightly mad writer who goes to Vlissingen to give a talk on the stories he writes . While there , he meets the seductive Christine Halsslag ( Renée Soutendijk ) who takes him back to her house where he discovers a handsome picture of one of her lovers and proclaims that he will meet him , even if it kills him . Paul Verhoeven twists the truth many times in this film , and that ensures that you never quite know where you are with it . Many of the occurrences in The Fourth Man could be what they appear to be , but they could easily be interpreted as something else entirely and this keeps the audience on the edge of their seats for the duration , and also makes the film work as this narrative is what it thrives on . Paul Verhoeven is not a filmmaker that feels he has to restrain himself , and that is one of things I like best about him . This film features a very shocking scene that made me feel ill for hours afterwards ( and that doesn't happen very often ! ) . I wont spoil it because it needs the surprise element to work . . . but you'll see what I mean when you see the film ( make sure you get the uncut version ! ) . There is also a number of other macabre scenes that are less shocking than the one I've mentioned , but are lovely nonetheless ; a man gets eaten by lions , another one has a pipe sent through his skull , a boat is smashed in half . . . lovely . The acting in The Fourth Man isn't anything to write home about , but it's solid throughout . Jeroen Krabbé holds the audience's attention and looks the part as the drunken writer . It is Renée Soutendijk that impresses the most , though , as the femme fatale at the centre of the tale . Her performance is what Sharon Stone would imitate nine years later with Basic Instinct , but the original fatale did it best . Paul Verhoeven's direction is solid throughout as he directs our attention through numerous points of view , all of which help to create the mystery of the story . Verhoeven has gone on to make some rubbish , but he obviously has talent and it's a shame that he doesn't put it to better use . Of all the Verhoeven films I've seen , this is the best and although it might be difficult to come across ; trust me , it's worth the effort .
The only prequel worthy of the name ' Star Wars '	Let's face it , whatever George Lucas did with the final instalment of his epic trilogy , there would be complainers . Of course , the man himself is to blame ; The Phantom Menace is a horrible film , and while Attack of the Clones is a lot better than it's predecessor , it still leaves a lot to be desired when compared to the original classics . However , it's third time lucky for George as this time round he's done the fans - and himself - proud . Episode III is by far the best of the new Star Wars films , and the only one that even challenges for a place among the ' proper ' movies . This is the film we've all been waiting for ; the one that charts Anakin's fall from ' the chosen one ' to an all powerful lord of the Sith . Before seeing the movie , like lots of fans I'm sure , I was dreading the possibility that Lucas might have messed this one up too . Of course , the story this time is much stronger and therefore harder to mess up , but the other films were giving me doubts . While I still regret the lower quality of the other two films ; Lucas has redeemed himself here . THIS is Star Wars . The story is the main focal point of the film , and while Lucas has fleshed it out with numerous battle scenes and lightsabre fights , it's always obvious that the man is here to tell us a story . While the first prequel got lost in the very unfunny antics of a certain amphibian , and the second one had too much camp humour and got lost in sideplots ; here we get the full brunt of Star Wars ' central story , and it makes for fascinating viewing . Star Wars is the closest thing modern society has come to a truly great original story , and Lucas has done the universe that he has invented proud with this movie . While sometimes the motivations of the characters can be a little off-centre , they're believable for the most part ; and Anakin's transformation couldn't have been better handled . It would have been too easy for Lucas just to focus on the young man's anger to turn him to dark side , but instead he's added a new twist to it , and although the character becomes decidedly evil by the end of the movie ; we can almost understand his descent . Of course , all is not so simple as Anakin making a choice , and in this movie Lucas ' building in the other two films really bears fruits . Unexpectedly , this movie also increases the potency of the original trilogy , particularly the ending of Return of the Jedi . However , the talents of the man who created this great saga are also this film's major downfall . The reality of the situation is ; Lucas may have a great mind for making up a story , but his directorial and writing abilities are questionable to say the least . The majority of the cast don't put in good performances , and although certain members ' acting talent can be considered as a reason why , the main reason is Lucas ' terrible writing and his inability to direct his actors . Giving the lead role to Hayden Christensen may not be as bad an idea as it seems to be - he has the screen presence to play Anakin Skywalker , but the delivery of his lines is very awkward , and the scenes he shares with Natalie Portman - his ' love ' - are very much lacking in emotion , and somebody with more talent might have been able to get round the writer / director's shortcomings . There are certain serious scenes in the movie where all you will be able to do , if you can get over cringing , is laugh - and that's not good at all . Certain cast members do shine , though , and the brightest star in the cast is Ian McDiarmid . Emperor Palpatine is the most interesting character in the film , and McDiarmid gives a wonderful performance , every scene with him in it is a delight . However , Star Wars has never really been about great performances , and although this film does need a little more acting talent than the other five did due to it's story - it's still all about the action . The action in the movie is fast paced and there's lots of it , and that's probably the reason why this film feels much more like Star Wars than the previous two . The lightsabre battles are superb , and the final climatic one ( some would say ' ultimate ' ) between Anakin Skywalker and his mentor , Obi Wan Kenobi , is breathtaking to say the least . It does feel a little like Lucas is cashing in on the lightsabre's popularity with the number of fights that include the Jedi weapon , but I don't care - it makes for great entertainment . The special effects throughout the movie are nothing short of amazing , and each landscape in the film is brilliantly rendered . The space battles are excellent , and even though you know it's only CGI , and therefore lazy effects , the CGI is good ; and when it's good I personally don't mind seeing it . Lucas has cashed in on a lot of things with this series - the droids , which are hardly relevant , the novelty of seeing Yoda with a lightsabre and the inclusion of Chewbacca in this movie to name but a few things - but hey ; it's Star Wars ! Some will leave this movie feeling cold , but I had a great time and the story and amount of action in the movie made it a great film experience for me . Just seeing those starting title credits come up before a Star Wars film I haven't seen is good enough , but when a good film follows ; it's truly something to savour . Sadly , fans of the series are never going to see those credits come up before a new film again , so let's savour it . Lucas ' trilogy has ended , and it's ended with a more than worthy film . THIS prequel is worthy of the name ' Star Wars ' .
A BRILLIANT Italian crime flick !	I'm really starting to develop a love for these Italian cop flicks - and Street Law is hands down one of the best that I've seen ! This entire genre owes itself to Don Siegel's classic Dirty Harry , but Street Law apparently takes most of it's influence from Michael Winner's " classic " Death Wish ( I say apparently because I haven't seen Death Wish all the way through ) . The film focuses on crime in Italy , but unlike many Italian cop films ; this one doesn't put crime in a ' cool ' light , or focus on a police investigation ; as our main character here is an engineer named Carlo Antonelli , a man who is beaten by a band of robbers one day while at the post office . The humiliation is too much for him , and he can't get these four men off his mind - and so revenge becomes his main priority . However , he quickly finds that finding out information in the criminal underbelly isn't easy as most people don't want to talk ; so , via blackmail , he recruits a young criminal named Tommy to help him find the men who humiliated him and get his revenge - Italian crime flick style ! Street Law was directed by Enzo G . Castellari , a man who also directed the big hits ' The Big Racket ' and ' The Heroin Busters ' , so it's obvious that he knows his way around a crime thriller ! This one features all the staples of the genre - car chases right from the off , as well as fistfights and shootouts and it's hardly dull for a second . This film also sets itself apart from similar films due to its atmosphere ; which gritty , tense and has a very downtrodden sort of feel . The film features a starring role for seventies Italy's top hard man , Franco Nero . It's not your usual Nero performance , however . I'm more used to seeing him calm , cool and collected in Spaghetti westerns and Giallo - but here he gives a frenzied , frightened performance ; yet he still fits it well , as you can really believe that this man has been dragged into a bad situation against his will . Giancarlo Prete is his co-star and does well , while the film also features Barbara Bach - but the former Bond girl hardly has any screen time at all ! Apparently , the ending borrows heavily from Death Wish , but I don't care as it's highly entertaining and provides the perfect climax for a tale like this . Street Law is HIGHLY recommended to all fans of Italian cinema !
Mystifying modern film-making at it's very best !	The Prestige is quality modern film-making at its very best . Christopher Nolan has proved himself to be a director to watch after his successful reinvention of the Batman series , and now this film ; different in theme and tone to Batman , and for my money , much better ! The brilliance of this film comes from many different areas - the acting performances and the professionalism of the film shown throughout go a long way towards ensuring that The Prestige is an excellent film , but really it is the story that makes this one stand out . The film is based on a novel by Christopher Priest and focuses on magicians in nineteenth century London . Robert Angier and Alfred Borden are magicians and friends working as assistants to another successful magician . Their friendship turns sour , however , when Alfred makes a mistake that leads to the death of Robert's girlfriend on stage . This leads to a fierce rivalry between the two magicians , and after each one sabotages the others ' magic show ; the rivalry takes a new turn as they battle to see who can carry out the greatest magic trick . . . The plot doesn't develop linearly , rather Christopher Nolan chops and changes the exact point in the story where the film is running from , and this works really well as everything always feels fresh and inventive and Christopher Nolan is clearly a director capable of handling this sort of feat . The Prestige features an all star cast , and all perform excellently . The male leads are obviously the main standout . Christian Bale has really proved what a great actor he can be over the past couple of years , and his performance here still works despite the fact that he sounds a lot like Grant Mitchell from Eastenders . Hugh Jackman is good also and he gets to show more of himself than he did in the X-Men films , while the likes of Michael Caine and David Bowie fill out the supporting cast . The cinematography on display is absolutely fantastic , and the film does an extremely good job of recreating nineteenth century London . The special effects are good also , and the scenes involving Tesla's machine are all standouts . It all boils down to a terrific and suitably mystifying conclusion and overall , I really recommend that everyone takes the time to see this film . The Prestige really is one of the best modern films I've seen in years .
Visually stunning and amazingly powerful	Whoever or wherever you are is irrelevant ; you have heard something about this film . The controversy that The Passion of the Christ has garnered is phenomenal , so much so that it has eclipsed the movie itself . However , unlike a lot of movies with heaps of controversy surrounding it's release ; The Passion of the Christ has a great movie to back up it's bite with . As you know , the film's plot revolves around the final hours of Jesus Christ's existence on this earth . This is a story that needs to be told ; Jesus is one of the most important and most talked about people to ever live , and the events surrounding his death are massively important to both history and religion . I don't know how close this movie has stayed to actual events , because I wasn't there ; but I do know that it feels very real . Mel Gibson does a great job of making us believe that we are indeed in the year of Jesus ' crucifixion , and overall realism is one of the film's key assets . It needs to be , of course , as the film would have been worthless if it didn't get that part right . Worthless is something that The Passion of the Christ most certainly isn't ; and that is something that anyone watching the scenes in which this film gained notoriety for - the torture scenes , will be able to see . I'm not religious myself , to me Jesus is nothing more than any other historical figure ; but it is impossible to deny the power of these scenes . Many film fans have condemned Mel Gibson for showing such grotesque violence being committed on Jesus Christ , but on the contrary ; I think that Mel was right to do so . Providing that what is depicted in the bible is true ( . . . ) , Jesus was indeed brutally beaten ; so had Mel not have shown it , he wouldn't have been telling the story . Of course , some people would still say that the violence is over the top ; but had any of it have been cut out , then the film would have lost some of it's power . It needs the shot of the hooks tearing away at Jesus ' flesh to emphasize the brutality of the beating . It is also worth noting that although the violence is extreme , it's never perverse . We are with Jesus at all times , and are never made to feel delight at seeing him being brutally tortured . Throughout the film , we are with Jesus ; we feel his pain and had these scenes have been toned down , the movie's power would not have been nearly what it was . I'm a man that enjoys seeing people being beaten in movies , and as mentioned , I'm not religious either ; but even I was repulsed and disgusted by the events depicted here . Personally I don't think that criticising the movie for being violent is a worthy criticism . The film , in many ways , feels like a horror movie . Obviously the brutal beating is the main case in point , but also adding weight to this claim is the malevolent way that the devil ( which is one of the best devil's I've ever seen in a movie ) malevolently stalks various scenes , and the entire first sequence of the movie . That is a great sequence by the way ; it's drenched in a blue-green tone , and coupled with the images of devil makes for a very eerie sequence indeed . The movie is packed with great visuals , the devil being just one of them ; overall , it's a visual treat . Technically , the film is almost perfect . As I mentioned ; it's very believable . Aside from Jim Caviezel and Monica Bellucci , the cast is almost totally made up of unknowns ; and every single one excels . There's not a single person in the film that looks lost or out of place , and there's not many movies that you can say that for . One of the finest aspects of this movie is the score . It's amazing , quite frankly . Every single note is right on time , and The Passion of the Christ is one of the best examples of a movie that is made much more powerful by it's score . Without it's music , The Passion of the Christ would not grab the viewer even nearly as much as it does . Mel Gibson is a man that I've never liked . For such a big star , I could never get over the fact that he'd never made a good movie . That's all changed now of course , although I still don't like him ; but I have to hand it to him here , as he's made a very good movie . His decision to film the movie in Aramaic , Latin and Hebrew as opposed to the more user-friendly English annoyed me at first , however I do now find myself agreeing with Gibson's decision . The fact that the movie is in subtitles immensely adds to the realism , and although I do think that this movie would still have been great had it have been filmed in English , I'm no longer opposed to the subtitles . Mel Gibson was very bold in releasing this movie , and that is something that one has to admire him for . It is not an easy thing to do something that people are likely to look down upon , but Mel Gibson overcame opposition to bring this movie to the screen , and not only this ; but he has brought it to the screen extremely well . Because of the fact that Gibson has obviously made the movie how he wanted it ; we haven't had to suffer any of the usual Hollywood commodities , and what we have instead is an honest and unique piece of cinema . Kudos to Mel Gibson for giving us that . The Passion of the Christ is a film that is never going to be universally accepted as a great film , nothing this controversial ever will . Before seeing it , I was under the impression that it would not live up to its hype , and I almost didn't see it for this reason . However , the movie has not only lived up to its hype but surpassed it . Even if the film doesn't grab you , it is a movie that simply needs to be experienced by everyone , as there simply isn't anything else quite like it . Don't make the mistake I almost did . Just one thing though . . . I've never crucified anyone before but I think you'll find , Mel , that the nails go through the wrist .
Argento's debut Giallo is a fine one indeed !	Bird with the Crystal Plumage , the first and best of the " Animals " trilogy is an important film . First of all , it's the directorial debut of a man who is without doubt one of the finest and most important horror directors to ever pick up a camera , and secondly because this is a film that set a lot of the ground rules that Argento would abide by in his later movies ; such as the harassing phone calls , the protagonist that sees something that later turns out to be something else and , of course , the black gloved killer . The plot follows Sam Dalmas , an American writer , staying in Rome that witnesses the attempted murder of a young woman inside an art gallery . After initially helping the police by telling them as much as he knows , Sam decides to conduct an investigation into the murder on his own . However , as he delves deeper and deeper into the mystery , he becomes more and more intrigued and has to find out who the killer is - even though he might just end up the next victim . The principal reason that Bird With the Crystal Plumage succeeds is it's plotting . Italian horror has never been known for coherent plots , but with this film you'd be forgiven for forgetting that . Unlike with some of his other films , Argento clearly knows what he wants to do with this film and he does it . The plotting is efficient , and little time is wasted deviating away from the central premise , which allows Argento to connect with story and bring out the best from it . The film creates an almost constant sense of dread and tension , and we really feel like the killer is on our protagonist's tail all the time . This is done by all sorts of methods , such as the phone calls from the killer to things such as our hero being chased while out for a walk with his girlfriend . Argento constantly keeps his audience on the edge of their seat by throwing in these things , and also by the way that the murder investigation is conduced . Argento puts his audience at the centre of the riddle and via the various clues that Argento gives us , we are able to work the mystery out for ourselves . Bird With the Crystal Plumage also features an incredible soundtrack courtesy of a man that is probably the greatest composer of all time ? Ennio Morricone . Ennio's score doesn't rival the ones that he did for Sergio Leone ( what does ? ) , but it is a great score in it's own right and more than does the film proud . Even though this film is the first that Argento ever directed , it easily stands up to the rest of his oeuvre and surpasses most of it , mostly due to the fact that it's such an assured picture . With his later Giallo's , such as Profondo Rosso or Tenebre , Argento would become more ambitious and start adding more to his plots , and don't get me wrong ; I'm a big fan of those films , but with this one Argento has proved that a film doesn't need a big plot to create an enticing mystery . Bird With the Crystal Plumage is at the very top of the Giallo sub genre and easily ranks as one of the best films that Argento ever made . Highly recommended viewing .
THIS is what The Twilight Zone is all about !	I've just finished watching this episode of The Twilight Zone , and am still trying to catch my breath . What I thought was going to turn out to be just a deviation on the French classic ' Eyes without a Face ' turned out to be something much , much more ! As the title suggests , this tale is based on the old saying ' Beauty is in the eye of the beholder ' , and we are introduced to a woman dressed in bandages . She's in a hospital , and it soon becomes apparent that she is the victim of a horrible facial disfigurement . However , it seems she has undergone some of surgery to reverse the disability ; and it's almost time for the bandages to be removed . This episode is great because it presents a real dream-like atmosphere , and it's easy to believe that this story really is taking place in the ' The Twilight Zone ' . Our heroine is kept wrapped up in bandages for almost the entire running time , and with that in mind it's not unreasonable to expect a huge payoff once the bandages are removed . To say it delivers would be an enormous understatement - Eye of the Beholder gives the audience their due payoff and then some ! I'm not going to say any more - just see this as soon as possible .
Bad Santa ain't bad !	Well , Christmas isn't exactly my favourite time of the year , so I have to say that these cynical offbeat Christmas films tend to appeal to me . When looking at the plot outline for this film , I was worried that it would start out well and then float off the rails when the central characters come to the inevitable ' moral junction ' , but to my surprise - Bad Santa is a film that manages to do everything you could want it to do . It's funny , it's crude , it's cynical and it actually has a message hidden somewhere behind Billy Bob Thornton's drunken central character . The plot focuses on a man who proclaims to have been married and ' on the inside ' , but prefers both to his current job - working as ' Santa ' at various malls over Christmas . However , that's just a cover for his other job - which just happens to be robbing those malls ! Along with his midget friend , the two work as Santa and elf for peanuts until Christmas Eve , when they use their knowledge of the shop to get at the safe with the money in it . However , this Christmas drunken Santa has accidentally befriended an annoying little kid and the security boss has discovered the scam . . . I'm a big fan of director Terry Zwigoff's previous effort , Ghost World , and Bad Santa works in a similar way with a bunch of oddball characters giving rise to an offbeat story . Billy Bob Thornton is obviously the centrepiece of the film , and he is excellent as the title character . He fits the role of a cynical conman Santa like a glove , and receives excellent support from the rest of the cast . Admittedly , the film can be a little one-note although when the inevitable shift in mindset comes , it's predictable , but actually doesn't upset the rhythm of the film . I wasn't expecting there to be any emotion involved , but actually the film does have some emotional weight , and even though the central kid is the most annoying I've ever seen in a film ; he somehow becomes almost likable by the end . Of course , you have to account for a few nuisances - such as the fact that if I put on a Santa outfit and went to a bar , you could bet your bottom dollar that there wouldn't be a young woman obsessed with Santa working behind there . However , things like this don't matter as the film has more than enough to good points , and overall I have to rate Bad Santa as a big success !
The very pinnacle of schlock-horror !	I've got to tell you right off - The Evil Dead is my favourite horror film of all time - so you can expect a praise-filled review here ! I have seen this film at least one hundred times since I first saw it at about the age of ten , and to this day , I can still stick the DVD in the player and guarantee myself a good time . The Evil Dead may be low budget schlock at heart , but there's very few A-class films that I can say that for ! The notorious shocker that started the video nasty debate in the eighties is as good now as it was then , and that is all testament to the imagination and dedication of the talented team of amateurs that conquered their budget restraints to put the film together . I'm sure that Sam Raimi and co . didn't know that they had a cult hit that would still be much loved twenty five years later on their hands during filming - but really , that only adds to the cult value of this masterpiece . The plot is brilliantly simple , and it follows the story of a group of five friends that go for a relaxing holiday in the Tennessee Woods . However , their holiday turns out to be anything but relaxing when Ash and Scottie , with the aid of a tape recorder , unwittingly unleash the aptly named ' Evil Dead ' from it's slumber . Looking back at the video nasty list now , the vast majority of them are tame by today's standards . This is either down to the change in views of what is and what isn't acceptable , or simply because the films were so atrociously made that they're impossible to take seriously . The reason that The Evil Dead sits at the very summit of that illustrious list , therefore , is because this is every bit the film now that it was then . The film is grainy on purpose , and the gore effects , while obviously cheap ; are potent , relentless and disgusting enough to still cause a stir today ( the fact that the uncut version wasn't passed all that long ago shows that ! ) . The Evil Dead has become the benchmark for schlock horror films , and this is shown by the fact that almost every film in this vain to be made post-Evil Dead has benefited in some way from the film . That's not to say that Raimi hasn't taken influence from some classics himself . The claustrophobic sets and camera angles echo those in Night of the Living Dead loud and clear , while on famous sequence involving a spade has been taken straight from the Hammer classic ' Plague of the Zombies ' . However , Raimi has implemented all of these things into his film in such a way that it feels fresh - and there's nothing wrong with regurgitating elements from other people's films if you can make good of it . The claustrophobic way that Raimi uses his camera helps the film implicitly , and when coupled with the isolated setting that the central location is in ; we have a great base for a horror movie . Considering that he was an amateur at the time , Raimi's use of the camera is extraordinary and more than gives many of the established horror film makers a run for their money . The idea to put a camera on a motorbike ( ' Raimi-cam ' ) is brilliant , and those shots give the film that extra ' x factor ' . Seeing the camera roar through the woods is actually quite terrifying . This also gives the film a very nervy atmosphere , as you never know where the evil is going to strike next ! The most infamous sequence in the film has to be one that sees Ellen Sandweiss venture out into the woods , only to be violated by the trees . Raimi has said since that this sequence was the mark of an amateur filmmaker , and I agree with him . However , this sequence is an integral part of the film as it helped it to gain a lot of it's notoriety , so I guess it's important if only for that reason . The characters are thin in a typical schlock style . Characterisation doesn't matter , however , as the focus of the film is always on the atmosphere and gore - but nevertheless , the ensemble of amateur actors perform with gusto , and their heart definitely helps the film succeed . Consider the women of the film . They give it their all when their characters are turned into evil demons , and there aren't many ' a-class ' actresses that would be able to do that ! Of course , on the acting side this film is famous for one man over all else ; B-movie god , Bruce Campbell . His performance as Ash was what has made him a cult favourite . Bruce portrays his character with comic brilliance ; using a range of facial expressions to portray fear , exhaustion and a sense of loathing towards his situation . Bruce develops the character of Ash as the film goes on , going from a wimpy young man , to a resourceful ' demon-slayer ' using all manner of items , including axes , planks of wood and even his girlfriend's necklace to dispatch of his foes . Don't get me wrong , he didn't deserve an Oscar ( that was part II ! ) - but if it weren't for him , this wouldn't be the film that it is . On the whole , The Evil Dead is a film of such paramount importance that it is fundamental viewing for anyone who considers themselves a horror fan , or any young filmmaker wanting to make an impact in cinema without the benefit of a lot of money . Many people refer to this film as ' just a fun flick ' or ' so good it's bad ' , but I cant agree with that . Considering what went into making , and the end result - The Evil Dead is one of the greatest films ever made .
Superior Giallo and a must see for fans of Italian cinema	It's a damn good job that this film finally received a DVD release , because The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh is surely too good a film to be considered lost . Directed by Giallo maestro Sergio Martino , The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh is a sleazy sadistic thriller that takes as much influence from the Giallos that came before it as it does from Italy's other popular export , Spaghetti Westerns . The film takes obvious influence from the Sergio Leone masterpiece , Once Upon a Time in the West , by the way that the plot is set up ; with a woman at the centre , and three men surrounding her . Unlike a lot of Giallo , Wardh features a plot that makes sense and the fact that Martino has put the focus on the plotting does the film no end of favours in the thrill stakes . We follow a woman named Julia Wardh . She's married , but not exactly faithful ; and that is coming back to haunt her , as she comes to believe that the misogynistic maniac on the loose could be either her husband , her current lover or her ex-lover ; and even comes to believe that she will become the murderer's next target . Giallo is often brought down by terrible dubbing , which often gives the films a very jokey feel ; but this film is presented in it's original language with subtitles , which really proves how much dubbing can spoil a film . The fact that it's in Italian makes the film feel much more professional , and there is no doubt that this is a film to be taken seriously . Martino directs his first Giallo well , and always ensures that Wardh is pleasing to the senses with a sublime score courtesy of Nora Orlandi and some excellent location shots and cinematography throughout . The acting is also very good , with heroine Edwige Fenech providing the film's backbone in the leading female role , and fellow Giallo regular George Hilton suiting his character nicely in the role of her suave lover . Sex and violence co-stars , with some nicely erotic scenes offset by some grisly murder sequences , that give just enough on the gore front without going over the top . The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh is easily one of the best Giallo that I've seen . It's attention to detail well thought-out plot ensure that this film stands out amongst it's fellow Giallos , and I can highly recommend this film to fans of Italian cinema .
A cult classic in every sense !	When you consider all the elements that have gone into this movie , it's hard to deny that it really shouldn't have worked . Spanish director Álex de la Iglesia has put together a film that fuses ideas of the apocalypse and the antichrist with heavy metal and one of the blackest streaks of humour that I've ever seen . Day of the Beast starts off with a string of blackly comic happenings , which see such things as a man crushed by a cross and a priest pushing a performer off his perch . Amazingly , the director manages to keep the laughs coming throughout , while at the same time ensuring that the apocalyptic tones aren't lost to the comedy side of the film . Personally , I didn't think that much else could be done with the idea of the antichrist - but I've been well and truly proved wrong by this totally unique horror flick ! The plot follows a priest who believes that he has found a secret code of some sort , and that he has to commit evil acts in order to get an audience with Satan himself , so that he can kill the Devil's child , which he believes will be born on Christmas Eve . Aiding him in this quest is a drug-taking heavy metal fan , and the host of a paranormal TV series . . . I've got to say that I'm really looking forward to seeing more of Álex de la Iglesia's films , as this guy has an absolutely great sense of humour ; and even though this movie is only half a comedy , it's far funnier than many films designed only to make its audience laugh . The laughs are very dry indeed , and are guaranteed to appeal to people who appreciate jokes that are aimed at offending people . Aside from a great sense of humour and an interesting storyline , Day of the Beast also benefits from a plethora of great performances from a talented cast of Spanish actors . Álex Angulo , Armando De Razza and Santiago Segura are brilliant as the central threesome , and offset each other nicely with their defined and very different characters . While the film definitely is a comedy , it's obvious that Álex de la Iglesia is a horror fan ; as the atmosphere is morbid and suspenseful , and many scenes are extremely suspenseful and well laid out . The special effects are hokey in true demonic horror style , and the light use of them ensures that they work well when used . Overall , I don't hesitate to call this a masterpiece . Day of the Beast is everything you could want from a cult horror movie and more !
Another fantastic gaming experience . Thank you Capcom !	So , the long awaited sequel to Resident Evil 3 is finally upon us - and it certainly is the treat that it promised to be . I have to admit , in the build up to the release of this game , I was worried . I was hearing all sorts of rumours , from this being more like Devil May Cry than previous Resident Evil games , to the complete dropping of the staple Resident Evil monster - the zombie . However , I knew that Capcom weren't a gaming company that is in the habit of letting me down , so I decided to pass these ridiculous rumours off as hearsay , and therefore false . Imagine my surprise then when they turned out to be true , and imagine my increased surprise when they actually turned out to be worthy changes ! The loss of the zombies , for example , is a big loss ; but their replacement - mad villagers , is definitely a worthy one and it makes for a very nice change ! In fact , all of the monsters in the game are brilliantly designed and help to make the game even more of a pleasure to play . The gigantic bi-pods , for example , are a particular highlight ; as are the very odd ' regenerators ' that come complete with their own unique and ingenious method of dispatch ! One thing I really love about this game is the amount of movie tributes that it has in it . From The Evil Dead style camera towards the beginning , to the King Kong-esquire way the giant monster is introduced , all the way down to the Night of the Living Dead shootout in an old abandoned hut - the game is a treasure indeed ! The choice of lead character - Leon Kennedy - wasn't the best idea in my opinion . While I have nothing against the guy , Leon has always struck me as one of Capcom's less interesting creations and I would much rather have followed the escapades of Barry Burton or Leon's Resident Evil 2 co-star Claire Redfield than Mr Kennedy . . . but never mind . The story is entirely different from anything we've seen in Resident Evil before , but it actually serves the game quite well and it's always interesting enough to keep you hooked . The way that the Capcom have opted to change to a more arcade style adventure than previous games represents a change for the worse , as it makes the game far too easy and cuts out many of the staples of the series - things such as backtracking and the great feeling you get when you find that all important green herb or another case of handgun bullets . Now you always know that there's more items just around the corner and you don't really feel the same fear that previous games instilled so well . However , despite it's major flaw , Capcom have once again succeeded in creating a magnificent gaming experience . While Resident Evil 4 isn't as gripping or as difficult as it's earlier counterparts , this is still a great video game and a prime reason for owning a Gamecube . Highly recommended !
Unknown to many - but certainly among Wilder's greatest films	Say the name ' Billy Wilder ' to any cinema fan and they might throw back titles like ' The Apartment ' and ' Sunset Blvd ' at you ? but probably not this film . Ace in the Hole was a flop upon release in 1951 ; and has had trouble being released since , and thus it has not been seen by as many people as Wilder's other films . However , many more people will know the story featured here - it's the one featured in the episode of The Simpsons where Bart Simpson finds himself stuck down a well ; only here the story is spun courtesy of two of the most cynical leads you'll ever find in any film ; and while Ace in the Hole is undoubtedly an out and out masterpiece and one of the finest films Billy Wilder ever directed ; it's actually not all that hard to see why the film has not sold well to all audiences . The plot focuses on Charles Tatum ; a former big time reporter who arrives in a small town in New Mexico . He lands himself a job on a small newspaper and makes no secret of the fact that he's hoping it will lead him back onto bigger and more lucrative pastures . Nothing is happening in the local area ; until one day when Tatum gets his big break . A man has got himself stuck in a cave supposedly inhabited by the ghosts of dead Indians and our anti-hero soon spots himself a chance for a story ; and quickly he finds a way to delay the rescue operation and turn the area into a media circus . Kirk Douglas is probably best known for his role in Spartacus ; but for me there is no doubt that he gives his career best performance in this film . Douglas is absolutely superb as the amoral antagonist and thoroughly convinces that he is the character he is playing . Jan Sterling stars opposite Douglas as the equally cold wife of the trapped man who sees the tragedy as a way to get out of her marriage . She gives a performance that is arguably even colder than Douglas ' . The fact that both lead characters are utterly callous means that the film will be hard to get on with for some people ; but for me the film is more than just a sum of the lead characters anyway . The film is an expose of what unadulterated selfish greed can lead to ( mixed in with a parody on the importance of the media ) and this is more than enough to keep its audience interested . However , Wilder does not appear to condemn the actions of the central characters and indeed the film just lets the story play out for what it is ; leaving the audience to make all judgements on the characters , and in return the film is much more powerful than it would have been had the director tried to force the audience to think in a certain way . The film could even be considered a test of every audience member's cynicism ; as the views of the characters and the situation are likely to vary with every person that sees this film . Overall , Ace in the Hole is an intelligent and poignant masterpiece that really needs to start getting the attention it deserves . This is undoubtedly one of the greatest films I've ever seen in my life and I would warmly recommend to anyone that considers themselves a fan of cinema .
Entertaining thrill-ride from start to finish	Alfred Hitchcock made a lot of films , many of which are very good ; and a select group of which are out and out masterpieces . His 1959 spy thriller , North by Northwest is undoubtedly among the man's best work ; yet it stands out as something of a black sheep among the great director's other works . While the likes of Vertigo and Rear Window pull the viewer into the story by way of an intriguing and mysterious plot line ; North by Northwest goes completely the other way , and draws you in with simple , old-fashioned entertainment value . It's true that there isn't much substance here , but at the same time ; you can't doubt North by Northwest's credibility for a second , as Hitchcock has laid on the style and his story telling is as sharp as ever . The plot is typically Hitchcockian and sees a man kidnapped by a group of gangsters ; on the mistake the he is someone else . After narrowly escaping , our hero goes on the run ; from both the gangsters and the law . As he is drawn deeper and deeper into unfolding events , he finds himself more and more unable to stop them unfolding . By today's standards , North by Northwest could be seen as clichéd . Hitchcock has thrown in all the common spy thriller elements ; from femme fatales and a British villain , to car chases and even an overblown finale ; but Hitchcock implements all these elements in such a way that the film never feels old hat and , even now , nearly five decades on ; North by Northwest is still an entertaining thriller , and that is testament to Hitchcock's endearing talent , as many of the recent films that are entertaining now , probably wont be fifty years down the line . Every set piece in the movie is beautifully engineered , and as the plot is perfectly paced ; nothing ever seems like it shouldn't be there , and North by Northwest flows excellently . The film is best remembered for stand-out sequences including the famous bi-plane scene , but even those scenes , that have been seen separate from the movie many times , don't feel like they've been tacked on when viewing the movie in it's entirety . Many movies these days have instances that are there merely to be in the trailer and such ; but here , Hitchcock is as restrained as ever , yet he still manages to insert scenes like this into the film . To be honest , I think Cary Grant got the short end of the stick with Hitchcock's films . While James Stewart got Vertigo , The Man Who Knew Too Much and Rear Window , Grant only got gifted with Suspicion , To Catch a Thief , Notorious and this film ; and while this one is very good , the rest of the Grant-Hitchcock collaborations are not among either man's best work . However , fans of both of these cinema legends can be thankful for North by Northwest , as both are on top of their game and in that instance ; only a fine film can ensue . This isn't Cary Grant's best performance ; sometimes he looks a bit out of place , and he's definitely spent too long on the sun beds - but his charm and charisma lifts even his most disappointing performances , and the one here certainly isn't one of those . Hitchcock's direction is flawless , and the film never feels clumsy or gets boring at any stage . If I was going to nit-pick , I would perhaps say that the film could have been streamlined a little bit more ; but overall , North by Northwest is an entertaining classic that all fans of cinema need to see !
Absolute first rate thriller !	Tesis is a film about a film student writing an assignment on violence on film , which is appropriate because Tesis is itself , an assignment written by Alejandro Amenábar on violence and the state of the Spanish film industry . Amenábar has packed the film with nods towards the industry , and the reasons why it isn't working and this ties in excellently with the central theme of violence . The director professes that Spain's film industry will not be a success until it gives the people what it wants - and that theory in it's purest form is snuff films . Snuff films don't have any production values and exist purely to please their audience on an aesthetic level - and the snuff industry in this film is in a boom period ! The idea of violence and why we find it is fascinating has made the base for many films , and it serves this one excellently too . The scene at the start sums all up ; we open in a train station where someone has committed suicide . The station guards are trying to ensure that nobody sees the horror , and yet there's scores of people surrounding the tracks and Amenábar makes sure that even you - the viewer - want to survey the horror for yourself . I don't know how successful Tesis was in it's native Spain , but it's certainly one of the best films to come out of the country in recent memory , and a lot of the reason for that is that the director has heeded his own advice and given the audience what they want . Rather than try and be deep and complex like many other foreign films , Tesis is a straight thriller , not unlike what would come out of America's thriving industry , and the fact that Amenábar has knowingly accepted what his film is and hasn't tried to make it any more than that does it no end of favours . The film follows a relaxed pace , and the basic structure follows a mystery , which is being unravelled by two students ; Angela , the one doing the thesis and Chema ; someone she met because of his infamous love for violent films . The way that Amenábar keeps the film flowing steadily ensures that we are really able to get into the mystery , and this makes the film far more thrilling overall . The film is about snuff films , but it shouldn't be mistaken for one itself . The focus is often kept away from violence , and the director only shows us just enough of the snuff to whet our appetites . The film's main point is to show us the mystery , but the characters are never made to take a backseat . The two central figures are given time to grow as people so that we can really get to know them , and even feel for them . In many thrillers , the characters and the mystery can't be weighed up evenly ; but despite the fact that he's only a young filmmaker , Amenábar has shown his brilliance by doing it to perfection . The characters actually compliment the mystery , in fact , because at times it flows because of who the characters are . This really allows the film to become compelling , and this is also where most of the true greatness lies . The characters are brought to life by a great cast of young actors . The beautiful Ana Torrent takes the lead role , and is joined by débutant Fele Martínez , who plays her opposite number . These two have an awkward chemistry , and this is capitalised on brilliantly . The third lead is played by Eduardo Noriega , who would go on to make a splash in Amenábar's Open Your Eyes a year later . Tesis doesn't get mentioned all that often in discussions about great horror / thrillers - and I really have no idea why . This is a first rate film , and really shows its cast and director's talent . The Spanish film industry may be on the decline - but it wont be if they can pump out a few more films like this one !
Dark and eerie Eurohorror gem !	Director Narciso Ibáñez Serrador is most famous for his under-seen cult gem , ' Who Can Kill a Child ? ' , but this Gothic horror treat is definitely well worth tracking down ! Perhaps not as original or thought provoking as Serrador's later film , The House That Screamed presents it's situation and characters well , and the atmosphere that the director bathes every scene in is a major highlight . The film works like a cross between a film about imprisoned women ( along the same lines as Pete Walker's masterpiece ' House of Whipcord ' ) and an Italian Giallo ; although it's clear that Serrador wanted to keep the focus on the girls ' and their plight , as the murder theme exists almost like an afterthought . The film focuses on a French boarding school for wayward girls . The owner and mistress of this establishment is the unforgiving Mme Fourneau , who sees fit to enforce a strict discipline upon her pupils , which has lead to widespread deviance among the girls . The mistress is never more strict with anyone than her own son , however , who has fallen in love with one of the girls , leading his mother to tell him that he should find a girl " just like her " . . . It's amazing that this film was made in 1969 , as the production values are amazing owing to the director's care and attention to detail , and it's also clear that this film was a major inspiration for a barrage of later Gothic horror films , including Dario Argento's most famous film ' Suspiria ' . Its own influence comes from Gothic horror the likes of which the great Mario Bava is famous for producing , and the dark and gloomy look of the school bodes excellently with the themes of the plot . Lilli Palmer is the pick of the cast , and delivers an excellent strong lead performance in the lead role . She receives decent feedback from the likes of Cristina Galbó and John Moulder-Brown who , along with the rest of the support players , help to ensure that this is above a lot of Euro-sleaze being released around the same time . The murders aren't the main point of the film , and while they're not overly gory or brutal ; they work well in the context of the movie , and succeed in being extremely stylish . The film ends on a definite high , as although the identity of the murderer isn't a shock ; the reason for the killings completely caught me out and the dark and shocking finale is a treat . Overall , this masterpiece comes HIGHLY recommended to fans of cult horror !
Brooding and interesting revenge movie from the great Claude Chabrol !	Claude Chabrol made a lot of films during his career , and while I've only really scratched the surface so far - I have to say that this one is right up there with his very best ! Chabrol's films aren't thrillers in the same vein as those made by the likes of Alfred Hitchcock ( in spite of the fact that he is often known as ' The French Hitchcock ' ) ; with Chabrol the thrills don't come from moments of suspense or tension , but from the interest generated in the lead characters and the situation put forward , and that was never truer than with this film - perhaps the most sombre revenge movie ever made ! The film starts off with a young boy returning home from the beach . However , his stroll is interrupted when a car comes out of nowhere and runs him down . The boy's father , a man named Charles Thenier , is distraught following the accident and vows to track down the man who did it . His thirst for revenge is great , but his hatred towards the murderer is so immense that he decides , one he finds him , to befriend and lure him into a false sense of security before killing him . . . Since there's not a great deal of excitement in the visceral sense , it may seem on the surface that This Man Must Die does not do its job as a thriller . However , this couldn't be further from the truth . Chabrol's film is brooding and intriguing throughout and has a great sense of realism in the way that the wronged father goes after the man who killed his son . It has to be said that the film somewhat hinges on coincidence , but this is actually addressed within the film itself and the events that take place are largely logical . Once again , Chabrol's production values are high and the film is incredibly beautiful and it bodes well with the sober tone of the movie . The acting is fantastic , with Michel Duchaussoy doing well in the lead role and receiving excellent feedback from the lovely Caroline Cellier and the brilliant Jean Yanne who steals every scene he's in as the villain of the piece . The film boils down to an excellent conclusion that both comes as something of a surprise and adds some Greek tragedy into the mix . Overall , this is another big success for the great French director and comes highly recommended !
Stand up comedy doesn't get any better than this	Bill Bailey's ' Part Troll ' tour is quite possibly the funniest thing ever filmed . Ever . The amazingly talented comedian completely owns the stage , and gets laughs from a number of different means - most notably his guitar , keyboard and drum and bass sequences . It's amazing just consistently hilarious this show really is ; I have quite a good sense of humour , but even I rarely see a show that will have me covering my eyes because I cannot bear to watch the hilarious facial expressions of Bill Bailey as well as hear what's coming out of his mouth for fear of being sick due to laughing so hard . Threads involving the BBC news , George Bush's words of wisdom being implemented into a drum and bass beat ( which Bill calls ' Drum and Bush ' ) and hilarious sequences on the general attitudes of British people and the terrorist organisation ' The Axis of Evil ' are particular highlights . Bill Bailey is a very talented man , and quite how he manages to think of all this stuff is a mystery to a less talented mere mortal like myself . He's been blessed with a face and demeanour that lend themselves to comedy brilliantly , and this may be the finest performance in the entire history of comedy . My throat was screaming for mercy by the end of the show . . . and that's exactly what you want from a stand up comedian . ' Part Troll ' is majestic in every respect .
The aliens are back . . . bigger , better and more !	It has become customary among film fans to name Ridley Scott's original ' Alien ' as the best of the series ; but that is a notion that I cannot agree with . James Cameron's sequel is bigger , more ambitious , more exciting and just generally a better time than it's predecessor . The claustrophobic suspense-driven horror of the first film has thrown out of the window in favour of a more boisterous action stance . This would normally get on my nerves , but Cameron knows how to handle action so well that it's impossible not to go along with everything he shows on screen ; and the switch from horror to action , therefore , is very much a good one . The plot is well thought out , and it follows the rescue of Ripley , the heroine of the first film , and it isn't long before she's being asked to go back into action . People have inhabited the planet where her crew picked up the first alien , and that population has become infested with bloodthirsty aliens . Enter a well-equipped team of space marines given the task of going in and finding out what the trouble is . Of course , it's more trouble than they ever imagined . . . James Cameron said himself that he wanted to make aliens ' Vietnam in space ' - and that's exactly what he's done . The marines are well equipped and trained , but that doesn't mean anything when you can't see your enemy . Like the Viet-Kong , the aliens blend into their background and strike without being seen . This idea benefits the film in two ways . Firstly , it gives it an intelligent edge , as it's not merely just humans blowing aliens to bits or vice versa , and secondly ; it's far more exciting this way ! The pivotal scene mid-way through the movie where we meet the aliens for the first time shows this best . The special effects in Aliens are great , and show the massive detrimental effect that CGI has had on cinema . All the effects here have been done properly , and they look far better than ninety-nine percent of the movies done with computers . It's much easier to buy into a film where someone has actually put effort into making the effects ' special ' , and that for me is worth the extra time , money and effort that real effects cost . My only complaint on the aesthetic front for the film is the cinematography . The atmosphere is downtrodden , so it suits the movie ; but it also gives it a sort of nostalgic feel that the movie could do without . The acting in Aliens is superb , with Sigourney Weaver heading an excellent ensemble . James Cameron has scripted a range of characters , and each of them is brought to life excellently by the cast . Weaver helps her character's development with some great subtle mannerisms , which help beyond the scripting that Cameron has given her . Michael Beihn , Carrie Henn , Paul Reiser and Jenette Goldstein are all solid in their roles and bring their characters to life excellently . Lance Henriksen stands out as the android ' Bishop ' . You can really believe that he's an ' artificial person ' , which is quite difficult to do since he's playing something that doesn't actually exist . The real star of the show for me , however , has to be Bill Paxton . Like he's done so many times before and after , Paxton leads the film from the back and steals every scene he's in with his wisecracking and - later - mortal terror . The film is solidly directed , with James Cameron implementing suspense , emotion and action brilliantly at every point that it's needed , and overall I don't hesitate to call this the greatest Action Sci-Fi film ever made , and one of cinema's best on the whole .
Shocking and sadistic - Bava at his best !	Rabid Dogs represents the only directorial teaming of the great Mario Bava and his son Lamberto , and it also represents a huge diamond in both directors ' filmography . Mario Bava is probably most famous for his work on Gothic horror masterpieces such as Black Sabbath and Black Sunday , while Lamberto Bava made his name with trashy Giallo's such as A Blade in the Dark , and schlock horror the likes of Devilfish . Rabid Dogs , however , is a crime come exploitation flick , and even though this sort of film isn't either man's forte ; it's still hands down one of the best movies of its kind . The film works principally because of the way the director's set up the situation and characters . The central plot is really rather thin , but anyone describing the film as ' deep ' wouldn't be wrong , and it's down to the way the directors embellish it . The plot follows three criminals who , after botching a robbery , kidnap a woman , a man and his sick child hostage in the man's car , where they instruct him to drive them to safety . However , it's not going to be a smooth ride as tensions heat up between the guilty and innocent inside the car . The way that the characters are set up is masterful , and it's thanks to this that the film works so well . After a while , we begin to be able to see the sorts of decisions that the characters are going to make , and the way that they're all so different ensures the action is always interesting . The vast majority of this movie is set inside a car , and Bava makes best use of his claustrophobic location and uses it well in order to rack up the tension . While Mario Bava is responsible for some of Italy's best horror films , it has to be said that a lot of them aren't all that ' nasty ' - but here there is an exception . The director seems to delight in the shocking violence and ritual humiliation inflicted upon his lead characters , and several tense scenes are likely to shock and disturb the viewer . Even though the film doesn't have a lot of variation between its scenes , Bava manages to keep it interesting through the relentless pace and the intelligent dialogue between the lead characters . It all boils down to a superb ending , which while not entirely impossible to guess , does succeed in providing a nice shock . I had a rather difficult time tracking down this film - but it really was worth it , and I recommend every Bava fan do the same !
Sexy , bizarre and twisted - a compelling film experience !	Andrzej Zulawski's film is relentlessly confusing and I bet that even the man himself doesn't always know exactly what's going on ; but it's such a beautiful and unique film experience that it's difficult not to go along with it ; and while I understand how this movie has become a ' love it or hate it ' film , I am firmly on the former side of the equation ! Almost everything about Possession is twisted and / or bizarre ; so I suppose it is fitting that the film was included on the British censors ' ' Video Nasty ' list back in the eighties . Don't get me wrong , there's a fair amount of gore on display ; but the inclusion of this film on the list is yet another sad example of censorship depriving the general public of a movie that really deserves to be seen . Possession starts off like any drama following the break-up of a relationship . Mark has just returned from a business trip to find that his wife wants to leave him . Naturally , he deduces that the ending of their relationship is down to another man ; and he's not wrong - but things take a turn for the sinister when she leaves her lover for . . . something else . The style of the movie is superb throughout , as director Andrzej Zulawski manages to create an atmosphere that is sexy , surreal and bubbling with mystery . Zulawski's use of the camera is fascinating , as by keeping everything mobile he manages to aptly convey the characters ' fractured mentality , and continue to build the mystery surrounding the central plot . Indeed , the film is a labyrinth of sub-plots , and many of them don't really go anywhere - but everything in the film serves a purpose ; even if that purpose often is simply making the film even more bizarre . A trio of great performances make up the movie . Sam Neill is superb in the lead role and , unlike in his more popular films , he actually gets to act here . Isabelle Adjani is scintillating in her role , and while it appears that she doesn't have much to do ; she actually carries the film's biggest burden as it must be difficult to convince an audience that you're in love with something that isn't human . Heinz Bennent's role is the least weighty , but he rounds off the film nicely with a good performance . The special effects are brilliant and never go over the top ; the director's use of what can only be described as a ' monster ' being especially well done , and on the whole ; Possession is a movie that everyone should give the time of day to . HIGHLY recommended !
There isn't another film quite like Dellamorte Dellamore	There was a distinct lack of truly great horror in the nineties ; but this film , Dellamorte Dellamore , tops the list of what little good ones there were . It's actually quite shocking that this came out during a huge depression for horror cinema , because it's easily one of the greatest horror movies I ever saw . Dellamorte Dellamore is a rather strange mix of horror , romance , twisted fairytale and comedy that isn't quite like anything else in cinema ; horror or otherwise . The film knows that it's not the usual sort of film , and revels in this fact throughout . Dellamorte Dellamore buys itself a licence do whatever it wants through the fact that it so weird , and therefore no matter what the film throws at you ; it's easy to just back and enjoy it . The film is directed by Dario Argento's talented understudy , Michele Soavi and finds an unlikely lead in Rupert Everett . The story follows Everett ; the keeper of a cemetery in a small Italian town called Buffalora . He lives there with his assistant ; the deformed Gnaghi , but this isn't quite the normal cemetery , however , as here the dead come back to life and it's up the cemetery man to put them back to sleep . When he meets the most beautiful woman he's ever seen in his cemetery , however , it appears that his luck is starting to change . The atmosphere presented in this film is truly brilliant , and one of Dellamorte Dellamore's main assets . A cemetery is always going to present a macabre location for a film's characters to inhabit , but the Gothic design in this film ensures that Buffalora's cemetery is more than the horror film norm . The way that the smoke protrudes from the graves , along with several little special effects that director Michele Soavi has seen fit to implement all help to give the film that unique ambiance that it portrays so well . Soavi has given this film it's own style throughout , and even the zombies adhere to it . Soavi's zombies , like the rest of the film , don't stick to convention and rather than being covered with blood , falling to pieces of screaming " brains ! " , these zombies really look like they've been underground , and also manage to tie in with the downbeat tone of the rest of the movie . A lot of imagination has gone into Dellamorte Dellamore , and almost every sequence is soaked in it . It's things like the way that the cemetery man's assistant takes the mayor's daughter's head from her grave and puts it in the television that makes Dellamorte Dellamore what it is , and not just any other zombie movie . Horror movies aren't known for great acting , but Dellamorte Dellamore breaks convention once again on that front . Rupert Everett puts in a performance that goes over and above what audiences have come to expect from him given his earlier roles . Like the rest of the film , he just fits in ; and if you'd never seen Everett in anything before , you would think that he made this kind of movie all the time . The fact that he isn't essentially a horror film actor only makes the performance even more impressive . Anna Falchi stars opposite him in three different female roles , and looks absolutely great in all of them . The rest of the cast is made up of lesser-known actors , with the very odd François Hadji-Lazaro standing out most among them . Director Michele Soavi started out working under the great Dario Argento , but the few films he has directed himself show that he is a bigger talent than his resume lets on . Here , for example , he has created a film that absolutely stands on it's own . Dellamorte Dellamore goes beyond the title ' horror film ' , and comes out in a sub-genre all of it's own . Films like this don't often come to the attention of the mainstream ; and that's a shame because originality like this should be praised to high heaven . Dellamorte Dellamore is a film that is impossible to ignore and , providing you can find a copy , ignoring is definitely not the recommended action !
Devilish grindhouse nastiness from Rob Zombie !	After his successful fusion of 70's exploitation and pumping rock music for his debut feature ' House of 1000 Corpses ' , monster rocker turned director Rob Zombie has decided to put on a different tone for the sequel . Gone is the hardcore horror of the first , and in it's place , Zombie has installed a road movie grindhouse style ; and once again , he's done modern horror fans proud ! It's amazing just how much like a 70's flick this film is , and it's obvious that the director , and the entire cast , had a really great time making this film . In House of 1000 Corpses , it was clear that a first time director was on board , due to the amount of trickery and the way that every scene was populated to the max with fine details . Zombie is much restrained with this picture ; and while he still dishes up lots of eye candy , this time round it never feels like he'd doing it for the sake of it . He's also opted not to use his own music in the film . While I liked the songs that Zombie made for House of 1000 Corpses , I much prefer the 70's soundtrack that he's given the movie this time - and with such songs as Joe Walsh's " Rocky Mountain Way " and Lynard Skynard's " Free Bird " on there , how could anyone not ? The plot follows on from the original film with a shoot out on the deranged family's home . This sequence gives you a good idea of what you're in for with the film , as Zombie overwhelms his audience with an uncountable number of gunshots - after seeing this intro , you know that you're not in for an ' easy ' viewing ! We then follow the two survivors of the massacre , Otis and Baby , who meet up with their father ; Captain Spaulding and the three then go on a wayward killing spree across the country . Hot on their tails is vigilante copper Sheriff Wydell , who isn't going to let the death of his brother go without punishment ! The Devil's Rejects is really all about it's characters , and the central three - Otis , Baby and Captain Spaulding - could be in any film and it would be interesting . All three characters light up the screen every second they're on it , and it's great to see these guys enjoying themselves . The duo of Sid Haig ( Spider Baby ) and Bill Moseley ( TCM 2 , Army of Darkness ) return as Spaulding and Otis , while Zombie's wife ; the very sexy Sherri Moon , once again steps into the role of ' Baby ' . Zombie has also recruited a host of horror movie stars to populate his film with , including Danny Trejo ( From Dusk Till Dawn ) , Ken Foree ( Dawn of the Dead ) and Michael Berryman ( The Hills Have Eyes ) . Despite the fact that none of the actors are ' A ' list stars , they all do amazingly well in their roles . The acting is wholly realistic , and it feels like you're watching real people as opposed to actors at times . The violence in the movie is relentless and hardcore , which is sure to please everyone that wants to see it . There's far too many dumbed down horror movies of late ; but this certainly isn't one of them ! This film is also very funny , and even though a lot of the action is nasty and deprived - it's very easy to see humour in it . Zombie fuses this hilarity with extreme violence and , exactly what Zombie's stance on actual violence is , is never really clear . He just presents the atrocities and it's hard not to enjoy it . In that way , Zombie makes voyeurs out of his audience and , the fact that Zombie spends a lot of the movie building up his characters ensures that , despite their evils , we care for them towards the end . Speaking of the ending . . . what an ending ! Lynard Skynard's " Free Bird " works brilliantly with the action that goes with it , and it's definitely one of the best endings I've seen in recent years . On the whole ; this film is not for everyone , but if you like your violence thick and fast - you're in for a treat indeed !
Assured portrayals of real characters in an amazingly chilling film !	What we have here is a fantastic classic horror film , which benefits from great performances from all concerned and a plot not typical of serial killer films . The film doesn't adhere to convention and builds its story around an idea that was frightening for the time - and still is to this day . The murderer in this film is as evil as any other ; the only difference being that here the killings are committed by a decidedly amoral child . The film presents a good portrait of its star , as it presents its ideas very much from a child's point of view . The young girl doesn't see what she's doing as wrong as she is always given a reason to pass on the blame for wrongdoings , and this always comes across in a plausible way . The plot surrounding the atrocities is even more interesting than the central idea , as we follow the torment inflicted on the girl's mother . The situation that Christine Penmark finds herself in is the stuff of nightmares ; just what can you do if you find that your eight year old child has committed murder ? The Bad Seed makes excellent use of this dilemma , and the fact that it's incredibly easy to buy into the plot ensures that The Bad Seed prevails as an potently chilling film . The film is based on a stage play by Maxwell Anderson , and this comes across often as the film takes place in just a few settings and the whole thing is very stagy . This is , however , to its benefit ; as the locations make the whole piece more claustrophobic , and the fact that we don't see the murders themselves benefits the film immensely as it allows the audience to spend more time considering the implications ; which are what the film is actually about . The main reason why this film works so well is down to a great performance by talented child actor Patricia McCormack . McCormack presents a portrayal that finds exactly the right pitch between the sweet and innocent youngster that she appears ; and the dark persona that lies just beneath her exterior . Nancy Kelly similarly gives a defining performance as her tortured mother , and excellently puts across a torrent of emotion . The acting is typically melodramatic , but all the cast somehow manage to keep their acting down to earth . Every scene in the movie is perfectly pitched and nothing is wasted as we are continually taught more about the characters and their situations . The climax to the film is fabulously poetic , despite being implemented on the producer's orders and overall , I really don't see much wrong with this film . Highly recommended !
Absolutely brilliant comedy	To make a comedy that can be lauded with the comment ' absolutely hilarious ' isn't an easy thing to do . It's not so difficult , however , when you are one of the funniest men on god's green earth ; and the extremely talented John Cleese has certainly managed to write a fine piece of comedy here . Teaming up with Monty Python buddy Michael Palin and Ealing studios director Charles Crichton , these talented comedians have managed to create a film that is most certainly one of the funniest ; laugh per minute and lasting hilarity when it's over , movies ever made . The plot is taken straight from the classic Ealing comedy era ( no wonder it works so well ) and it follows four crooks that have stolen a bunch of jewels and now decide to double cross one another to take the loot solely for themselves . The plot thickens when the female of the bunch decides that the best way to get the loot would be to get close to a grassed-up co-conspirator's barrister ; John Cleese . Aside from an inch-perfect screenplay , A Fish Called Wanda also benefits from a fine cast of actors to deliver it . John Cleese steals every scene he's in , as you might expect , and he more than justifies his reputation as one of , maybe even the , finest British comedy actor ever . He is joined by a talented pair of Americans ; Kevin Kline and Jamie Lee Curtis , along with , as mentioned , his fellow Python Michael Palin . Kline is certainly one of the most underrated actors working today , and his comic timing in this movie is right on the money . Makes you wonder how much better he could have been used over the years . " Scream Queen " Jamie Lee Curtis also does well in the title role ; and Michael Palin obviously knows his way round a comedy script . The jokes in the film come thick and fast , and I can't think of a single one that didn't work . It's the big gags that are the real stand out of the movie , though , and one in particular that sees Kevin Kline trying to explain to Cleese's wife what he's doing in their home is absolutely priceless . I nearly fell of my chair laughing . This film is a must see .
A fiendishly good time - a masterpiece of black comedy !	The phrase " they don't make ' em like this any more " must have been thought up with this film in mind . Arsenic and Old Lace is a comedy the likes of which could only have been made before cinema audiences became as jaded as they are now . The comedy is pitch black - but it's pitch black in a nice humour sort of a way . These days , too many filmmakers seem to think that black comedy has to be really dark - but Frank Capra knew it doesn't , and this movie is the result . Here , we have a film that follows themes of poisoning , crime and insanity , but it's so fun to watch that you don't realise just how macabre the plot is . The whole film is played out with a great big smile on it's face - and although the plot just continues to get more and more complicated as the film progresses - the audience doesn't notice because it's so fun to watch . We follow Mortimer Brewster , a critic who , on his wedding day , finds out that his kindly old aunts are really homicidal maniacs that have killed twelve gentlemen already . One of his brothers thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt , and the other is a wanted criminal with a strange likeness to Boris Karloff . . . as Mortimer himself says , insanity doesn't run in his family - it practically gallops ! The whole film is held together courtesy of a maestro performance from Cary Grant . Grant is an absolutely superb actor , and every single scene with him in is just mesmerising . The one where he finds out that his aunts have killed the man in the window box is one of the best Cary ever did . The way that he commands the screen is awesome and I really can't lump enough praise on this great , great actor ! He is joined by a whole host of weird and wonderful characters . The fact that all these characters are in the film gives it free reign to basically do whatever it wants . The plot is easy to follow because the characters are so unique from one another , and really ; they could all be just standing around watching paint dry and it would be funny ! Speaking of the word ' funny ' - this film epitomises it ! Arsenic and Old Lace doesn't suffer from a single dull moment , and you could laugh at practically any moment in the film and you wouldn't be laughing at nothing . Many people think that great classics need substance to be remembered - but this one proves otherwise . Arsenic and Old Lace is a good time , plain and simple - and yet there's nobody that can argue that this isn't a masterpiece . See this film !
Truly first rate Spanish horror !	Who Can Kill a Child starts off with a drawn out sequence depicting real life horror against children . There's quite a difference between real life and cinematic horror , and had Chicho Ibáñez-Serrador's film been cheap and nasty along the same lines as a great number of other European horror films , it would have been safe to say that the movie is in bad taste . However , not only is the introduction sequence needed ; Ibáñez-Serrador makes a point out of it that he harks back at to at several points during the movie . It has to be said that the point of the film is a little muddled and doesn't always come across ; but then again , this film could have been without point and the atmosphere and core idea alone would have ensured the film its status as a cult classic . The plot follows a holidaying couple who decide to take a boat from mainland Spain to a small island just off the coast . They soon realise that something is wrong as , other than the kids that greeted them ; the island is eerily deserted , and things worsen when it transpires that the kids are the cause of the lack of adults . . . The major standout of this film is the style . Director Chicho Ibáñez-Serrador creates a creepy atmosphere by way of the deserted streets within the clean , white location in which the film takes place . The tension then builds , and the happiness of the couple turns into despair as their situations worsens with each minute of running time . Lewis Fiander and Prunella Ransome take the lead roles , and deliver performances that are concurrent with the film . Fiander reminded me a lot of Donald Sutherland in Don't Look Now , as he continually loses control over his situation . In contrast , Ransome gives it her all as his opposite number , and the pair share a believable chemistry on screen . The director's use of the camera is superb . Ibáñez-Serrador continually develops a strong foreboding atmosphere and in doing so creates a series of memorable sequences ; the one that sees the camera caress a corpse hidden behind a store shelf towards the beginning being a particular highlight . The fact that the villains of the film are innocent looking children ensures that the film is always going to be shocking ; but the director handles the plot well , as Who Can Kill a Child never descends into comic book horror , and the use of blood is suitably restrained . Overall ; this is a movie you don't see very often - an original and truly harrowing horror picture and one that shouldn't be missed by Eurohorror fans !
Fantastic Japanese Exploitation !	I've seen a handful of women in prison films and before seeing this one , hadn't seen a really good one . It's a genre closely associated with lesbian sex , torture and general sleaze and is one of the staples of the oeuvres of Italian trash directors such as Jess Franco and Joe D'Amato . Female Convict Scorpion adheres to the trends of the genre , but it does it with so much more class than the majority of genre offerings and the result is a film that transcends its trash origins into masterpiece territory . Female Convict Scorpion excellently straddles the boundary between the two types of film - its trash shot as art ! Like most women in prison films , this one focuses on one particular prisoner inside a women's prison . The prisoner is Nami Matsushima , a woman betrayed by her boyfriend ( a police officer with mob ties ) and wrongly imprisoned . She wants revenge on the man who put her in jail , and since she knows a lot of his secrets ; he wants her dead . The policeman / mobster soon decides to have one of the other prisoners arrange an " accident " for Nami Matsushima . . . The film starts as it means to go on ; first we get a prison break that sees two prisoners hunted down and caught by the ruthless prison guards , and the next scene sees a bunch of naked women being directed about by said prison guards . There is not as much sleaze in this film as there is in my other women in prison flicks , but there's more than enough - and the fact that it doesn't go over the top means that the sleaze we do get is far more potent . The film is also rather gory , and although much of the violence is in a comic book style , seeing the blood spill is still a treat . The film features some stunning cinematography , and director Shunya Ito is obviously keen to get the art-house style across as much as possible . There's also several excellently shot sequences ; the scene involving a disgruntled inmate rampaging through the showers with a shard of glass being particularly excellent . It's all topped off by a sensational performance by Meiko Kaji in the lead role , and overall ; it has to be said that Female Convict Scorpion is a masterpiece that does not deserve to be missed !
A stunning thriller from the master of suspense	Alfred Hitchcock has made many brilliant thrillers , and many of them have gone on to be hailed as some of the greatest films of all time . One film that tends to get somewhat lost under the Vertigo's and the Psycho's is this film ; Strangers on a Train , the most compelling film that Hitchcock ever made . The story follows Guy Haines , a tennis player and a man soon to be wed to the Senator's daughter , if he can get a divorce from his current wife . One day , on the way to see his wife , he meets the mentally unstable Bruno Anthony aboard a train and soon gets drawn into a murder plot that he can neither stop nor stall ; and one that could ultimately cost him his life . The conversation aboard the train between Bruno and Guy is one of the cinema's most intriguing and thought provoking of all time . What if two people " swapped " murders , thus resolving themselves of all suspicion of the crime , and rendering their motive irrelevant ? Could this truly be the perfect murder ? What makes this film all the more frightening is that the events that Guy is lead into could happen to any , normal everyday person . Everyone has someone they'd like to get rid of , so what if you met an insane man aboard a train that does your murder for you and then forces you to do his ? The chances of it happening are unlikely , but it's the idea that anyone could be a murderer that is central to the message of Strangers on a Train ; and in this situation , anyone could . Is there any actor on earth that could have portrayed the character of Bruno Anthony any better than Robert Walker ? The man was simply born for the part . He manages to capture just the right mood for his character and absolutely commands every scene he is in . The character of Bruno is a madman , but he's not a lunatic ; he's a calculating , conniving human being and Robert Walker makes the character believable . His performance is extremely malevolent , and yet understated enough to keep the character firmly within the realms of reality . Unfortunately , Robert Walker died just one year after the release of Strangers on a Train , and I believe that is a great loss to cinema . Nobody in the cast shines as much as Walker does , but worth mentioning is his co-star Farley Granger . Granger never really impresses that much , but his performance is good enough and he holds his own against Walker . Also notable about his performance is that he portrays his character as a very normal person ; and that is how it should be . Ruth Roman is Guy's wife to be . She isn't really in the film enough to make a lasting impression , but she makes the best of what she has . Alfred Hitchcock's daughter , Patricia , takes the final role of the four central roles as Barbara , the sister of Guy's fiancé . She is suitably lovely in this role , and she tends to steal a lot of the scenes that she is in . Alfred Hitchcock's direction is always sublime , and it is very much so in this film . There is one shot in particular , that sees the murder of the film being committed in the reflection of a pair of sunglasses . This is an absolutely brilliant shot , and one that creates a great atmosphere for the scene . Hitchcock's direction is moody throughout , and very much complies with the film noir style . The climax to the film is both spectacular and exciting , and I don't think that anyone but Hitchcock could have pulled it off to the great effect that it was shown in this film . It's truly overblown , and out of turn from the rest of the movie ; but it works . There is a reason that Hitchcock is often cited as the greatest director of all time , and the reason for that is that he doesn't only use the script to tell the film's story , but he also uses to camera to do so as well . Strangers on a Train is one of the greatest thrillers ever made . Its story is both intriguing and thought provoking , and is sure to delight any fan of cinema . A masterpiece .
In a word : brilliant	François Ozon's pitch black mickey take is a biting satire on family life and a brash distraction from the shows of it's title . While many sitcom's are monotonous affairs , Ozon's take on the medium is anything but . Despite taking in many of the clichés of the sitcom - stuffy mother , raunchy maid , bored father etc - Sitcom manages to be continually inventive and the way that it exposes the clichés of the genre is both ludicrously ridiculous and harshly disturbing . The French director proves with this movie that he's not afraid to overstep several boundaries and make a film that dares to be different , and for that reason this film will never be universally liked . However , if you can connect with Ozon's vision , you're in for a treat and that was the situation I found myself in ! The story follows a father who , after bringing his family a lab-rat for a present , finds his family collapsing around him - his son discovers he's gay , his daughter jumps out of the window and his wife . . . well , I'll leave you to find that out on your own . Sitcom is a singularly unpleasant experience . Watching family life deteriorate is a much more gruelling affair than you might imagine , and even though the family and the situation that Ozon has presented are utterly ridiculous ; he still manages to inject life into it , which ensures that it hammers home the point that the auteur intended . Whenever I see a film that dares to be different and deliver something that I haven't seen before , I tend to find myself heaping the praise on it and that is certainly the case with this film . You will not find a comedy with a more rotten core than this one and similarly you will not find one that dares to present the utterly ridiculous happenings that this movie thrives on . I don't know how Ozon thought he could get away with some of the things in this film - not just the taboo's he's portrayed , but other things too , some of which are just too stupid to comprehend ? but Ozon makes them work ! Sitcom is a movie that needs to be experienced , and it's a film that will divide opinions as much as any other movie ever made . And if only for that reason - see this film as soon as possible .
