Letting your child watch this is akin to child abuse	Who authorized the making of this movie ? ! I assume that SOMEONE must have read the script and STILL thought the movie was worth making . But how ? The movie is a completely depressing and stupid mess . I can't think of a less appealing holiday movie except for the terrible Grinch ( 2000 ) . So here's the heart-warming ( ? ) plot . A neglectful father is in a rock / blues band . FYI - - Michael Keaton's singing was surprisingly good ( though this does NOT make up for the rest of the movie ) . Anyway , he wants to make it big and gets the chance to do an important gig on Christmas Eve . While traveling there , he's in an accident and is killed . I felt it served him right because he was behaving like a selfish jerk but I'm sure that many children were traumatized when this occurred . Later , for no discernible reason , his son's wish to have his dad return results in Keaton being reincarnated as a really creepy looking snowman . This is the second opportunity to traumatize the kids , as he wasn't particularly cute or endearing - - just plain creepy . Keaton and his son SOMEHOW manage to renew their love for each other and then Keaton melts - - - providing a third opportunity to induce childhood trauma in our kids . That's it . Nothing fun , nothing cuddly , and nothing worth wasting your time seeing . It's just depressing and banal .
Reason # 253 to hate the 1970s	JONATHAN LIVINGSTON SEAGULL is a film about a bird and his philosophical musings . As he flies about , he wonders if there's more to life than just eating fish heads , how high he can fly and is there some special purpose to life - - all in a live-action two-hour film ! Yes , this is # 253 of why you should hate the 1970s - - right between the song " Muskrat Love " and Richard Nixon ! Okay , there really is no such list - - but if there was , this film would be on it ! That's because this is a god-awful film that was actually embraced by " with it " people and made the book a huge best-seller and the film a must-see . And to make it worse , the film is so deadly serious and tries so hard to be philosophical - - while all it really consists of is a seagull flying about as inane dialog blares on the screen . Could this get any worse ? ! Well , yes , because while the music does sound lovely , Neil Diamond also sings several songs that made " Heartlight " ( sure to be included if there was a " reasons to hate the 1980s " list ) seem hard-edged ! So what positive things do I have to say about the film ? Well , the cinematography is lovely and must have been spectacular on the big screen . Also , when Neil Diamond isn't singing , the music is lovely . However , with two hours to the film , these reasons become irrelevant after just a few minutes as the rest is just a ponderous pile of . . . . well , . . . guano . And the fact that so many once-respected actors LOVED the project and agreed to do voices for it is a testament to the power of mood altering drugs and hippie psychology ! ! Harry Medved included this in his book " The Fifty Worst Films of All Time " . While I have disagreed with some of his choices , I can heartily agree that this film merited , no DEMANDED , inclusion ! In summation , I'd rather eat glass than see it again ! It's THAT bad ! ! !
a complete waste of a good book and good actors	When I first saw this movie in the theaters , I was appalled . The book DUNE had been one of my favorite sci-fi novels and I had very high hopes for the movie . Instead , I was shocked to see how utterly incoherent the story was ( those who went with me needed me to explain what was happening over and over ) . I was also angry at the revolting images in the movie that are pure David Lynch ( such as the slaves with their eyelids sewn shut , the closeups of the sore on the Baron's face and much more ) . Perhaps the worst travesty is the complete waste of talented actors such as Max Von Sydow , Patrick Stewart , Jose Ferrer and Dean Stockwell . None of them had much to do but stand around as the special effects whizzed by ! In light of all these things and the lavish budget , I give this movie a score of ONE . Perhaps I might have treated the movie a lot better if there weren't so many reasons why it SHOULD have been so much better . I think given the money and acting talent , even Ed Wood , Jr . could have come up with a better film ! After all , DUNE was an amazing and intelligent book - - this movie was just a self-indulgent mess and it totally ignored the terrific plot - - focusing more on irrelevant details and disgusting images ! !
Not as good as it sounds . . . and it sounds truly awful !	BLACKENSTEIN is a terrible movie and its title wouldn't suggest otherwise . Like ABBY ( sort of like a Black version of THE EXORCIST ) , BLACKENSTEIN has practically no budget whatsoever and the acting is just terrible . Believe it or not , the two Blacula movies aren't that bad - - BLACKENSTEIN , however , is abysmally bad - - so bad that bad movie fans might ( but probably won't ) love it . Others with taste , however , won't ! One of the first things you'll notice on the DVD is that the print is really , really bad - - though it does get a bit better later . This is because there just isn't much money to be made from this film and adding closed captions or digitally restoring the picture just isn't going to happen ! You also will probably notice how odd Los Angeles is in the film . Most nights , there seems to be thunder and lightning and often there is an eerie fog about as well ( perhaps this is just smog ) . Regardless , it's pretty funky weather for sunny Southern California ! As for the plot , it's really not like the traditional Frankenstein story . There is no mad scientist and no dead people are reanimated . Instead , a sane researcher and his assistant work to attach dead limbs to living people who lost theirs in accidents . However , instead of working in a hospital , they work in the doctor's home which is more like a castle ( in Los Angeles , okay ? ) . Heck , the place even has a dungeon and Frankenstein-like laboratory ! The assistant is a young Black lady whose boyfriend lost his limbs in an explosion in Vietnam . While the transplant looks promising , no one realizes that the doctor's evil butler switches the genetic formulas and the poor Black man starts to mutate and become evil . He , of course , goes on some obligatory rampages and since this is a so-called " Blaxploitation " film , you see two ladies ' breasts - - though it really made no sense at all and was very , very contrived . It's amazing to see how this made no sense at all , but given that NONE of the film makes sense , it's understandable . So what is to like about the film . . . . . . well , . . . . nothing really except for the small sequence involving the comedian . One of the jokes , though a bit crude , is funny and he was pretty cute . The acting is purely amateur , the script is amazingly static and dull ( something you'd never expect in a horror film - - even a bad one ) and the sets are cheap and make no sense . It's really too dull for bad movie fans to enjoy and I found myself falling asleep from time to time - - it was that unexciting . By contrast , even the very worst Hammer horror film was light years better .
A bad film that was made much worse by Shatner's ridiculous performance .	IMPULSE is the story about a psychotic sociopath that seduces women and then kills them for their money . The film begins with a flashback where you learn how this evil pattern was developed and the film ends with , thank goodness , his demise . William Grefe directed this terrible film . The fact that the film is bad isn't surprising considering that Grefe has directed such masterpieces as DEATH CURSE OF TARTU , STING OF DEATH and WILD REBELS . The trademark of Grefe's directing is cheap - - cheap sets , cheap filming , cheap acting and cheap EVERYTHING ! ! While not as prolific as such terrible film directors as Hershell Gordon Lewis , Al Adamson , Ed Wood , Larry Buchanan and Ray Dennis Steckler , Grefe is their equal ! Now this did not mean that IMPULSE had to be a truly horrible film . Grefe might have gotten lucky and produced a mediocre film had it not been for two " actors " that conspired to make this film truly dreadful as well as a script written by lemurs . The first bad actor is the obnoxious little actress that played the obnoxious little girl ( Kim Nicholas ) . Her character is truly hateful and her acting , if you can call it that , is strictly wretched . A better director and writing might have been able to salvage this , but Grefe was not up to the task . While bad , her acting at least is understandable - - after all , she was young and not a professional ( in fact , Grefe rarely used professional actors due to costs ) . However , much more egregious is the job done by William Shatner - - who manages to do an even worse job acting than the girl ! You'd think having his many prior credits would have helped him to hone his craft , however , it was a serious liability having him in the film in any form - - let alone in the lead ! I assume the bulk of the problem was that Shatner was the professional and had more experience in the industry than all the others put together . Because of this , I am pretty sure Grefe was helpless in suggesting to Shatner how he should be acting - - an important job for any director , but one that is impossible in this instance . Shatner just did what Shatner can do best if allowed - - overact shamelessly . So how bad is Shatner ? Jaw-droppingly bad - - that's how ! ! During parts of the film , he's just fine . However , whenever he is supposed to show any emotion , he mugs so horribly and acts like he's being eaten by internal parasites - - writhing and bugging his eyes like he's in severe pain ! ! The worst scenes are with Shatner and the girl as it almost looks like they are having a contest to see who can over-emote the worst ! It was also pretty funny seeing Shatner sucking on his pinkie like Dr . Evil as well as wearing a very effeminate striped muscle shirt on one scene . It's all so bad that you can't help but laugh - - especially because he is the great William Shatner ! I would venture to say that this might just be the worst performance by an established actor that I have ever seen - - and I have seen more films that probably 99 % of the IMDb readers . It's even so bad that it manages to be worse that his overacting in the final episode of the original STAR TREK series , " Turnabout Intruder " , where Shatner plays a woman with severe PMS ! As for the rest of the cast , they did okay . Ruth Roman ( a real honest to goodness professional ) came off okay as a horny and nosy lady . Harold Sakata , oddly , appeared in the film - - though he seemed really out of place . This actor was the same guy who played ' Odd Job ' in GOLDFINGER and he was a strange choice to play Shatner's old cell mate from prison . It was also interesting that they seemed to imply that they were possibly lovers in prison and Sakata was the dominant " man " in this relationship . It's just too weird seeing this 300 pound Japanese-Hawaiian man as Shatner's bunk-mate ! The only one who did a good job was Jennifer Bishop . Not only does she deserve kudos for her decent acting but also for managing to keep a straight face when Shatner and Nicholas were acting like idiots . Overall , it's a horrible film that bad film lovers like me will love . Show it to your friends and have a big laugh . Just don't show it to STAR TREK zombies who can't laugh at Shatner or admit that he's not the greatest actor to have ever graced the screen - - they just won't get it .
life's too short to pollute your mind with this film	This is the directorial debut of David Lynch's seemingly demented daughter ( wow - - who would figure David Lynch would have a weird kid ? ! ) . Reportedly , other potential directors pulled out of the film because the script was so sick and they were afraid it might give sickos ideas . Here's the nauseating script in a brief NUTshell : Julian Sands is infatuated with Helena , but he's too shy to tell her . So he does what most people might do in this situation - - kidnaps her , takes her home and slowly cuts off her limbs and keeps her in a box . All , of course , with intense sex scenes thrown in to boot . If you are asking " why would anyone want to see something like that ? " , then you are apparently normal . The film is gratuitous and gross and I hope those associated with it are remembered for this film when they seek work . And , if you want to see nudity , there are certainly better and less revolting porno videos out there !
How can ANYONE rate or review this movie ? ? ? ! ! ? ? ! ! ? ?	Since the movie was only shown once and the last time was about 80 years ago , how can anyone review this film or give a rating score ? ? ! ! To make this appeal to others NOT to rate or review this film , I was forced by IMDb to give a rating but how could I ? ! ? ! Unless someone who is well into their upper 90s or older can come forward and rate and review this film , I really don't think it makes any sense at all to speculate about this picture . Groucho supposedly said it was lousy and this is probably the best available assessment of the film . And , how can the film have a rating of over 7 ? It seems that fans of the comedy team are voting on how popular or good the group is WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER OR NOT THEY SAW THE FILM ! My opinion is that if you haven't seen this film , don't rate it ! And , if you know where there is a hidden copy of the film , sell it and make a fortune and earn the undying gratitude of Marxophiles !
this show makes me ill , . . .	Ugghhh ! ! ! The 1970s were an abysmal period for cartoons . They were terribly animated and were written to appeal only to very young kids and incredibly stupid people . And , the king of this genre at the time was Hanna-Barbera - - who made a huge fortune peddling 4th-rate cartoons to kids . The networks loved it because the cartoons were so cheap to produce and with so many rotten cartoons on , the standards were pretty low . While I was a kid in the 70s , I lost interest very fast thinks to cartoons like Speed Buggy and Hong Kong Phooey . They were just mind-numbingly bad - - unfunny and devoid of anything that seemed like quality ! If you think a karate chopping dog could be funny , then you have NOT seen this cartoon ! Watch this only at your own risk - - you have been warned .
Bad , but not even a " good " bad film	In its original form , this was called THE MADMEN OF MANDORAS , but shown in the States it was retitled THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN and some additional footage was added . The story is about a group of Nazis who decided to cut off Hitler's head and shove it in a pickle jar until they could later re-attach it to another body and create a 4th Reich . To show us how bad Hitler was , before cutting off his head he screamed and ranted like someone who THINKS they are talented and can pretend to speak in German . Then , inside the jar , you see a head that looks like wax and yet can somehow speak - - yelling " macht schnell ! " again and again . I just kept thinking to myself " if they can smuggle Hitler's head out of Germany , then WHY cut off the head - - can't they just take ALL of him ? ! " . While this might not technically be the worst film ever made , it is very close - - and totally inept throughout . However , unfortunately , it is NOT timeless like bad films like PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE because unlike PLAN 9 , THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN is a very dull film . You know , the sort of film that is bad but not fun to watch with friends to laugh at how bad it was . Take my advice , for a bad but fun film try PLAN 9 or TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE or ATTACK OF THE KILLER SHREWS - - this film is just boring and not worth your time .
The best worst-film of all time !	I've done a ton of reviews on IMDb and resisted doing one for PLAN 9 simply because it's all been said ( another reason why I often haven't reviewed too many recent films ) . However , since I often refer to PLAN 9 in many of my reviews of terrible films , it only seems right that I now get around to reviewing this wretched but wonderful film . PLAN 9 is so bad , so ineptly made and so awful that it might just be the very best film to watch with friends - - even more than MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL . Watching it solo is fine , but with friends you can delight in spotting all the inept and stupid mistakes Ed Wood made in creating this film . Some good examples are spotting the cardboard tombstone getting knocked over accidentally in the cemetery , seeing how Bela Lugosi goes from an old and tired man to a tall guy with a cape draped over his face to " cleverly " hide the fact that Lugosi died before principle filming began , and noticing the strings that suspend the metal pie plate UFOs in the sky ! ! ! There are just so many silly and stupid moments and dialog that it must be seen to be fully enjoyed . By the way , my favorite line : " The inspector is dead , . . . murdered , . . . and SOMEBODY is responsible ! " .
Pretentious crap	OVERRATED " ART FILM " ALERT : The following film is adored by sophisticated and " with it " film fans . The fact that the average person may find the whole thing unfunny and bland is due to their just not being smart enough to understand and appreciate this masterpiece . Oh did I hate this movie ! It's artsy-fartsy crap like this that turns many people off from foreign films , and that's a great shame as there are so many French films better than this . In fact , I challenge you to come up with one worse ! The film is rife with weird editing and extended shots of waves crashing . This is meant to be " sophisticated " ; I think it looks very amateurish and overdone . The story itself is pretty meaningless and confusing . It's about some terrorists who like to get naked A LOT ( by the way , the female lead could really use a shave ) and whose emotions are up and down more than your average roller-coaster . What some say is artistic , I think is boring and banal . The only element that made me the least bit interested in the film is that the director himself plays , of all things , a " crazy director " . Wow - - that's some stretch . It's sort of like asking Cookie Monster to play someone who loves to eat ! Unless you LIKE pretentious movies that are 100 % boring , do NOT watch this film ! PS - - if you actually LIKE this sort of mess , then by all means look for Godard's other " masterpiece " , ALPHAVILLE . It's also a total piece of crap and a total waste of time .
Amazingly bad	This cartoon is about the only animated cartoon series that MIGHT have been as bad as the animated Hercules cartoons of the 60s ( from Trans Lux TV ) . The show was astoundingly bad . So bad that Hanna and Barbera at their lowest point would have refused to put their names on it bad ! So bad that children suddenly remember they have some homework to do when it comes on bad ! The worst aspect of the show was the crappy animation . A slide show would have seemed less wooden and static ! And the stories themselves bore only a superficial resemblance to the cartoon strip . And the dialog , . . . I've read better dialog on ads for zit creams ! If you have Bright House cable , you may be able to see this monstrosity for yourself to see if I am right . It's been listed on their cartoon on demand channel , so if you do have the chance , watch it - - unless you aren't a masochist . Oh , and by the way . Despite what others may have said , the show was NOT faithful in any way to the cartoon strip . It wasn't even close !
Unrelentingly vile	I am sure that I'll probably get some nasty emails about this one , but I think SCARFACE might just be one of the worst movies of the last 25 years - - - especially since it is so adored by so many and been so readily accepted as a " great film " . It is supposed to be an updated remake of the classic film of the same name from 1932 ( starring Paul Muni ) . Despite this , the movie is sloppy and cheap . Instead of good writing and intelligent film-making , they hired Oliver Stone to write a hackneyed film . The result is a deliberate assault on the sensibilities by using the f-word again and again as well as using extreme and pointless violence throughout . It's easy to say " f - - - " and the like and it's easy to have millions spent for special effects explosions and gunfire , but these alone do not constitute a good film , as the writing was almost absent in the film and it was just a giant over-the-top parody of gangster films . It's as if DePalma's mantra for the film is " when in doubt , have Pacino say the f-word or have him kill some people " . Also , while some have praised Al Pacino's performance , to me it seemed like ridiculous self-parody - - like a dirty version of the guy he played in DICK TRACy - - which , at least , was SUPPOSED to be a cartoon . None of his brilliance from THE GODFATHER is present , as he plays a buffoon . There is absolutely no subtlety , no finesse and nothing of value in the film . In fact , and I know this will again prompt some nasty emails , I really think the film is intended for a stupid and undemanding audience who actually get off on this sort of brain-rot . Avoid this like the plague - - your brain will thank you for this ! Ed Wood , Jr . could have made a much better film had he been given this budget .
About as interesting as staring at wood pulp !	The film consists of a narrator talking to Laurel and Hardy . The boys say nothing much ( other than a laugh ) and it was made on grainy color film for release in the theaters during WWII to educate ( and bore ) audiences on the importance of having wood . This was a Pete Smith Specialty - - one of many Pete Smith shorts made during the 1940s . Compared to the other Pete Smith shorts I have seen , this one manages to be even duller - - even though it uses Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy to demonstrate that they've got wood in practically everything they are carrying - - such as rayons , pressed wood , etc . In many ways , it looks like a film that should have been made for a wood products convention , as no other human beings could possibly find this interesting . In fact , tedious is probably the best description of the short . Even die-hard fans of Laurel and Hardy ( like myself ) would find this excruciating and you can't detect even the faintest whiff of a laugh .
Great if you are looking for stupid and racist cartoons for the kids !	Uggghhh ! ! ! ! This is one of several Looney Toons cartoons that were shelved decades back due to their strongly racist content . And while SOME of them are actually highly offensive BUT well-made , this one is a bore even if it weren't full of racial stereotypes . For some of these offensive cartoons , I have recommended people watch them - - particularly for their historical value . However , this one has really nothing to recommend it - - being a long cartoon with nothing but stupid music and very , very big-lipped Black characters acting , . . . well , . . . STUPID ! So , the film is offensive , poorly made and not particularly entertaining - - everything you'd like in a cartoon , huh ? ! ( this is sarcasm , by the way )
The duck from " You Bet Your Life " was more realistic and scary ! !	This is a truly terrible sci-fi / horror film from 1957 . In fact , despite Ed Wood , Jr . and his dreadful films getting a lot of publicity , this turkey is every bit as bad as the worst of Wood . Now the acting is a bit better than you'd find in the Wood epics ( such as PLAN 9 and BRIDE OF THE MONSTER ) , but the special effects managed to be significantly worse than Wood's ! However , bad movie aficionados will be happy to hear that it's so bad that it's still excellent viewing . Like a Wood film , it's great to watch this crap-fest and laugh along with your friends . The film begins with a scientist flying about doing some testing in his jet . However , out of nowhere , a UFO streaks by and his report of this over the radio triggers a panic by the Air Force . However , later , they realized that the UFO didn't appear on the radio and they think the scientist is a nut ! But , when soon after this planes start disappearing all over , they realize there must be something to his sighting . So far , the film isn't great but it's watchable . However , by the time the horrible flying monster appears , you know you're watching a turkey . First , through horrid use of stock film and crappy models , airplanes keep changing mid-flight . Some may not be bothered by this , but with airplane lovers like me , seeing an F-80 turning into an F-86 to an F-102 fighter plane made me crazy - - especially since the planes look nothing like each other . Second , through " clever " cinematography , all you really see of the monster is a ball of fuzz for half the film ! This is frustrating and you hope that when you finally do see it clearly , it will be worth the wait . Well , no such luck ! ! The " monster " looks less realistic or scary than the duck from Groucho's " You Bet Your Life " TV show ! ! In fact , it's significantly less realistic than any of the Japanese giant monsters ! ! In fact , Big Bird from " Sesame Street " is even a bit scarier and realistic ! ! ! It's just god-awful in every way and might just be the dumbest movie monster in history - - about as bad ( or worse ) as the monsters in ROBOT MONSTER or TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE ! ! ! The bottom line is that this is an absolutely dreadful film that sane people won't like . Bad film fans like me ( who are a crazy bunch ) will probably love it ! All others . . . be afraid , . . . . be VERY afraid ! ! FYI - - You might notice that some clips in this film are from other sci-fi movies ! ! I am positive the crashing Washington Monument scene was stolen from EARTH VS . THE FLYING SAUCERS but I also saw a couple other scenes that I swear are from other films . What a hack job !
As exciting as dirt	Even by the very low quality standards of the day , this is a dreadfully boring film . Dull , boring and seemingly pointless . Yes , I know that in the 1890s and very early 1900s films were snippets of mundane everyday activities - - but this one is beyond mundane ! ! It's a short , short film that shows the surf . And , while folks living in Kansas and other totally landlocked places must have been exciting to actually see the ocean , this couldn't have even been that interesting to most of the patrons back in 1900 ! And , believe it or not , this is not the only film from that era I have seen with the exact same subject matter ! ! In 1895 , Birt Acres made a very similar film of a rougher and more interesting surf . It had better composition and being from 1895 , it deserved a much higher score . If you have not seen this film , fill your sink with water and swirl it . This will still probably be more interesting .
A prime example of child abuse	First , I wish I could give this movie a zero , but one was the lowest score IMDb allows . It isn't possible to create a sequel more unlike the original and as repellent as this one . It was so bad , both my kids insisted we leave mid-way through the picture . So why is is SO bad ? ! Gone is all the originality and charm of the first movie . It's as if NONE of the people responsible for the first participated in this movie . Instead , the movie is dark and cruel . This is evident on many occasions but I will provide two examples : Babe's owner falling down a well and breaking almost every bone in his body in the opening sequence ( wow - - that's fun , kids ! ) and the inexplicable appearance of Mickey Rooney ( who I guess is some sort of mentally impaired sociopath - - I'm really not sure WHAT his cameo was all about anyway ) . So my advice is watch and savor the original and THEN go into denial . Tell yourself they never did make a sequel . If this does not work , repeat as needed !
If given the choice , I might choose death over seeing this film again !	Why can't you give a score LOWER than a one on IMDb ? If ever a film deserved it , it's this one ! After all , I had such high hopes when I saw this in the theater ( I was one of the FEW who apparently paid to see this crap ) . The ORIGINAL filmings of this tale ( 1937 and 1950 ) were exciting adventure stories AND the newest re-make starred Richard Chamberlain ( a fine actor ) , so I had VERY high hopes ! ! ! Aggghhh , the humanity ! ! ! It turned out this was about as boring and dopey a remake as was possible ! Instead of an exciting adventure epic , at times the movie was pure camp and played for laughs . This MIGHT have been okay except that the movie bounced back and forth and couldn't make up its mind WHAT to be . BUT , the all-time worst scene was Chamberlain and a VERY young Sharon Stone stuck in a giant cannibal pot filled with obviously plastic floating vegetables . How to get out of this mess ( other than just wisely walking off the picture ) ? They rocked back and forth until the pot flipped and the pot rolled away with them in it ! This was apparently one of the FUNNIER moments , so the laughs ( ? ) only got more forced and annoying from there ! AVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE ! ! ! Also , this movie AND ITS SEQUEL were filmed simultaneously ( oh no , there's more ) . I don't think the sequel ever made it to theaters and I hope all copies were burned but I am afraid that it's probably floating around somewhere out there . BEWARE ! ! ! !
As funny as a tumor	This movie has the distinction of being , perhaps , the only movie done by an SNL alumni that is even worse than NEIGHBORS ( though it's like comparing which is worse - - the Bubonic Plague or Ebola ) . Now I know that Dan Aykroyd IS capable of making awful movies ( after all , I saw DR . DETROIT ) but this . . . ? Hmmm , . . . . WAIT , . . . I just realized something - - both of these films starred Aykroid ! ! ! These , plus Dr . Detroit make him the obvious choice for WORST actor from the original cast of SNL . And , . . . do NOT think that Ghostbusters makes up for these other monstrosities ! ! It's not even close . So , what's the ( ha , ha ) plot of this laugh riot ? Chevy Chase ( who has participated in his share of crappy or mediocre flicks ) and Demi Moore are driving cross country with some friends ( who they are , I don't care ) and they are arrested for speeding in a crappy little hole of a town . The insane and terribly unfunny judge is , believe it or not , Aykroyd ( though it's almost impossible to tell under his outrageous and fake looking make up and prosthetics ) . The insane judge locks them up and they spend much of the movie whining ( and why should THEY , since WE had to pay to see this bilge ? ! ) . Later , some annoying drug addicts are caught and dropped into a chipper shredder . And that , my friends , is the plot - - aside from the hilarious ( ? ) performances of John Candy as both a man and his twin sister ( they appear to be identical twins - - an impossibility as they are OPPOSITE sexes - - I assumed one underwent sexual reassignment surgery ) . I defy any of the readers to come up with a less funny movie .
This short made me want to go out and start a race riot ! !	As a history teacher and lover of films , I occasionally like watching cartoons that have been banned , as they tell us a lot about our society and how far we have come over the years . What was perfectly acceptable decades ago is now , in some cases , seen as gross and inappropriate . Occasionally , these cartoons which have been removed from screening aren't particularly offensive but often , as in the case of this cartoon , they are so god-awful it's hard to imagine that people would have laughed at and enjoyed these films ! Thirteen of these cartoons have been packaged together on a DVD entitled " Cartoon Crazys : Banned and Censored " and while the print quality of many of the cartoons is less than stellar , it's a great chance to see how sensibilities have changed . Okay , we've gotten to the most amazing film in the DVD set . Without much doubt , SCRUB ME MAMA is the most offensive cartoon ever made - - and even makes COAL BLACK AND DE SEBBIN Dwarfs look like a film endorsed by the NAACP ! ! ! ! It was so bad it made me wonder why the film didn't provoke race riots ( I sure felt like hurting some White folks - - and I am White ! ) . So what's so bad about the film ? Well , just about every negative stereotype about Blacks is included . As the film begins , most of them are just lying around sleeping as you hear Steven Foster's " Swanee River " . Almost all the Black people have huge lips and many look as if they are mentally retarded . And , to top it all off , they of course are eating watermelon ! ! Aye , aye , aye ! ! Gross , disgusting and offensive - - yet also not at all funny or worth seeing unless you are a sociologist or history teacher or are very , very curious . What I also find amazing is that this film actually has a very high rating AND positive reviews ! ! God help us !
There are so many better and less annoying kids films out there	Call me a curmudgeon , but I absolutely hate the Care Bears and wish they had never been created . They are , without a doubt , the most saccharine and bland characters created in the last 30 years . So sweet , so nice that you really wish that there was a movie that paired them with Itchy and Scratchy ! ! ! Now I am not really saying I want the really little kids out there to see ultra-violent films , but there gets to be a point when a film is so non-offensive and sweet that it nearly puts the viewers in a diabetic coma ! This means , parents , that if you are suckered into watching this with your kids , you are in for a trip to Hades ! I just can't see how any sane adult could stand watching these horrid creatures for more than about 20 seconds . On top of these complaints , the animation quality is poor and the script is so mindless and insipid that ANYTHING must be better for the kids to watch . This stuff makes the Teletubbies look edgy !
not worth your time , . . .	In 1914 , Charlie Chaplin began making pictures . These were made for Mack Sennett ( also known as " Keystone Studios " ) and were literally churned out in very rapid succession . The short comedies had very little structure and were completely ad libbed . As a result , the films , though popular in their day , were just awful by today's standards . Many of them bear a strong similarity to home movies featuring obnoxious relatives mugging for the camera . Many others show the characters wander in front of the camera and do pretty much nothing . And , regardless of the outcome , Keystone sent them straight to theaters . My assumption is that all movies at this time must have been pretty bad , as the Keystone films with Chaplin were very successful . The Charlie Chaplin we know and love today only began to evolve later in Chaplin's career with Keystone . By 1915 , he signed a new lucrative contract with Essenay Studios and the films improved dramatically with Chaplin as director . However , at times these films were still very rough and not especially memorable . No , Chaplin as the cute Little Tramp was still evolving . In 1916 , when he switched to Mutual Studios , his films once again improved and he became the more recognizable nice guy - - in many of the previous films he was just a jerk ( either getting drunk a lot , beating up women , provoking fights with innocent people , etc . ) . The final evolution of his Little Tramp to classic status occurred in the 1920s as a result of his full-length films . Apart from one or two moments , this film has little to offer other than guys slugging each other and mistreating women . No laughs - - just amateurish crap by today's standards .
Even worse than Empire of the Ants	It's funny how Joan Collins has obtained a certain amount of respectability after having starred in MANY terrible films , such as The Bitch , Empire of the Ants and I Don't Want to Be Born . Oh well , the public is fickle . So why did I hate this movie and yet took the trouble to review it ? ! Well , it's because it falls into the " it's so bad that it's funny " category . So , despite giving it a one , I strongly recommend you watch this crappy flick - - then Plan 9 From Outer Space , The Apple , Roller Boogie and Jet Pilot . All are so bad and so amateurishly done that they can't help but illicit belly laughs ! The plot all boils down to a tiny little baby who is possessed by an evil dwarf . So , as a result of a little black magic , the tot obtains magical powers to murder ! ! And , boy can he murder ! The kid can run , fly and do almost anything EXCEPT kill the idiot who wrote this pile of drivel - - this SHOULD have been the kid's FIRST victim ! !
Perhaps the earliest " Shakespeare " film , . . . of at least it says it's Shakespeare !	This film purports to be KING JOHN , though you'd really not recognize any of the great bard in this film . Like all the films you would have seen in 1899 , it's very , very , very brief ( at about three minutes , it's actually longer than many contemporary films ) . The problem is you really can't do a Shakespeare play in three minutes ! ! And it's obvious that the director really didn't try to encapsulate the entire film - - just one long and very over-done scene . In fact , all the film consists of is a guy dressed like a king apparently writhing in pain ( I think he's trying to pass a kidney stone or something ) . And that's it ! ! ! No plot , no action apart from the writhing and no relationship to KING JOHN or any other play by Shakespeare !
A film loved by many and offensive to many more	WARNING - - The language in this review is like the language in the movie - - just not gratuitous ! Colin Farrell plays an assassin who is pretty much like ' Father Dougal ' from the " Father Ted " television series , though he also is sadistic and thoroughly unlikable and obnoxious . Brendan Gleeson ( from the Oscar-winning short SIX SHOOTER ) plays a less obnoxious murderer . These are the two " funny " heroes of this film . According to IMDb " The word ' fuck ' and its derivatives are said 126 times in this 107-minute film , an average of 1 . 18 ' fucks ' per minute " . To me , this combined with the fact that the leading men are assassins , is more than enough reason to hate this film . While at times it seemed pretty clever and even interesting , I found everyone so repellent and stupid that I just couldn't stick with the film . Life is too short to watch crude films like this and I hate films where there is no one to care about at all . Although this film IS in the IMDb top 250 , I can assume that this is a film you'll either love or hate - - but probably mostly love . If you are a rather traditional guy like me , you'll be irritated by the sloppiness of injecting the f-word into every other sentence and see it as not just offensive but poor writing . Any idiot can say obscenities again and again - - this isn't a sign of brilliance but of inadequacy and this seems to be the recent trend in other supposedly " great " films . And , making hateful heroes is a sure way to drive away many in the audience . Truly a film you either love or hate .
Who would have thought to combine horror with 70s soft-core porn ?	The plot involves women who somehow are part bee . They are sexually insatiable and when they mate with unsuspecting men , they cause their hearts to explode . This was a pretty creative but incredibly crappy movie . The production values are nil and the film really shows it , but there is also a cheesy quality that may appeal to some bad movie fans . I am definitely a bad movie fan ( loving such horrid films as PLAN9 FROM OUTER SPACE , THE APPLE and TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE ) , but I really got bored with the whole mess . Some of it might have been all the nudity - - I couldn't watch it with the family ( and it's fun to do this with a bad film ) and for lovers of skin , the ladies were often pretty skanky-looking - - as if they hired prostitutes or women they picked up at bus stations . By the way , William Smith , who stars in the film , ( and looks kind of like a guy just out of rehab ) is the same guy who later replaced Danny on HAWAII 5-0 . No wonder the show was soon canceled !
If they had just killed Bobby Van and eliminated the songs , I would have been a nice film . . .	. . but unfortunately no one thought about having Van killed in order to save this doomed production . The only positive thing about him in the film is his nice singing voice . . . too bad the songs are mostly insipid and sappy . Why did I hate Van so much ? Well , throughout the film he seemed like he was doing a third-rate Soupy Sales imitation - - with lots of mugging , bad jokes and way too much energy spent trying to make everyone laugh . The worst of these moments was when he was " teaching " the class - - these kids laughed at EVERYTHING he did . Heck , Van could have read the phone book or showed them autopsy photos and they probably would have laughed ! Now Van was not the only bad casting decision in the film - - he was just the most obvious . Of course , having John Gielgud ( a lovely actor ) play an Asian was ridiculous as well as having Michael York play Peter Finch's brother ! ! The bottom line is that because of these insane casting choices , the film was doomed from the start . . . . and the worst of them was the god-awful Bobby Van . Now in real life , he might have been a lovely person and it's sad that in real life he died so young , but with the material they gave him here I just wanted to rip out his tongue to get him to be quiet . Now I also mentioned the songs - - egad , those terrible songs ! ! The original LOST HORIZON by Frank Capra was a subtle delight throughout - - and not a single song and dance number in the film . So why did they decide to add a bazillion songs that did nothing to help the film ? They only served to make it seem like a gooey mess - - like the original DOCTOR DOOLITTLE combined with LOST HORIZON . The end result is a sickly sweet children's movie - - not one that can be enjoyed by anyone over 8 . Now if you can remove these problems , you have the basis of a decent film . After all , the plot is lovely and is still hidden beneath all the goo . Peter Finch is particularly good ( though certainly not the equal of Ronald Colman in the original ) . But , considering that the original was a near-perfect classic , why bother with this sticky confection . Who wants to wade through the treacle ? ! By the way , this film was included in " The 50 Worst Films " book by Harry Medved . While I , too , disliked the film , it wasn't bad enough to merit inclusion in the book . I think it was included mostly because it was such a huge box office failure and because it was released just a few years before the book appeared . An excellent book - - just not one of the best selections to the " hallowed hall " of dreck .
Wow . . . you know it's bad when they are ripping off a film that was horrible the first time ! !	This film involves five humans who go on a flight to the moon . Once there , they find a planet of nothing but women - - angry , PMS-enraged women ! And , to make matters worse , there are giant rock creatures , spiders and two of the crew members are crooks . Wow . . . you know this is going to be a terrible film when they are ripping off CAT-WOMEN OF THE MOON - - especially since CAT-WOMEN is one of the worst films of the early 1950s ! Now I don't know if MISSILE TO THE MOON was announced as a remake , but it certainly was and the number of similarities are too many to be a coincidence . Both involve a rocket trip to the moon . Both have a crew member who actually is being controlled by the Moon folks . Both moons are inhabited by super-unattractive " beauty queens " in spandex . Both have really stupid giant plastic spiders in the caves . Both have crews whose space suits are stolen . And , these are only a few of the similarities . So , they remade a bad movie and in a way that is no better than the wretched original ! Wow , that has " must-see " written all over it ! ! One of the other horrible touches are a skeleton that clearly is from a science classroom ( with the top of the skull sawed off ) - - even though it's supposed to belong to one of the dead crew members who you see die before your eyes . Another brilliant touch was using three completely different rockets as well as normal Earth gravity on the moon and inside the space ship throughout the trip . Nice attention to details , folks ! Overall , this is a terrible film that only lovers of schlock cinema will enjoy . Others will probably find it pretty tedious .
Proof that by 1959 animation was dead	While the style of this cartoon was unique ( enough to help it get the Oscar for Best Animated Short ) , this cartoon signaled to me the death of animation . It wasn't until the 1980s that a resurrected respect for decent animation occurred and fortunately today animation is once again respectable . In the interim , studios like Hannah-Barbera , Trans-Lux and Lou Scheimer reveled in horridly low frame-rates , cheap repetitive backgrounds and simplistic animation . Heck , to call some of this animation is a joke - - it was more like a fast slide show since the frame rates of 24 fps were reduced in half or worse ! While I can't blame MOONBIRD completely ( after all , Columbia studios , Creston Studios and others produced cheap animation well before MOONBIRD ) , it is shocking when you compare the ultra-simple Eric Carle-style cartoon here with gorgeous MGM or Looney Toons cartoons in their heyday . However , MOONBIRD manages to do something these other hack studios didn't . In this film they basically let two toddlers prattle non-stop and they animated it . The problem is that 2 and 3 year-olds aren't that interesting - - at least not for 10 minutes straight ! ! Watching this film is like being locked in a room with an obnoxious small child who has always been told by his parents that he / she is the next Judy Garland or Marlon Brando . To me , this was about as welcome as a year-long migraine . Do yourself a favor and don't watch this film .
After a while , this becomes a very dull film , . . . . I mean how many senseless murders can you watch until you simply don't care anymore ? !	I love Asian films . However , after seeing this film , I have no desire to see any more films like this one . While the film generally has very positive reviews and a very good overall rating of 7 . 8 , this is probably very deceiving , as I ONLY think die-hard ultra-violent / ultra-action loving people would enjoy this type of film and they traditionally flock to John Woo films . The average non-violence junkie has probably never heard of Woo or if they have , have no interest in such extremely graphic and violent fare . The first twenty or so minutes of the film , I actually enjoyed , though , of course , the film WAS mega-violent . At least there was some style and some sense of purpose to the killing . However , after about 50 % of the movie was past , the rest of the film was one long , long , long extended scene of carnage . It was as if you took EVERY Rambo , Die-Hard , Death Wish and Steven Segal movie AS WELL AS THE KOREAN WAR AND WWII and combined them into one movie ! There is no possible way to keep count , but the number of good guys , bad guys and assorted innocent bystanders killed in the movie seems like it must top 1000 ( and this is NOT an exaggeration ) . Initially , this had a big impact on me , however , after a while it became downright boring . After all , how many dead people , fake blood and slow-motion death scenes can any NORMAL person take before they either turn off the film , get sick or become bored . The bottom line is this is a wonderful film if you really could care less about plot and just want 100 % carnage . Period . Oh , and the plot device of having all the babies in the middle of the firefight near the end just seemed like a cheap way to build excitement . I mean , think about it , one minute the hero is cuddling a baby and the next he blows away a few bad guys , then he nuzzles the little tyke . Is this meant to be tender or poignant ? ! Gimme a break . This movie is dumb and I really do wonder about the type of person who wants a steady diet of this . Okay , now feel free to hit me with all your " NOT HELPFUL " comments - - I am STILL right about this film ! By the way , although I hated the movie , I really want to get a gun like the heroes had . You know , the semiautomatic pistol that can fire 10 , 20 or even 30 times without needing to be reloaded ! ! And I want to find out where they got the hand grenades that when they blow up , they only injure bad guys - - even though the heroes might only be a couple feet away from the blast ! !
not 100 % wretched	This must be a rotten film if I label it " not 100 % wretched " . That's because although most of the plot is very familiar and the acting is lousy ( apart from the competent Zucco ) , there are one or two reasonably decent moments AND the movie is , thankfully , only 60 minutes long . Oh , and it could be worse - - the Bowery Boys COULD have been in it . Otherwise , this is a very forgettable poverty row picture ; i . e . , a film made by an ultra-cheap minor film studio and intended only as a B-feature . I only watched it because every so often I watch stupid old films in the hope that they will be so bad that they are funny ( such as PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE ) . Unfortunately , this film isn't THAT bad , so my advice is only watch it if you have absolutely NOTHING else you could possibly do ! Incidentally , this film has sometimes been labeled a " horror film " . This is a slight mistake - - the label should read " horrible film " .
Rodney must have done it just for the cash	This dreary comedy is just not funny . Think about it - - you know you are in trouble when the plot involves having a boy dress like a girl to play soccer AND the supporting actress is Jacke Harry . Plus , the movie is just very poorly written with most of its jokes being crude and stupid . You also know you are in trouble when one of these painfully unfunny moments is when Rodney is in the dressing room with this young boy and is helping him dress up like a girl - - and the dialog is written as if he's having sex with this child . Wow - - child molester humor - - now that's sure to create a lot of laughs , . . . if you're an idiot or a child molester . It's really a shame , as Dangerfield did some cute movies that were FUN . While EASY MONEY and BACK TO SCHOOL weren't terribly deep , they were good for a few laughs . This film didn't even provide one .
Frankly . . . far from fabulous .	This Oscar-winning animation is a giant headache and could easily be used by evil , repressive governments to torture and brainwash their people and is one of the best examples of a truly awful film that somehow won this award . While I can definitely appreciate the effort it took making this film ( cutting out thousands and thousands of magazine pictures to make collages ) , the problem is that it is so cacophonous . You see , the sound track consists of two alternate scripts being read CONSTANTLY throughout the film . Both narrators are the same person . One constantly repeats words starting with the F-sound while the other talks ad nauseum about his very dull life - - during which time these collages appear and disappear rapidly . The film has no commercial appeal whatsoever and is great for people who like artsy and pretentious film - - otherwise beware , as it's totally painful and annoying .
A vanity film . . . and a not particularly good one .	In 1984 , Paul McCartney made a feature-length film that was simply a gigantic music video - - not a film , per se . Think about it - - 108 minutes of nothing but music videos with the barest of plots to connect them . Even for many die-hard Beatles or McCartney fans , this is quite the endurance contest to watch ! In most ways , it seems like twenty years after A HARD DAYS NIGHT , McCartney is trying to recapture the magic - - without John and George . Ringo and his lovely trophy wife make an appearance as do a few of McCartney's other friends , but the magic is sadly missing and it just looks like a very , very expensive home movie . To put it bluntly , I found the whole experience tedious - - and I couldn't wait to leave the theater . Now I must admit that I have never been a huge McCartney fan - - I can take him or leave him . So , my reaction may not be yours . However , considering the movie is so unstructured and undisciplined , no one can SERIOUSLY call this a good film . Poor acting , dopey fantasy sequences and an overall aura of self-indulgence make this a vanity piece that seems twice as long as its actual running time . Had MOST musicians wanted to produce such a film , I doubt if any studio would have agreed . Given McCartney's pedigree , I guess it must have been pretty hard to say ' no ' . Thank goodness this film didn't do well in the box office - - otherwise , we might have been treated by follow-ups ! In fact , it did so poorly that it might have been THE reason the Broadstreet station was closed and demolished just two years after this movie debuted . PS - - Some gave this film a 10 .
great for very young kids - - all others beware !	When I was five , this was one of my favorite cartoons - - along with the followup series involving Dick Dastardly and the flying machines . I watched most every episode and carried memories of it being a good show into my adulthood . However , as I grew , I also came to realize that the quality of the Hanna-Barbera toons of the 60s-70s were absolutely abysmal . So I was left wondering just how good were the Dick Dastardly cartoons ? I loved them as a kid but now realized they couldn't have been quite as good as I thought . Well , a few years back , I had the chance to see some of them again on the Boomerang TV cable channel and was shocked to see just how terrible they really were . Not only were they very crudely animated , they simply weren't funny . But , considering I was only five , I guess I can be forgiven for having watched them . These wretched cartoons are only good for either very young kids who don't know any better or to be used in order to interrogate members of Al Qaeda - - if they are shown this @ # $ & ! ! they are sure to beg for mercy and talk ! This review is practically identical to the one I posted for the Dick Dastardly and the Flying Machines show . Both starred a lot of the same characters as well as horrendous animation and writing . To me they are practically the same awful show ! Don't watch this unless you are a masochist .
Dull and cheaply made - - like a slightly better version of an Ed Wood flick !	This is an amazingly crappy 1950s sci-fi film . While not the worst sci-fi film ever made , it does come pretty close ! In fact , you know the film MUST really stink since the plot is a re-working of PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE ! Like PLAN 9 ( once voted the worst movie ever made ) , this film is all about an evil plot by aliens to reanimate the dead and use them to attack and destroy the living . However , while PLAN 9 probably cost about $49 . 37 cents to produce , this one had much better production values ( probably at least $100 was spent on acting and sets alone ! ) . So , aside from a re-hashed plot , what does this film have to offer ? Well , like PLAN 9 , it also is jam-packed full of stock footage that takes the place of original content . Some of this footage is totally inappropriate - - such as the one showing a test B-17 flying into a hill . While it was supposed to be caused by the evil aliens , the footage is of some military test , as it impacts onto a giant painted ' X ' ! The acting was pretty bad , but not as bad as Ed Wood acting . John Carridine ( who would appear in ANY film for a buck - - thank goodness there were few porno flicks made back then ) appears in a small role where he overacts - - even though he is a zombie ! And the " King of low-budget films " , John Agar is the star . Frankly , he looks pretty old and tired - - probably because he must have hated the movies he was forced to act in late in his brief career . As for the rest , they generally were sub-par , but only a few were so bad that you laughed as they read their lines . So what's my favorite part of the film ? Well , Agar is in a fight and if he loses , a crazy scientist will let a murderous creature out to kill them all . So what do the other two actors do while this fight occurs ? ! Yep , . . . just stand there and let it all happen ! The bottom line is that this film is only for people who like to watch and laugh at bad films ( I am one of them ) . Otherwise , don't waste your time - - it's THAT horrible !
What a dud !	This " clever " film was originally a Japanese film . And while I assume that original film was pretty bad , it was made a good bit worse when American-International Films hacked the film to pieces and inserted American-made segments to fool the audience . Now unless your audience is made of total idiots , it becomes painfully obvious that this was done - - and done with little finesse or care about the final product . The bottom line is that you have a lot of clearly Japanese scenes and then clearly American scenes where the film looks quite different . Plus , the American scenes really are meaningless and consist of two different groups of people at meetings just talking about Gamera - - the evil flying turtle ! And although this is a fire-breathing , flying and destructive monster , there is practically no energy because I assume the actors were just embarrassed by being in this wretched film - - in particular , film veterans Brian Donlevy and Albert Dekker . They both just looked tired and ill-at-ease for being there . Now as for the monster , it's not quite the standard Godzilla-like creature . Seeing a giant fanged turtle retract his head and limbs and begin spinning through the air like a missile is hilarious . On the other hand , the crappy model planes , destructible balsa buildings and power plant are , as usual , in this film and come as no surprise . Plus an odd Japanese monster movie clich is included that will frankly annoy most non-Japanese audience members , and that is the " adorable and precocious little boy who loves the monster and believes in him " . Yeah , right . Well , just like in GODZILLA VERSUS THE SMOG MONSTER and several other films , you've got this annoying creep cheering on the monster , though unlike later incarnations of Godzilla , Gamera is NOT a good guy and it turns out in the end the kid is just an idiot ! Silly , exceptional poor special effects that could be done better by the average seven year-old , bad acting , meaningless American clips and occasionally horrid voice dubbing make this a wretched film . Oddly , while most will surely hate this film ( and that stupid kid ) , there is a small and very vocal minority that love these films and compare them to Bergman and Kurosawa . Don't believe them - - this IS a terrible film ! FYI - - Apparently due to his terrific stage presence , Gamera was featured in several more films in the 60s as well as some recent incarnations . None of these change the central fact that he is a fire-breathing flying turtle or that the movies are really , really lame .
Painful . . .	Most of the time I watch bad independent shorts , I don't write a review . After all , the people are usually struggling and it's a great opportunity for them to hone their craft , so who am I to trash their films ? However , in this case I'll make an exception since the short bills itself as " A SILLY ZANY COMEDY " ( in all capital letters on their part ) . Well , it ain't zany and it ain't silly . Most of the skits fall very flat ( except for the one with the husband and wife talking on cell phones in their Continental ) , the acting is strictly amateur and the end product looks like a vanity project someone made to show their friends or post on YouTube . Missing is polish , professionalism and humor .
I rarely say this about silent films , but this one stinks , . . .	This movie was reportedly the one that sunk Larry Semon's career . Instead of the usual short films he was known for , Semon decided to do something " important " and made this ( for the time ) long film adaptation of THE WIZARD OF OZ , . . . . or at least that's what the title indicates it should be . The story , it seems , bears little similarity to either the 1939 movie or the books . In fact , apart from a few names here and there , it is pretty much unrecognizable as the story about Dorothy and Oz . Instead , it was just an excuse to string along a lot of familiar and not especially funny gags - - like I have seen in several other Larry Semon films , the big stunt is his swinging from tower to tower . A neat stunt the first time you see it , but not when it's old material and has nothing to do with the plot . Overall , I consider this movie a wasted effort . I know that Semon COULD be funny - - like he was in his short films . But here , it's just a confusing and dreary mess . Likewise , having Oliver Hardy in the film SHOULD have been an asset , but he was pretty much wasted as well . While not exactly a classic , the 1910 short silent version was much better and stuck closer to the original story and the 1939 version is a classic . This one is better off staying forgotten or seen by the morbidly curious as the project that may have ultimately destroyed Semon's career . PS - - In addition to being a terrible movie , there is a Black man named " Snowflake " that likes to eat watermelon ! Ugghh ! ! !
historically speaking , this movie is crap	Up until WWII , most Americans ( and particularly Hollywood ) looked to Soviet Russia with , at best , fear . While the true extent of the brutality and human rights violations of the Stalinist regime were still not fully comprehended , there was great fear that the Russians were bent on world domination . BUT , with the entry of the United States into WWII , the Russians , our previous enemy , was now our ally . And , to engender support for this new ally , Hollywood created a fictionalized version of the Russians - - portraying them as brave and loyal and almost super-human . While some of these qualities were no doubt true of those who heroically fought the Nazis , many simply fought for survival and chose to protect their own evil regime because it seemed less evil than the Germans - - or because they were murdered by their own KGB troops if they did not fight . However , in Mission to Moscow , none of this is apparent . Instead , the Hollywoodized version of the Russians is given and their government , it seems , is freedom-loving and decent ! What a lie . Because of this , the movie ONLY has value as a historical curiosity as propaganda . I would be very afraid someone might view it today and take it for fact instead of complete fiction . Despite this movie's attempts to portray it otherwise , Stalinism ranks as one of the greatest evils in human history .
Not quite the worst horror movie ever , . . . but it came pretty close !	The film starts with a silly looking " monster " running around a suburban neighborhood scaring the locals . The special effects artists involved spared no expense - - giving an actress a set of hillbilly teeth and a giant uni-brow ( like Bert from Sesame Street ) . At first , I thought this was Frankenstein's daughter , but instead she was just a diversion - - a DIFFERENT experiment by the doctor . No , apart from creating a formula to make people look like they could use a bit of dental work and electrolysis , he also was secretly working on making a monster - - just like his father . You see , this sexually frustrated man is trying once again to prove the Frankenstein name and come up with his own freakish experiment . The problem is , the lady he creates looks more like a melted candle than Boris Karloff and she just didn't get around to doing all that much . And in the end , it pretty much wraps up as you'd expect - - with no twists or turns to provide any interesting diversions or subplot . In fact , there's very little to like about this movie unless you enjoy seeing bad films and laughing at them ( which I occasionally like to do ) . In this case , then this film is for you ! Horrible acting , a horrid script and some of the worst makeup I have ever seen on a monster combine to make a truly horrible horror film .
I can't believe how positive a couple of these reviews are - - this is a terrible film	This is a horrid little film from P . R . C . Studios and I have to assume the P . R . C . stands for " Producing Real Crap " . By no sane person's standards should anyone have given this turkey a 10 , though somehow this has happened . P . R . C . is one of the lowest-budget film studios of its day and its best movies were below the quality of rival Monogram Studios ( and that's saying a lot ! ) . There films are known for having rotten sets , poor scripts and second-rate acting - - they were for many in the movie industry the " purgatory " of Hollywood ! ! As usual , this film shows all the usual earmarks of a P . R . C . production , though its stars are a tad better than usual - - as Sidney Toler and John Carradine ( both veterans of the low-budget Bs ) were on hand to give this movie a little bit of clout - - but only just a bit . That's because Toler had just finished the Charlie Chan series at Fox Studios and hadn't yet signed with Monogram to finish the series - - so he was free and in need of cash . Carradine , never really an established actor but a familiar face in low-budget films added a bit of color . Sadly , despite the low budget , the story wasn't very good either . The film is set on a tropic isle , though the natives look like extras from California and have , for the most part , American accents and hairdos . However , they are supposed to be seductive dancing girls working at a dive frequented by sailors . Two of them ( Toler and his partner ) are responsible for " losing " some treasure on a recent cruise . The truth is that they deliberately wrecked their boat so they could later claim the treasure . Oddly , they arrive just after there is a HUGE bar fight . So , what would you expect at this time ? Yep , one of them plays Beethoven on the piano in this dive ( ! ) . Two other guys ( Carradine and his sometimes friend ) spend most of the time imitating Popeye and Bluto , as they fight and fight for no reason in particular . Later , though , Carradine gets the idea of trying to steal Toler's treasure . My favorite part of this ( because it was so bad ) was the world's longest close-range gun battle . Shot after shot after shot are fired at pointblank range - - talk about lousy shooting ! ! In the end , it's one twist after another but thankfully the action is all ended when a monsoon hits and wipes out this god-awful island . The bottom line is that the print looks lousy , the plot stinks , the acting is generally grade-Z and the special effects are really , really bad . What's to recommend this film ? Nothing . So why did it earn a 10 ? !
It's a carnivorous tree !	IMPORTANT NOTDespite the title , this is not a pornographic film but a cheesy horror film . George Coulouris was not a bad actor and he had a long string of credits to his name . In this film , his performance is pretty good - - but this is about the only good thing about this stinking British horror film . The film begins with Coulouris going to the Amazon and experiencing some sort of horror - - though the film blacks out and then he's suddenly back in merry old England several years later . Now he's spending all his time on his estate doing really stupid experiments that call for a native drummer from South America and a really , really cheesy tree that obviously has actors inside it . This tree was not the cute apple pie tree from McDonalds or the cranky tree like in the WIZARD OF OZ . No , it was a life-stealing , moving tree that was sure to elicit laughs from everyone seeing this film . How the film makers thought any of this could be scary or even that interesting is beyond me . Supposedly , the same tree that takes lives ultimately has the power to restore life - - but the mad doctor spent so much time killing young women that he only had time to try out the life-giving properties at the end of the film . But , instead of working , the bad guys started trying to kill each other and the tree was set ablaze and the audience felt very thankful this stupid mad scientist film was finished ! ! Dumb and rather boring - - this one isn't quite cheesy enough to elicit many laughs , so it's probably one best left to masochists like myself to watch .
It's bad , but not # 42 bad .	Currently , this film is listed on IMDb as the 42nd worst film ever made - - which is exactly why I rented it from NetFlix . However , I am saddened to report that the film , while bad , is no where near bad enough to merit being in the bottom 100 films ever made list . I have personally seen at least 100 films worse than this one . Hardly a glowing endorsement , but it just didn't meet the expected level of awfulness to be included on this infamous list . The film begin with Stewart Moss and Marianne McAndrew on their belated honeymoon ( by the way , they are married in real life as well ) . He's a doctor who is obsessed with bats and insists they go to a nearby cave . Once there , they behave very , very , very stupidly ( hallmark of a bad film ) and are soon bitten by a bat . According to this film , bats love to attack people and there are vampire bats in the US - - both of which are not true at all . Oddly , after being bitten , the man doesn't even bother going to the hospital ! ! The first thing on anyone's mind ( especially a doctor ) is to get medical help immediately , but not this boob . Soon , he's having seizures - - yet he STILL isn't interested in seeking help ! Again and again you keep thinking that this must be the stupidest couple in film history ! ! After a while , he eventually goes to see a doctor and is sent to the hospital . But , by then it's too late and his attacks become more violent and he begins killing people to suck their blood . When it's totally obvious to everyone that the man is a crazed killing machine , the wife ( who , like her husband , has a grapefruit for a brain ) refuses to believe he's dangerous - - even after he attacks people , steals an ambulance and runs a police car off the road ! ! Now most of the time Moss is going through these episodes , his eyes roll back and he looks like a normal person . Oddly , however , a couple times he develops bat-like hands and towards the end they used some nice prosthetics on him to make him look quite bat-like . Had this been really cheesy , the film would have merited a 1 . In the very end , in a twist that hardly made any sense at all , the wife inexplicably turned into a crazed bat lady and had a swarm of bats kill the evil sheriff . How all this was arranged was a mystery as was Moss ' and McAndrew's belief that this film would somehow help their careers - - though they both have had reasonably long careers on TV playing bit roles since 1974 . Overall , very dumb . The plot is silly and makes no sense and strongly relies on people acting way too dumb to be real . Not a good film at all , but not among the worst films of all time either . NOTE : For some reason , IMDb shows the graphic for the three DVD set for IT'S ALIVE and it's two sequels of the web page for THE BAT PEOPLE . While THE BAT PEOPLE has been seen with the title " It's Alive " , the two movies are not at all related . It's easy to understand the mistake - - especially since they both came out in 1974 , but the movie I just reviewed starred Stewart Moss and Marianne McAndrew and the other film starred John Ryan and Sharon Farrell .
watch the first 3 or 4 minutes then stop !	This is a short that is included in the 2nd Essanay Chaplin DVD from Blackhawk Films . It's the last on the DVD and is NOT a short starring Chaplin . In fact , it's a Bronco Billy short and Chaplin makes a couple walk-on appearances early in the film that has nothing to do with the film at all . It looked like while they were filming , Chaplin just jumped into the scene and then left several times JUST WHEN THE MOVIE FIRST BEGAN . After that , Chaplin's gone and the film without him , isn't interesting . So , this film is just for the die-hard fans of Chaplin who want to see everything Charlie did . A better and much more satisfying uncredited Chaplin walk-on is the movie THE NUT . In this Douglas Fairbanks comedy , there is a show in which the hero pretends to imitate various famous people at a party . The Chaplin imitation REALLY IS CHAPLIN ! ! ! Now that's funny !
about as fun as cancer	Uggh . What purpose did this series serve other than to squeeze a few bucks out of a franchise no matter how abysmal the results ? While the quality of the animation was not horrible , the stories themselves were pretty lame and oriented only to very little kids . I was very thrilled when my own kids outgrew this show by about age 3 or 4 and we could then watch decent cartoons together ! In addition to really dumb stories , the show's biggest problems were that the whole " babies " shtick of the 1980s was a crass attempt to re-package decent ideas for either really young or perhaps really stupid kids . Remember Disney Babies or Flintstone Babies or Scooby Doo Babies or about a dozen other similar products from this era ? Well , if you don't , then you are VERY lucky ! In addition , the other thing about this show that really drove me mad were the voices . It seemed that to convince you they were babies , the voices were made as high-pitched as humanly possible to discern ( any higher and dogs alone might have been the audience ) . Do yourself a favor . Instead , watch a classic Warner Brothers or Tom and Jerry cartoon or even Rocko or Spongebob . Otherwise , you are inviting brain rot by watching this drivel .
Starts and ends well ( ? ) but the middle is just a dull collection of stock footage	This is not exactly an Ed Wood movie , though when I got it from Netflix his name was plastered on it - - not the director and co-writer's , Adrian Weiss . Wood co-wrote this low-budget and creepy film but it lacks the tackiness and cheapness of his own directorial efforts - - though it is pretty close . The use of lots of stock footage , while boring , wasn't as ineptly handled and the acting isn't quite as bad as you'd expect in a true Ed Wood picture . In addition , while this is a bad film , so much of it is rather dull and had NOTHING to do with the plot , so it really failed to excite the bad movie buff within me as well . The film starts off very well for a tacky 50s monster film and I wish they'd have stuck with this story idea throughout the film . However , the beginning and ending are all about a lady who is strangely attracted to gorillas but the middle is just some knucklehead shooting at stock footage of animals and wrestling with stuffed tigers . It's too bad because the plot about a woman who was a gorilla in a previous life is so goofy I wanted to see more . But , after about 20 minutes of this non-sense where she is hypnotized and talks about this past life - - nothing else is said about this until about two minutes until the end of the film ! ! It's like they either forgot or they pieced two different stories together . Either way , when the film finally ends , it gets REALLY creepy , as the male gorilla doesn't exactly kidnap the lady but she goes off with him willingly - - supposedly to become his lover . It's never exactly said , but it's strongly implied and you know that's what they were getting at in the final scene with her and her simian lover . Her expression is even happier than Ed Wood's in GLEN OR GLENDA when he first tries on an angora sweater ! Talk about kinky ! So is it worth seeing ? Well , if you have any taste , definitely not . If you are a bad movie buff , by all means see it . However , if you get bored , fast-forward through the middle - - you aren't missing anything you haven't already seen in a Tarzan film ! Stupid , but not exactly classic Ed Wood stupid .
relatively speaking , a " good " Ed Wood flick	Although this is a terrible movie , by the standards set by Bride of the Monster , Plan 9 From Outer Space and Glen or Glenda , this is not that horrible a movie . Any other director would have cringed at creating this movie , but Wood should not have since it least it shows he improved a little . While the movie does have some scenes where it is alternatively day and night , this isn't as striking as in Plan 9 . However , the overuse of stock footage is once again employed - - with about 172 , 000 scenes of police cars driving down the road spliced into the movie is a completely random and nonsensical fashion . Also , some of the acting is so poor it would be laughed at in a high school play - - particularly the old lady in the police station and her husband , " goldarnit " . Officer Kelton plays a moron in a way that really had me believing he was a complete moron due to his horrid acting . But , the police chief was fairly competent and Tor Johnson was at his best because he did not talk at all - - just let out little whines - - an EXCELLENT decision based on his acting in Plan 9 ! Criswell is back - - and this time not as the narrator but as an integral part of the schlocky conclusion . So why did I give the movie a 2 ? Well , it shows improvement plus the plot of a phony medium who gets his due is somewhat clever . I especially liked the wanted poster in the wall at the police station . Though it was BADLY made ( it sure didn't look real ) , I laughed when I noticed the picture on it was Ed Wood ! Too bad for all the fans though , as they might expect another Plan 9 or Bride of the Monster and find the movie is just bad - - not funny because it's so bad !
Katherine Helpburn is cast in the role of a Chinese woman - - need I say more ! ? ! ?	I just finished skimming through the reviews for this film and noticed that the first one actually had the gall to give this movie a score of 10 ! A 10 would place this film in the illustrious company as other great films such as GONE WITH THE WIND , THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES or GIGI - - surely it's an insult to these other great films to compare DRAGON SEED to them in any favorable way ! Other than the fact they are movies , I just don't see any other rational comparison . So why did I give the film the ridiculously low score of 2 ? Well , it features the very worst job of casting of any film - - with the possible exception of THE CONQUERER ( with John Wayne as ' Gengis Khan ' and Susan Hayward as a Mongol princess ) . In DRAGON SEED , Katherine Hepburn ( red haired and possessing a very prim and proper New England accent ) and Walter Huston are among the cast playing Chinese people ! ! Now it was unfortunately common in the 30s and 40s to have such parts played by Westerners but at least some had the ability to almost carry it off well . Heck , Warner Oland and Sidney Toler were MUCH closer to being believable as Chinese ( detective ' Charlie Chan ' ) than either Huston or Hepburn ! ! ! As for the rest of the story , it's a relatively dull and uninspiring Pearl Buck story with none of the impact or style as THE GOOD EARTH - - a fine film from a decade earlier ( despite the all Anglo cast once again ) . Instead , it's an anti-Japanese film made to promote the war effort in the Pacific . By the way , as a bit of trivia , the red haired Agnes Morehead deserves special recognition , as she not only played a Chinese lady in this film but Genghis Khan's mother in THE CONQUERER - - proving that horrendously stupid casting can be infectious . Also , for more fun casting decisions featuring the most ridiculous Westerners playing Asians , try watching Edward G . Robinson in THE HATCHET MAN - - an amazingly good film despite having ' Little Caesar ' pretending to be Chinese . Other odd ones ( humorous because they were so very , very offensive ) were Marlon Brando in TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON and Mickey Rooney in BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S . I swear to you , all these movie references are true - - Hollywood was THIS out of touch and the public actually went to these films in droves !
Proof that you CAN overcome terrible movies to become a star	This is a rotten film - - embarrassingly bad , in fact . This was a piece of pure propaganda that was pure crap . In an attempt to rehabilitate our former enemies , the Russians , into our allies ( WWII did create some strange bedfellows ) , Hollywood produced several horrid films that portrayed the Russians as " just like us " , while in fact , their leader was one of the greatest mass murderers in human history . The movie is shameless in how positively it portrays the Russian people - - as 100 % wonderful and noble . While I do applaud the bravery of those Russians who fought the Germans , it was NOT generally due to love of Stalinism that motivated them , but survival . So is there anything that makes watching this film worth while ? Not much , unless you are a REAL film buff . That's because you'll see a very young Gregory Peck BEFORE he was a star . It's amazing that this film didn't end his career outright , but he somehow persevered and went on to become one of our greatest actors . Anyone who fails should use this as a motivating example for life !
" one of the most underrated films of all time " ? Nope , it's just another film that values special effects above all else .	Watching this movie is like eating a banquet of nothing but meringue . It initially looks great but ultimately provides NO satisfaction - - none . The plot is a muddled mess about a toy factory and the forces of evil . So , how is it possible that with this basic plot AND Robin Williams that the movie still turns out so badly ? ! It's because the picture is all appearance with no substance whatsoever - - much like the terrible Popeye picture Williams did at the beginning of his film career . The film must have cost a fortune but perhaps there wasn't enough money left over to hire writers who had graduated grade school . The film is one unfunny joke that goes on and on and on and on . I really am unsure why it was made in the first place - - it certainly wasn't made to provide any sort of entertainment .
Not a single laugh . . . . not even one !	First , a summary of what this wartime Laurel and Hardy film is about , and then some background information and my impressions of the movie . Stan and Ollie are janitors at a detective agency and are working late at night when a crackpot scientist calls them - - asking for a couple of detectives to guard his new top secret bomb ( I wasn't sure at first if he was referring to a weapon or the movie itself ) . Ollie announces that he and Stan are detectives and will be right over . Unknown to them , the neighbors who live next to the crackpot are crooks and two of them plan on stealing the bomb to sell to an enemy power . Once at the home of the professor , he entertains the boys by showing off his amazing space-saving room as well as feeding them a meal of food in pill form . Neither of these key moments in the film are funny , though it's obvious they were intended as laugh riots . I think showing a documentary on skin diseases would have been funnier ! Later , after the crooks try to steal the formula , Stan and Ollie take off on a cross country chase . During this time , they board a train and they blatantly rip off one of their earlier films , BERTH MARKS . While I wasn't a huge fan of BERTH MARKS ( it's not one of their better shorts ) , Stan and Ollie manage to redo it and take out all the humor and originality . Supposedly , Stan tried to get the director to change the scene and do it quite differently ( on a plane ) , but Fox simply wanted to churn this out regardless of whether or not it was funny or a quality product . Stan and Ollie's lack of enthusiasm is quite evident in their delivery . Ultimately , the boys blunder onto a radio controlled plane and the movie ends with a scene that really seems to come from out of nowhere , as they parachute from the plane and drop this secret bomb on a Japanese sub . So , literally and metaphorically , the film ends with the team dropping a huge bomb . From 1941 to 1950 was the absolute low-point for the team of Laurel and Hardy . Following SAPS AT SEA ( 1940 ) , the team no longer was under contract with Hal Roach Studios and became free agents - - mostly selling their services to 20th Century Fox , but also to MGM and a French production company . None of these products remotely resembled the finely crafted films the boys made in the 1920s and 30s , but a few ( such as JITTERBUGS ) managed to be almost passable entertainment . A few , such as DANCING MASTERS , ATOLL K and THE BIG NOISE managed to mostly make fans of the team cringe - - as Laurel and Hardy looked old and rather sickly , plus the films simply weren't funny . Most of this was because the companies had no interest in input from Stan - - who often contributed ideas to the Roach films but was completely ignored by the other studios . Of all the bad films made by Laurel and Hardy , however , THE BIG NOISE must rank as the very worst - - mostly because it doesn't offer a single laugh . . . not even one ! This isn't to say the film is unwatchable - - it is watchable - - sort of like a train wreck . The main reason I saw it was because I have seen almost every available Laurel and Hardy film as well as almost all of their existing shorts before they teamed up - - so I would eventually like to say I've seen every one of their films . I think I have at most 3 or 4 to go . There is one other reason I wanted to see THE BIG NOISE and that's because it managed to be listed in " The 50 Worst Films of All Time " book by Harry Medved . I have probably seen about 30 to 40 of these bad films and just like my quest for Laurel and Hardy films , I'd like to one day see them all . Now , having seen it , I can honestly say it is the worst Laurel and Hardy film but it isn't bad enough to make the list in the book - - there are probably a few hundred movies worse than THE BIG NOISthough this isn't much of a consolation ! ! My advice is that if you are obsessive-compulsive about Laurel and Hardy films or you also want to see the supposed 50 worst films ever made , then by all means watch it . Otherwise , with so many wonderful films to their credit , please see some other Laurel and Hardy film instead - - any would be preferable to this unfunny pile of bilge . By the way , I have noticed in reviews for the later Laurel and Hardy films that most of the reviews were amazingly positive - - so positive I either wonder if they never saw the earlier films ( which deserve high praise ) or if the positive reviews were really a vote to say " I love the team no matter what " . Well , I love the team , but can't see how a sane person could like this mess of a film . It just isn't funny .
What can you expect with a budget of only $48 . 98 ? !	I have been trying to find a copy of ABBY for some time and tonight I have finally seen this supposedly lost treasure . Apparently , Warner Brothers Studios felt it was rip-off of THE EXORCIST and the film was pulled from circulation prematurely . It also was not seen on video or laser disk and only recently appeared on DVD . The print is horrid and looks as if someone sat with a video camera and recorded it as the film was being played - - it was that bad . The colors were a mess , too - - most of the film had a strong red tint to it . Additionally , there were scratches throughout - - making it the ugliest quality DVD I have ever seen . Well , despite the horrid quality of the disk , I do feel that the film is unique and not exactly a copy of THE EXORCIST . In fact , there are so many differences that it seems ludicrous today that Warner felt they had any claim at all to stop the film . Plus , quality-wise it wasn't like anyone would mistake ABBY for THE EXORCIST ! ! While the DVD extras proclaim it as a masterpiece and it " was NOT bad like the Blacula or Blackenstein movies " , I heartily disagree . While I have yet to see BLACKENSTEIN , the Blacula movies ( BLACULA and SCREAM BLACULA SCREAM ) look like Academy Award winners compared to ABBY . Other than all three films starring William Marshall ( a capable actor stuck in cheap films ) , they just don't compare . The Blacula films weren't bad at all and ABBY is a wretched film with wretched production values from start to finish . The acting , aside from Marshall , is very , very amateur , the sets and props looked bargain basement and the story was just silly . Worst of all , though , were the demon special effects that weren't much better than something you could make at home . So what does all this add up to ? Well , not a good movie , certainly . . . but also a movie that is fun to watch for its camp value . In other words , it's so stupid and so inane , that it's great for a laugh . So far in my life , I've seen about 50 so-called " blaxploitation " films and this is the worst - - even worse than the dull Dolemite films . Now THAT'S bad ! !
Bad but not without a small shred of value	Okay , I've gotta admit that this is a pretty bad film with some of the dumbest special effects ever . It's really a shame , though , as underneath all the rottenness of this movie , there were grains of a decent film - - it's just too bad all the dopey moments overshadow this . The film is about a couple who movie into a dilapidated mansion . It seems this home belongs to the groom's family but they are financially strapped and the place has just gone to ruin over the years . However , his new wife has a fortune of her own and they arrive to re-open the home . It also is revealed that in the past , this wife had a nervous breakdown , though she seems pretty normal - - that is , until she is haunted by weird sounds and rolling skulls . It seems everywhere she goes , a skull comes rolling after her like a tumbleweed ! At first , she only sees this when she's alone . However , later she is with her husband when the skull reappears - - but he says he cannot see it ! Exactly what happens next is somewhat exciting , but ultimately the film is undone by cheesy special effects . Plus , while the root of the apparitions is interesting , the writers just couldn't leave well enough alone and gave the film a really dopey ending where a man wrestles to the death with a skull ! ! ! You have to see it to believe it !
pretty bad stuff	This is a fine example of the expression " you can never go back " , as this reunion episode is just painful to watch and will most likely cause you to cringe in embarrassment . While not the worst TV reunion movie ever made ( that would be the one for the Beverly Hillbillies ) , this is just boring and bad . Years have passed ( thank goodness ) since I saw it , but one particularly painful segment stands out clear in my traumatized mind . That is when June Cleaver talks to Ward about her concerns about her loser son , Beaver . You see her talking to Ward and as the camera pans back you see she's at the graveyard talking to Ward's tombstone ! ! Yech ! What an embarrassingly bad moment . YES , Hugh Beaumont was dead so you can't blame him for not being in the film ( unless you are a VERY SICK person ) , but replacing him with a headstone AND having his wife talk to it is just creepy ! And , as I alluded to it , Beaver has grown into a pathetic mess whose wife just left him ! I feel suicidal just thinking about this downbeat mess !
histrionic and awful performance	What was the academy thinking ? ! ! ! ? ? ! How could they have given Susan Hayward ( the Queen of Subtle ) the Oscar for BEST ACTRESS for this performance ? ! Since this occurred in the 1950s ( before widespread use of LSD ) , I assume the members must have been either blackmailed or just plain nuts ! The movie is about an incredibly obnoxious party-girl who is convicted of murder . Whether or not she really did it was a little unclear , but I wanted her executed anyway - - just to shut her up ! Ms . Hayward's performance is bad and WAY over-the-top . It's as if she's starring in a high school production ( and a rather poor one at that ) - - with loud bellowing , dramatics that appear more akin to epilepsy and the DUMB trademark " dice rolling " move she makes throughout the picture . I think Edward G . Robinson in drag would have been more believable in this role ! FYI - - I seem to be one of the only people I know who thinks Susan Hayward was a bad actress and I'm not sure why . Just as few of her stinker roles include : the red-headed Bortai in the classic ( ? ) The Conquerer , Bathsheba , and what's-her-face in Valley of the Dolls . Subtle she ain't . I wonder though , if perhaps some of Divine's histrionics in John Waters ' films MIGHT have been inspired by Miss Hayward's performance !
One of the worst films I admit to having seen on the big screen !	Years ago , when I was a poor teenager , my best friend and my brother both had a policy that the person picking the movie should pay . And , while I would never pay to see some of the crap they took me to , I couldn't resist a free trip to the movies ! That's how I came to see crap like the second Conan movie and NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN ! Now , despite this being a wretched movie , it is in places entertaining to watch - - in a brain dead sort of way . And , technically the stunts and camera-work are good , so this elevates my rating all the way to a 2 ! So why is the movie so bad ? Well , unlike the first Rambo movie , this one has virtually no plot , Rambo himself only says about 3 words ( other than grunts and yells ) , there is a needless and completely irrelevant and undeveloped " romance " and the movie is one giant ( and stupid ) special effect . And what STUPIFYINGLY AWFUL special effects . While 12383499143743701 bullets and rockets are shot at Rambo , none have any effect on him and almost every bullet or arrow Rambo shoots hits its mark ! And , while the bad guys are using AK-47s , helicopters and rockets , in some scenes all Rambo had is a bow and arrows with what seem like nuclear-powered tips ! ! The scene where the one bad guy is shooting at him as he slowly and calmly launches one of these exploding arrows is particularly made for dumb viewers ! It was wonderfully parodied in UHF starring Weird Al . Plus , HOT SHOTS , PART DEUX also does a funny parody of the genre - - not just this stupid scene . All-in-all , a movie so dumb and pointless , it's almost like self-parody !
so dumb it's great !	Unlike John Wayne's more famous movie turkey , The Conquerer , this film is so bad that it is lots of fun to watch . It is incredibly poorly written ( even for an RKO picture ) and makes his earlier Republic Films look like masterpieces by comparison ( and a few actually were ) . And , combined with the terrible dialog and dopey plot is the absolute worst performance of Janet Leigh's life ! She plays a Russian Airforce pilot with less conviction than perhaps any actress could have approached the role . Not once does she even give the least hint of a Russian accent , though through the use of very thick sweaters she DOES appear to be the poster girl for Playboy Magazine . This nymphet role is combined with stoic " Russian " dialog that sound like it's right out of a grade school play . It's unintentionally hilarious . As for Wayne , he pretty much plays himself . A REALLY , REALLY horny self , that is ! FYI - - Apparently the Russians flew Lockheed Shooting Stars ( F-80s ) . You see , when you stick a red star on it , it becomes the spitting image of a MIG-15 . Well , that is if you squint REALLY hard and maybe get REALLY drunk first and hit yourself on the head with a frying pan , and , . . .
Somebody should have rapped Elsie Ames in the mouth !	This is one of 10 films that are included in the two DVD set " The Buster Keaton Collection " . It's a sad set of films Keaton did later in his career with Columbia Pictures and the films bore more resemblance to Three Stooges films than Keaton's classic silents . Of the 10 , eight were directed by Jules White - - a man who had absolutely no understanding or appreciation of Keaton's subtle humor . As a lady said in the documentary included with the set ( " Buster Keaton : From Silents to Shorts " ) , White's idea of funny was dropping anvils on people's heads ! His totally unsubtle and dopey humor made all the films he directed with Keaton a chore to watch at times - - especially with the silly Stooge sound effects and timing . In addition , this film also co-starred Keaton with Elsie Ames - - a completely obnoxious and untalented lady in every film she did with Keaton . Her overly exaggerated facial expressions , mannerisms and yelling made Patsy Kelly look subtle in her shorts for Hal Roach ! ! So already from the start , Keaton had two major disadvantages in the film , so you certainly cannot expect magic . In this film , a thief places a stolen ring inside Buster's hat . After that , he goes to the home where Elsie Ames is the maid and the film degenerates into a slapstick nightmare thanks to the loud and obnoxious and totally untalented Ames . She should have been ashamed for her performance - - one that the Stooges themselves would have complained about because of its low humor ! ! This might just be the worst short of the series of ten . Don't say I didn't warn you !
limp performance , limp script	You know that this film is in SERIOUS trouble when the BEST acting job is the support role played by Arnold Schwarzenegger . While this was still relatively early in his career and he wasn't the best actor , compared to Brigitte Nielsen , he's Sir John Gielgud . In fact , this film proves that the only reason she got much of any attention were her boobs and because she was involved with the incredibly self-destructive football player , Mark Gastineau . So , instead of this being her " break out film " , this and a Beverly Hills Cop movie mark about as high as she went in her one-note career . It was obvious , too , that the financing wizards gave up on this movie as well , because the supporting cast ( aside from Arnold ) is pretty lame and the script is dull , dull , dull . Fans looking for another CONAN movie would no doubt be very disappointed in this slow and uninvolving film .
This was a very innovative and entertaining film . . . . if it had been made in 1914 !	The film begins with a father ( Andy Clyde ) announcing his daughter's engagement . It's obvious she is not thrilled about this and soon her lover appears to elope with her - - leaving her fianc in the dust . The fianc and her dad pursue them as they look for a minister to legitimize their love . Along the way , a variety of very old fashioned sight gags are used - - all of which I have seen in movies also made by Mack Sennett Studios a decade or so earlier . The 1920s and 30s were not kind to Mack Sennett . The once King of Slapstick was now scrambling to find work and pay bills , as Hal Roach and other producers of comedies had now surpassed him - - mostly because Sennett's style was hopelessly locked in the same pattern he made so great in the teens and the gags were by now tired and repetitive . While car chases , people dressed in ridiculous cow costumes and bees in people's pants might have seemed funny , by the time this film came out it was all pass . Quite simply , Roach's comedians like Laurel and Hardy , Charley Chase and the Our Gang were able to change with the times and transitioned well from a broad physical style of comedy ( of the silents ) to the sound era . However , BEES ' BUZZ is practically speaking , an older style silent film with some added sound . And to make things worse , the once very funny Andy Clyde ( who wrote and acted in many silent classics ) is wasted here in this unfunny mess . It's no coincidence that the film's opening and closing emblem is a dog - - as this film is DEFINITELY one for the dogs ! Don't believe the amazingly high score on IMDb for this public domain film - - find it on the web and watch it for yourself to see how low Sennett had fallen .
a truly awful film - - what a shame	I saw this videotape because I am a rabid Bette Davis fan and I am trying to see all her films ( I'm actually getting pretty close ) . However , in hindsight , I really wish I hadn't seen this dreary film . Despite having Miss Davis and Helen Hayes in the lead as Miss Marple , the film had almost no energy and had so many logical flaws it could hardly be considered a mystery at all . Helen Hayes perhaps comes off best in the movie , as she is a competent though less than inspired Miss Marple . Leo McKern as the chief inspector just looks awfully old and immobile ( though in one silly scene they make it look like he is running after a suspect ) . And Bette Davis is pretty depressing to look at , as she was in horrible health at the time the film was made and looked like death warmed over , . . . but this didn't impair her since her character was supposed to be old and frail . It's too bad , though , that this part was so small and insignificant . John Mills is just okay as Davis ' husband - - he was a terrific actor and it's a shame his role was so dumb . As for the rest of the cast , they were complete unknowns and deserve to remain that way ! Their acting was very amateurish and shrill for the most part . Now despite my complaints about some of the acting , my real problem with the movie was the script . I am not an Agatha Christie reader , though I doubt if the blame for this bilge could be dumped on her but instead on some screen writer . Many of the characters were completely one-dimensional caricatures and seemed so unbelievable ( such as the hot-headed American , his histrionic and confusing wife , etc . ) . Also , again and again , logic seemed to go out the window and characters did the most impossible and stupid things - - particularly when two of them died in the most ridiculous ways . First , the doctor ( whose role was completely ill-defined and vague ) tried to escape by driving through the gate surrounding the mansion . The car SHOULD have been able to plow through it , but instead explodes ! Second , the young man who tries to escape by paddling across a small pond . The boat begins to sink ( who would keep a leaky boat at the lake - - especially one that leaky ? ) and he drowns even though he appears to be only about 50 feet from shore ! And , when this hapless fool is drowning , the young cop tries to save him but first starts to undo his coat and his tie and puts up the most pathetic attempt at rescue I have seen since the Three Stooges films ! As for the mystery itself , I really lost interest in who did what or why . By the time the movie was over , I was begging for it to stop . Rotten acting and a terrible script made this an endurance contest ! Considering just how BAD this film was , I can imagine that poor Dame Agatha is spinning in her grave like a rotisserie ! She deserved better .
Offensive AND stupid !	This is one of the only films I have ever reviewed that I honestly must admit I did NOT finish the film . While I watched most of it , I found myself so irritated that I finally just turned it off for fear that my brain would suffer permanent damage - - - it was that stupid and offensive . Now the fact that the film offends my religious sensibilities wasn't the main reason I didn't like the film . Heck , I am willing to see films that offend or shock me if they have some deeper meaning or are cleverly written . I have loved some of John Waters ' early films and they are VERY offensive , but they also had some cleverness or depth to them . But a film like DOGMA that is deliberately offensive AND full of such shallow and lousy performances as well as writing - - that is unforgivable ! It was as if , again and again , in order to shock the viewer , they went for cheap laughs and obscenities . My attitude is if you are an atheist or agnostic or whatever , at least have the strength of convictions to try to say what you think or be willing to mock conventional religion INTELLIGENTLY . Having Jay and Silent Bob ( the poster kids for idiocy ) walk about cursing or having the Virgin Mary II working for an abortion clinic just don't seem funny - - just shocking and cruel . See it if you want - - I don't particularly care . However , don't ( like many have tried ) try to convince me that this is witty or funny . What's funny about this film ? There were very few genuine laughs in the entire thing .
Ignore the Christopher Lee image - - this is NOT a Dracula film and he is NOT in this film !	Despite the title and the image IMDb is currently posting along with this movie , this is really not a Dracula film and Christopher Lee is not in it . Instead , it's a very , very low-budget and dopey movie about a girls school where a rather bizarre relationship develops between a crazy teacher and an impressionable student . It turns out that this teacher has some bizarre masters thesis involving , . . . well , I really have no idea what it was about and her turning this female student into a part-time vampire made absolutely no sense . The teacher said something about doing this will " save mankind " and other crap like that , but how could turning a girl into something that looks like the love child of Lily Munster and Nosferatu help mankind - - especially when it starts sucking the blood out of people ? ? ! ! Oddly , although the film was made in the more conservative 1950s , there is a very strong and noticeable undercurrent of Lesbianism . There is a strong sexual chemistry between the female teacher and her female student . This makes the film a real curio , but unfortunately the plot , acting and direction are all very amateurish and it is not a film I would recommend to anyone but bad movie fans . Strictly grade-Z all the way and a not particularly good variation on I WAS A TEENAGE WEREWOLF .
terrible , . . . . and a must see film !	This is one of the BAD films I really enjoy . It is not painful or boring to watch but instead falls into the hokey and stupid category that make it great party film . Like Plan 9 from Outer Space , this movie tries so hard to say something and comes off as a completely laughable fiasco . The over-the-top completely serious aspects of the movie raise it to this level . The movie The Apple also rises ( ? ) to this level of dreck as well . Our hero ( ? ) is Billy Jack , a half-breed American Indian who teaches peace through the repeated use of bone-crunching violence ! It reminds me of the funny segment from the movie UHF when they advertise the fake movie " Gandhi 2 " and feature Gandhi kicking butt and driving a sports car . It's so ridiculous , it's great ! Amazingly enough , this was the third Billy Jack film ( after The Born Losers and Billy Jack ) and the first to bomb at the box office . In fact , the also deadly serious Billy Jack ( 1971 ) made zillions at the box office - - not because it was a good film ( though it wasn't quite as bad as The Trial of Billy Jack ) but because it was a perfect film for the times . The hippy-ish aspects of the movies worked in 1971 but by 1974 , it was reduced to a clich . A moment not to be missed in this movie - - the little boy with a mechanical claw for a hand being gunned down by the evil soldiers as the boy tries to rescue his pet bunny ! Meant to be poignant , it's just hysterically funny instead ! FYI - - This film had the dubious distinction of being selected for inclusion in the book " The Fifty Worst Movies of All Time " by Harry Medved . I heartily agree with the choice - - but must admit it gets a 2 because it's so darn funny - - and it doesn't even intend to be ! !
a seemingly pointless film - - avoid it at all costs unless you are a pedophile	I so much wanted to like this film . From what the DVD box said , it seemed like a great idea for a movie - - the troubles a fat girl goes through when she has an older , very attractive sister who seemingly " has it all " . However , that was not the message I took from the movie . It was more along the lines of " life stinks - - then you get raped or die " . Oh I hated this movie and I have contempt for those who created it . So why did I hate it other that the fact that the theme really was not what I had expected ? First , the movie is VERY sexually graphic and the nudity portrayed involved girls who appeared between the ages of 12 and 15 or so . Because of this , I doubt it would even be legal to make this film in many countries - - especially when the 12 year-old is raped on film ! I am truly worried that a pedophile might become very aroused watching the movie . Second , the exact purpose and theme of the movie is completely ambiguous . Every time I thought the movie was trying to make a point , the plot completely changed directions and the meaning was obscured . I know for those " in the know " , the point of such films IS the pointlessness . Okay , fine , I get it . . . . but so what ? ! Third , the ending was sick and meaningless and seemed 100 % random . COMPLETELY out of the blue , the mother and older daughter are brutally murdered on camera while they are resting in their car at a rest stop ( the older daughter having her head bashed in with a hatchet and the mother was strangled ) . THEN , the 12 year-old is graphically raped on camera as well . It was like watching a " snuff film " and I cannot recommend this film to anyone . It was even more disturbing when I read the notes inside the Criterion DVD case . Apparently the young girl who played the " Fat Girl " ( Anas Reboux ) was not told that was going to be the international title for the film ( in France it was titled "  ma soeur ! " ) . That , combined with the rape scene - - I'd hate to have to pay that girl's therapy bills when she gets older ! The only reason the film gets a 2 was because the film was TECHNICALLY well-made . While a technically horrible film like PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE or THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN are clearly scored a 1 on the IMDb , I would MUCH rather view them . Although these two films are a mess and the acting is poor , at least they weren't patently offensive or exploitative or make me feel dirty for having watched them . Do NOT watch this film and do not believe any of the positive hype you've heard about the movie .
A seriously annoying film	The film begins with a newspaper reporter lamenting that they don't make crimes like they used to . He then begins to tell the story of " Roxie Hart " - - a woman accused of murder who was one of the last great murder stories in Chicago . Then , the story begins in earnest as the setting is now 1927 . Roxie is a very low-class dame and whether or not she or her husband or a third party committed the crime is uncertain . But , since Roxie is apparently a total idiot , the newspaper reporters convince her to take the rap because it would make an interesting story ( is anyone THAT dumb ? ! ) . Throughout the film , the men all act almost like the wolf in a Tex Avery cartoon - - and apparently the fact that she may have killed someone is irrelevant . The guys just want to ogle her gams ( that's " legs " in gangster lingo ) ! And , when the case comes to court , once again all the men in court are fixated on her extreme sex appeal ( though I didn't get it - - she wasn't THAT hot - - just kind of low-class and slutty ) . While I understand that this comedy was the basis for the very popular play and film , CHICAGO , I couldn't understand what people saw in the movie that led them to want to remake it - - especially since it had very few laughs . Much of this is due to the very grating and over-the-top performance by Ginger Rogers . This routine was supposed to be funny , but I just wanted her to stop talking as well as constantly chewing gum with a wide open mouth ! The bottom line is that very , very , very broad acting and writing made this film look like distorted and one-dimensional caricatures , not people . A dreadful example of the " humor " in the film is the fight scene between Roxie and another prisoner - - all accompanied with sound effects of cats fighting and hissing . Uggh ! The bottom line is that I really hated this film since it was so annoying and ridiculous . If you want subtlety , believability or laughs , then I suggest you try some other film - - ANY other film .
worth the dollar I paid	I recently bought this DVD new at Walmart for $1 . In light of this , my expectations weren't exactly high but overall it was a little better than I had expected . This is one of an incredibly long series of monster films from Hammer Films . They made many lower budget Frankenstein , Mummy , Wolfman and Dracula movies starting in the late 1950s and continuing well into the 1970s . While the movies had been excellent and fun , by the early 70s , the series had DEFINITELY seen better days , as evidenced by the previous awful entry into the series , " Dracula A . D . 1972 " . Here Drac meets and hangs with a group of hippies ! ! Ugghh ! ! This is a genuinely ODD movie plot and managed to be a bit worse than its predecessor . Dracula has created a secret satanic cult made up of important British government officials and a brilliant scientist who has created a super virus that can wipe out humanity . Once the good guys figured out what was happening , one of them pointed out that if all the mortals died , how would Dracula himself survive ? Maybe he hadn't thought that out or maybe it was just some sort of odd way to commit suicide . Regardless , he MUST be stopped ! ! ! On the plus side : pretty good acting , realistic use of blood and odd plot devices . On the negative side : you can't think too much when you watch it and by now the Hammer Dracula franchise is wearing a little thin - - after all , how many times can Van Helsing kill the same vampire ?
An ugly Mlis knock-off	Another reviewer referred to this as being a knock-off of films by the great French director , Mlis . While I would definitely agree , I must also add that this film is a very sloppily made copy - - with none of Mlis ' sophisticated camera trickery or finesse . Instead , many of the elements are stolen in a very haphazard way ( in the turn of the century , film producers like to say they " borrowed heavily from one another " ) . And unfortunately , they just don't look very convincing as you can see people clumsily moving about behind the fake black wall and the black screen actually moves when these people bump into it ! ! While copying each other's work was common , such a sloppy attempt as this isn't . My advice is seek out the original films - - they are STILL charming and interesting - - this one is not .
What does this have to do with Faust and Marguerite ? ?	This is a pretty lousy film - - even by the standards of the day . There are three serious and fundamental problems . First , Georges Mlis , the French director , made this same film two years earlier . Copying each other's ideas was very , very common in the early days of cinema - - sometimes you'd find many versions of the same film - - each made by a different production company . Second , the film has pretty poor trick cinematography - - Mlis had been doing similar but much more spectacular trick work on film and he was the master as making things appear and disappear on film . Third , the film is pretty pointless and seems to have nothing to do with Faust . So , what you are left with is a seemingly pointless and derivative film with second-rate camera tricks . Not a rousing endorsement , huh ?
Only of interest to fans of Hitchcock and film historians	If this film had not been directed by Alfred Hitchcock , no one would remember it or even want to remember it ! It is obvious that this film was just a chance for the director to work his craft until he ultimately made a dandy film a year later ( THE LODGER ) . You will also not see very much of the " Hitchcock style " in this film , as the movie is not a suspense film or mystery and in places , his quality as a director was very suspect . It is just amazing how quickly he went from this sorry film to great films . When I say badly directed , I know some die-hard fans will no doubt have an apoplexy . I have long ago noticed that die-hard fans rarely can allow criticism of their idols , so I know I'll have a few people rate this review as " not helpful " , but it simply was botched by him in places . In particular , the beginning of the film is a histrionic mess ! While it is untrue that MOST silent films are overacted and have exaggerated action ( this is really only something you see in very , very early films ) , this film looks like a throwback to bygone days during the confrontation between the evil drunken husband and the painter . Such overacting and hysterics are pretty much laughable . I also loved how the husband did such a rotten job " hitting " the other man with his cane - - he pulled the blows so obviously that it just looked like it came from a high school play ! Well , I must admit that the rest of the film DID feature better acting and it seemed that if Hitchcock made this movie linearly ( from start to finish ) , then you can see how his direction improved as the film unfolded . But , unfortunately , the script is so preachy and obvious that it hardly seems worth watching . About the only positive that I really liked was the very end - - the lack of a happy or clichd ending actually helped make the movie a little more palatable . Still , all-in-all , a pretty forgettable and unimpressive film in almost every aspect .
Dopey	While the idea of this film isn't bad , the execution is rather poor - - even for 1902 . The character " Uncle Josh " ( who appeared in at least one other Edison film ) goes to the theater and sees some short films ( the same type usually shown at the time ) . He is supposedly such a rube that he can't tell it isn't real and spends most of the time mugging for the camera and wildly overacting next to the screen . However , later the stupid guy sees a lady on screen with another man and plans on making sweet love to the lady . When he jumps at her , he rips down the curtain and reveals the rear-projected projector - - at which point the guy running the show starts hitting stupid old Uncle Josh . While I do like many of the early films and have a VERY HIGH TOLERANCE for them ( even though many are very rough and not all that good ) , this one stands out for terrible acting and overall cheesiness . Try to find another early Edison film - - ANY of them would possibly be preferable !
At 6 . 0 , this film is horribly overrated	I wonder why this film has a 6 . 0 rating on IMDb . Is it possible people saw this bad film and actually thought it was good ? ! The world is a strange place , indeed . Now I started watching this film strongly predisposed to liking it . After all , I adore the Universal horror films of the 30s and 40s and the Invisible Man series is among the best . Plus , the idea of the Allies using the invisibility formula to infiltrate Nazi territory to do some spying is an inspired plot idea . Yet , almost miraculously , the Universal folks produced a very bad film . Most of the problem is that unlike most other horror films of the time , this one was very often played for laughs . Considering that the guy is supposed to get important information and get out , his sticking around to play tricks on the incredibly stupid Nazis was really dumb - - and not in a good way ! Plus , after a while , it was obvious that there was an invisible guy running about - - talk about a great way to maintain your cover ! Additionally , instead of the usual conniving and evil Nazis like you'd see in an American wartime propaganda film , here they are complete morons - - almost like what you'd see in a Three Stooges film . If it were a Stooges film that would be great . . . but not in a horror film . Making it a straight drama would have improved the film tremendously . Additionally , it's obvious Universal simply didn't care when they made this film . Even for a B-movie , it is cheap and has a slapped together look . The models used for airplanes for the film were pathetically unrealistic and it was obvious they were bad models . Also , having Peter Lorre ( whose heritage in reality was German ) playing a Japanese man was ridiculous . In fact , it wasn't until later in the film that you even realized he was supposed to be Japanese ! Now I understand that Lorre played the lead in the Mr . Moto films ( where he was supposed to be Japanese ) , but here he didn't even try to look or sound Asian . Mantan Moreland would have been just as fitting an actor to play this role . Finally , throw in an unimportant and ridiculous love story that comes out of no where and you have the ingredients for a truly awful film . Exceptionally poor writing , indifferent direction and actors who couldn't have possibly made this material work and you have INVISIBLE AGENT in a nut shell . Don't say I didn't warn you ! Fortunately , the next film in the series ( THE INVISIBLE MAN'S REVENGE ) is quite a bit better .
No wonder the Soviets hated America ! ! !	My giving this a score of 3 is NOT what I would give the original Soviet version of this film . It seems that American-International ( a studio that specialized in ultra-low-budget fare in the 60s ) bought this film and utterly destroyed it - - slicing a two hour plus film into a 64 minute film ! Plus , much of this 64 minutes was new material ( such as the " monsters " ) - - so you know that this film bears almost no similarity to the original . The original film appears to be a rather straight drama about the Soviet conquest of space - - though I really am not sure what it was originally ! For insight into the original film , read Steven Nyland's review - - it was very helpful . By the way , this was the third Soviet sci-film I've seen that American-International bought and then hacked apart to make a " new " film - - standard practice to a company that was willing to put just about anything on the screen to make a buck - - provided , of course , it didn't cost them much more than a buck in the first place ! ! This Americanized film was about two rival world powers ( NOT the US and Soviets ) trying to be the first to Mars . The tricky " bad guys " try but fail and the " good guys " rescue one of the idiot astronauts and then head to Mars . Unfortunately , they are temporarily stranded on a moon of Mars where they see some monsters ( added by American-International ) that are REAAAALLY cheesy and one does bear similarity to a certain part of a female's anatomy . Then , they are rescued - - returning to Earth heroes . The bottom line is that the film was butchered - - turning an incredibly beautiful piece of art ( for the time ) being turned into a grade-C movie . Because of this , the Soviets really had a reason to hate America ! I'm just shocked that the horrible job A-I did with this film didn't convince them to refuse to sell more films to these jerks ! It's worth a look for a laugh , but the really bad moments that make you laugh are few and far between . So , the film is a dud - - not bad enough to make it a must-see for bad movie buffs and too dopey to be taken seriously . I would really love to see this movie in its original form - - it must have been some picture .
Subtle , it ain't ! This is one of the silliest films I've seen in some time !	This film sure has a lot of familiar faces - - Bernie Casey , Antonio Fargas , Shelly Winters ( as " Mommy " ) , Esther Role and even Don Cornelius ( from " Soul Train " ) are all here to support Tamara Dobson as Cleopatra Jones . Cleopatra is an extra-special narcotics agent - - practically James Bond and a DEA officer combined ! She knows martial arts , carries a machine gun , drives like a NASCAR driver AND manages to look hot on top of everything else ! It seems that Cleo's efforts have begun to hurt Mommy's businesses and those of her associates - - especially Fargas ' drug dealing . So , it's the mob against Cleopatra . Considering it's only 682 to 1 , it's reasonably certain that Cleo will be victorious by the end of the film . This movie has some similarities to COFFY and FOXY BROWN , as all three films are about an angry woman's attack on the drug trade . One major difference was that in these two Pam Greer films , the title character wasn't a special agent - - just a vigilante wanting to rid the world of dope fiends . Dobson , unlike most other blaxploitation heroes works for " the Man " ! Another difference is that Ms . Dobson manages to keep her clothes on throughout the film ! The final difference is that , believe it or not , Greer's films were a lot more believable , as Dobson can do ANYTHING and is practically Wonderwoman - - whereas , Greer is just really , really mad ! ! Heck , one of the victims even calls Dobson " Wonderwoman " ! Overall , this film is far less gritty blaxploitation and more like an episode of " Get Christie Love " or " Charlie's Angels " - - the music , the plot , the acting - - the whole package . I wonder if Aaron Spelling had anything to do with this project ! !
The Boston Blackie series is finally showing its age . . . .	I have seen just about all of the Chester Morris " Boston Blackie " films and have to say that this one is about the worst due to very , very bad writing . While the usual " dumb cop " schtick has worn too thin ( Faraday and his assistant are sub-moronic clichs as police - - too dumb to be anything other than tiresome ) , my main complaint is the dumb plot itself - - it's just so ridiculous and hard to believe that the film soon lost me . Blackie has a plan and he asks the warden at a prison to parole ten men to him ( himself , an ex-con ) so the guys can work in a defense plant owned by his friend . This is unlikely , but since it was a WWII-era film , I could ignore this . But , when a man has committed a robbery and has only served a short amount of time and EVERYONE tells Blackie this man is too great a risk , Blackie STILL pushes for the man's release . Okay . . . not exactly believable , . . . but I guess I can go with this . However , when later this same prisoner's two old accomplices confront him and demand they split the stolen money , there is a struggle and one of the men is killed . So what does Blackie do when he discovers this ? Tell the warden or call the police ? No . Instead , he insanely convinces the police that HE ( Blackie ) killed the man and stole the loot ! ! This just made no sense at all , as it practically puts Blackie into the electric chair AND ruins the chances of his pet project to succeed . What were the writers thinking ? About the only good part of the film involved Blackie and Runt dressing as cleaning women ( something they did in another film - - repetition is an ever-present problem for Blackie films as plot elements are recycled again and again ) . Unlike Sherlock Holmes , the Falcon or even Charlie Chan , the excessively repetitive nature of the Blackie series make seeing all the films rather unnecessary . I say see a few and then quit , otherwise it's all " like a case of dj vu all over again " ( Yogi Berra ) . By the way , if you look closely , you'll see Sid Melton is one of the parolees . Sid was " Alf Monroe " from the TV series GREEN ACRES .
The Indiana Jones film to avoid !	After the first wonderful Indiana Jones movie ( RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK ) , it was obvious that Paramount Pictures had a mega-hit and doing a sequel that would make another fortune was guaranteed . In essence , they could even put crap on the screen and it would pack theaters - - and unfortunately , that is exactly what they did ! The biggest difference between the two film ? Well , the first one was fun - - the second one was rather sadistic and cruel . Now I am not saying there weren't some intense and possibly exploitational scenes in RAIDERS ( such as the face melting finale or the temple filled with snakes ) , but there was a certain sadistic quality of TEMPLE OF DOOM that just looked like the writers were substituting gross-outs for intelligent scripting . Giant bugs and monkey skulls being open and eaten - - complete with slurping sounds and slimy guts was neither entertaining nor needed . The same could be said for the scene where a person's heart is ripped out of their chest by the priest ( also a physical impossibility unless you have the proper equipment ) . Throwing a cute kid into this mess of a film just seemed exploitational and mean - - trying to exploit the audience's natural concerns for a poor little kid . It's no surprise that when this movie came out , the MPAA was pressured to create a new rating - - PG-13 to warn families against bringing little kids to certain movies . Too bad this warning wasn't given when TEMPLE OF DOOM was released - - I never would have bothered bringing people to see this mess . I did and I ended up leaving mid-way through this film because of the sick and cruel streak throughout the film . You have been warned .
Sadly , very bland indeed	For those fans of Laurel and Hardy , the 1940s and beyond were a very sad time for the team . Their contracts with Hal Roach Studios had expired and now they were " free agents " - - able to work for any studio who offered them a job . Unfortunately , Fox , RKO , MGM ( without Roach ) and even a French film company who hired the boys had absolutely no touch for their comedic talents . Plus , Stan and Ollie were a lot older and seeing these geriatric men taking pratfalls seemed sad , not particularly funny . Stan looked very ragged and Ollie's weight had ballooned up to the point where he could barely walk - - and so it made me feel uncomfortable laughing at their very , very sedate antics . In addition to their age , this particular film suffers because Fox Studios oddly cast them in a supporting role and created a parallel plot involving a young couple - - something that reduced their time on screen AND turned them into insipid " hangers on " instead of just being themselves . A cute and cuddly Stan and Ollie is very foreign to the old Laurel and Hardy of the 20s and 30s - - and just seemed awfully strange and suited them poorly . Now even with their age , this COULD have been a decent movie if it had been given decent writing and if it appeared the studio cared - - and it's quite obvious they were using the " B unit " here - - with , at best , second class support . In particular , there are very few laughs and the last 10 minutes of the film is simply dreadful - - relying exclusively on a sloppy rear-projected screen for the stupid chase scene - - which might just rank as one of the worst of its kind in film history . For mind-numbed zombie lovers of Laurel and Hardy , it's probably a film they will love . But , for lovers of the team who are willing to honestly evaluate this film relative to their amazing earlier films , it simply comes up wanting indeed . In fact , of all their full-length films pre-1940 , I can't think of one I liked less than DANCING MASTERS . Unfortunately , of the post-1940 films , this might just be one of their better ones . Sadly , it got a lot worse - - with wretched films like THE BIG NOISE and NOTHING BUT TROUBLE . I just wish the boys had just retired after SAPS AT SEA . Finally , I wonder if all the generally positive reviews for this film on IMDb might reflect the reviewers ' love of the team more than it's an indication that this is a good film ? For an audience who are NOT already in love with the team , I don't know HOW this film will do anything but bore the audience - - it certainly WON'T convince anyone that Laurel and Hardy were comedic geniuses . But even comedic geniuses need material worthy of their talents .
super-important historically - - awfully boring if seen today	I love films and I am a history teacher , so it is natural that I would sometimes use clips from this film when I teach . It was the first " all-talking picture " ( with the sound placed on records that often went out of sync with the picture - - this isn't a problem on DVDs and video versions , thank goodness ) . Plus , it gives AMAZING insight into how the average person viewed Black-Americans - - as Jolson performs in black face - - something that would most likely get him shot today or start a major riot ! However , despite it being one of the most important movies historically , I've gotta admit that it's a really creaky old-fashioned film that would mostly elicit snores nowadays . The basic plot , even in 1927 , was really clichd and old . Al Jolson is the son of a Jewish cantor ( singer in the synagogue ) and he is expected to follow in his father's tradition . But , the young man is torn - - as he LOVES Jazz and feels called to the theater . The dilemma is how to honor his father and still live his own life . The results are pretty predictable and the film is only mildly interesting . No , . . . wait . Now that I think about it , it's not at all interesting . And the film is jam-packed full of clichs and over-the-top performances . I know this played to packed houses in 1927 , but by today's standards it's just sappy and dull . Plus , although it is a " talkie " , much of the film is actually silent with title cards . Only the songs and some of the dialog is recorded . See it only for its historical value . Otherwise , it's just not worth your time . A final note : Hollywood inexplicably decided to remake this film MANY years later . Why remake this crusty old film into a boring NEW film , I can't explain . It's sort of like " New COKE " - - something people did for no apparent reason !
Is it JUST me , or is this an incredibly dull film ?	Last night , I watched this film on Turner Classic Movies and I was very excited when I heard the host , Robert Osborne , say that this film was perhaps the best Spanish movie ever . As a result , I had very high expectations , but instead found the film dreadfully dull and way , way too slow . The film was ostensibly about two children and their slight obsession with the movie " Frankenstein " . The plot was as thin as could be , but it was padded out by lots of very long , long uninterrupted shots accompanied by lots of very slow and " arty " music . Frankly it looked like a well-filmed home movie where someone didn't realize that extended shots of NOTHING was not particularly entertaining . I love international cinema , but frankly , I think I would have preferred if the movie had been condensed into a series of highlights . How this film came to be viewed as a classic , I have no idea - - there are so many better and more deserving films - - including better Spanish films . If you are looking for a foreign film about kids , there are many better films such as LE PAPILLON , IT ALL STARTS HERE ( a commence aujourd'hui ) , LES CHORISTES , FANNY AND Alexander and especially THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US ( I Bambini ci guardano ) . I'm NOT anti-international cinema - - just anti-DULL international cinema .
odd and very dated - - but worth seeing for D . W . Griffith	Historically this is an important film as you get a chance to see D . W . Griffith as an actor before he became the world famous director . This is interesting indeed . Unfortunately , the film itself is pretty trite and silly and lasts only about five minutes . A little child is stolen by an obviously fake eagle that flaps its wings in VERY slow motion and it's up to the family to come to her rescue . They scale the cliff and find the child but are attacked by the stuffed bird - - at which point our hero beats it to submission and triumphs unscathed . By today's standards this is a piece of crap film . However , back in 1908 , this was a typical short film . Decent movies with higher production values and plots were still in the future ! Today , though , the movie only provides a unintended few laughs !
horrible casting and terrible stereotypes abound	I don't know if Hispanics are offended by this film . My frustration with this film is NOT because I am politically correct ( I am proud that I am NOT ) , but because the casting and performances were just so stupid . So , even if most are NOT offended , I was offended by how stupid the studio thought the viewers were to believe that Spencer Tracy , Heddy Lamarr , John Garfield and Sheldon Leonard were even the least bit plausible as CHICANOS ! ! Come off it - - I think Hattie McDaniel or Maureen O'Hara would have been about as believable if they'd been offered these roles ! As a result , it looked more like a performance of Jose Jimenez than a drama about the plight of these poor immigrants .
terrible but fun , . . .	This movie earns its 3 for lousy writing , poor technical merit and continuity problems . Some people have given this movie a 10 - - and perhaps that is okay if you are simply scoring it for its fun factor . However , technically this is an inept movie serial from start to finish - - produced by 3rd-rate writers , actors and crew . That really was true of nearly all the serials because they were meant as low-brow entertainment particularly aimed at the kids . And there's nothing wrong with that , but " high art " it ain't ! ! Spy Smasher earns a lower than average score compared to other serials because it is of even lower quality and has MAJOR continuity problems - - even for a serial . It was common for a serial to have a " cliff hanger " - - i . e . , a moment at the end of the episode that looked as if the good guy dies but miraculously survives when the next episode began . BUT , in this film , it's much hokier and ridiculous . You would literally SEE the hero die in the last episode , but in the next , they re-shot the scene and showed he actually DIDN'T die ( even though they clearly showed him buy the farm in the last one ) ! Again and again in SPY SMASHER he seems to die but in the next episode they show it from a different angle and he somehow avoided death - - even if he fell 1500 feet into a river , fell into a buzz saw or whatever . Watch this movie not for its quality but either for a good laugh or to learn what it was like to go to the movies on Saturday mornings decades ago .
It's not terrible - - fun for fans of cheesy horror and all others should beware	My score of 3 doesn't really mean that I hated this film . In fact , I enjoy watching cheesy 1950s and 60s horror films . However , no matter how much I enjoy them , I have to be realistic and admit that their technical merits are usually horrendous . With THE HIDEOUS SUN DEMON ( a rather inappropriate title , by the way ) , the budget was next to nothing and it really shows . The script also is not particularly inspired or original , though the film is watchable . Actor Robert Clarke stars in this film he also wrote and co-directed . While his name is probably not one you've heard of before , he did a ton of TV appearances over the years - - particularly in the 1960s in such shows as " Dragnet " . He's a competent actor though given the budget , you really can't blame him for coming up with a silly film . This is another nuclear radiation film where a scientist is exposed to the stuff . But , instead of turning really big ( THE AMAZING COLOSSAL MAN ) or tiny ( THE AMAZING SHRINKING MAN ) , here the guy cannot go into sunlight or he becomes a hideous looking monster - - at least until he's left the sunlight and allows himself to become normal once again . To me I kept wondering why Clarke's character was so stupid that he'd " forget " and suddenly realize it's becoming daytime throughout the film . People with Porphyria learn to avoid sunlight , yet this dummy keeps making the mistake of being out too long . Unfortunately , when he is out in the sun , he seems to become a bit emotionally unstable , though he's nothing like a " sun demon " . He's more like a guy who's a bit cranky and stupid , that's all ! Overall , very watchable for fans of the genre but don't expect it to be among the best . Just a typical film you'd find on a typical exceptionally tiny budget . By the way , look at the box art that is shown on IMDb . I think the yellow artwork might just rank as the ugliest in film history .
Super-important , historically speaking , but drier than dirt ! !	From a purely historical viewpoint , this is an absolutely amazing short film , as it is a sound film and appeared five years before the super-famous JAZZ SINGER ( the first sound full-length movie ) . Now this isn't the only sound film made in the early to mid-1920s , as several studios experimented using short films ( though few theaters had the proper sound equipment ) . I've seen an early Eddie Cantor film as well as the famous speech by Will Hays he made for the prologue to DON JUAN , but aside from these this is one of the few surviving early sound films . Now as for the film itself , it , unfortunately , is drier than dirt . In other words , it is very dull as the entire film consists of a guy reciting the poem " Casey At The Bat " . Believe it or not , this actor made a career of doing this on stage , so you must assume he must have been famous and beloved by his audiences . Today , though , he just seems like a lousy actor hamming it up and isn't worth a look unless you are really , really curious .
Perhaps faithful to Charteris ' novel , but where is the fun ? !	Leslie Charteris was apparently unhappy with the RKO films based on his Simon Templar character that were made in the late 30s and early 40s because they bore little similarity to his stories - - just the titles and title character's name were often retained . I read that Charteris refused to allow further versions of his stories unless major changes were made . As a result , RKO did what you'd expect from a studio - - changed the character's name and continued the series under a new name ( " The Falcon " ) . However , they and Republic Pictures did not want to drop the idea of the Saint altogether , so they made a couple films in Britain with an entirely new cast . Part of this was , of course , to make Charteris happy but this was also done because a British law required that a certain percentage of films shown in the country must be domestically produced - - hence many American companies , such as MGM , Warner and RKO bought or created British film companies . Most of these British productions were made on a shoestring budget and the parent companies didn't particularly care too much about the quality of the films , as they were never intended to be shown anywhere outside the UK - - and they were only making them to get around British law . Now some of these British-made films very good and many of them were downright dull and boring - - about how I would characterize THE SAINT MEETS THE TIGER - - dull and boring . I know that this film has a reasonably high rating on IMDb , but for the life of me it was a major struggle for me to watch this insipid film . While the American films were not faithful to Charteris ' vision , they were indeed fun . This more " by the book " version forgot to include the fun . Sure , they weren't " authentic " , but for my money I'd much rather watch George Sanders as the Saint than dull old Hugh Sinclair - - who , unfortunately , has the charisma of a mop . FYI - - While I prefer the Americanized version of the Saint , the same cannot be said of James Bond . Just like the Charteris novels , most James Bond films have almost no similarity to the original Ian Fleming novels - - just the titles and character name . However , I would LOVE to one day see a series based on the books , as they were far superior to the impossibly perfect Bond we've seen in the films .
Just okay Superman cartoon	In general , I am not a huge fan of these Fleischer brothers cartoons - - mostly because they are too fast-paced . It's like they are trying to cram 15 minutes of cartoon into 6 minutes . So , because of that , the mystery and thrills they are trying to create just don't work - - since the solution occurs so quickly after the problem is established . For example , when Clark , Lois and some archaeologist enter the mummy's tomb , the coffin has been rigged with a poison quill . But , as soon as the audience becomes aware of it , Clark finds it and removes it - - how he did this so quickly is really a puzzle - - even if he IS Superman . Also , as usual , the animation quality lags far behind other products from the same company . Just compare these simple but colorful drawings to Popeye cartoons and it's obvious they were rushing the cartoons into production . By the way , watch for the introduction speech about " faster than a speeding bullet , . . . " , as the words are VERY different to what we think this speech should be . No locomotive or tall buildings mentioned !
well-made propaganda that should not be confused as factual	Up until WWII , most Americans ( and particularly Hollywood ) looked to Soviet Russia with , at best , fear . While the true extent of the brutality and human rights violations of the Stalinist regime were still not fully comprehended , there was great fear that the Russians were bent on world domination . BUT , with the entry of the United States into WWII , the Russians , our previous enemy , was now our ally . And , to engender support for this new ally , Hollywood created a fictionalized version of the Russians - - portraying them as brave and loyal and almost super-human . While some of these qualities were no doubt true of those who heroically fought the Nazis , many simply fought for survival and chose to protect their own evil regime because it seemed less evil than the Germans - - or because they were murdered by their own KGB troops if they did not fight . However , in The North Star , none of this is apparent . Instead , the Hollywoodized version of the Russians is given and their government , it seems , is freedom-loving and decent ! What a lie . Because of this , the movie ONLY has value as a historical curiosity as propaganda . I would be very afraid someone might view it today and take it for fact instead of complete fiction . Despite this movie's attempts to portray it otherwise , Stalinism ranks as one of the greatest evils in human history . While this is essentially the same review I gave to another pro-Russian propaganda film of this era , MISSION TO MOSCOW , The North Star is a little better as far as entertainment value is concerned . You'll rarely see the Nazis portrayed in as evil a light in any American film of the time . But it is nonetheless a lie from start to finish in regard to its portrayal of the Russians . While the people were brave and decent , its leader was the epitome of evil .
Not particularly entertaining and a bit offensive to boot	James Parrott is also known as " Paul Parrott " and those in the know may remember him as the director of many of Laurel and Hardy's best films ( such as the Oscar-winning MUSIC BOX as well as HELPMATES and PARDON US ) . However , before directing Stan and Ollie , his brother Charley Chase , the Little Rascals and others , he was a silent comedian himself - - having appeared in well over a hundred films ! Sadly , although Parrott was an accomplished comic , this film is far from his best and is rather lame compared to other similar films of the era . Part of this is because the film isn't all that funny and I was not thrilled to see the old clich of the " scared black man " used for laughs . Back then , seeing a black man acting like a fool when he thinks he saw a ghost was a big laugh-getting but today it is justifiably seen as insensitive ( plus not all that funny ) . An additional problem is that the film was converted to film as the wrong speed . Silent films were hand-cranked at a rate ranging from about 16-22 frames per second but sound films are always played at 24 fps - - and without compensating for this difference , silent films usually look very fast . Well , in this case they overcompensated and the characters move like they are acting in molasses . It's just too slow . Finally , there is a huge chunk of the film missing - - a common problem with films made on old fashioned nitrate stock ( which degrades quickly over time ) . The final verdict is that this is one of the more forgettable silent comedies and is only of interest to nuts like me who adore ALL silent comedies . Just don't expect gold with this one ! For a better Parrott film , try POST NO BILLS - - also on volume 2 of " The American Slapstick " DVD set .
What a filthy and unpleasant mess	This is a film that has lovely and very inventive animation . Other than that , there was absolutely nothing I liked about the film . The 3 points it earns are only for the animation , as the rest of the film is just ugly and throughly unpleasant - - a hateful and nihilistic mess . It looks as if someone decided to make a film just to offend and make people mad or ill - - and had no other purpose . The story , such as it is , seems more an excuse to splice in images of people giving the British equivalent of the middle finger , showing lots of hard-core obscenities on the walls and maggots feasting on rotting food among other such repellent images . In many ways , this film is like The Sex Pistols of film-dom - - just meant to be loud , nasty and offensive . And , naturally , some idiots thought this was art and nominated it for a BAFTA award . By this standard , I think I could make an animation of someone defecating and probably get a nomination . What a waste .
Why is this # 32 ?	IMDb has a " bottom 100 " films - - those with the lowest ratings of the many thousands of films listed on the web site . The bottom 100 films list is pretty wretched , though many truly horrible films somehow missed inclusion on the list . And , oddly GIRL IN GOLD BOOTS did make the list - - even though it's not that bad a film at all , especially for Ted V . Mikels . Mikels has made some amazingly bad films ( such as CORPSE GRINDERS and ASTRO-ZOMBIES ) but compared to these films , GIRL IN GOLD BOOTS is practically Shakespeare ! Yet , of the three films I mentioned , inexplicably GIRL has the lowest IMDb rating . The film is about three people who are heading to Los Angeles . One is a pretty lady whose life goal is to become a go-go dancer ( she dreams big , huh ? ! ) . One is a punk guy who is thug through and through - - he is the most poorly written and acted of the three - - by far . And the last is a soulful guy who is cute , plays the guitar and sings . While these characters are all very one-dimensional , they are interesting and hard to ignore because the script and their roles are so tacky ! When they get to L . A . , they get jobs with a seedy nightclub owner . This jerk also deals drugs and has a twitchy and greasy sidekick who looks a bit like Dracula and a mortician morphed into one . The punk joins them in a " trio of terror " , the lady realizes her dream job ( only to realize it isn't that dreamy after all to be a go-go girl - - who'd have figured ? ! ) and the nice guy hangs around to keep an eye on the girl and to keep her out of trouble . The film is cheaply made and jam-packed full of silly 60s song and dance numbers and pop culture references . Lots and lots of silly go-go dancers fill the screen in the second half of the film and often it just looks like padding , but at least the girls are rather pretty and the script is semi-competent . The nice guy also inexplicably sings a couple numbers like Frankie Avalon and he was probably the only guy in the film who seemed to have much talent . But , being connected with Mikels and this film surely didn't help him very much in the long run . In fact , of all the main characters in the film , NONE OF THEM had a single credit other than this film ! ! Apparently this film was a kiss of death to their careers and they all eventually became go-go dancers ! While the dialog is occasionally lame and the film isn't great , it is an interesting kitschy time capsule . Plus , for an ultra-low-budget film , it's pretty good and watchable . While compared to all films I might score it a 3 , for a low budget " quickie " it is quite competent despite the Mikels touch !
Pretty cinematography - - and that's about all	For a short film , this short seems even shorter than usual on content . In fact , the film can be very easily summed up as follows : a guy in Nebraska is plowing the fields and is imagining surfing in paradise . That's it ! For seven minutes , you see alternating shots of him plowing or surfing - - all set to music consisting of a base guitar . That's it . Considering that the film's creator , Jason Matthew Moore had only made one other short film , I'll cut him a little slack . As a student project , this is okay . As a film to be seen in other venues , it definitely lacks purpose - - anyone can say " I'd rather be in Hawaii than here in the middle of America " . I want something more - - something compelling .
campy and not particularly good	I like 50s sci-fi movies a lot . I like the really good ones ( such as The Day the Earth Stood Still , When Worlds Collide , Invasion of the Body Snatchers , and many others ) and sometimes the really bad ones because they can be really funny and great to watch with friends ( such as Plan 9 From Outer Space ) . However , when a sci-fi movie is bad but not bad enough to be fun , it really should be avoided . This movie is just such a film . The posters make it appear as some sort of sexy she-beast is attacking mankind , whereas the real plot is a lot less interesting . A woman is married to a womanizer . She is contaminated and begins to grow to a HUGE size and decides to track down this worm and kick his tail and that's about it . Also , many of the special effects really stink - - especially the gigantic papier mache hand that comes into the room to grab the wicked hubby .
What cartoons would look like if they were animated by 4 year-olds	One review for this film said that it sneaks up on you . Well , I waited and watched and nothing in particular sneaked up on me . I really wanted to have the film ultimately turn out to me more interesting but it never really did . The animated film FLUX is about the life cycle from one generation to the next and it's told with only gibberish words - - no other dialog . The problem for me , though , is although its art style is unique , this was NOT a good thing . The overall look was like a cartoon created by a 4 year-old - - complete with very , very sloppy kid-like drawings . About the only interesting aspect of all this was that occasionally something goofy happened in the film - - such as someone screaming or a baby popping out , but that was about all . Overall , I'd rate the animation a 1 or 2 and the story about a 4 . Splitting the difference , somewhat , I arrive at an overall score of 3 . I'm sorry , but I just didn't get it .
Well , that was a rather unpleasant 15 minutes of my life	The film is about Barry , a drug dealer with a bazillion dollars worth of uncut cocaine lying all over his table . A customer drops by with his girlfriend and the conversations reveal that Barry is really dumb and awkward and the lady is a foul-mouthed and foul-tempered " lady " . This is one of many short films that have recently been posted on IMDb - - something I really appreciate , as I love short films . However , this film isn't one I particularly liked and I almost wish I could go back in time and do something for better during that 15 I just wasted . The biggest reason I disliked the film is that it was all about a stupid drug dealer and his so-called friends . I personally think drugs and drug users are stupid , so at the onset I have a very negative mindset towards the subject matter . Now if the subject had perhaps been handled in an interesting way , then I would still be able to enjoy it . Sadly , however , I just found the story rather tough to believe and not especially engaging . Unfortunately , I just didn't enjoy it and would rather not see this short film ever again .
Apparently a cheap knock-off of another cheap martial arts film .	1975's MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE is an amazing and wonderful film to watch . This isn't because the fighting is particularly inspired or because the film makes any sense at all . It's because the film is so silly and so over-the-top that it is a camp classic - - bad , but enjoyably bad . The film stars a blind guy who has a Frisbee-like device on a chain that chops off people's heads as he expertly throws this at his foes ! Who cares that the physics are impossible or that the film features such silly things as fighters with 12 foot long papier-mache arms or that the guy was blind ! It's just a ball to watch from start to finish - - and one of my favorite " bad " films and great to see with friends . Because of this film , I was eager to see THE FATAL FLYING GUILLOTINES ( 1977 ) , though sadly it turned out NOT to be a sequel but a bit of a knock-off - - taking many of the ideas from the original but neglecting to make the film as coherent or watchable . Sure , it's silly fun , but it never comes close to MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE in entertainment value . Like the original film , there are these weird flying devices that sever heads , but they are quite different - - with circular saw blades and almost a mind of their own . There also is no blind guy but instead are a bunch of baddies who really have no depth nor does the audience understand exactly what's occurring in this English-dubbed version , as the plot is completely incomprehensible . However , at the same time , some of the martial arts action is very good . While not up to the high standards of most Bruce Lee or Sonny Chiba films , the action is worthwhile despite the ludicrous and often confusing plot . Overall , this is a film that martial arts fans may like ( despite its many , many , many , many shortcomings ) , but also one that others will probably turn off or laugh hysterically at instead of enjoying the action because the film is just so ludicrous . BUT , most importantly , it never comes close to being as funny or watchable as MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE . Too bad .
Amazingly sterile and disconnected	Bill Murray plays a famous actor named Bob who goes to Japan to do an ad campaign for big bucks . The problem is , he's experiencing a bit of a crisis before he arrived ( a sense of disconnection with his wife and kids ) , and being in a totally alien culture , he is even more lost and alone . Some of the observations about the way that the Japanese do business and behave are pretty interesting , but there aren't enough of them after the first twenty minutes or so . Having a Westerner come to Japan and feel lost and overwhelmed is an interesting starting point for a film . Unfortunately , the film never really seemed to go anywhere after this interesting start . Plus , the characters ( especially Bill Murray's ) ultimately turned out to be rather selfish , so I really didn't care about them . The main theme of this movie is a sense of disconnectedness . Unfortunately , in making the two leads ( Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson ) feel alone and disconnected in Japan , the audience , too , feels pretty much the same way about these leads as well as the movie as a whole . As a result , the movie is extremely somber , sterile and moves at a snail's pace . Both Johansson and especially Murray seem to almost sleepwalk through their roles - - showing very little energy or emotion . Overall , it's a sometimes interesting but sleep-inducing experiment that failed . After seeing this and THE LIFE AQUATIC WITH STEVE ZISSOU , it seems Murray's career is stagnating . While critics might enjoy these films , they are NOT what the average person would enjoy . As for me , I much prefer the funny Bill Murray of WHAT ABOUT BOB ? and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE . By the way , if you DO like seeing Murray play a zombie-like character like he did in this film , then I suggest you also watch BROKEN FLOWERS - - another recent film where he gives an identical performance with absolutely no emotional range .
Not 100 % wretched	This is a bad movie that purports to be an educational film designed to warn America about the menace of teenagers running amok thanks to uninvolved parents . However , like almost all the so-called " educational " films of the 30s and 40s , it was really a shabby little film designed to be snuck past the censors of the Hays Office . In 1934 , the major studios all agreed to abide by the dictates of a stronger Production Code - - eliminating sex , nudity , cursing and " inappropriate " plots in films ( these had actually been relatively common in films in the early 30s ) . However , in an effort to sneak in smut , small studios created films to shock adults when they learn about terrible social ills , though they were REALLY intended to titillate and slip adult themes past the censors ! Such films as MARIJUANA , MAD YOUTH , REEFER MADNESS and SEX MADNESS were all schlocky trash that skirted past the boards because they were supposedly educational . Even though they were laughably bad , they also made money due to low production costs and because they often offered nudity , violence and sordid story lines - - all in the name of education ! Unlike many of these films , DELINQUENT DAUGHTERS didn't have nudity , but it sure had lots of sleazy story elements that were sure to titillate . In this film , teens drank , used drugs , committed pointless robberies and assaults and drove like maniacs - - all apparently the result of poor parental guidance . And as a result , kids died in this movie - - and in the most spectacular ways ! The acting and writing were almost universally bad , though the sequence where the judge tells off the parents of these punks actually was amazingly good - - too bad everything else was pretty lousy . In fact , one character was so bad , so annoying and so gosh-darn awful , I nominate the ditsy blonde as the most annoying character of the 1940s - - she was THAT bad ! ! Her voice was more grating than Olive Oyl's and she was practically sub-human in her stupidity !
A rather limp , unconvincing and dull little vampire film	A dissident is leaving Communist Eastern Europe but on the way out , he's killed by Dracula . Then , inexplicably , Drac arrives at Smalltown , USA and assumes the role of this dissident as he moves in with extended family . Why he did this is really never explained - - especially since moving in with this family seems to only complicate things for the vampire . As strange as it may sound , I had a hard time staying awake during this very dull little horror film . Despite the tantalizing title , the film features very few chills as well as the strangest incarnation of Dracula I have ever seen - - complete with curly hair reminiscent of an aging Don Juan . And , instead of thrills , not a whole lot happens in this film - - only two people die and oddly , the blind one , is able to see when she is reborn as a vampire . It's obvious that this was designed for the drive-in movie crowd ( which was usually young , frisky and willing to sit through even the dullest of movies in order to smooch ) . As I watched it all alone ( my wife / smooching partner was busy working ) , I was bored to tears !
Talk about LOUSY writing ! ! !	In the 1940s , Columbia Pictures decided to try to cash in on Universal's horror films by creating a few of their own ( such as RETURN OF THE VAMPIRE and this film ) - - with generally poor results . The biggest reason was that although the atmosphere and acting were pretty good in these films , the adherence to the lore surrounding the monsters was mostly ignored - - leaving the audiences confused and irritated - - especially in the case of CRY OF THE WEREWOLF . Here is just a partial list of the inconsistencies that completely violated accepted notions of werewolf films . First , no one actually becomes a part-person / part-wolf in this film . The leading lady is either a lady or a wolf - - nothing in between . Also , there's NOTHING about a full moon and instead the lady can change herself at will . And this wolf is easy to kill as would be the lady - - just shoot it with ordinary bullets ! And finally , instead of the nice and kind gypsy played by Maria Ouspenskaya and her tortured son played by Bela Lugosi in the original WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) , here the gypsies are evil Devil-cult members ! ! Now if you ignore the fact that this film bears NO RESEMBLANCE to prior wolf-man films like WEREWOLF OF London ( 1935 ) and WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) , then perhaps you'll find this film enjoyable . But , since I am a rabid fan ( get it ? ) of the films , I felt this one had contempt for the audience and wonder if any of the writers had even seen a werewolf film before writing this silly film .
Not a bad film , but a slap in the face to fans of the original CAT PEOPL	Uggghhh ! ! ! This might rank as one of the most inappropriate sequels in film history . The original CAT PEOPLE was a moody horror film that was exceptional and super-popular at the box office . This sequel , while retaining most of the original characters , completely re-wrote what had occurred in the first film AND created a very insipid and " inspiring " family film ! ! This is just wrong and another similar example is if you compare the original WILLARD to its horrid sequel , BEN - - where the rats no longer ate people but befriended an annoying little boy who was lonely ! ! Ugggghhhh ! ! ! In this film , you learn that Irena had NOT turned into a panther and killed people in the first film ( even though that IS what happened ) . Instead , she was mentally ill and she THOUGHT she'd done this before taking her own life ( I swear , it did NOT end this way ) ! To make things worse , while she DOES return , it's not to kill anyone or exact some sort of revenge , but to help a lonely little girl who is Irena's husband's daughter from a new marriage ! How schmaltzy and dull ! While the acting and production values are good , this is NOT a Val Lewton horror film - - more like a " horrible " film in that it is so unlike the original and basically expects the fans of the first film to have amnesia and watch a family movie instead . YUCK ! ! !
Bad ? Yes , but not THAT bad .	This movie was included in " The Fifty Worst Films of All Time ( and how they got that way ) " by Harry Medved . However , after finally getting to see it , I think it was not nearly bad enough to make it to the book . Now I am not saying it's good - - after all , I gave it a 3 - - but it just isn't THAT bad a film . Now parts of the film are really bad - - in particular the first half or so . The biggest problem was the wretched dialog - - and especially all the inappropriate sexist remarks and double-entendres coming from the flight crew . At times , it sounded more like a Matt Helm film than an air disaster film ! Also the film made the mistake of having way too many " guest stars " and spent too much time bouncing around - - making it look choppy and amateurish ( despite the big budget ) . In fact , all the guest stars with all their assorted problems made the film seem a lot like the movie AIRPORT morphed with THE LOVE BOAT ! ! Silly , soapy and sappy - - - that about sums it up . Once the action starts later in the film , it improves greatly - - though you certainly have to suspend disbelief to accept the premise . Think about it - - a guy has to tether from a helicopter through a tiny hole in order to fly a stricken 747 in mid-flight ! At least , though , there were far fewer guest shots here and the dialog centered more on the plot . There was some genuine tension and excitement - - too bad it didn't make much sense . By the way , is it just me or did it look like Gloria Swanson had her head waxed for the film ? Take a close look and you should easily see what I mean . Her entire head is shiny as if dipped in wax or sprayed with cooking spray ! Perhaps this was some " clever " way to make the aging star look young , but to me it just made her look really strange . Bad , but certainly not among the top 1000 worst films ever made - - let alone top 50 . It is worth watching if you want to see where AIRPLANE got all it's inspiration - - too bad , at times , it's hard to tell they're not BOTH meant to be comedies !
bargain basement Hal Roach	This is definitely a " lesser known " comedy short from the 1920s . The only reason I saw it was because it was on a DVD by Kino Films featuring non-Laurel and Hardy shorts featuring Ollie . They are interesting and historically important , but also generally average to below average for the style film . Compared to shorts by Chaplin , Keaton , Arbuckle and Lloyd , they are definitely a step below them in quality and humor . Also , the accompanying music was pretty poor by the standards of other silent DVDs . I ended up turning OFF the sound due to the inappropriateness of the music to set the proper mood . But , despite this , they are still worth seeing . Interestingly enough , the Kino DVD box said that Stan Laurel played a robber who was in drag . This character was NOT Laurel , but he was the guy in the end of the film who was sleeping when everyone suddenly barged in and began hitting each other . And , unfortunately , this is about the tone of the whole film - - people hitting each other . It's a good example of slapstick with no regard whatsoever for plot . Despite the direction the film INITIALLY TAKES ( about a rip to Hollywood ) , this is quickly forgotten and it's just mindless slapping and pratfalls . You can certainly find better shorts from this era .
Proof that not everything Hitchcock is magic	The film is about the French controlled island of Madagascar . Once the French surrendered to Germany in 1940 and became their allies , their colonies around the globe were left to decide whether to go along with the Vichy government or throw in their lot with the British and continue to fight the Nazis . The film particularly follows one man on the island who is the head of the underground movement . This is a very odd film . During WWII , Alfred Hitchcock made two short propaganda films in French ! Everyone speaks French and I wonder if Hitchcock himself understood the language . Considering how weak this short film is , I assume he didn't ! Unlike most propaganda films , this film is way too talky and slow . Additionally , it's not exactly inspiring . There simply is no action or suspense and the film is amazingly uninspiring . All these factors led the British government to say " thanks but no thanks " to the director when he tried to help out with the war effort . FYI - - I noticed one reviewer gave the short a 10 . When I checked , I noticed that out of dozens and dozens of their reviews I perused , all had received 10s - - every last one .
Definitive proof that D . W . Griffith hated Black people !	This short film combined with his epic BIRTH OF A NATION is definitive proof that D . W . Griffith had both contempt for Black people and believed strongly in the myth that the " Old South " was paradise for the slaves ! The film begins with the Master going off to war and all the slaves crying and wishing him luck ( in real life , they probably would have cheered - - hoping he'd get his head blown off ! ) . But , as luck would have it , the man soon is pushing up the daisies ( that's DEAD to all you who don't understand American slang ) . His sword is the only thing that returns home . A bit later , the house with the sword catches fire and a devoted slave not only saves the little White girl , but returns to rescue the sword ! Then , at then end , he houses the girl and her mom in his shack ( a mansion compared to most real slave quarters ) and sleeps outside like some sort of devoted dog . Oh , and did I mention that all the Black actors were really White folks in dark makeup ? ! While I must admit that Griffith made some great films and was very , very important to the early film industry , there must be a lot of people who would love to know he's burning in Hell for his depiction of Black Americans ! ! This film is important historically and probably should be seen by teens to know just how far we have come .
A big step backwards for the Sergeant Doubleday films	This B-movie was one of a long series of war comedies starring William Tracy as the bright and lovable Sergeant Doubleday . While I loved the very first film , TANKS A MILLION , the series was pretty uneven - - with some being very good and a few ( like this one ) being pretty poor excuses for movies . My score of three might be as low as it is because I knew that these Hal Roach produced films COULD be enjoyable and original - - this one was not . In fact , in some ways it was like a dull film with bits of 3 Stooges thrown in for good measure . In this film , Doubleday and his annoying friend Ames were shipping out overseas to action . As usual , Ames is Doubleday's foil and I think this is a major weakness of these films . After a couple films , Ames becomes very tiresome and his character just grates on you . He's ALWAYS selfish , stupid and trying to hurt his friend Doubleday - - and after a while you start to think " what's funny about that ? " . In TANKS A MILLION , it worked well - - here it's just bad . Plus again and again , second-rate gags are used that just don't provide laughs . Unfortunately , the film also does not end well - - the Japanese sub segment is just lame . Oh , and while I am ranting about Ames , I thought I'd throw in a few words about continuity . From film to film , continuity is a major problem . Ames is a master sergeant in his first film , but stripes keep disappearing in subsequent films - - even though time and again his superior officers praise him and he is rewarded for brains and courage . Also , the sweet Ames goes from girl to girl in the films - - making him seem pretty fickle since he is engaged to a couple of them ! Unfortunately , the only real constant in the films is Ames . Why , oh why Ames ? ! If you are a fan of the series and MUST see them all , then by all means watch this one . If not , then see TANKS A MILLION and leave it at that . The film is one of the best war comedies of the 40s - - perhaps THE best and a lot funnier and timeless than the very popular BUCK PRIVATES . Oh , and the other reviewer is right - - the helmets were worn backwards throughout the film !
A very unpleasant little film	MAJOR SPOILER ALERT - - Don't Read This if You Haven't Seen the Film ! This little picture is slightly less than one hour long , but due to its being a rather disgusting little picture , it seemed longer - - I simply didn't enjoy it at all and found it tough going . It's the story of a screwy young lady and her baby at the beach . They meet a very strange female drifter and they become friends , of sorts . Then , rather out of the blue , the film has a very , very bloody and unsettling ending - - complete with very explicit nudity and violence . The very end of the story I found to be very confusing , as it was hard to figure out exactly WHO murdered WHO ( I am sorry for the spoiler , but this is a truly confusing film ) . Apparently I got it wrong who perpetrated the attack when I first reviewed the film , as an alert IMDb reader noted . And while I usually don't make these sort of errors , I tried re-watching the film just to see how I could have made this mistake . And , even the second time , I could see how this occurred , as the body and perpetrator were only VERY briefly seen at the end . This ambiguity may have been intentional - - I just don't know . Another reason I think I didn't exactly understand who did what is that what DID occur didn't make much sense to me at all - - it seemed like a gratuitous and senseless ending and the motivation for this act was unclear .
The slippery slide continues . . . .	I am a huge fan of the original film in this series , SHAFT - - having scored it an 8 and enjoyed every minute of it . Unfortunately , the sequels ( SHAFT'S BIG SCORE and SHAFT IN Africa ) were major disappointments - - mostly due to really bad writing and lots of ridiculous story elements . In SHAFT'S BIG SCORE , Shaft has a gun battle with about a dozen crooks . They have a machine gun and tons of pistols as well as a helicopter . Shaft has a shotgun and a pistol and manages not only to win but shoot down the copter ! ! ! Sadly , it only got worse in SHAFT IN Africa . The main plot idea isn't bad . A group of concerned officials want to infiltrate an evil mob that sneaks illegal workers from Africa into Europe and treats them like slaves . A timely topic now as well as then . However , having Shaft be the guy to infiltrate was just silly . While the film was set in East Africa , Shaft looks little like one of these people - - mostly because almost all Black-Americans trace their ancestry back to West Africa - - on the other side of the continent . In addition , he didn't really try to use an appropriate accent throughout the film - - only once or twice - - and he didn't shave or cut his hair to blend in with the slaves . He simply looked like " Richard Roundtree : Movie Star " amidst the poor unfortunate villagers . Unfortunately , about the only thing going for the film is the action and extreme violence ( for 1973 ) . Sadly , even the great tune " Shaft " was gone and the music was rather bland throughout the film ! By the way , although it looked cool , why did Shaft bother to blow up the bunker at the end of the film even though the bad guy and all his men were dead ? ! It just seemed like a silly excuse for pyrotechnics .
Not that bad , but it sinks due to an overuse of stock footage AND poor special effects - - even for a 1950s sci-fi film .	The story idea behind THE LOST MISSILE isn't bad at all , but unfortunately the story does get a bit dull towards the middle and the overuse of stock footage as well as poor special effects sink this film to the sub-par level . The film begins with a missile heading towards the Earth . In a panic because it's about to strike the Earth , the Soviets manage to deflect the object . This isn't necessarily good , however , as this seemingly unmanned craft has a vapor trail that destroys everything in its path AND the ship is now in a low orbit over the planet . In other words , with each pass it makes , a swath of death follows - - one that could potentially kill us all ! ! So , it's up to the good scientists of the US ( led by a very young and hardly recognizable Robert Loggia ) to formulate and plan to save us - - and especially save New York that is in its immediate flight path ! Unfortunately , they aren't able to save Ottawa ( I've never been there , so I can't say whether or not this is a big loss ) but thanks to good old American know-how , they are able to eventually destroy this harbinger of destruction ! ! So , as you can see , the story idea isn't bad and rather original . But , so many old clips of fighter planes and guys manning radar scopes gets a bit old and it seemed like padding . Overall , a decent but hardly inspired film that extreme fans of the genre may like - - all others , see it at your own risk .
impossible to rate on IMDb !	This " movie " is an 18 second clip shown in Nickelodeons across the country in 1896 . It consists of a rather ugly older couple getting frisky with each other and culminates in a brief but sweet kiss . THAT'S ALL ! ! And yet , when it appeared it was considered " smut " and there were widespread cries for censorship ! ! ! It just goes to show you how much things have changed over the years ! It's a very important movie historically and I have shown it to my history classes when we discuss American cinema . If anyone cares to see it , it's available on the Internet and is available in Quicktime , MPEG and other formats . Give it a try - - it won't take up much of your time ! PS - - This film is also known as the MAY IRWIN KISS and is not the same as the 1900 film THE KISS - - a knock-off film also made by the Edison Studio , but with more intense kissing and a more attractive couple .
Completely moronic , but somehow still kind of fun	Considering that this film is LESS sophisticated and the humor is even broader than the Three Stooges in I'LL NEVER HEIL AGAIN ( where the three play the leaders of the Axis Powers ) , it's no surprise that I only gave it a score of 3 . Like many of the Hal Roach short movies of the early 1940's , this one is pretty poorly written and the humor is far from sophisticated - - in fact , it's downright childish . This film is about as close as you'll find to " Bevis and Butthead " in this era - - it's THAT silly . But , like Bevis and Butthead , you might in spite of the lameness , actually find yourself laughing at some of their antics . Just don't let anyone see you watch this dopey propaganda film if you want to impress them with your sophistication or intelligence ! ! ! As for the plot , it's a fantasy involving Hitler , Mussolini and , oddly , a Japanese general named " Suki Yaki " - - instead of Hirohito or even Tojo . All three go to a fictional Arabic country to sign a treaty with a self-important despot . At the same time , a dingy full of Americans sailors from a sunken ship arrive and are able to thwart the evil trio's plans . It is fun to watch them beat up Hitler and it's a great historical insight into the times , but don't expect a great film . Dumb , silly and yet somehow watchable - - this is NAZTY NUISANCE . A couple of tidbits - - First , the film refers to Hitler as " the paper hanger " , though Hitler never worked putting up wallpaper ( a common myth of the time ) . Second , I recognized the young lady who starred in the film ( Jean Porter ) but at first had trouble placing her . Among other films , she starred in an Andy Hardy film as well as a couple of the William Tracy army films made by Roach Studios .
way too conventional	Despite its popularity , I didn't enjoy this movie . Mostly because as a " wacky " comedy , it's awfully conventional and doesn't make me laugh . I know many people LOVED this movie , but I just didn't . If I want a wild and weird comedy , Monty Python and the Holy Grail , The Producers , Start the Revolution Without Me and Strange Brew are all a lot more fun and a lot more bizarre . Prat of the problem for me might be that I was never much of a fan of the skit on SNL . I though it was only okay and didn't merit an entire movie . Another SNL skit that was turned into a movie that had a more entertaining movie was The Coneheads . But , based on ticket sales , what do I know ? !
pretty darn confusing and the film should have stuck to one genre	I am apparently one of the few dissenting voices here . While I liked some aspects of the movie , I also found it to be VERY confusing and disjoint due to the odd style in which the film was constructed . In addition , it was hard to know exactly what the point was of the movie . Was it a horror film ? It COULD have been a CARRIE-like film about an outcast seeking revenge after death ( that would have been so cool ) . Was it a coming of age film ? The relationships between the girls were interesting but then the film changed direction so often it was hard to follow the individual stories . Was it a film about lesbianism and betrayal ? It seemed like it wanted to be in places , but then it abruptly changed . Really , the film's message was so muddled , it was as if someone took two different films and just randomly glued portions of them together . I would have loved if the film had just stayed focused ! And while I know it is supposed to be a Korean cult flick , I think it did a poor job on all levels . Just because a film is a cult film doesn't mean it's necessarily a good one or without many problems that could be eliminated with a good editing .
Jules White and Elsie Ames spell disaster . . . .	This is one of 10 films that are included in the two DVD set " The Buster Keaton Collection " . It's a sad set of films Keaton did later in his career with Columbia Pictures and the films bore more resemblance to Three Stooges films than Keaton's classic silents . Of the 10 , eight were directed by Jules White - - a man who had absolutely no understanding or appreciation of Keaton's subtle humor . As a lady said in the documentary included with the set ( " Buster Keaton : From Silents to Shorts " ) , White's idea of funny was dropping anvils on people's heads ! His totally unsubtle and dopey humor made all the films he directed with Keaton a chore to watch at times - - especially with the silly Stooge sound effects and timing . In addition , this film also co-starred Keaton with Elsie Ames - - a completely obnoxious and untalented lady in every film she did with Keaton . Her overly exaggerated facial expressions , mannerisms and yelling made Patsy Kelly look subtle in her shorts for Hal Roach ! ! So already from the start , Keaton had two major disadvantages in the film , so you certainly cannot expect magic . This film is sort of like a haunted house comedy , but this time the house is more like a carnival fun house . It's owned by a magician who hired Keaton and Ames to watch the house and protect his tricks from theft by his competitors . They are clearly told to guard the house and let no one in , so only moments after the magician leaves , they invite a couple inside . While it turns out the couple are harmless , two thieves enter the house and use a variety of tricks built into the house to scare everyone . None are all that funny and the film is pretty dull , but there is a cute penguin in the film as well , so I'll at least give it a point for the bird ! Overall , a pretty dull time-passer with a very weak ending .
first half , good , . . . second half , crap	This is one of the strangest movies I have ever gone to the theater to see . During the first half of the movie , I was completely captivated and thought to myself " I hope they have a sequel " - - it was just that good . However , about halfway into it , it was as if the writers and director were replaced ( sort of like " tag team " movie making ) . It went from an interesting tale of a man , thought to be dead , being re-created through plastic surgery and intensive training into a government assassin , to what looked like an episode of the television show Private Benjamin . How did they do this and more importantly , WHY did they do this ? I would have LOVED the lone assassin plot where he was sent to kill enemies of the country AND made it look like a natural death . Instead , he met Kate Mulgrew and went on a wacky adventure to kill some general ( George Coe ) . Coe , you will probably recognize from his MANY television appearances where he usually played a light-weight sort of character . He was just the wrong guy to play Remo's first target .
Gee , . . . I feel like such an unsophisticated boob !	This is a movie that is often hailed as a masterpiece because of its godlike director , Stanley Kubrick . And I know I'm going to get some serious negative reactions out there , but I really didn't like this movie at all and think it's one of the most overrated films of the 1970s . This is a costume drama that looks very pretty on the surface , but down deep it lacks a soul and any trace of warmth or humanity . Ryan O'Neil is inexplicably chosen to play the title character , though why this American was chosen I have no idea - - particularly since , at times , he appeared to be half asleep during the film . This movie is just dreadfully dull and uninteresting . I seriously wonder what would have happened if a lesser-known or obscure director had made this film . I'm sure it wouldn't have received all the kudos and people might have recognized that it was a poor film . After noting all the " not helpful " scores given to the other reviewers who panned this movie on IMDb , I guess I'll just sit back and wait for them to start pouring my way !
Pretty dreadful , even for 1929 and ONLY of interest to die-hard Charlie Chan fans	This is a globe-hopping film that begins in England , then moves to India , Iran and finally San Francisco . The story involves a sociopathic murderer who kills someone and then marries a nice girl . Once married , he treats her like dirt and cheats on her . She puts up with it until she discovers that he was a murderer . Then most of the film consists of her trying desperately to avoid him as well as scandal if the secret were be revealed . This is the earliest Charlie Chan film known to be in existence and it is absolutely nothing like the later films - - nothing . Apart from the name " Charlie Chan " , there is no similarities to the later exceptional series . Back in 1929 , films were often a bit stilted and overly melodramatic . Because the studios weren't used to using sound , the actors tended to remain very stationary ( due to poor sound equipment ) and the dialog sounded more like plays than movies . I accept this and tend to rate these early talkies with this in mind . However , even keeping this in mind , BEHIND THAT CURTAIN is still a dreadful film - - even for 1929 . The main problem is not how constricted the actors were due to the sound equipment but how gosh-darn awful the dialog was . In fact , I would have to say that the love scene in the desert might just be the absolute worst love scene I have ever seen and heard - - it was THAT overly melodramatic and stagy as well as laughable . I truly believe that most high school actors could do a better job today . In addition to horrible dialog , the movie suffered from being way too slow - - and the first half in particular crawled at a snail's pace . Later , despite the horrid dialog and acting the film did pick up a bit - - but certainly not enough to make it even passable entertainment ! I think the biggest problem is that the film clearly shows those involved with the movie weren't used to talking pictures . However , my complaints weren't just about the wretched dialog and pacing , but also the acting and direction . For example , the film starred Warner Baxter who was an exceptional actor . He was famous not just during the silent era but in sound pictures like the Crime Doctor series and such excellent films as PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND and KIDNAPPED . I loved how he played such realistic and likable " everyman " characters , but here in BEHIND THAT CURTAIN he was a simpering idiot who overdid the love scenes - - making him one of the biggest liabilities in the film . The female lead , Lois Moran was perhaps even worse . The only actor who came off well ( very well , actually ) , was Gilbert Emery as the Scotland Yard inspector . One reviewer pointed out that the only good element was the cinematography , though I would differ . While it was exceptional seeing the sound outdoor shots of the caravan ( for 1929 getting this right was VERY tough ) , all too often the camera was static . At one point it was even laughable , as the scene began with just the tops of the characters ' heads showing - - like the camera should have been several feet lower . This was because the couple were about to stand and instead of moving the camera or using a cut , they just left the camera on and created a very awkward and sloppy scene . Now as for Charlie Chan , he was only a bit player who appeared in a very limited capacity in the last 12 minutes of the movie . Surprisingly , he was actually played by an Asian - - something you'd never see in the 30s-50s . However , this isn't all positive as E . L . Park had the charisma and charm of a bag of lint . They simply gave this actor nothing to do - - making him just a glorified errand boy for Emery . Also , Chan oddly was NOT a Hawaiian-based detective - - instead serving in Chinatown in San Francisco . Also , Mr . Park didn't look as Chinese as Warner Oland ( who was a Swede ) - - looking more like a native Hawaiian ( though with a Korean name ) . Chan was supposed to be a Hawaiian but of Chinese descent . Because of these inconsistencies and a thankless part , the " Chanophiles " out there will no doubt find all this very disappointing . In conclusion , the plot wasn't bad but due to horrid acting , dialog and direction this is one supposedly lost film that might just as well as have remained lost ! Also , in a small role is Boris Karloff . While it's not a huge role , this excellent actor acquitted himself well in the role of a devoted servant . It was nice to see him in a pre-Frankenstein role .
While historically important , also a terrible film when seen in the 21st century	I actually had a previous review for this film that I just deleted and am replacing it with this new and updated one . That's because I first tried watching COQUETTE on videotape from MGM but the sound was so horrendously bad that it was practically unwatchable . It was just re-shown on Turner Classic Movies and while the sound improved slightly , it was still an awful chore watching and understanding the film - - particularly since they never bothered to Close Caption the movie . The big problem was that the movie came out in 1929 and sound systems for films were brand new and often were inadequate . In this film , the sound varies according to who is speaking - - some of the actors come across loud and clear and others ( such as Miss Pickford and the man who played her brother ) were a major chore to understand . You can't blame the actors for this , but it seriously hampered my enjoyment of the film . Now as for the film itself , I am shocked to see that this film has a huge number of scores of 10 on IMDb . Maybe this is because it was such an important film historically speaking . It was Mary Pickford's first sound film and she did win the Best Actress Oscar for it . Sadly , by today's standards , she was not particularly good to put it mildly . I also wonder if maybe giving her the Oscar was a way to pay tribute to her vast collection of earlier works . While I do love Mary in SUDS , SPARROWS , DADDY LONG LEGS , MY BEST GIRL ( probably her best film ) and so many other silent films , she just didn't seem to deserve an award for her overly melodramatic performance here . Overall , her emotional range was HUGtoo huge to be believable . In fact , overall this was a not particularly good film and seems horribly old fashioned and silly . So often , lines were delivered as if this were an old-time morality play being performed in front of a lot of hicks who loved and expected over-acting . Much of the film seemed stagy and the film went on way too long . Also , there were many story elements that seemed so contrived and stupid . The worst of these was at the end of the film when Pickford's father grabbed the gun which had been submitted into evidence for this courtroom scene . Inexplicably , it was STILL loaded and they left it right where this accused murderer sat ! ! How ridiculous can you get ? ! ? ! Please , do yourself a favor and try some other old-time films first . I am a huge fan of both sound and silent films from Hollywood's Golden Age and there are too many deserving films you should see well before viewing COQUETTE . In fact , any of Pickford's silents would be preferable to this wretched film .
One of Kurosawa's few missteps	Aside from a few very early films where he was a brand new director and had little choice but to work with second-rate material , this is one of the few poor films by the famed director , Akira Kurosawa . In fact , had a less famous director made this film , I think it would have been promptly forgotten or even disliked - - mostly because the film is so gosh-darn talky and unlikable . The film is set in a flophouse , of sorts , for the lowest elements of society . Inside this large but very shabby room live a variety of down and out people - - a dying woman , her alcoholic husband , a thief , a prostitute , an inscrutable old man and others . It's obvious that this was originally a play , as the room is THE set for the film and people walk on and off just like a play - - making it seem very confined and claustrophobic . As for the plot , the folks just talk and talk and talk . The only real letup is the almost Buddha or Christ-like old man who is new to the room . Unlike the rest , he has maintained his humanity and acts , at times , more like a social worker than a resident . While I suppose some find all this interesting , I just found it dull , depressing and incessant and couldn't wait for it to end because the material is just unappealing and bad . I am really not sure if anyone could have made the material interesting , except perhaps Ed Wood ! My advice is seek out other Kurosawa films - - almost any other would do . This take on Maxim Gorky's play , THE LOWER DEPTHS , is just too dated and dull .
Dreadful and schmaltzy	This short is a major departure for the Stooges and looks more reminiscent of the " schmaltzy " films they made with Joe DeRita in the 1960s . In other words , instead of their usual formula , the film was incredibly overly sentimental and sweet - - something the Stooges NEVER should be ! It all starts with the Stooges ( Moe , Curly and Larry ) as singing waiters . Inexplicably , a doctor thinks their antics are funny and asks them to come to the hospital to cheer up a sick child . But , their efforts are in vain as the girl is pining for her missing father , so the boys volunteer to find him . This is NOTHING like the normal plots of their shorts and the whole idea of their searching for a kidnapped dad in order to save a dying girl is anything but comedic ! The basic premise is terrible and can't help but make this one of the worst Stooge outings with Curly . Give me violence , pokes in the eyes and silly antics any day over sentimentality !
Watchable , but just barely . . .	In the late 1930s and early 1940s , the great Buster Keaton was out of work and in desperate need for money so he made a string of forgettable short films for Columbia Pictures . Although he was a comic genius during the silent era , his career in sound movies was mostly horrible due to the industry's unwillingness to simply let him do what he did best and they insisted in trying to force him into uncomfortable molds that just didn't work . Sadly , because Keaton was lousy with money , he was so hard up for cash and unwilling to balk with the studios that he made some dreadful film and TV appearances that probably made him ashamed to look in the mirror . This is a stark contrast to Chaplin and Lloyd who made far fewer sound films but chose them much better . Plus , they knew when to walk away and retain much of their dignity . This is particularly true of Harold Lloyd , who never would have appeared in American-International movies such as BEACH BLANKET BINGO or a particularly wretched episode of " The Twilight Zone " like Keaton did . As for the Columbia shorts , they were directed and produced by Jules White who was also responsible for the Three Stooges shorts . This is very , very obvious when you watch the Keaton shorts as the plots look indiscernible from the Stooges ' films - - with the same gags , sound effects and style . In fact , in some cases , Keaton does the same plots the Stooges had first done and this isn't surprising . That's because Columbia OFTEN repeated plots and many of the Stooges ' later shorts for the studio are remakes of their earlier films ! While Stooges die-hards might excuse this and think ALL of their films are gems , this is definitely NOT true - - the remakes are definite duds . As for Keaton fans ( and I am definitely one - - having seen more of his silent films than practically anyone on the planet ) , they will also usually admit that his sound films were pretty poor and the Columbia films were at best passable entertainment . Plus , the Stooges ' style is a horrible thing to try to fit the great Keaton into . It's akin to putting Greta Garbo in a Marx Brothers film ! ! ! In this film , Buster plays a guy who has been copy boy at a newspaper for ten years because he's a total idiot . In the scenes at the paper , he breaks things and is generally unfunny . Why they would even keep him on as a copy boy is hard to believe . However , despite being an idiot , he gets his big break because a big story is about to break and none of the reporters are available . So the boss reluctantly sends Buster on assignment . He's to get an interview with Mary Crissman ( the name might just be one of the funnier things about the movie , sadly enough ) . But in the process he breaks things and makes a total nuisance of himself . Eventually , he is able to both get an interview with her AND capture her gangster husband and is a hero . Everyone seems to forget that he's an idiot . What bothered me most about this film is that Buster plays a moron - - not a bumbler , but more like an idiot who somehow gets lucky at the end . There is a fine line between a lovable bumbler and a total moron - - sadly , his character definitely crossed the line and was annoying . Nothing like the Keaton of yesteryear and not worth watching .
do not watch this if you are depressed - - it'll only make it worse	I thought this was one of the most depressing holiday movies I have ever seen - - the others being THE Christmas WIFE and JACK FROST . All three movies are about death . If you LIKE being thoroughly depressed , then by all means watch this film or any of the others . In this film , the acting is good and some of the scenery ( apart when people are dying ) is lovely . But , I am worried that a clinically depressed person might accidentally see the film and do themselves in ! Despite a " happily ever after " ending , the major portion of this film is one awful disaster following another . And , for some crazy reason , I DON'T WANT TO BE DEPRESSED when I watch a Christmas movie ( I know this sounds crazy folks - - after all , isn't bawling your eyes out and feeling miserable what the holidays are all about anyway ? ) . For a more uplifting viewing experience , try the forgotten HOUSE WITHOUT A Christmas TREE , George C . Scott's Christmas CAROL or A Christmas STORY instead - - unless of course you like being miserable .
Sadly , this one is dryer than dust . . .	The film begins with a rich guy hiring Boris Karloff to get to the bottom of a zombie-like trance one of his employees is experiencing . Karloff is apparently a world-famous occult debunker and he assures everyone that the man is NOT a zombie and the island this man recently visited it NOT endowed with evil powers . So , Karloff and a motley crew arrive on the island - - only to find that the place is even worse than Newark . In fact , it's filled with man-eating plants and voodoo . Oddly , in the midst of all this silly carnage and occult , two characters fall in love and share some passionate moments . I don't know about you , but being stranded on a homicidal island and seeing my associates eaten or killed is NOT an aphrodisiac and this is the definite low-point of this silly and rather pointless film . Technically , this isn't a horrible film like PLAN 9 or THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN . The acting is just tolerable enough that the film manages to eke out a score of 3 - - though the terribly dull and silly script was just too much to allow the film to achieve a rating higher than 3 . Imagine the work it took to put Boris Karloff in a film and STILL make it dull and tedious ! Unless you are a die-hard fan of Karloff or like watching bad films , then I'd avoid this one . Sadly , it's bad but just not silly enough to make it fun to watch and make fun of it .
This isn't my idea of fun	A wide variety of shapes ( mostly circles ) bounce around the yellow screen as jazz music plays . There is no other plot , no dialog - - just shapes bounding about to the music . I don't know who Brbel Neubauer is . If I knew that they were a film student and that this film was made as a project , then I might tend to evaluate it much kinder than if they seriously meant this to be seen on the screen . I assume based on the small number of credits to their name that Neubauer is a student - - hence the score of 4 . I really hate to crush a student's spirits by grading them relative to professional writers , directors and animators . For what it is , it isn't bad .
Not as horrible as you might think ! !	While I am sure my summary is not exactly a glowing endorsement , I do think that this bad movie isn't nearly rotten enough to merit its current listing among the " hallowed 100 " - - the 100 lowest ranked films listed on IMDb . Instead of being a 100 % " stinker " , it's actually a low-budget but watchable film . . . . really ! When the film begins , you are greeted with a house that is obviously a painting - - from which the film's odd title emanates . Odd , because there is nothing " unearthly " about the film - - no aliens at all . The first scene you are greeted to is a closeup of Tor Johnson killing someone . Seeing Tor , I knew this film would be low-budget crap - - heck , he's the unofficial king of these films with his luminous performances in such dreck classics as BRIDE OF THE MONSTER , PLAN 9 and THE BEAST OF YUCCA FLATS ( my vote for the worst of his films ) . Interestingly , in this film he's named ' Lobo ' - - the same name he had in NIGHT OF THE GHOULS and BRIDE OF THE MONSTER . He's back again in THE UNEARTHLY as essentially the same guy ( though he does talk some in this film , unlike the others ) . You must assume , then , that he's a freelance henchman - - willing to work not for Bela Lugosi , Kenne Duncan and here for John Carradine . I could imagine his classified ad now : " Loyal , brutish henchman looking for a position . Ability to speak limited but hulking appearance more than makes up for shortcomings . " It turns out that Tor is working in a weird clinic in the middle of nowhere for the evil doctor ( Carradine ) and his devoted assistant , Dr . Gilchrist ( Marilyn Buferd ) . Despite Gilchrist being a bit of a 50s horror movie babe , however , Carradine seems rather immune to her advances and focuses his energies on creating and implanting a supposed " new gland " in his patients . Sadly , however , the gland only seems to have the side effect of turning the patients into creepy and disfigured ghouls or werewolf-like creatures . Sadly , the victims have no idea that they'll be subjected to these sick experiments and so they just wait until it's there turn . Of course , considering the clinic is in the middle of no where and the patients are not allowed outside , you'd think they might suspect SOMETHING ! Into this lovely menagerie comes a wanted murderer ( played by Myron Healey ) . Healey was a very competent and familiar supporting actor from television and so you wonder why with almost 300 performances to his credit he would have appeared in this film . His character is supposed to be a killer , but it's obvious he's more than meets the eye , as he quickly determines the doctor's true intentions as well as organizes the other patients into an escape team . When this fails , a little surprise takes place and the evil scheme unravels . Okay , so much of the plot sounds a bit familiar . Carradine has played mad scientists in at least 19 , 390 other cheap movies . Tor has the acting range of a sprig of spinach . Sure , the creatures look amazingly cheesy . Still , despite all this , the film is watchable and campy fun . While far from good , for lovers of bad movies , it's well worth seeing and not nearly as unwatchable as its current rating might imply .
A novel idea that just didn't work for me	I am sure that there are many out there that enjoyed this film a lot more than me and I think this film is a wonderful example of a film that you'll either love or hate . This is because the idea of people breaking into lip-sync songs is pretty peculiar and may not be for everyone ! I actually didn't mind this concept , but strongly disliked the execution . Instead of singing long numbers and perhaps dancing or getting into the moment , instead the characters sang a line or two or three from a song and then very abruptly stopped . The shift in mood was just too abrupt and the surreal moments were never allowed to develop and captivate the audience . It really was as if they tried to cram way too many songs into the film so they abbreviated them so much that the viewer was left confused by how disjoint the film was . A nice attempt at something different , but not especially worth seeing .
A good example of how bad some of Hal Roach's early 1940s films were	Over the last few months , Turner Classic Movies has featured many Hal Roach films that were in the post Laurel and Hardy era . Around the same time this team left Roach Studios , Roach began specializing in short feature-length films ( about an hour in length ) . Some were pretty good ( such as TANKS A MILLION and TOPPER ) but many suffered from exceptionally poor scripts and unappealing actors - - and the films definitely did not age well . This is one of those forgotten films and after seeing it , I really think TCM should have let it remain forgotten ! The film is a cross-dressing comedy with a lot of music . The male students at Quinceton University are angry at being disrespected by the females at Mar Brynn University , so they decide to have one of the guys matriculate as a girl in order to make the girls school look foolish ( ? ) . Unlike TOOTSIE , this film had neither a decent script or an actor capable of playing the part . It just wasn't believable nor was it particularly funny . Much of the problem was that the jokes were generally very corny ( such as the names of the schools ) and the songs pretty poor as well ( such as their bizarre tribute to vegetables ) . In addition , having Kent Rogers along for support didn't help . While Rogers imitations were funny and helped in his brief appearance in STALAG 17 a decade later , here he just seemed like someone's obnoxious child mugging at the camera and doing some terrible impersonations . Aside from a good version of Charlie McCarthy , his Cary Grant and the rest of his attempts were just awful and sounded nothing like the originals . In fact , he should have been embarrassed to see himself on film - - it was that bad . Overall , this is a sad and limp comedy that shows none of the genius or spark that once made Roach Studios the gem of Hollywood . Not worth your time , as there are so many better comedies about cross-dressing .
Not total crap !	ALLIGATOR PEOPLE is one of dozens and dozens of 1950s schlock horror films . Most of these involve giant bugs or mammals - - this one involves human-alligator hybrids ! For what it is , this film is actually pretty engaging . Now this isn't to say that this is a great film ( it sure isn't ) , but it is better than the average film of this type . It seems that the movie probably had a bit bigger budget than usual for the genre , as the special effects were a tad better than I'd expected . Beverly Garland stars as a young woman determined to discover what happened to her husband who disappeared on their honeymoon . What little evidence there is leads her to a freaky house in the middle of nowhere in the bayous of Louisiana . Despite everyone there insisting that they know nothing , Garland is determined and eventually discovers the truth - - her hubby is an alligator man - - like a man with patches of gator skin ! ! All this leads to a funny finale , where her hybrid husband undergoes another medical procedure - - after which , he looks simply amazing ! ! You have to see it to believe it ! Overall , this film is a bit more literate and intelligent than you might expect for the genre . I liked the way the story came out and much of the story is about as plausible as you can make a gator man story ! However , periodically , the film just got extremely stupid - - and I mean REALLLLY stupid ! My favorite part was when Garland got off the train in the middle of no where . There was no one at the station and the only other thing on the platform was a wooden crate emblazoned with signs such as " Warning - - Radioactivity " or " Cabalt - - DANGER " - - and yet someone just left it sitting there to await eventual pickup ! ! Worse yet , when Garland can't find a ride , she just sits on top of the crate ! I also was amazed at how badly Lon Chaney , Jr . ' s acting and role was . Most people in the film behaved as if this were a bigger budget and serious film - - Chaney acted like he was in an Ed Wood , Jr . film AND he'd just been given an over-dose of acid ! In real life , Chaney was an alcoholic - - you wonder if maybe this affected his performance . This film is entertaining yet bad . Not painful bad , but so funny that you can't stop watching bad . As one who likes this silly genre , I was definitely not disappointed - - enjoying all the silliness you'd expect from this sort of thing . By the way , at the end when our fated hero is fighting with the alligator in the swamp , look carefully . If you slow down the film , you can clearly see that the gator's mouth is taped shut !
One of the weakest films of the Universal series	Egad , . . . although I like series B-movies from the 1940s ( such as Charlie Chan , The Falcon and Sherlock Holmes ) , I can't get over how insanely positive some of the ratings are for the films on IMDb . How over 30 % of the ratings for this film are 10s is beyond me - - especially since Basil Rathbone made several other Holmes movies that were light-years better than this one . In fact , this film and SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE HOUSE OF FEAR are pretty bad movies , . . . saved only because Rathbone was such a ' swell ' actor ( nice 40s word , huh ? ) . Why was it so poor compared to the other films ? Well , first off , the best Rathbone Sherlock Holmes films were the first two made by Fox Studios - - THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES and THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES . None of the Universal versions of the series come close to the quality of these films - - especially since Holmes and Watson live in the late Victorian London of the original stories . Putting Holmes in the role as a propaganda-spewing enemy of Hitler just doesn't seem right ! Second , the plot is absolutely paper thin and Holmes doesn't do much ' detecting ' at all - - at least not like the Holmes of old . He jumps to lots of conclusions and the movie simply moves too fast to allow for realism in his deductions . Third , the film simply isn't fun or interesting - - and this is what made many of this series so worth seeing . And fourth , several times throughout the film , Holmes turned towards the camera and began reciting VERY HEAVY-HANDED propaganda speeches . And while I love American propaganda films from WWII , I can't stand to be preached at and having it all laid on so thick ! ! So my advice is STILL watch films from the series - - just save this one and THE HOUSE OF FEAR for your last films to watch . Otherwise , you might be tempted to stop before you've seen them all .
A typical early kung-fu film - - very entertaining if the like the genre	If you are a die-hard lover of kung-fu films , then all the problems I mention about this film are pretty irrelevant - - you will like the film . It's got all the action you are looking for and all the usual clichs you love and expect . However , for the average viewer , this is a very problematic movie to watch . The biggest problem is the horrendous quality of the DVD . I found it as part of a 9 movie set entitled " Samurai Collection " by St . Clair Video . ALL the movies in the set were grainy and washed-out and most appeared to come from old 1980 era videotapes that had degraded significantly . The second problem is that , at times , the plot just doesn't make much sense . Let me explain . Two men are arguing over a cricket match . No , I am NOT talking about the British sport but the actual bugs ! When the loser's bug is beaten , he refuses to pay up on the wager and a small fight breaks out and one of the men is killed . The clan of this dead man swears revenge and soon afterwords kill the father of the young man who killed the other . The hero , so to speak , spends most of the movie getting his butt whipped by two kung-fu masters from this clan ( " Iron Leg " and " Iron Fist " are the guys ' names ) . I liked actually liked watching them beat up the young and cocky guy because this is one of the few times in kung-fu movies when BOTH bad guys beat up the hero at the same time - - not taking turns , but actually stomping him together ! The inexplicable thing , though , is that twice they nearly kill him and don't finish off the job . This just made no sense at all - - after all , he's sworn to kill you both so why would you allow him to escape ? ! Later , after the cocky hero has learned self-control , common-sense and better fighting skills , he takes on these two guys as well as the clan's leader . Here is where another inexplicably dumb thing happens . The first two fights , the two Iron-guys stomp him at the same time . Here , though , since it's the epic conclusion , they resort to the old clich of attacking one at a time and waiting for him to see him before they hit or kick him ! ! ! This is pretty lame . And the leader , during all this time , just stands there and waits his turn ! Despite this silliness , how he dispatches each of them is pretty exciting and worth seeing - - just don't expect the movie to make any sense at all !
is it just me or did this movie get kinda stupid after a while ?	While I was VERY glad to see a movie involving the Colonial period in America ( since so few movies talk about this ) , I really didn't enjoy this movie all that much - - despite the time period and the great actors . And I really WANTED to like it . But , the story just seemed very childish and stupid after a while - - the comedy , though originally subtle became more broad ( especially the Douglas character ) . Now with some films , you expect a certain degree of silliness and unbelievability , but with this one it was really tough because the film itself didn't seem sure of its tone - - should it be a serious melodrama or a slapstick comedy ? Well , for me it just seemed muddled and a bit embarrassing to watch . Too bad , as I expected more from Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas .
This film was missing something	I guess I am the dissenting vote here , but I didn't particularly like GASMAN . Some of it isn't the fault of those who made the film , but was the fault of the people who put this film on disk . That's because the accents were at times very hard for me to understand and there was no captioning on the DVD . To the average American , some British accents are tough to understand and my mild hearing loss made this a particularly frustrating film . However , what the film makers could have done better was providing a context for this short film . You gather that the man has two families but you are left asking so many questions that aren't explained in the film . In other words , it's a short film that has left out key portions of the narrative - - and this just seemed sloppy . It's too bad , because the basic idea behind the short was interesting . By the way , this film is part of the CINEMA 16 : European Shorts DVD . On this DVD are 16 shorts . Most aren't great , though because it contains THE MAN WITHOUT A HEAD , COPY SHOP , RABBIT and WASP , it's an amazing DVD for lovers of short films and well worth buying - - it's just a shame about the captioning .
For kids only	Nice animation , decent production values but not much appeal for anyone over age 12 . FAMOUS FRED seems to be , in some ways , the life of Elvis in cat form ! Fred is a cat who can sing and charm the ladies like The King and over time , he puts on weight and lets himself go . . . like The King . Aside from these parallels and some nice animation , there wasn't much about this British cartoon that appealed to me . Like ROCKADOODLE , this film seemed to be aimed just at the kids and would have extremely limited appeal to adults . In fact , it was a real chore for me to watch it . So why did I do this ? Well , I have recently begun watching as many of the recent Academy Award winners in the category of Best Animated Short Film and this one was nominated for the Oscar in 1997 .
Despite being a B-movie , this COULD have been a lot better !	This is almost like two films - - one literate and engaging , the other stupid and clichd . It's really a shame all the problems weren't worked out with the writing , but considering how quickly most B-movies were written and produced , this isn't too unusual . It's a real shame , though , as this could have been a very good film . First the good . The movie is original and involves WWII code-breakers . This is pretty fascinating and I liked watching the leading man ( Lee Bowman ) go through his paces as a master code-breaker . In fact , the first two-thirds of the film was very good . But now for the bad , the film just went on way too long and lost steam at about 50 minutes . Additionally , Jean Rogers ' role as the " kooky girlfriend " must rank as one of the worst-written and distracting roles in film history ! ! For every smart move made by Bowman , the idiot Rogers then stepped in to screw things up as some sort of misguided " comedy relief " . If her role had been intelligently written , the overall film would have improved immensely ! Instead , watching her , it's hard to understand how we actually won WWII ! !
A less than convincing re-creation of a Boxer attack	In the early days of the cinema , actual film of important historic events often wasn't available but the public clamored for news of the world . So , film companies began faking the news - - making film of what people THOUGHT might be the actual events . A good example of this is the Edison film that purports to show the execution of the man that assassinated President McKinley . Another is this re-creation of this attack by Chinese peasants ( the " Boxers " ) on a missionary and his family . Such attacks had happened , but given the sparsity of movie cameras , the scene was re-enacted for the public in this film . The problem is that the home and landscaping don't look particularly Chinese . Not a terrible film , but also not a particularly interesting or compelling one either .
A case of high expectations that just didn't pan out , . . .	Given that Sergio Leone was partially responsible for this film ( though he did not direct it , I found out later ) , I grabbed the tape and was excited . After all , his Westerns from the 60s were among the best of the genre ever made . However , despite this past track record , this film was a major disappointment to me because it seems the writers tried to combine many of the typical Leone elements with a comedy ! ! ? ? Huh ? ! I do NOT watch a " Spaghetti Western " for its comedy ( though there may be a few funny moments , they are not meant as comedy ) . And , to let the audience know it's all supposed to be funny , Ennio Merricone's score ( usually the highlight of any Western ) sounds like it belongs to a 1960s or 70s Disney movie much of the time ! Now , if I had no idea who Leone was and if I had never even seen an Italian Western , I still think I would not have particularly liked this movie all that much . That's because the two central characters are just so different - - Fonda as the cold gunfighter and Hill as a crazy , lovable jerk that could probably out-shoot anyone . The movie should have focused on one of these interesting men period . Then , the movie would have done more to energize this dying genre .
zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz	Okay , in 1903 this must have been considered a pretty good film . Back then , many of the films lasted only a minute or two and consisted of very mundane everyday activities - - hence this dull film about a little girl feeding her sick cat . However , unlike many of the other raters , I STILL cannot rate this movie any higher than a 4 because there actually were GOOD films with plot , sets , acting and imaginative camera-work that should be elevated far above the boring drivel that was flooding the nickelodeons . Georges Mlis ' films ( not just his very famous LE VOYAGE DANS LE LUNE ) were head and shoulders above the dull fare of the day . And this cat film is certainly one of those dull ( but rather sweet ) films .
An okay experiment . . .	This is a very odd short film because it actually starts at the end and in slow motion the film is reversed so you can see what led him to such a huge temper tantrum . At the beginning , the apartment is a total mess - - practically everything is destroyed . And as the film rolls , the room undestroys itself and the man appears to be putting everything back together . So why did he do all this and why did you spend what seems like a long time waiting ? Well , the final punchline just didn't cut it - - it just wasn't that satisfying . Watching this film is like waiting for Santa - - only to be given socks and underwear ! Now this doesn't mean the film is without merit - - it's okay for a change of pace and it's only 5 minutes of your life .
A dumb concept - - one of Cagney's few misfires	Well , I gotta say one thing about this film - - the concept certainly is unusual . The film is a comedic musical all about gangsters ! But , unfortunately it isn't very funny and the songs aren't very good . If you were expecting GUYS AND DOLLS , you are in for a big disappointment . Instead , the movie looks and feels pretty dull and uninvolving . In a way , I would love to have seen the Jimmy Cagney from WHITE HEAT or THE PUBLIC ENEMY enter the film and beat the ever-living snot out of the wussy and " cute " gangster Cagney plays in this film . The bottom line is that the film just isn't entertaining or interesting . There are so many better Cagney films out there - - pick one of them instead .
Pretty well made , but it will no doubt give many a heart attack or high blood pressure !	This is a pretty good film technically , . . . but boy is the film likely to cause extremely high blood pressure or even heart attacks in modern audiences ! ! ! And I DON'T recommend that the average person watch this , as the film is so racially offensive . In the 1940s , drawing characters of giant-lipped Black characters who spoke in Jive must have seemed very funny , but today it will most likely make many recoil in horror ! However , I do recommend you see this film if you are interested in history or the progress we've made in race relations . As a history teacher , I see this as a wonderful film just as a teaching tool - - to show us how far we've come . Plus , being a strong , strong advocate of free speech , I am loathe to encourage ANY film to be banned outright . The film is on at least a superficial level , a pretty funny and interesting piece - - particularly the wonderful ending . Just be forewarned - - it is an awful aspect of race relations that some want to forget ever existed . Of course , if you ignore or forget your past , you are opening up the possibility you won't learn from our mistakes .
well-made but brainless	This was an American WWII propaganda film first and foremost . Because of that , acting , writing and shmaltz are paramount and realism is , at best , an after-thought . And I CAN respect the excellent acting by this fine ensemble cast . But , what I CAN'T respect is the utter silliness of the film . The film begins on December 6 , 1941 - - just a day before Pearl Harbor . The crew of a B-17 unknowingly approaches what will soon become a theater of war . As hostilities break out , they are forced to fly from one location to another trying to save their hides and strike back against the Japanese . The problem is , the B-17 appears to be nearly indestructible - - as it manages to shoot down Zero after Zero with hardly a scratch . It reminded me of an arcade version of air combat ( like Nintendo's 1942 ) . If our bombers HAD been that effective , the war would have only lasted a few weeks ! I guess , though , that the movie would have been a lot less interesting and detrimental to morale if they'd been shot down in their first encounter - - which probably would have happened in real-life .
Not bad - - just not very good either	If you watch this movie and have no idea who Laurel and Hardy were and were never a fan , then this movie is an okay time-passer . However , for people like me who love the comedy team and have seen most of their movies , it's a major disappointment . Like all the movies the made after A CHUMP AT OXFORD , the film really did not need to be made . Laurel and Hardy were now obviously old and lacked the spark of their earlier films . On top of that , these films were not made by the Hal Roach production company , so they lack the style and look that made the team great . In fact , now that I think about it , this film could have been made with Abbott and Costello or perhaps Red Skelton or some other comedians of the day and the film would have probably been better ! Seeing a morbidly obese Ollie and a super-tired looking Stan just knocks the comedic wind out of the movie's sails ! The boys are a couple of total screw-ups who want to help with the war effort . But , they are too feeble for the military and so they volunteer as Civil Defense workers . In this role , again and again they blow it until they are forced to resign . This all is more pathetic and sad than funny . However , being a formulaic movie , you know that somehow they will redeem themselves at the end - - which they do . How exactly this all occurs , you'll have to see for yourself , but I personally wouldn't bother watching this dull and listless film unless you are a maniac like me who is trying to see all of the team's films . A final note : Donald Meek , one of my favorite supporting actors of the age , plays the most unusual and against type roles imaginable . See the film and you'll know what I mean !
Wow . . . . was that unpleasant .	This was a well acted film but the subject is so unappealing I really have no idea who the intended audience is . This short film purports to be a video entry from a man who talks about how " the sickness followed us to the new house " and as he cries and tries to explain what happened in a very fragmented manner , you gather that he's a schizophrenic who feels a compulsion to stop the pain - - - and you see clips of a wife who is tied up with her mouth duck taped shut . The man then goes from room to room - - killing his child , his wife and finally himself . It's all very , very realistic and I see that the people who made it had some professional skills - - making the film seem very real . BUT , who would want to see what seems to be a confession of a maniac ! ? This is so thoroughly unpleasant and I didn't think the payoff was worth it . These talented people , however , should not give up - - just pick something with some appeal to more than just a very tiny audience .
The best gay Avant Garde Biblical film I have ever seen !	Okay , I'll admit that it is the ONLY gay Avant Garde Biblical film I have ever seen , . . . but by default it is definitely the best . It's a pretty strange little film , though compared to the rest of the short films from the Kino Video Avant Garde collection , it's pretty " normal " and approachable for the average viewer . However , I am really not sure exactly who the audience is for this strange art film . After all , gay audiences probably won't enjoy all the religious content and Bible verses - - especially when the people of Sodom are damned . And , due to the homo-erotic imagery , most deeply religious people will be at least super-duper hesitant to watch the film ! So , unless you really want something very different and pretty oddly creative , this film probably won't be one that will change your life or get to to watch it more than once . I gotta say , though , that the inventive camera-work is pretty cool and the film is in many ways like a piece of Pop Art . If you ARE looking for an " artsy " film but find this type of film I described sounds too unusual or esoteric , maybe you should try the films of the great French artist / director Jean Cocteau . Other than his BLOOD OF A POET , his other films combine artistry and Avant Garde imagery with well-constructed plots and familiar movie elements . My favorites of his films are Orphe ( Orpheus ) and La Belle et la bte ( Beauty and the Beast ) .
well-acted but as funny as cancer	Despite the the title and that the first of the two stories is about a man who laughs uncontrollably when he sleeps , this movie is profoundly unfunny and probably never was intended to be . Labeling " You Laugh " ( the English language title ) is like calling WWII " a great time had by all " ! This is because this is probably the most depressing movie I have seen in a very long time - - and this is saying something because I have watched a lot of Ingmar Bergman movies recently ! ! Okay , just because a movie is depressing does NOT mean it's bad - - some of our best films are quite depressing to watch . BUT , with the title , I was ready to laugh . But , both the stories involve murder and suicide . Just when you start to care about someone , they are brutally murdered ( such as the little boy beaten to death with a huge rock ) or kill themselves . Believe it or not , these are NOT funny topics to me ( if they ARE to you , please contact the police or your psychiatrist as soon as possible ) . So why does the movie STILL score a 4 ? Well , despite the depressing nature of the film , I must say that the acting and cinematography were good . I particularly liked the opera singer from the first vignette ( of course , he later drowned himself ) . Oh well . I guess I need to watch a REAL comedy now so I can get out of the funk the movie put me in after seeing it !
I love Gable ' s films but this script stinks	While I always enjoy Clark Gable films ( heck , I even enjoyed PARNELL ! ) , this one only got worse the second time I watched it . I know this may sound misogynistic , but Clark acted as if he was experiencing a world-class case of PMS throughout most of the film and Lana Turner just seemed pretty stupid due to the poor writing of this script . Clark , inexplicably , plays not just his usual rogue , but a genuinely confusing and back-biting brother - - and this , along with his odd behaviors , make him pretty unlikable . That's really bad , as he is supposed to be likable down deep , not a sexist back-stabber whose behaviors seem almost bipolar ! And , despite the fact that deep down Clark is a jerk , Lana STILL insists on following him to the ends of the Earth ! This woman really needed to be less of a codependent , plus it made absolutely no sense WHY she picked Clark over his handsome and decent brother played by Robert Sterling . Now if you can ignore the basic stupidity of Clark and Lana in this film , what's left is very good . The character of Clark's brother is both well-acted and written . The integration of pre-war and wartime attitudes of Clark's newspaper is also very interesting and I loved the sparring he did with the editor early in the film - - particularly when he stole the old appeasers clothes - - that was " pure Gable " all the way . Plus , the entry into the war and the final portion of the film was exceptional and exciting as well - - the film REALLY could have used a lot more of this type inspiring action and a lot less than the totally uninspired romance between Gable and Turner . The only odd thing about this , by the way , was Gable and his brother sneaking into China through the swamps wearing suits and ties ! That was just dopey . All in all , a very mixed bag of a film . Worth seeing to Gable fans , but it is far from one of his better films .
A short film perhaps only the Japanese could love	I love Japanese movies - - having seen at least 100-200 . So it's obvious I am not afraid of Japanese films . However , sometimes there are Japanese concepts for film that just don't translate well to Westerners . They might be hits at home , but abroad they just don't seem , well , . . . normal . It's like the live fish my wife ate on a business meeting or odd PS2 games such as dating simulators or Katamari Damacy - - things that are accepted there that confuse non-Japanese . This is probably the way others view things Americans take for granted , such as American football , fried Snicker bars and Paris Hilton ! Well the king of strange Japanese films that just don't seem right to Americans might just be ATAMA-YAMA . Now the style of animation isn't the issue - - it's different but nice enough . No , it's the story concept itself and the rather bizarre ending . That's what make this a truly unusual film and it goes like this : There was a stingy man who , for no apparent reason , had a tree growing out of his head . It was little at first and he simply cut it away , but again and again it grew back - - so he just decided to let it go . And , after a while , people began living on his head under the shade of the tree . Oddly , while they were under the tree , they were tiny but when they left , they were full sized again . Then , after finally getting sick of it all and yanking out the tree , the man drown himself ( ! ? ) in the hole in the top of the head where the tree was ! The end . See ! I told you this was very , very odd - - but not in a good way like TAMPOPO or HAPPINESS OF THE KATAKURIS - - just odd . O-D-D . . . . odd ! And unless you have a very high tolerance for this sort of thing , I doubt if you'll feel bad to know that this Oscar-nominated film did not win . Frankly , that makes me happy , as I really DON'T want this film to spur on such similar films . The only reason it earns a 4 is due to nice , but not spectacular animation . This film made my brain hurt . . . . I hope that isn't a sign that I have a tree !
Wilt Chamberlain and Grace Jones ? ? ? ! ! !	Please first be advised that I really am not the biggest action film fan in the world , so keep this in mind as you read . This film is a follow-up to CONAN THE BARBARIAN , but instead of being violent and intense like the original , it was much sillier and lighter in tone . Part of this is because it was really very hard to take the film seriously due to the ultra-bizarre casting . While Wilt Chamberlain was sure impressive from a physical point of view , it was just hard for me to see him in animal skins kicking butt . But even more bizarre was the appearance of Grace Jones as , . . . . Grace Jones . I guess it was just an 80s thing - - but WHAT WAS THE APPEAL OF MS . JONES ? ! Her music , to put it mildly , was crappy and mind-numbing but her acting was far worse ! She made up for her limited acting range by mostly shrieking and killing things ! This bizarre casting actually was positive in one way . Up until this film , many had questioned Arnold's ability to act or even speak English . But , compared to these two supporting actors , he seemed much more like John Gielgud in comparison ! A very trite and forgettable film .
could have been a lot funnier	This is definitely a " lesser known " comedy short from the 1920s . The only reason I saw it was because it was on a DVD by Kino Films featuring non-Laurel and Hardy shorts featuring Ollie . They are interesting and historically important , but also generally average to below average for the style film . Compared to shorts by Chaplin , Keaton , Arbuckle and Lloyd , they are definitely a step below them in quality and humor . Also , the accompanying music was pretty poor by the standards of other silent DVDs . I ended up turning OFF the sound due to the inappropriateness of the music to set the proper mood . But , despite this , they are still worth seeing . The short is about a divorced couple that try to pretend they are still happily married in order to get $100 , 000 from their grouchy aunt . This general plot is good and could have really been funny . However , after a promising start , the film lost energy FAST and finally it just degenerated into people hitting each other - - slapstick in its simplest form with no real regard to plot .
What were they thinking ? !	This is a truly amazing film . Considering the adult content of the film , it's amazing that it was made during the era where the Production Code was so rigidly enforced AND it's amazing that some major Hollywood talent associated themselves with such a sleazy and silly film . The movie is directed by the very well respected William Wellman - - the same man responsible for such classics as ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT . In the starring role is Barbara Stanwyck - - an A-list actress in a decidedly B-list film ! So why is the film so sleazy ? Well , the setting is a burlesque house and the original title for the story was THE G-STRING MURDERS ! While people are killed in a variety of ways , one is found with a G-string wrapped around her throat . Additionally , the women in the film all look very cheap and act like tramps - - with lots of cat fights and juicy dialog ! In many ways , this film looks like a 1930s Pre-Code or Exploitation Film - - not the product of a mainstream studio during the rather stuffy 1940s ! How this actually got made and was allowed to be released is a mystery - - as well as how they got very respected talent to appear in a poorly written and shabby production . Had this movie not starred Stanwyck and been directed by Wellman , I really doubt if it would have been widely released , as the film looks very cheap and suffers from a rather dull script . In fact , I doubt that a poverty row studio like Monogram would have been proud of the product ! The bottom line is that this is a salacious film and it's a great curiosity piece . However , once you get past seeing talented people doing their best to ruin their careers , there really isn't much this film has to offer as far as entertainment value goes . It isn't sleazy enough to appeal to adult film fans and it's just crude enough to make it a bit of a guilty pleasure - - nothing more . A bizarre and sub-par film .
Is this the complete version ?	I saw this film and it came in at about nine minutes . However , the credits ( both opening and closing ) were not included - - which makes me wonder how much else of this film is missing . Considering that IMDb has little information or about the actor ( Eddie Lyons ) who starred in it , I am left with a ton of questions . I did an internet search , but it told me no more than checking IMDb . Apparently , Lyons appeared in over 300 films and directed more than a hundred - - yet today he's practically unknown . He also died while very young in 1926 , and tried to find out why , though there isn't much about him on the Net . However , I finally found a site that did explain about his career and his early death - - though it had nothing to say about this particular film ( http www fandango com eddielyons biographies p185333 ) The film is a comedy about a young girl who's in love with Eddie but her father hates him and chases him out of the house . Eddie gets an idea - - her father's foot's in a cast ( gout ? ) and he could pretend to be the doctor and sneak back to see the young lady . So , adding a beard and glasses he's the spitting image of the doc . However , when the real doctor appears , chaos ensues . Compared to other comedies of the time , this one is amazingly subdued and underplayed . While mildly funny , there isn't a whole lot to this film and it's probably mostly of interest to folks like myself who are fans of silent comedy .
Amazingly sick stuff . . . .	Warning : This is one of the most amazingly adult and disturbing films I have seen in a very long time ! Despite it appearing on The Independent Film Channel , the content is far more adult than what you'd normally see on this cable channel . Don't say I didn't warn you ! ! I am a huge fan of the Zatoichi series , so it's not surprising that I decided to watch the first Hansho the Razor film . However , instead of playing a combination of a ronin ( a master-less traveling samurai ) and social worker like Zatoichi , here in Goykiba , Shintar Katsu plays a policeman with very , very , very unorthodox methods - - - very , very , very ADULT and unorthodox methods . I was shocked to see that the nice character he once played was now into sadomasochism and spends much of his time torturing himself and doing amazingly brutal things to his penis in order to turn it into a . . . well , . . . a . . . . super-penis , of sorts . If this wasn't disturbing enough , the reason for this ( other than the fact he has found a way to masturbate that's MORE disturbing than auto-erotic asphyxiation ) is that he uses his super-member to rape women as he questions them about crimes or pumps them for information ( no pun intended ) . And , to play into the age-old rape myth , the ladies being brutalized by this all have immensely pleasurable climaxes and give themselves totally to this sicko cop . Considering how offensive and sick the first film from the series was , it's actually pretty surprising I watched this second installment from the series . I guess part of me wondered if the other Hansho films could be as gross and sick as the first one . Well , while Hansho is still a very sick puppy , he rapes fewer and the film isn't as explicit as the first one . Now this isn't saying much , as it's still a very adult film with themes that should disturb people . Oddly , however , as I read through the comments , people seemed to like that this cop rapes women " who have it coming " ! This film has two plots that intersect . The first involves a temple which has been turned into a brothel by a government official . Instead of the usual Shinto nunnery , here the place is filled with ladies who have been drugged and are abused in all sorts of sadistic ways . While Hansho has no jurisdiction here , like Dirty Harry , he jumps right in because of his own sense of justice . However , as this justice involves taking the mistress of the nunnery captive and torturing and then raping her , he's an especially guy - - far more than Clint Eastwood's character ever could have been . Naturally , however , the lady comes to love and need Hansho because he is apparently such a stud . A great message to tell the audience - - torture and rape someone and they'll be your friend for life ! ! ! Later , Hansho is sent to defend a local mint from attack . While this seems like a totally different plot , the government official who sends him is the same one who ran the brothel AND this new assignment also calls for a rape - - though the lady who is victimized seemed like she was innocent . Oh well , it's all in the line of duty ! While still a sick movie and it's obvious that Shintar Katsu is getting way too fat for this role ( as evidenced by his bloated figure and his wearing the unsexiest underwear in the history of film ) , it's not as overtly explicit as the original and there is some decent martial arts action . Still , in hindsight I probably should have just changed the channel .
How could so many people have given THIS movie a 10 ? Something is screwy here !	I've got to assume that many people have scored this movie a 10 simply because it's one of those movies that is SO bad it's fun to watch , though I really don't think it ever approaches the PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE level of rottenness that it is a ' must see ' for bad movie aficionados . Or , maybe the die-hard Bela Lugosi fans are at work here , pumping up the ratings in an effort to immortalized their hero . All I know is that the Bowery Boys ( also known as " the Dead End Kids " ) were an annoying and grade-C level group that NEVER could come close to even approaching mediocrity . So why the 10 ? Who knows - - maybe it's all a big joke . It must be because this movie at best deserves a score of 4 - - and that's being mighty generous . Huntz Hall's sister , Ava Gardner ( she MUST have been adopted - - there was no way she could have been related to this Neanderthal ) is getting married . She and her husband are moving to a new home - - unaware that a group of Nazis are using the basement of the house next door to produce anti-American propaganda ! ! Well , the boys come to the wrong house ( the Nazi one ) and get tangled up with the baddies . While I am a fan of Bela Lugosi , he was largely wasted in the film - - having very few lines and being hardly convincing as the leader of a group of Nazis . It's really a shame - - as he could be pretty funny in supporting roles . As for Huntz Hall , Leo Gorcey and the rest , they are the usual lovable idiots - - nothing more . As far as I am concerned , after you've seen a couple of their post-Warner Brothers films , you've seen them all . By the way , there were no ghosts - - sorry to say .
Finally - - - a Star Wars film designed just for kids and dumb people !	Well , at the outset , this film already lost a point or two from me since it , once again , features that nauseating character " Jar-Jar " . While some of my friends pointed out that he wasn't in this film as much as in the previous two , having him in the film at all makes me hate the movie . Why George Lucas dogmatically refused to admit that this character was a HUGE marketing mistake AND that he even went back to the earlier films to add him into irrelevant scenes for the DVD release is beyond me . Obviously , he is NOT a person who can admit he was wrong ! All the unpurchased Jar-Jar merchandise sitting on store shelves as well as all the " I hate Jar-Jar " web sites SHOULD be an indication that he is less than loved by the public ! Now apart from that , the film is very lovely to look at - - with great special effects and tons of eye candy for the viewer . You can't fault the action . However , I also think this film was designed for dumb people , as literate and non-cerebrally impaired people will notice that the dialog is simply one clich after another . I know this may sound arrogant , but George Lucas wrote horrid dialog . When it comes to logic , this is also often missing from the film . I felt like screaming during at the scene where Vader is battling in a volcano - - yet he doesn't break a sweat and only is injured when he eventually falls into the molten goo . He and his nemesis would have been vaporized long before touching the stuff and also would have choked to death on noxious fumes . Apparently this volcano only releases oxygen and is only hot to the touch ! Additionally , while little kids loved it , when Yoda does his ninja-Jedi fighting scene , I was horrified at its stupidity . It was simply intended to entertain the lowest common denominator in the theater and was completely out of character . Many adults , I assume , cringed during these awful scenes . When I compare this film to the earlier films , I am left saddened . Couldn't they have found a better script or at least edited it before filming began ? Or perhaps gotten a professional script writer . What a disappointment .
A decent plot that is ruined by one truly awful performance !	I like old B-detective films and have seen dozens . And of all these series films , the Falcon films are among my favorites - - even the later Tom Conway versions ( that were slightly less enjoyable than his brother's Falcon films ) . It has the usual amiable performance by Conway and a decent script ( without the usual bumbling cops - - here they actually weren't totally stupid ) but is totally destroyed by one of the most awful and annoying characters I have seen in this type of film . In other words , an exceptional film is undone by one major weak link - - this time in the form of Amelita Ward as Tom Lawrence's totally obnoxious fiance . While she isn't hideous to look at , her personality is so bad that she would be the perfect poster child for a " retroactive abortion campaign " . I simply wanted this loud-mouthed and ditsy dame to die and die soon - - and hopefully painfully . You can't blame all of this on Ward , as I suppose she was just being the sort of wretched character the writers and director envisioned . However , with so much of the film showing excellent and intelligent writing , I truly wonder what was going on here that we don't know about today . For example , could Ward have have held incriminating photos that forced RKO to put her in the film or perhaps the writers wanted the public to totally hate her ? These might explain the discrepancy between this character and the rest of the film ! ! As far as the plot goes , it's pretty interesting and is all wrapped up nicely , but because Ward is so terrible and so grating , I don't recommend this film to anyone but those determined to see every film from the series . Don't say I didn't warn you !
too disjoint - - like two movies spliced together	There are some elements of this movie that are extremely interesting . The problem is , the plot is quite muddled and it looks as if two different movies had been spliced together . One movie was about a nymph who loved sex and got raunchy with EVERYONE ( including Mom ) and the other is a Hitchcock-like suspense movie about revenge . Combined , they just don't work . As a sex film , it doesn't quite work and as a suspense it has problems as well because of the inexplicable story elements . I have absolutely no idea why , out of the blue , this 20 year-old opens her mother's blouse and begins sucking her Mom's breast or renews a sexual affair with an older female teacher or walks around naked in front of her mother in law , smacks her father over the head repeatedly with a shovel after he fondles her butt or sleeps with LOTS of different men . All these sexcapades distract from the main story line . In addition , at times her character just seems rather dumb and if she's just " winging it " when it comes to her convoluted plot for revenge . The first half of the movie is the problem , as most of the 2nd half is excellent . If it were remade , it could be a fantastic film .
A film with a simple message : " We hate Gypsies "	Okay , from the outset you gotta know that this is not a " politically correct " film . The main theme appears to be a confirmation of the age-old distrust and dislike of Gypsies . In this film , they are shown as liars and violent people , the portrayal is one-dimensional and a bit trite . The film begins with Mary Pickford plucking petals from a flower saying the old " he loves me / he loves me not " refrain . Then , she meets a Gypsy that tells her the future . What he actually is doing is setting her up to be seduced by him ! Well , her sister also sees the same man a bit later and he tries the same routine with her . However , when BOTH ladies show up and realize the scheme , the Gypsy beats up their father and is chased through the countryside by the locals . In the end , they tell him and the other Gypsies to leave town and the movie ends - - once again confirming that " we hate Gypsies " . For a film made in 1910 , the length of the film and depth of the plot are about average - - maybe a bit above average . Plus , the version seen in the Milestone Video ( as a short following the feature DADDY LONG LEGS ) is exceptional in regard to the print quality .
Not horrible . . . and sort of like FELLINI SATYRICON combined with BARBARELL	This is a weird psychedelic-style movie from the 70s that probably could not be made today , as this movie was NOT commercially-oriented and seemed designed for a " hip " audience - - the average person then , as now , would probably have no interest in this film . While I like sci-fi and did like SOME aspects of the film , the weird , " artsy-fartsy " and often sterile nature of the film really put me off and left me thinking that with a re-write , this COULD have been an exceptional film . I like the idea of a dystopia - - a future society that is worse and more repressive than current society ( sort of like BRAVE NEW WORLD or 1984 ) , but in this case the style of the film really annoyed me . The stupid costumes and hairstyles ( that were highly reminiscent of FELLINI SATYRICON ) were just distracting and seemed inspired by LSD . For example , seeing Sean Connery running around with his weird ponytail , strange loin cloth red garb and REALLY hairy body were at first very funny to see . . . at first . But combining this with all the other over-the-top elements just looked like it was the illegitimate step-child of BARBARELLA but with a much more serious and bizarre storyline . And speaking of story , the film did have some good points to make about stagnation and a perpetually ignorant race of slaves was pretty novel and interesting to a point . But the elderly people with dementia and all the other goofy bits just made the story to overwhelming and silly to be taken seriously . An interesting experiment that ultimately failed . By the way , the film has a lot of nudity and is very sexual in nature , and so parents are advised to think about this before letting the kids watch this .
The film went along nicely and kept my interest . . . and then just stopped dead in its tracks .	A woman is about to turn 57 and she has planned on spending this time at a lovely and peaceful British resort . In fact , she's apparently planned it for years . Now here's the odd part , according to her narration , everyone must die on their 57th birthday because of a family curse . Instead of avoiding it , she embraces it and plans to make her final day on Earth absolutely perfect . This is a lovely film in many ways . The acting , music and direction all really caught my attention . The problem is that although everyone seemed very talented and it was interesting , the film just ended - - and really saying nothing and leaving me feeling very unfulfilled . With a better ending ( not necessarily a happy one , mind you ) , this film would have scored much , much higher .
It's rather bad . . . but also kitschy fun as well .	This is a film you can't take very seriously , because if you do you're bound to hate it . However , if you see it as a silly and tacky bit of fun , then there is a lot to like . Bear in mind that the plot is very similar to films such as CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON and ABBOTT AND COSTELLO GO TO MARS , as it's about a space ship that lands on a planet filled with crazy ( and horny ) amazons . It's sort of like every man's fantasy from the 1950s , though by today's standards the ladies are far less desirable than they must have been back then . The movie begins with a seemingly routine rocket trip to the orbiting space station . However , I had a good laugh as the rocket changed three times into three totally different ships . The first two were stock film clips of V-2 variants and the one they showed flying in space was completely different ( more like a George Pal-inspired rocket ) . How they thought the audiences wouldn't have noticed is beyond me . Once the rocket neared the station , weird beams started flying about and eventually the station is hit and explodes . The rocket is struck , but instead of exploding it is pulled to Venus . Oddly , while Venus SHOULD have had a totally noxious atmosphere and ship-crushing pressure , naturally it is rather Earth-like and the air is breathable . The four crew men are soon taken prisoner and are taken to go see the planet's insane queen , Yllana . Yllana always wears a mask and is perpetually in a state of advanced PMS . She seems totally unreasonable and " bitchy " - - despite her bringing the ship to the planet in the first place ! As the four men are to apparently be put to death , the captain does what any good captain would do - - try to seduce the queen ( a lesson right out of the Captain Kirk manual ) . She seems amenable but also violently unpredictable . The captain also learns that the queen plans on letting the men live BUT blow up the Earth with something like the " illudium q-36 explosive space modulator " ! So , it's up to the men and some turncoat Venusian women ( including the underground's leader , Zsa Zsa Gabor ) to foil this insane plan and save the Earth . My favorite part of this brilliant plan is when the men capture Yllana and they take her mask off and Zsa Zsa wears it in a " clever " attempt to fool everyone into believing she's the queen ! Considering the queen sounds very American and Zsa Zsa has the heavy Hungarian accent , it's pretty funny ! While this plan didn't work ( big surprise here ) , the group somehow manages to foil the queen and in the end everyone lives happily ever after - - except for the smoldering remains of Yllana . The camera fades as our four sex-crazed men smile at the camera when they learn they must remain on the planet at least another year - - as the space babes all begin to practically rape them . Apparently , the men on their planet were wiped out a long time ago and it's been a very long time since they have , . . . . well . . . you know ! Silly and with splashy and vibrant sets , this is a great film to watch with friends and NOT a film for those who demand serious sci-fi films . It works pretty well because the film , fortunately , never seems to take itself too seriously .
Artsy but not particularly satisfying	This short is from the Moviemark DVD Indie Shorts Project Vol . 1 ( 2006 ) . It's the first on the DVD and is very , very unusual and artsy . Describing the plot is very , very difficult - - especially since this is a film where the plot doesn't seem to be that important - - what's important are the artistic qualities of film . It begins with a woman who appears to be homeless or a punk who in many ways looks like a young female version of Klaus Kinski with bright orange hair ! Who exactly she is and why she behaves in such an odd fashion really isn't explained . However , she meets a deaf lady who uses real sign language , not gibberish and I found her easy to interpret what she was saying . I was happy the film makers got this right . Then the deaf lady introduces her to a weird violinist who plays haunting music . What happens next , I won't mention - - partly because it was confusing and partly because the film had already lost me a long time ago . I guess I could watch and re-watch the film to look for all the symbolism and meaning , but it never grabbed my attention at all despite decent production values .
Teresa Wright and Gary Cooper seem to try very hard , . . .	This " screwy comedy " seems very forced . Indeed , the actors TRY very hard to make a go of an essentially unfunny script . And , as a result it doesn't really go anywhere . The idea of a woman finding out she was pregnant after getting a quickie divorce just isn't all that funny . And then , when Cooper sneaks off with the baby because he doesn't want it put up for adoption just seems terribly unfunny and it's really pushing hard to turn this into a comedy . It's really a shame , too , as the actors were more capable than the script and I found myself just bored by the whole mess . Considering that Cooper made so many GOOD comedies , I recommend you see them instead .
This looks like a copy of the " Our Gang " comedies of the era	In the early 1920s , Hal Roach created the Our Gang shorts ( also known as " The Little Rascals " ) . While most of these very early films no longer exist ( since they were made of very unstable nitrate stock ) , I've seen a few of the early silent films . However , if you compare them to HAPPY DAYS , you can't help but notice the parallels . In fact , and I hate to step on toes here , but the Winkle films appear to be a knock-off of the Roach series - - as the Winkle films followed the other series and seemed like carbon copies . The only difference is that the early Our Gang films were much funnier and more enjoyable to watch . In addition to the derivative nature of the films , the way the Black member of the kids was portrayed was a bit disturbing and something you would not have seen in Roach's films . While Roach used a few Black actors ( such as " Farina " and " Buckwheat " ) , here the film features a Black kid who is made up to look like a white kid in black face - - sort of like a mini minstrel show . In other words , they painted white around his lips to make him look as if a White actor was in the role . I assume this was an effort to make a Black character more palatable to racist audiences . For shame !
Sure to offend and not especially funny	This cartoon is on the web and can be watched on Google Video , though it is NOT in general release because it is so patently offensive . While I am one of the least politically correct-minded people you'll meet ( I actually believe in Free Speech ) , I can easily see why Warner Brothers pulled this one , as it is so offensive and gross in its stereotype of Black Americans . The main character is a huge-lipped and ultra-stupid Black named " Sambo " , so it certainly isn't surprising that with today's sensibilities that this is deemed offensive ! Now if you look past the horrid stereotype , the rest of the cartoon is only mildly funny by Looney Toons standards , so I really think you aren't missing anything if you don't watch it . I just hope it is NOT pulled off Youtube since I hate to see anything completely banished plus it is an important and uncomfortable part of our history .
a " Laurel and Hardy " film in name only	This film is a silent film . It wasn't until about a dozen films later that Laurel and Hardy made sound films , but many of their silent films are still masterpieces . Unfortunately , this one isn't . It wasn't until late in 1927 that Hal Roach realized that he had a great formula by pairing Stan and Ollie . And , this film was made earlier in the year when the genius of this pairing wasn't yet apparent . As a result , it really isn't a Laurel and Hardy movie - - they don't work together and they only receive 3rd and 4th billing . The film is about a very attractive lady who resents how her artist husband takes her for granted . Her friend gives her the idea of getting another guy to make advances towards her to make the husband jealous . Scraping the bottom of the barrel ( and gene pool ) , she picks Stan Laurel to woo her . Well , he's as dumb as ever and does a pretty lousy job of it . In the meantime , Oliver Hardy is the butler and his role is pretty much unimportant until the very end of the film . There are a few interesting and funny gags here and there , but only a few . Because of this and the missing chemistry , this film only deserves a score of 4 .
Not nearly as horrible as the first part , but still NOT a very good film - - despite all the hype ! !	It just so happens that IVAN THE TERRIBLE , PARTS I and II both had entries in the 50 Worst Movies book by Harry Medved . Now , I do think that declaring they are among the worst movies ever is an overstatement , though they are still both pretty poor films - - particularly the first one , as it featured more eye rolling and " googly eyed looks " than I have ever seen before ! ! Director Eisenstein and an awful lot of other people out there thought this made the film " artsy and profound " - - and since I am legally sane , I must say that I hated this first film ! ! The second , while still very incomplete-looking , is a vast improvement , as eye rolling is minimal , though overacting and long boring scenes are present in this film just like in part 1 ! While part 2 looks pretty incomplete and needed at least another hour ( especially since it never gets to Ivan's insane behavior later in life - - like killing his son and heir while in a fit of anger ) . Since both parts 1 and 2 were commissioned by Stalin to both excuse his own murderous reign and glorify him , it's no surprise that Ivan's life story is left very incomplete . Even without all the truly awful behaviors of Ivan , apparently the supremely evil Stalin STILL didn't like the film and wouldn't allow its release during his lifetime . Maybe he didn't allow this because he was more worried people would see what a HUGE waste of money and resources the film was instead of seeing Stalin as a crazy guy just like Ivan ! By the way , there was one segment of this tedious film that was just so cool that the film merits a 4 ( without it , a 2 ) - - and that's the scene with Prince Vladimir at the banquet ! It is well-done and pretty funny in a dark way . And , the scene was done in a Russian version of 2-color Technicolor . This is VERY odd , by the way , because by the mid-1930s , a vastly improved true color process was developed by Technicolor that no longer made everything look all orangy-red and greenish-blue . So , this film during the color sequences looks a lot like a silent or early sound color film . Very odd indeed for the 1940s .
Decent for 1912 , but not all that interesting today	This film is about a college baseball pitcher who is forced to drop out of school and move to the wild west . There he gets a job as a cashier and when he is robbed by a bandit , he knocks the crook out with a well-aimed baseball pitch - - thus saving the day AND winning the girl . There's not much more to it than that - - and like most films of the day , the plot is paper thin . Now this is not a complaint - - for 1912 , this is a decent film and at 10 minutes , it's about as long as the average film . Full-length movies as we know them were just in their infancy . Unfortunately , when seen today the film just seems silly and pointless - - and is only of interest to someone who is either a baseball freak or a film historian .
A nice idea indifferently executed	The idea of a horror anthology movie interested me , so I sat down to watch this movie tonight . While the basic structure and idea was good , I was amazed at how sluggish and indifferent most of the five episodes were . Most of this seemed to be because of relatively poor writing - - this SHOULD have been a lot more interesting than it was . The first , third and fourth segments were all completely forgettable and so I won't bother elaborating on them . They just weren't very interesting or scary . The second one , starring Terry-Thomas , wasn't exactly brilliant , but was pretty enjoyable and the final scene , though a tad cheesy , made me really laugh - - so it was worthwhile . The only one of the five that really worked well was the final segment that starred Tom Baker ( you know , the Dr . Who that everyone liked so much in the 1970s ) . Baker played an angry artist who wanted revenge on three men who had cheated him and the way this played out was indeed clever . Because of this and the concluding scene , at least the movie ended on a positive note . However , due to the film's highly uneven nature , I'd not recommend it . It's not so much bad - - it's just not very good either . Apparently , I am in the minority , though , as several other reviewers liked it .
Totally confusing - - the print I saw must have been missing something	The version of this film I saw was a lot shorter than how long this film was supposed to be . Some of this could be due to differing cranking speeds - - silent films greatly varied on their length due to how fast the camera and projector are hand-cranked . In addition , a lot of very early films exist in several versions - - some times because the film was cut apart by movie theaters or distributors and some times simply because the print is so old , only portions remain . Whichever MIGHT be the case with this film , something definitely was missing . That's because I found I really needed to read the summary on IMDb to understand what was occurring in the film - - it really isn't evident in the film and there are no inter-title cards in the film to clue you in to what is occurring . Based on what I saw and the summary , the film itself is pretty silly and old fashioned - - with an interesting plot that is almost impossible to believe . Compared to other movies of the time , this one is slightly worse than average and doesn't especially play well almost 100 years later .
A whole lotta action , . . . but I'm not sure WHY	This is a short film by D . W . Griffith for Biograph Studios and is full of some pretty exciting action . Blanche Sweet is an apparently nice girl that was kidnapped and secreted aboard a boat . The only problem is , WHY ? ! There's really no context and I had no idea why some crew members from a sailing ship kidnapped the woman in the first place and why later they tried to kill the captain and take the boat . Some explanatory inter-title cards or making the film longer than 13 minutes might have taken care of all this . With just a little more work , this could have been an excellent little film . And , given that it's a Griffith film , you KNOW that the woman will be rescued ( they always are in his films ) - - so there isn't all that much excitement or suspense . It's a time-passer and that's all .
Cary Grant and Jayne Mansfield - - together ? !	While I recently gave OPERATION PETTICOAT a positive review , I really didn't like this film even though it had so many similarities . Both were made just a few years apart , both starred Cary Grant and both were WWII comedies . However , the overall tone and style of the films were quite different . KISS HER FOR ME , overall , just seemed like a cheaper film - - with poor writing , little energy and some VERY broad performances - - even when compared to OPERATION PETTICOAT . I think that at least much of the blame for this lies in casting Jayne Mansfield . The combination of her ample talents and limited acting ability really made this A-budget film look like it came from a 3rd rate studio . Plus , there wasn't much chemistry or energy in pairing her with Cary Grant - - an actor generally loved for his grace and class . It's sort of like pairing Sir Lawrence Olivier with Marjorie Main .
A totally confusing re-telling of the Potemkin incident	This film is all about an uprising that occurred aboard the Imperial Russian ship , Potemkin , and how the uprising spread ashore . This is a very early telling of the true story , but it was re-make so much better by Sergei Eisenstein a couple decades later ( as a propaganda film for the new Soviet government ) . In this early version , the sets are pretty poor ( though not really bad for 1905 ) and the story is VERY , VERY rough and confusing - - unless you saw Eisenstein's movie first . In fact , the true story is very interesting and it's amazing to see just how UNINTERESTING and confusing this all became with this Path Brothers film . My advice is see the Eisenstein one and if you want to see a GOOD older film , try those of the French genius , Mlis .
Dull and disjoint despite having a pretty expensive cast	You'd sure think that with Robert Mitchum , Jack Lemmon and Rita Hayworth this would be an exceptional film - - but it isn't - - at least in a good way ! Despite all this talent , Mitchum and Hayworth are essentially wasted - - especially Mitchum who is given very little to do during the film other than to act grumpy ! In addition , mid-way through the film , the entire flow of the movie stops and it's almost like an entirely different film for 45 minutes . At the end , it unconvincingly returns back to the original and far inferior story . The plot involves two partners who live in the Caribbean - - making money taking people on fishing trips or doing a little smuggling . When a guy pays them to transport Miss Hayworth secretly out of the country , Mitchum responds with some nonsense about " hating women like her " and other such nonsense . To the well-trained ear used to bad movies , this obviously means " I'll act like I hate her through most of the film , but soon we'll be slobbering all over each other ! " . What a horrid clich - - and so predictable . Later , when Mitchum is treating Hayworth badly , Lemmon assumes the role of Sir Galahad and defends her . Eventually , he even decides he wants to marry her and take care of her . However , Hayworth knows that she's just no good and won't commit . In the interim , Lemmon goes on a very dangerous smuggling mission without Mitchum . He wants to get money for Hayworth to smuggler her into the United States , so he feels it's worth the risk . Things go poorly , however , and Lemmon's boat is destroyed . He hops aboard a freighter and makes for the island where Hayworth is waiting . However , completely out of the blue , there is an accident on board and Lemmon is trapped and the boat is about to explode ( gosh ) and there's a very limited amount of time to save him . However , all attempts fail and it looks like Lemmon will be blown to smithereens . This part of the film is actually very tense and interesting - - and DOESN'T star Mitchum or Hayworth but a whole new cast of characters ! ! As I said , it's like a movie within a movie . In the end , Hayworth and Mitchum return to help out good ' ol Jack , but by now ( no surprise ) , Hayworth and Mitchum have discovered that they don't hate each other but are in love ( gag me ) . The film is poorly constructed , clichd , stupid and failed to do anything with the only good part of the film ( Lemmon trapped on the boat ) . What a waste of good talent .
Not horrible for 1912 , but pretty much unwatchable today	This was a very , very early full-length film . According to the video box , it was the first full-length American-made film , but that is debatable - - as several films have made that claim and exactly what constitutes " full-length " is pretty vague . Regardless , I have to commend the cast for trying something unique and epic , though in today's light the film is a totally boring mess and only of interest to cinephiles . Instead of the modern notion of story-telling and action , the crew was breaking new ground and made a bizarre film that appears more like a series of vignettes instead of a coherent film . Instead of a moving and evolving narrative like we are used to , the film was made with a real-life traveling acting troop . But , instead of having them act out the story , the film shows inter-title cards that describe what has occurred and the cast pose like they are going to be photographed or just make a few minimal movements or actions until the next card appears to describe an all-new scene . It's almost like looking at a series of stereoscope cards that move just a little and all together tell a very , very dull story . Very static and horrid to watch , it DID try something different and this is an amazingly important film historically - - I just would NEVER want to have to watch it again !
Interesting elements in search of a story	This was included on the disk " Shorts : Volume 2 " - - a rather dull collection of short films . Shorts are among my favorite style of films but somehow the people assembling this second collection had a hard time finding quality content - - and it wasn't nearly as good as the first volume or other shorts collections . This short film feels like it's woefully incomplete . There is a story , but so much in unanswered that the viewer , like me , feels a bit left out and unfulfilled . The film begins with a woman , her boyfriend and her Westie ( that's a dog , by the way ) going to a lonely beach . The lady speaks with an accent that , at times , is a bit difficult to follow . Given that I am hard of hearing , I sure would have loved if it had been closed captioned . Anyway , the boyfriend goes for a swim while she naps . When she awakens , her dog is gone . She panics and makes the guy follow her all about looking for the dog . They spend most of the time arguing and being disagreeable . Then , out of the blue , they stop to have sex . Later , they find the dog - - end of story . As far as the characters go , both seemed rather dysfunctional and unlikable . She was a fussy and demanding lady and he seemed to have contempt for her . When you wondered why they were together , their little sex break showed what bond kept them together . Some might like the characterizations - - I kept finding the people irritating and unreal - - more like caricatures than people you might meet or know . Also , the payoff for all this just isn't worth the wait ( unless you want to see the guy naked ) .
It's nice to see the Gish Sisters , but this film is pretty poor	I love seeing Lillian and Dorothy Gish in films . They often played sisters on film and were odd in that they REALLY were sisters . But , aside from that , there really isn't all that much to recommend this film . While it isn't exactly bad ( after all , the movie is about average for a movie from 1912 ) , its melodrama seems really over-the-top and rather silly . After all , the whole " gun through the wall " gimmick just seems like a bizarre and unbelievable plot device just to get the viewers to worry about the Gish Sisters ' safety . Think about it - - have you ever heard or seen anything like this ? And , if it DID happen , don't you think they would have just grabbed the gun ? !
Silly and at times quite stupid . . . . but also a great guilty pleasure	My rating of 4 is less because of the entertainment value of this film and more because of the overall cheesiness of the production . Quite often , the acting and writing are quite poor . Yet , despite all its deficiencies , it's still well worth seeing because it's fun - - a definite guilty pleasure . This is a relatively famous Blaxploitation film from the early to mid 1970s , though the film isn't as racy compared to many examples in the genre . While having some themes similar to such films as COFFEY and FOXY BROWN , this one features no nudity - - a relative rarity for the genre . Also , while it is violent ( as would be most zombie movies ) , this one is probably appropriate for teens . The best way to describe the film is like a combination of COFFEY , DR . PHIBES and BLACULan odd combination to say the least ! The film begins with Sugar and her boyfriend enjoying a night out at his nightclub . Unfortunately , some scum sent by Mr . Big has come to make the guy an offer he can't refuse . However , he does refuse and is sent to the big nightclub in the sky . Sugar isn't exactly Pam Grier , so instead of just taking the law into her own hands and killing the muthas , she enlists the aid of an old voodoo priestess ( Zara Cully - - ' Mama Jefferson ' from THE JEFFERSONS ) . Using the powers of darkness , they call upon Baron Samedi ( that's the word for ' Saturday ' in French ) . Samedi is a very obliging god of the underworld and agrees to help Sugar exact revenge on the mob . Some of the deaths are pretty lame ( such as the knife and pig deaths ) , but some are very creative and creepy - - and reminiscent of the great murders in the Dr . Phibes films . While this plot is very silly , fortunately the folks from American-International Pictures didn't take it all too seriously . The film definitely has a sense of humor and because of this the film is curiously watchable even more than 30 years later . PS - - Aside from Ms . Cully , you may also recognize Mr . Big as Robert Quarry - - the same actor who played a vampire in the Count Yorga films and dozens of other films since . Also , the very prolific actor Richard Lawson was also in the film - - proving that this film was not the end to either of their careers ! ! PPS - - Baron Samedi is a REAL character from Haitian voodoo and is an awful lot like the character in this film . I looked it up and was shocked to see that this film didn't create this character ! !
Not bad at all , but also not nearly as good as it could have been	Wow , I was really underwhelmed by this film . Despite starring David Niven and Olivia de Havilland , this was an amazingly uninspired film . After all , the story is about a rich society thief who is a champion cricket player - - you'd think there'd be more action and exotic or fashionable locales . But , instead , the film is very , very stagnant and the majority of the action ( such as it is ) takes place in a manor home where Raffles is staying along with a few other rich swells . It was so turgid , that at times I found myself falling asleep . I kept waiting and hoping for a fist fight or SOMETHING , but instead the film was very talky and all so well-mannered . A very uninspired script with an abrupt and senseless ending as well as lackluster direction conspired to keep this film in the category of ' mediocre ' , but it's still watchable due to the screen presence of its stars - - especially the always lovely Miss de Havilland .
A very tired film featuring an even more tired Errol Flynn	For fans of Errol Flynn , this is a rather tough film to watch . That's because after a lifetime of wild living and booze , the once handsome actor looks pretty lousy for a 48 year-old . He's puffy , flat and lacks the spark and charm that made him a matine favorite in previous decades . Here , he's just " phoning it in " in a low-budget and rather dull film and it's only of much interest to fans with morbid curiosity or who want to see every film this star made . The story has Flynn playing a lowly blackjack dealer in a Cuban casino - - quite a comedown compared to other characters he'd played in the past . While it is interesting to see street scenes of pre-Castro Cuba , the rest of the film is a dull affair concerning Errol being tossed , quite innocently , into a bunch of murderous counterfeiters . Because he was no longer the glamorous hero , he spends most of the film being beaten up and hassled . The best fight for him is at the end when he barely manages to beat up a doughboy-like villain . Not exactly CAPTAIN BLOOD or ROBIN HOOit's really a shame Flynn's final films are generally of this low quality .
I was confused	I must admit that when I watched this short film I was confused . While at times it definitely looked like a mockumentary ( i . e . , a film pretending to be a documentary ) , at other times it appeared to be like a reality show . Well , after doing some searching on the web , I was able to determine that the film was real . Now I still am not sure if PARTS of the film were made up - - such as the really , really strange squealing girl who " wanted to do anything , anything to help " or the guy running like a maniac in the parking lot - - they looked staged . If this girl is real - - yikes . All this leads to my biggest complaint about the film . It didn't seem to take a clear path . If it was real , this needed to be clarified and if it wasn't then it needed more laughs . I realize the film makers are young an experienced and it did show promise - - I just hope on future projects their objective is more defined .
Pretty dull little tale salvaged only by Sophia Loren's cleavage	This is an amazingly lifeless movie despite it being filmed in Greece and being Sophia Loren's first American movie . While the Greek scenery is lovely , it's obvious that the biggest reason they chose Ms . Loren for the film was because of her ample breasts . Throughout the film , but particularly in the first diving scene , they are featured very prominently and it's a very risqu piece of film work for the 1950s ( sort of like the movie THE DEEP in the 1970s ) . And , unfortunately , she is given a role that is very inconsistent and not particularly likable . Much of the movie concerns her wanting to help steal a valuable ancient statue she accidentally discovered while sponge diving . She is , through much of the film , amoral and self-centered . And , not very convincingly , at the end , she falls for Ladd and does the right thing with the statue ! Predictable but also a bit ridiculous . Now to make things worse , some boob had the bright idea of pairing Loren with Alan Ladd - - one of the shortest leading men of all time and about four inches shorter than her . This meant they had to do some interesting camera-work so she wouldn't tower above him . In addition , their chemistry is , at best , tenuous despite this being a love story . There just doesn't seem to be any " spark " between them . As for Ladd , his role is pretty mellow and subdued . Apart from some scuba diving , he just doesn't do all that much in the film . The bottom line for Ladd , Loren and the rest of the characters is that the parts just weren't written all that well and the people ( aside from her little brother in the film ) weren't very interesting or compelling . A dull time-passer and certainly no indication of the acting ability of either of its stars .
Well made and thoroughly unpleasant	This film was recently posted on IMDb for viewing in the United States viewing only . This is a hard film to rate , as how much you like it or not will really depend on your tolerance for watching brutal spousal abuse . As an ex-social worker and therapist , I have frankly seen too much in my lifetime and don't want to see films like this . However , some may enjoy seeing it or get some cathartic pleasure out of eventually seeing the bully get his . I just think for me , life is too short for a film that is really a giant brutal fight . As far as the production values go , this isn't a bad film at all , though there isn't a lot of exceptional dialog . And , when the lady is horribly beaten and he stops , her then announcing he MUST leave was pretty nutty and most ( though not all ) abused spouses would never do this the moment the beating stops ! Still , it was technically a fine film . See it if you like - - just don't say I didn't warn you .
Pretty to watch but mundane	Okay , since the film was made all the way back in 1895 ( when films were in their infancy ) , I'll cut the film some slack . After all , ALL the movies were dull and short pieces about the most mundane activities . And so , compared to contemporary pieces , it's not too bad . The subject matter - - waves crashing - - isn't too interesting , but the film has an artistic composition that make it rather like an Ansel Adams print come to life . Not great , certainly , but for 1895 not bad . If you LOVE this film , then be sure to watch THE ROUGH SEA ( 1900 ) . It must be once of the cinema's first sequels ! Yay ! ! ! MORE Surf footage ! ! ! !
A major let-down !	I was a huge fan of the first Animation Show disk , so I was sure to see this second collection . However , I was very disappointed because the films just weren't very funny - - as they tended towards " arsty-fartsy " films that just made my head hurt . One of the biggest disappointments was the virtual absence of Don Hertzfeldt's cartoons throughout the DVonly having the bizarre and not particularly good MEANING OF LIFE . Likewise , PAN WITH US and MAGDA were too artsy and I disliked them . Fortunately , WARD 13 was a sick and twisted and funny film and the rest of the films were adequate . Fortunately , THE ANIMATION SHOW does get much better with Volume Three . Three is NOT funny like one , but features much more amazing and mind-blowing films - - and one of my all-time favorites , the unsavory and cool RABBIT .
at times , mindless script , but watch it and say you love it just to make liberals mad !	This film was pretty controversial when it came out because it bucked the theme being touted by liberal politicians in 1984 . They wanted the US to engage the Russians and make nice to them , while President Reagan had the nerve to call this evil empire an " evil empire " . The public seemed to either hate the movie for having the affront to show a Communist invasion of the USA or conservatives thought it was all cool and somehow prophetic . I went to see it , in part , just because I wanted to irritate liberal friends by telling them I saw this movie ! After all , it was just a movie ! And , a fantasy involving a right or left-wing plot is certainly fair game ( though critics at the time BBQ'd the movie and branded it as evil ) . Now as for the movie itself , if you remove all the political baggage , it is a decent but far from great film - - and people on both extremes politically should bend a little - - the film ISN'T evil nor is it the greatest film ever made ! Instead , it's a fantasy first . And , secondly it is kind of fun to watch but pretty brainless - - having lots of action scenes but the dialog and acting is right out of a teen movie ! Judge the film on its own merits , not just politics . Those who give it a 1 , do so for their own agenda as is the same with them that give this mediocre film a 10 ! Don't believe all the extreme hype !
More of the same . . .	Before I talk specifics about this movie , I need to point out that it really isn't fair to give this movie a score of 10 ( like some have ) since it is essentially the same film that William Haines did many times before . Also , how much you like this film will depend on if you've seen other Haines films . Haines made a career out of often playing the exact same plot and exact same character in a variety of settings - - something that would never fly today , but in his day was very popular . Having seen films like BROWN OF HARVARD and THE SMART SET , I quickly recognized WESTPOINT as essentially the same film ! These aren't the only ones he made like this either and each went like this : A talented but very cocky guy alienates everyone around him with his boorish ways . He also meets and soon alienates a pretty girl with his cocky and selfish manner . Eventually , when almost everyone hates him , he learns humility and saves the day . When the film ends , he gets the girl , is the " big man " and has learned to be part of a team . So already WESTPOINT has a huge strike against it because it's so unoriginal and the best example of the word " formulaic " I have ever seen . You can't get any more identical than the plots in these films - - not similar , but identical ! ! Here , not surprisingly , he meets and alienates himself from young Joan Crawford . In addition , he's a super-talented athlete and is the big star of the team - - but he's also such a jerk that he eventually is without friends and is hated by all . At this point , he gets his act together and it's all " happily ever after " . As far as the quality of the film goes , the direction and most of the acting is great . However , surprisingly , Haines is even more hateful and obnoxious than in his other films and all the jokes he tells and way he acts at the beginning of the film made me hate his guts . Sorry , but that was just my gut reaction . A nice film - - too bad it's been done . . . many times .
I don't think it was as bad as all that . . . .	So far there is only one other review for this French short film on IMDb . It is rather scathing in its opinion of STRICTETERNUM though I am not going to be that hard on the film - - it isn't as bad as all that in my opinion . However , the people who posted it on the Hulu site ( I assume this was the film makers themselves ) made a big mistake . As the film is about to pay , the is a tiny summary of the film and it includes the phrase " The twist ending will blow your mind " . Well , with such an absurdly optimistic pronouncement , I was really ready . . . ready to be bowled over by the wonderfulness and perfection of the surprise ending . However , it really didn't come as that big a surprise and I think that is exactly why the other reviewer felt so angry about the film . I can definitely see their point , though the film isn't at fault - - it's the stupid summary ! There were some good things about the film . While the story was only okay and seemed very inspired by some " Twilight Zone " type story ( it is derivative ) , the set designs are really cool and work very well with the story . It worked well in that sense and had I not had such high expectations , I might have given it a 6 or better .
Not a horrible film !	I gave the above summary because many might just assume that this low budget film stinks because it's included in the " 50 Movie Pack - - Chilling Classics " DVD set . This set and others by the same company are mostly films that slipped into the public domain because no one wanted them - - they were THAT bad ! ! And , in most cases , the prints are just awful - - often being dark , fuzzy or out of alignment . However , in the case of THE BLOODY BROOD , this film isn't bad at all - - at least when you consider its rather low pedigree . This film is a very low budget production that stars a familiar face ( Peter Falk ) as the bad guy . He's the unofficial leader of a group of beatnicks who generally don't look like beatnicks ( especially Falk - - though what can you expect from a counter-culture film made in Canada ? ) . Everyone in the group comes to him for inspiration , leadership and it's implied that he's their drug connection ( though oddly they NEVER said he was dealing drugs - - I guess it could have been uranium or stolen lawn jockeys or whatever other illegal activity he was doing ) . One evening , just for kicks , he gets the idea to kill someone for laughs and gets one of his flunkies to help . The unsuspecting victim is a poor delivery boy who is fed a sandwich laced with glass ! When the kid dies , his brother vows to continue the investigation that the police don't seem all that interested in pursuing . Generally , the acting is pretty good compared to other similarly budgeted films and the plot is pretty good as well . It's a nice variation on the famous Leopold and Loeb murder case that was dramatized in COMPULSION . While not as slickly produced and lacking the stars of COMPULSION , in some ways I preferred THE BLOODY BROOD since when the film ends there is an appropriate comeuppance - - something that never really happened with Leopold and Loeb . FYI - - For a laugh , watch the scene where they show a close up of the Maynard G . Krebs lookalike as he plays the bongos . If you pay attention , you'll see that his hands and the music aren't even close to being in sync and the tune is significantly faster and different than the hands would indicate - - now THAT'S talent !
mildly enjoyable farce , but somehow it all just never made me laugh that much	This was a mildly enjoyable film , but despite Teddington Studio trying hard to make a nice little farce , the human often seemed a tad forced and not especially funny . Not a bad film , though not one that you'll long remember . The film begins with a ridiculous plot device - - a man and woman are on their honeymoon and the man is so busy with his business that he actually brings along his secretary and works the entire time ! This is funny but also so ridiculous because it was completely impossible unless you just assume the man was gay . The understandably angry wife is beside herself and decides to try and make her indifferent husband jealous . However , despite having a good plan , her plan goes awry when a real stranger ( in the form of a gentleman bandit ) comes into her life for real . This bandit was by far the best aspect of the film - - as he was quite charming and funny despite being a crook ! After they meet during a robbery , the film slows down and becomes a tad tedious - - especially during a dinner party when the stolen jewels keep getting lost and switched . This got old quickly and I found myself getting bored and wanting the film to wrap up quickly . Too bad the momentum was lost and it all ended up so mediocre - - the film had some promise .
Well , they don't come much simpler than this !	Given that the movies being played in 1899 were all about a minute long ( or shorter ) , then the fact that this little snippet of a film is so very , very simple shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone who has seen any of these very early films . So , my rating of 5 is based on a comparison with other films of the day - - not modern films . Heck , compared to ANY movie of the last 80 years , CASEY is a terrible film - - so understand the context , please . The film consists of a baseball player at bat and the camera is behind him - - showing the catcher and umpire . When the guy strikes out , he reacts poorly , to say the least , and he attacks the umpire . That's it - - and the entire film is , as mentioned above , only about a minute long . I read that this film is a fragment , but I wonder if this really was all there was to it - - as this is very typical of the films of the era .
Paranoia film that's pretty typical of the early 70s	In the 1960s , disenchantment among the Western populations led to the hippie movement and a new questioning of authority . Combining this with the Watergate scandal and you set the context for movies like SCORPIO and THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR . Both films view our own government with great suspicion - - particularly the CIA . Such films probably would NOT have been accepted by the public just a decade earlier , but in the 70s paranoia of this type was fashionable . So was the moral relativism that implied that the US and Soviet governments were pretty much the same . In some ways , the plot to SCORPIO is pretty interesting - - a CIA agent ( Burt Lancaster ) is perceived to be a double agent and is ordered to be killed . Oddly , Alain Delon , a Frenchman , is given this task but Lancaster seems too slippery and skilled to be easily taken . Unfortunately , after a while the film both becomes rather dull and is rather hard to believe . As one reviewer pointed out , the way that Lancaster and Scofield knew each other didn't really make sense , as an American serving with the Spanish Republicans would have been seen as an extreme leftist - - not exactly a person you'd expect to later be in the CIA . Of course , this DID help the moral relativism being pushed in the film . Aside from watching the acrobatic Lancaster do his own stunts and Scofield overact ( in a fun way ) , this is a very low energy film - - and you'd not expect this would be the case for an espionage thriller . It just seemed very detached and uninvolving . Overall , it's a passable film , but not one you should go out of your way to see .
One of two nearly identical films both made in 1899 !	I knew that the old-time movie makers often " borrowed " or outright plagiarized from each other , but this is ridiculous ! Not only did George Albert Smith make this film in 1899 , but Bamforth and Company made a nearly identical film that same year with the same title ! ! ! The worst part about it is that neither film was all that great . And , of the two , the Smith one is slightly less well made . Like all movies of the 1890s , this one is incredibly brief and almost completely uninteresting to audiences in the 21st century . Only film historians and crazy people like me would watch this brief film ( I'm a history teacher and film lover - - that's my excuse for watching them BOTH ) .
An okay sequel	The beginning of this sequel to BLACK CAESAR reminds me a lot of the old movie serials . At the beginning of each serial episode , they show part of the previous episode and in some cases they actually changed what happened in the previous episode ! I remember seeing SPY SMASHER a long time ago and in several scenes he appeared to die - - yet when they showed the following episode he actually didn't die after all ! Kids loved these films so most didn't question these inconsistencies . Well , the same thing happened following BLACK CAESAR . Fred Williamson's character ( Tommy Gibbs ) is left dying and beaten by teens at the end of the film . Now in HELL UP IN HARLEM you see many of the same scenes from the end of BLACK CAESAR - - but this time there is no dying scene where the man is pummeled by teens and he is not all alone . Instead , Gibbs ' father shows up to save him along with a posse of friends - - even though this clearly is NOT how the previous film ended and the father ( Julius Harris ) is a very different character than he was in the previous film . These sort of inconsistencies about in the movie and I guess the character was too good and American-International Pictures decided to bring him back regardless of whether or not it made much sense . In this film , Tommy is a bit different than the last film . In BLACK CAESAR , Tommy was 100 % unlikable and bad - - a truly despicable guy . However , here in HELL he's more like a crusader as he fights corrupt government officials and mobsters . While some of this action is pretty good , the latter portion of the film is pretty silly even by Blaxploitation movie standards . That's because Tommy returns from an inexplicable retirement in LA and takes on the entire mob all by himself ! ! And , in many instances , he kills baddies in front of huge crowds and yet he always is able to escape unharmed ! ! In the final scene , the leader of the mob catches him at point blank range - - yet the gun somehow miraculously jams ! These scenes just don't look thought out and seem a bit sloppy - - though exciting on a very basic level . In many ways , this sequel and the ridiculous way the guy takes on the mob single-handedly reminds me of SHAFT'S BIG SCORanother sub-par sequel to an excellent Blaxploitation film . Overall , this is an okay film - - neither as original or clever as the original and a film that seems like it's mostly action and very little plot - - it's simply mindless brain candy . By the way , at one point the film cuts to a scene on an island and the caption reads " an island off the Florida Keys " . Well , I've been to the Keys and they are some of the flattest islands on the planet . Yet , oddly , this island is very , very hilly and there isn't a palm tree in sight ! !
too short	This film makes fun of Samuel L . Jackson's Bible-quoting hit-man from PULP FICTION . While the wig is a bit big compared to Jackson's , it's perfect for a parody - - as is the actor's imitation of him with his sing-song cadence . While all this is really low-budget , it was a good approximation of the film . I love short films and I really liked PULP FICTION , so when I saw that there was a short parody of PULP FICTION , I was excited . Unfortunately , it was only about a minute long - - leaving me wanting so much more . A nice idea , but simply not enough to make it worth seeking out this short movie . Next time , give us MORE ! !
Silly and predictable , but still fun	This is not one of Warner Brothers ' finest films , as the writing is pretty silly at times and terribly predictable . For example , when the character " Pop " appeared , I said to my daughter that that old guy would have to die in the film - - and about 20 minutes later , sure enough , he had assumed room temperature ! In fact , throughout the film , the action was pretty ordinary and often telegraphed . Despite starring Edward G . Robinson , Marlene Dietrich and George Raft , the film had a definite " B-movie " feel to it due to the shallow plot and rather one-dimensional characters . This one-dimensionality was especially true with Robinson , as he was amazingly pugnacious and impossible to believe throughout . Now despite all this and the overall ordinary nature of the film , it still is rather entertaining and worth a look if there is nothing better on television . Not a great film but a decent time-passer . By the way , a few years earlier , Warner Brothers made a somewhat similar film called SLIM . While MANPOWER is not exactly a re-make , they both have a lot of similarities and involve death and danger on the power lines .
Very familiar territory for Zucco but still not bad	This is a very low-budget film starring one of the kings of low-budget horror films , George Zucco ( the other , of course , being Bela Lugosi ) . Here he is in VERY familiar territory - - he's a mad scientist working on a formula to transform people into monsters AND he is bent on revenge . While this is a rather worn out premise , WHY he originally wants to create his own version of a wolf-man is truly unique ! ! ! He actually wants to do this as an aid to America's war with the Nazis ! He reasons that these insane killing machines CAN be dropped into enemy territory and allowed to run amok ! Why didn't Roosevelt think about this ? ! Assisted in what later turns into a mad scheme for revenge is a nice but simple-minded man played by Glenn Strange ( who also played Frankenstein in the later Universal horror films of the 1940s ) . Strange is strangely compelling since he is a good person who thinks everything is being done to help his country . Too bad he really is running around killing people when he is transformed into the wolf-man ! If you are a fan of B-horror films , then this one is sure to please despite its tiny budget . However , if you aren't a horror fan , I doubt if you'll find much to interest you here - - especially since there are many better horror films out there already .
It's amazing how short this film was and how quickly it all ends	As I said above , it's amazing how short this Patsy Kelly film is . While it was intended as a short , at only nine minutes , the movie doesn't last nearly as long as other similar films - - that usually range from 12 to 20 minutes . While generally this would be a serious problem , for me it was a blessing ! I have only seen a few Patsy Kelly films but have hated her so much for her lousy over-acting that I was thrilled this movie didn't last so long . It's hard to describe her , but she looked and sounded a lot like an obnoxious version of Rosie O'Donnell . Physically they looked pretty similar , but Kelly nearly always spoke louder than a Concord in flight ! ! Screaming your lines in a Brooklyn accent just isn't comedy - - - it's the recipe for a migraine . But as I said , the film is blessedly short and Patsy actually under-acts compared to her usual assault on your senses ! The film is about a rich dame ( Kelly ) who is trying to buy some class but has no idea what class and sophistication really are . So , some con artists try to take advantage of the situation . The movie is imminently forgettable but at least it is watchable and not bad . This is a definite time-passer or a film for someone wanting to see what Kelly looked like in a more cerebral role ( sort of like for those who wanted to see Curly Howard doing Shakespeare ) .
It's really hard to rate this one . . .	While almost all the animators in North America seemed to be working for the war effort making propaganda and educational films to help , somehow Norman McLaren found time to make this film that has absolutely nothing to do with WWII or even entertainment , per se . Instead , this is an experimental little film about a chicken - - a chicken this dances and moves in time to the song " Turkey in the Straw " . The drawings are simple but effective and I can respect the effort that went into it . But it wasn't meant an anything other than an experiment - - and the film even says this at the beginning . Oh , and speaking of the beginning , I found that odd . The words " The National Film Board " ( who sponsored the film ) appear in about a half dozen languages - - including German and Italian . Considering Canada was at war with these countries , it is a bit surprising they were included and non-combatant languages ( such as Spanish or Portuguese ) were not used . This is NOT a criticism - - just an observation . As far as rating it goes , I'll give it a 5 . I can respect the experiment but there really isn't much about this that you must see .
Probably not everyone's cup o ' tea	While interesting in style , RECI , RECI , RECI is probably not a film that will appeal to anyone other than die-hard animation buffs . There isn't so much a story as a weird way of showing what people are saying by using cut out words . The animation style is unique but not especially pleasant . There are sound effects and sounds ( such as people saying ' aahh ' ) but no dialog - - just what is in writing . Frankly , I don't get it . After watching it , I still didn't see much of a point and it seemed less a cartoon short and more of an unsuccessful experiment . However , the Oscar people were impressed and nominated it for Best Animated Short . However , the category was otherwise well represented that year and RECI , RECI , RECI didn't stand a prayer . I just found it to be strange and quite unpleasant .
first half was great and the second half just doesn't work	The first half to two-thirds of the film worked very well and I would rate this portion a 7 because the plot was very engaging and I found myself really caring about the characters . A man who loves the sea returns from theology school . He's expected to marry and become a minister in the local church , but all this comes to naught when the gossipy and hypocritical people of the town ostracize him . That's because a loose woman arrives via a boat wreck and no one wants to help her . The young man , being a true Christian , takes her into his home and nurses her back to health - - at which point all the evil old jerks in the town begin gossiping and intimating that they are living in sin ! The man is willing to accept this , but what really crushes him is that his fiance also begins to believe this . So , feeling crushed and furious about the rotten little town , he books passage for the fallen woman on a passing ship and joins the crew as well . However , the ship is not as it appeared and the captain is a lecher and the ships cargo are prisoners who are severely man-handled by the wicked crew . The young man despairs and his faith is gone , . . . that is until the young woman stabs herself when the captain tries to rape her ! At this point , he springs to action and kills the captain . Somehow , and they really don't explain this , after killing the captain , he then converts the wicked crew and begins traveling the world to spread the Gospel . While this idea was very , very far-fetched , it could have worked if handled with some grace and intelligence . Unfortunately , it was not and the film just ended on a very silly and unbelievable note when he returned to his original town and everyone recanted their evil ways and begged forgiveness after the man made an impromptu sermon at the dock . Too bad , as the first half was exceptional . By the way , as the film talked about rape , prostitution and suicide , it was a decidedly " Pre-Code " film that NEVER would have been made a decade later when the subject matter on the screen was more tightly regulated . Also , this film was largely forgotten until recently shown on TCM . Much of this was probably due to it having no one particularly famous in the film ( at least today ) . The quality of the print and restoration is indeed superb .
amazingly dull and uninspired compared to other college comedies	I am a HUGE fan of Buster Keaton and it was because of this I was so greatly disappointed by this film . It is an awfully uninspired film with very few genuine laughs . This is amazing since it came right after THE GENERAL and just before STEAMBOAT BILL , JR . - - probably his two of his greatest films ( I scored them both 10 ) . But I just couldn't help watch this film and feel terribly disappointed - - it paled in comparison . The idea of doing a college movie wasn't bad - - after all , Harold Lloyd had just done his college film THE FRESHMAN and HORSEFEATHERS is one of the Marx Brothers ' best movies . But the final product looked as if they had the concept but forgot to write the gags . Mostly , it just looked like they turned on the camera and filmed anything with no real plot until it neared the end . For example , a long period in the film consisted of Buster trying out a wide variety of track and field events and screwing each one up terribly . The problem was , doing poorly on a long-jump or high-jump or the hurdles just isn't funny - - you say to yourself " so what " because nothing he does during these events is funny - - just bad . A real waste of a great talent . If it had been anyone other than Keaton , I might have still enjoyed the film . But , knowing what he was capable of doing really ruined this film - - it was simply second-rate Keaton .
Pimp Wars : Episode 1	THE MACK is a film about a true anti-hero , as a " mack " is a pimp . When Goldie gets out of prison , he's determined to be the # 1 pimp - - no matter what gets in his way . His brother , however , is full of Black pride and urges Goldie to do something positive with his life . Unfortunately , Goldie is more than willing to make it big off his own people - - and , while the film presents both messages , the overwhelming message through the first 90 % of the movie seems to be that Goldie's way is the right way ! Over the course of the film , it was very interesting to see the evolution of Goldie . At first , he seemed like a nice guy - - sort of a " pimp with a heart of gold " - - a social worker pimp , of sorts ! However , over time , he becomes harder and badder and colder - - so that you really can't like him or justify his life . At the same time , two crooked and racist White cops are shown throughout the film . Their job , it seems , is to make life tough for Goldie and prove to the audience that White cops are devils - - and they do a good job of this ! They are the stereotypical blaxploitation cops - - even going so far as killing the only good cop ( a Black one , naturally ) in the film . Eventually , Goldie becomes so big , so violent and creates so many enemies you aren't sure which one will eventually kill him - - the Fat Man , the two psycho cops or one of the other pimps . This leads to some amazing action - - though you are left rather cold because every single one of them are dirt and it's hard to care at all about them . Heck , I just wanted to see them all die ! The bottom line is that for the genre , this is a pretty good film but has rather horrible values . Unlike more positive films like HAMMER , COFFY and FOXY BROWN , this one tends to glorify , to a degree , a societal leech . If you like this style film and want to root for a low-life , also try SUPER FLY . FYI - - Years ago , when I watched I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA , I laughed at Fly Guy and the section on the " Pimp of the Year " competition - - not realizing that character was taken straight from THE MACK .
Only of minor interest today , but historically interesting	This film is highly reminiscent of some of the films by Georges Mlis because of the film's extensive use of trick cinematography - - an art perfected by Mlis before the director of this film got his start . In fact , the Mlis short THE UNTAMABLE WHISKERS ( 1904 ) is an awful lot like this film except instead of just having cartoons come to life due to stop-motion , this earlier film features Georges Mlis himself interacting with the drawings . Both are pretty antiquated by today's standards , but because they are short and pretty creative , they are also both very watchable . This J . Stuart Blackton film isn't quite as good or innovative , but this shouldn't stop you from giving it a look on google video .
Not one of Daffy's better moments	Historically speaking , this is a pretty important film , as it helped solidify the public in the war effort against the Nazis . However , from a purely aesthetic point of view , it's not one of the better made or entertaining Daffy Duck films ever made . Daffy appears behind German lines and spends most of the film annoying a Nazi officer and his flunky , Schultz . Again and again , Daffy outwits them until the end , when he is shot by a howitzer and he lands in the middle of one of Hitler's speeches . Oddly , while it was a cartoon , Hitler looked very realistic . The film ends with Daffy bashing Hitler over the head with a mallet . On Google videos , this cartoon short appears under the heading " banned cartoons " and whether or not Warner Brothers actually banned or at least pulled it from circulation in unknown , though considering most of the public have no interest in WWII propaganda cartoons , I wouldn't be surprised if they did .
An interesting idea that just doesn't quite deliver .	This is a film from Hammer Films that was directed by Terrence Fisher - - a man who made many of the more famous horror films for this studio . Oddly , although Christopher Lee appears in the film , he's in a supporting role and Anton Diffring , a man NOT used to starring roles , plays the leading man . The film begins with a bizarre art show . That's because the artist is a doctor and he never sells his statues . Additionally , he shows them off once and never lets anyone see them again ! None of this made any sense , but the idea that followed is pretty interesting . It seems that although Diffring looked to be in his early to mid 40s , he was supposed to be 104 years old ! It seems that he'd discovered a way to make himself live forever - - but there was a price . Every ten years , he needed to kill in order to obtain a needed gland that would keep him alive . While all this is pretty exciting stuff , the execution left an awful lot to be desired . You'd think with such a creepy plot it would naturally be exciting , but sadly it wasn't . Part of it may have been that the role didn't fit Diffring's talents very well and part of it may just be the very pedestrian script . All I know is that I found myself being rather bored towards the end and it's not one of Hammer's finer moments . Note that the DVD release contains no extra features at all - - just an adequate print of the film . Also , near the very end you find the one lady you think is dead is still alive but quite mad . You wonder why Diffring killed a prostitute for the gland but left this poor wretch locked in a dungeon - - this didn't make much sense .
About what you'd expect from a low-budget Lugosi horror flick featuring a guy in an ape suit !	This film offers few surprises ( including the expected guy in a silly gorilla costume ) but it's still a dandy horror flick that should appeal to die-hard Bela Lugosi fans . Much of the film seems rehashed - - the who half man-half ape is reminiscent of the 1940 Karloff film , THE APE and the need to extract the spinal fluid from living humans has been done many times as well . But most people who would even watch such a film are usually the sort of people that can look past this and enjoy the film and all its cheesy goodness ! I was a tad surprised when the film began and you learned that Bela already was the Ape-Human hybrid . Instead of creating this monstrosity , the film was devoted to Bela's evil plan to cure himself even if it means killing to do so . While his good friend the doctor cannot allow himself to do this , Bela's sister is a fine piece of work and helps him on his evil task . Throughout all this , the film is interspersed with clips of Wallace Ford and his assistants looking for a story - - which you know they will eventually get . However , in an odd bit or writing , another fellow just keeps popping up rather randomly in the film - - usually just to say hello to Ford and then disappear ! Keep watching this guy - - at the end his exact purpose is revealed ! A pretty run of the mill 1940s low-budget horror flick . Bela Lugosi seemed to make a ton of them and this one is about average .
poor animation but a few laughs	This is a cartoon short from 1916 . Mr . Nobody Holme appears to be a total idiot , as he foolishly puts a flame under his car to see why it won't start . And , very oddly , the idea comes from this bizarre little creature ( labeled " GLOOM " ) that encourages this dangerous behavior . But , then , out of the blue , another odd creature ( labeled " JOY " ) appears and begins fighting with the first and shoots him ! It reminded me of the little angel and devil you see in later films that try to encourage characters to do good or evil - - but in this case , it's more just to do something really stupid . Oddly enough , the flame actually works and the car starts - - it looks like the dead little creature was right . That is , until the car later blows up . An oddly watchable and simple film with only the most rudimentary type of animation .
terribly dated and a bit silly	This film is best seen simply because it is a curiosity . Clara Bow , the star of the film , was labeled the " It Girl " because of her role in this movie and because the studio was looking for a publicity stunt . In its day , the film must have been seen as racy and exciting . However , in the 21st century , it just looks terribly dated . Clara's " outrageous " behaviors by today's standards seem very tame and the visit of the welfare snoops to the home of this unfit single mother is silly . If you look closely , though , in this same welfare scene , if you look carefully , you'll get a quick glimpse of a young Gary Cooper . He briefly appears here and in Wings ( 1927 ) because there apparently was quite a bit of off-screen chemistry going on between him and Bow at the time according to the extremely interesting biography entitled Clara Bow : Running Wild . it's a fascinating read and gives more insight into the rise and fall of the It Girl . Now , as for the movie , it's competently filmed and mildly interesting but that's about all . If you want a better Bow movie , stick with WING ( 1927 ) - - it's so much better .
Again , not much of a divergence from the usual formula	Turner Classic Movies just recently showed most of the Boston Blackie films starring Chester Morris and while they are pretty good B-detective films , they are also very , very formulaic - - even for the genre . I practically saw all of these movies and the same stupid inspector and his subhuman sidekick are accusing Blackie of committing the crimes in question . And , each time , Bost Blackie solves the crime for them - - making their idiocy apparent again and again and again . You'd think that these bumblers would be fired and that any cop with a functioning cortex would realize the best thing to do it just sit back and let Blackie solve the crime ! Plus , in the process , the Inspector almost always gets himself captured or is tricked by Blackie . At first , this is all pretty funny , but by the time this film came out , the formula was wearing a bit thin . They could have easily kept most of the formula but also had the cops not always been so stupid - - this would have greatly improved the films . This film isn't much different from the rest - - having a pretty standard plot involving stolen diamonds and a vicious gang who will stop at nothing to get them . Of course , as usual Blackie is blamed by the moronic cops for everything and as usual , Blackie is able to easily outwit them . Frankly , if Blackie had played peek-a-boo or " got your nose " with these policemen , they probably would have been surprised again and again - - they were just THAT stupid . The only plus is that at the end , the stupid Sergeant did a much better job than usual assisting Blackie . There was one small scene , by the way , that truly amazed me . Blackie and Runt were in a cab being followed by the police in another cab . Blackie told the cabbie to pull over . Then , after doing this he told the guy to " back up into the cab behind us " . . . and the guy DID ! ! ! I'd love to find a cabbie that compliant . I might tell him to give me all his cash , then get out of the cab and drop his pants and sing show tunes !
Not bad considering the era	Okay , this film isn't the greatest cartoon ever made - - I'll admit that . But , considering when it was made , it isn't bad at all . Cartoons were only in their infancy - - with very few having been made so far and with rather crude drawings and no sound . However , compared to its contemporaries ( such as Krazy Kat ) , the animation and especially the backgrounds are good . The other review posted was pretty accurate in that the cartoon isn't especially memorable but that the cat in the dough sequence was the best . But what can you expect from 1918 ? The plot is simple . The Captain gets an insurance policy on himself and his wife is pleased - - so pleased she will make him a mushroom pie ( who would want that ? ) . The kids shove some toads in it and the Captain mistakenly thinks his wife is trying to kill him . That's really about it .
just okay , . . .	This is an odd film as far as the subject matter goes , so that is most of the reason I score the film as highly as I did . As for the rest of the story , it's all filled with clichs and the relationship that develops between Sean Connery and Lorraine Bracco is hardly convincing and just seems formulaic . Instead of making a serious film about finding chemical compounds in the Amazonian jungle to cure diseases , the film spends too much time on this romance and the film can't seem to decide what type of film it wants to be . And , when Connery does discover something truly amazing and world-changing , what happens next seemed all too predictable . I recommend this movie mostly to die-hard Connery fans - - all others will most likely find this movie worth skipping .
Not great , but watchable	This short film was written , directed and produced by James Patrick and is a supposedly true story about the generosity of Felix Mendelssohn as well as the inspiration for his famous " wedding march " . While I am certainly NOT an expert on the man , the entire piece strongly sounded like a complete work of fiction . Despite this , the film is reasonably entertaining and worth a peek , as it's a relatively early piece of Technicolor film AND the film is rather pretty to look at , as the color saturation is good and the people looked rather real . Oddly , just before I saw this film , I saw Hollywood PARTY ( 1937 ) - - another early MGM Technicolor short . However , unlike MENDELSSOHN'S WEDDING MARCH , the color was just grotesque - - with over-saturated film and colors so vivid it made my eyes bleed . Thankfully , the process was perfected in the two years between the films .
An odd little Economics and Civics lesson from D . W . Griffith !	This was just an okay short by D . W . Griffith from 1909 . While the scene of the man in the mill towards the end is really exciting to watch , the film , in general , just seems awfully preachy and overly melodramatic . That's mostly because it is a not very subtle film about the evils of greed and crop speculation . The film , unnecessarily starts by focusing on the farmers who grow the wheat . Then it switches to a Board of Trade-type location as a tycoon is trying to corner the market on wheat . He's thrilled with all the money and is oblivious to the harm this causes to the poor ( another not too relevant scene about po ' folks not being able to buy bread was included ) . However , despite this antiquated film style and its heavy-handed lesson on Civics , the movie does end well - - with a very , very unique scene that makes it worth watching all 14 minutes . Come on , it's only 14 minutes - - it's probably worth your time to try it . At worst , you're only out 14 minutes out of your life ! ! ! By the way , later in his career , Griffith was a staunch anti-Communist . I wonder if he STILL would have made such a Populist-centered type of film at that time ? A CORNER OF WHEAT could be seen as a possible plea for Socialism or even Communism !
Very , very dry	This is a short animated film about a group of slackers who work for a local Australian municipality in an office concerned with trees on public property . The animation looks like claymation but could be CGI - - I couldn't tell . At first the film is pretty likable , as the overinflated sense of self-importance held about the job is pretty funny . He behaves like they are a top-notch unit who ensure a better world , while in reality they are a bunch of inefficient dolts . The problem with the film , though , is that this is the entire joke and seeing the people in this office talk and talk about their mundane job becomes rather tiresome . It's a cute idea that really seemed a bit over-long , though I did like the animation and story idea .
purely ordinary	This is not one of John Wayne's better flicks from his later years . It really isn't because it's a bad film , but the energy level is so low due to the fact he was so gosh-darn old ! Unlike the energy that he somehow mustered for MC Q and BRANNIGAN , this movie just seems to crawl along and offers very little more than what you might see in an episode of BONANZA or GUN SMOKE . I really wish Wayne had held out for a more worthy film , but considering he spent most of his life just churning out films , it isn't too surprising that he did the movie . The 5 rating is for the average viewer . If you are a Wayne fan , a score of 6 or 7 would probably suffice , as it is still enjoyable because it's still pure John Wayne .
Very entertaining - - a definite " guilty pleasure " !	My score of 5 is indicative of the quality of the production - - not the entertainment value . Sure , the film is silly , occasionally poorly directed and produced and it sure would never win any accolades for its artistic merits . But on the other hand , it is very entertaining and is a definite " guilty pleasure " - - you know , a film that you love but isn't a particularly good film . While it was not as exciting as Pam Grier's prior film , COFFY , it was a little better aesthetically - - with less of the cheesy violence ( no exploding heads in this one ) , but it still packs a mean punch and it's nice to see Grier's acting has improved . Like COFFY , FOXY BROWN is about a one-woman demolition team out to destroy a drug syndicate . In this sense , the film isn't so original and at times it's more like a sequel than a stand-alone film . This isn't all bad , as the action is still there as well as all the excitement . But this time it's all a bit more tame and not quite as shocking . Also , sadly , FOXY BROWN ended rather poorly in my opinion . By the end of COFFY , every drug dealer was stone cold dead - - but in FOXY BROWN , she oddly left a couple of them beaten ( and in one case BADLY damaged ) but alive . To me , this just wasn't as satisfying - - I wanted to see them all bite the dust ! Like most so-called " Blaxploitation " films , this one is super-violent and full of nudity . It's a film you best not show your kids or to a nun !
Somewhat amateurish and cruel , . . . but still very interesting .	This is a short film that I could see being a guilty pleasure , as it isn't great or exceptionally well made but there is a certain sick charm that might endear it to some - - though many probably won't appreciate its sick sensibilities . The film begins with two co-workers having a few drinks and then going back to the apartment for a few more . One lady seems very mousy and when the other asks to read the mousy lady's poetry , she is very hesitant . However , after a few more drinks , she relents and pours her heart out in a poem that is both bad and full of lesbian imagery . However , the other lady doesn't appreciate how scary it was to bear her soul and instead takes great pleasure in ripping the poem apart - - as she seems like a total sadist . The mousy lady runs in tears and when she comes back once she's gained her composure , she sees the sadistic lady trying to plagiarize it ! It's all a mind-game by the evil lady but it all backfires when the anger builds up and the seemingly shy and vulnerable lady turns on her and it looks like an episode of WWE Smackdown ! ! The overall effort is exceptionally cruel and dark - - as well as a tad amateurish . However , in a very sick way , it's also kind of funny , so some might really like its dark tone . It didn't do much for me but I can see that those who made it have some talent and I'd like to see more of their future work .
Really impossible to rate	Ignore the score on this one - - I only included it because IMDb forces reviews to give a score . That's because this film is considered lost and only a fragment exists today . It is included as an extra on Disk 1 of the DVD set " Harry Langdon : Lost and Found " and many of the films have recently been reassembled after years of being in fragments . Sadly , only about 2 minutes of HORACE GREELEY , JR . remains . What I saw was missing its context and I'll just describe what I saw . Harry's riding along when a black robed guy attacks him . This man and others who soon join in look like Klansmen but are garbed in black . Harry responds to the attack , not with comedy but by becoming an action hero of sorts and manages to capture the entire gang and the movie ends . So it seems like the stirring conclusion is there but all the laughs are missing as is the reason for all this action . If the rest of this film is ever discovered , drop me a line - - I'm dying to know exactly what happened .
Considering the budget and what it was , it's a decent little horror flick	This is a typical drive-in movie horror film from the late 1950s . Like all similar films ( such as ATTACK OF THE GILA MONSTER , THE KILLER SHREWS , etc . ) , this one had a very low budget , was quickly made and featured small-time actors . Naturally , the dialog was poor at times and the overall plot laughable , but in a strange way the film was still a lot of kooky fun . The spider special effects were generally very good and the story kept my interest . While those who love Shakespeare and art films probably won't appreciate this film , for those who love the genre this is a film that will most likely satisfy . As for me , I like these silly old flicks and recommend the movie - - but I also can't rate it any higher because of its questionable aesthetic value and cheesiness . PS - - Look at the marquee at the movie theater . One of the films on the bill was THE AMAZING COLOSSAL MAN and the other was ATTACK OF THE PUPPET PEOPLboth films by director / producer Bert I . Gordon who made this film .
It looks less like a short film and more like a proposal for a TV series	This is a short film that really looks much more like a proposal for a television series . While the WHY is never answered , the film is a bit like a Black version of THE FUGITIVE with a twist . The twist is that the guy DID do something bad , though you never find out exactly what . It seems that he'd been a cop for some time but had " gone bad " and was tossed off the force . Perhaps for masochistic reasons , he refuses to leave town and the police make his life very , very miserable . While the basic idea is pretty good , I couldn't help but think that the leading man looked too young and just didn't sound like a cop . In addition , without knowing what all the events were taking place , I felt a bit frustrated and felt the thing ended too quickly . Still , there is a good story idea there and perhaps it could be worked into something bigger .
An interesting time-passer that just seems a bit rushed	This was a truly bizarre little British propaganda film made during the Second World War . It's so odd because it looks initially like a B-movie horror film ( with talk about ghosts and headless ghouls walking about ) , but then unexpectedly becomes an anti-Nazi film about German attempts to destroy tin production in Britain ! ! Talk about strange plot-twists ! However , despite the creativity of the plot , the film has quite a few problems that prevent it from being anything more than a silly time-passer . One problem , and it is relatively minor , is that the whole gimmick of the guy with a hood over his head is just silly . He didn't look all that bad without it and it's frightfully easy to guess what they would do with that character . A much bigger problem is that there really isn't much mystery about the film because it is just way too rushed . The suspense is never given a chance to build and the film makers were obviously too constrained by the unwritten rule that B-movies should be 50-70 minutes long , . . . period ! And in this case , this meant ill-developed plot elements and a way too quickly solved mystery . As a result , the film never really jells into a coherent or memorable film . Nice try , though , but a film that is very skip-able .
Yet another art film with similar animation and style	FREE RADICALS has very glowing reviews and I have to dissent . Having seen many , many animated shorts and experimental films , when I saw this film I thought " oh no - - not ANOTHER film like this ! " . That's because I've seen lots of films with simply drawn images ( often scratched into the film ) dancing to the music . With films such as FREE RADICALS , A COLOUR BOX and HARPYA ( among others ) in this style , you certainly CAN'T call this film original or ground-breaking . It's just one of several and after seeing one or two , I can't stand the thought of watching more . Overall , it's interesting if you haven't seen anything like it , but otherwise I can't see the point . Plus , if you show it to kids , they're likely to balk at seeing the film - - even though it is only five minutes in length .
a really good idea for a movie that never really jelled	This movie had so many things going for it : cool characters ( such as the ultra-hip Buckaroo Banzai , the totally nutty Dr . Lizardo and Buckaroo's many sidekicks ) , cool effects , a weird and quirky story and a lot of energy . However , all these together just didn't work - - as if somewhere the energy all vanished and the film had been hastily put together from outtakes . It is a real shame , as the idea of a rock and roll pretty boy who lives a life of adventure AND saves the world is a really cool idea - - like a comic book and an old movie serial combined into one ! But what happened ? ! I kept expecting it to pick up speed , but it just kept getting duller throughout . PLEASE , PLEASE , PLEASE consider making a newer and much better re-make - - the BASIC elements of a great movie are here and waiting to be utilized . As it is , the movie is at best average .
Whatever floats your boat	Have you ever heard the expression " T . M . I " ? Teens use it a lot these days to mean " too much information " when someone is telling them something that probably should be kept private - - such as the woes of many of the guests on daytime television talk shows . When I saw the comments for BABETTE'S FEET , I kept hearing " T . M . I . " again and again in my head ! Sure , I know there are people out there with foot fetishes and I say fine - - enjoy . However , as someone who has no particular affinity for feet , I just felt a tad creeped out by the pro-foot fetish lobby out there ! Oh , well , . . . unless you are stealing shoes or the like I guess it's all harmless . As a non-fetishist , I was not particularly captivated by BABETTE'S FEET . While I acknowledge that the film was well made - - with excellent music and cinematography - - I really didn't care about what was occurring on screen . Now if it had been more of a comedy , then maybe it would have held my attention . Not a bad film at all - - - I just didn't get it .
Been there , done that . . .	Pat O'Brien made at least three films where he played a college football coach . The first , COLLEGE COACH , was amazing because O'Brien stood for the exact opposite of his character in KNUTE ROCKNE . Instead of clean living and sportsmanship , in COLLEGE COACH , O'Brien emphasized that you should do anything to win . . . anything ! ! While this message was simply awful , the film was so vile in its message that you can't help but watch . Later , with KNUTE ROCKNE , the image was now squeaky clean and the film went on to become an iconic classic . So with these two films under his belt , why would anyone want to make yet a third film - - especially when it is essentially KNUTE ROCKNE all over again ? ! Yep , the reason must be money ! It can't be because the story in the IRON MAJOR is compelling - - because frankly it isn't . In fact , I can't think of a single reason for O'Brien to have made what is essentially " KNUTE ROCKNE II " other than the money ! The film purports to be the story of one of the winningest coaches in college football history . Frank Cavanaugh had an incredible . 731 winning percentage and did a lot to improve the game in the early 20th century . But to base an entire film around the man was a mistake , as his life story wasn't that interesting or unique . Plus , throughout the film , I couldn't help but notice that Cavanaugh couldn't keep a job - - bouncing from school to school . If he was so great , why did he coach for six different programs ? His nobility ( which Warner Brothers tried so hard to point out ) didn't seem so great and he never really was an institution at any of the schools . And , as a consequence , he's all but forgotten today . And , with KNUTE ROCKNE getting so much attention , THE IRON MAJOR is also pretty much forgotten today . Watchable but frankly ( get it ? ) , you'd be better off watching one of O'Brien's other football films instead .
Aboslutely gorgeous . . . and that's about all .	Technically speaking , this is a wonderful film . It was one of the first films with a synchronized score created to accompany it ( on a separate disk ) and the cinematography and sets were amazing for 1926 . As a result , it's quite beautiful to watch . Unfortunately , when it comes to the script and acting , the film leaves a lot to be desired . While it is not true that all silents featured overacting , this one featured many awful performances by today's standards - - with overly melodramatic scene again and again . Subtle this film sure ain't ! From a historical standpoint , the film is of dubious value . It's true that the Borgia family was indeed quite awful . The patriarch of the family , Pope Alexander VI fathered several illegitimate children , gave his sons high positions in the Church and was quite the amoral schemer . However , while these " pecadillos " are many and widely accepted as were the awful schemes of his son , Caesar , the real-life Lucretia may not have been the evil poisoning slut you saw in the film - - this is open to much debate among historians . But I suppose that it does make for some entertaining moments - - too bad Alexander VI never was seen in the film - - he would have provided the film some much needed excitement . As for Don Juan , he was unfortunately a fictional character . Oddly , while this film is set in one of the Italian states in the late 15th century , the film THE ADVENTURES OF DON JUAN ( with Errol Flynn ) was set over a hundred years later ! However , considering that Flynn and the star of this film , John Barrymore , were best friends , womanizers and serious alcoholics , it seems very fitting that both took on this same role .
Very little of the magic of TALLADEGA NIGHTS is evident here .	In SEMI-PRO , Will Farrell is the owner-manager-player for the fictional ABA franchise Flint Tropics . For those of you too young to remember the ABA ( American Basketball Association ) , it was a rival league to the NBA that really suffered due to lack of fan support as well as having teams in amazingly small markets in many cases . Unfortunately , even for an ABA team , attendance is lousy and the players are mostly untalented losers . However , when it's announced that the league is folding and four of its premier teams are moving to the NBA , Farrell is excited when it's agreed that the four teams that have the best record will become NBA franchises . This motivates him and his hapless players into finally playing like a team and it's rather predictable that they manage to pull it all together leading up to the final " big game " . In many ways , the script is quite formulaic and you know what's going to happen , but there are a few cute moments that keep it interesting . SEMI-PRO is in some ways like TALLADEGA NIGHTS and SLAPSHOT rolled into one with one major exception - - it doesn't come close to either of these movies in quality or especially laughs . This really surprised me , as I was expecting a sense of humor like TALLADEGA NIGHTS , but sadly there were only a few small moments like this - - scenes Will Ferrell was doing promotions for his basketball team . The best of these insane promotions was probably the bear wrestling scene . I think the biggest problem was that in TALLADEGA NIGHTS , the races weren't really that important - - the humor was . In SEMI-PRO , the film seemed to bog down when they actually were playing basketball - - especially since , within the rules , you can't do anything THAT crazy . I really think the film would have been better served with either less basketball or by simply throwing reality out the window during these ballgame scenes . Plus , while it sure looked like SLAPSHOT at times because of some of the fighting and a team's efforts to avoid folding , it never really went far enough regarding social commentary or the likable humor of SLAPSHOT . In addition to not quite succeeding like these other two films , SEMI-PRO was extremely vulgar - - and often not in a funny way . Too many testicle jokes , crude language and vomiting references - - and these were supposed to be the funny moments in the film . Sadly , the crude humor didn't work and really make this a film that is NOT child-friendly . If you are a Will Farrell fan , there's enough to this film that you'll like , so give it a shot . If you are not a Farrell fan , then this film will do nothing to convince you otherwise . My advice is see TALLADEGA NIGHTS and STRANGER THAN FICTION - - two exceptional films that show Farrell has some depth and can make a real crowd-pleasing film . SEMI-PRO is a bit of a dud . FYI - - Check out the trivia section on IMDb about this film . Apparently , only a short time after this film the bear used in the fighting scene actually killed someone !
This film has some wonderful moments but too many lapses overall	This film , with some editing and a slight re-write could have been a fantastic film . I wonder if Truffaut's declining health ( he died of cancer right after this was completed ) perhaps had something to do with the roughness of the plot - - there were too many plot holes to keep me engaged . Over and over throughout the film , the characters reacted WRONGLY to a given situation - - often in VERY illogical ways . Let me point out a few examples : 1 . When the main character confronts his wife about her adulteries , she admits it and treats him like dirt ( I mean , she is REALLY obnoxious about it ) . Then , seconds later the police arrive and she asks him to tell the police she is not home . Fine . But then he DOES EXACTLY WHAT SHE SAIeven though any normal person wouldn't have given a rat's behind for her based on the previous scene AND because his lying to the police only served to implicate him for murder ! 2 . When the accused man's secretary returns after going to Nice to find clues , the man responds by slapping her - - when she is trying to save his sorry butt ! Then , she doesn't even get angry or yell at him for physically abusing her ! This whole scene made no sense . Perhaps the French treat their women like that , but I seriously doubt it . 3 . A romance suddenly materializes just before the film ends . Where it came from and why it occurs makes no sense at all . For more info , see # 2 above ! So , in summary the movie has an excellent overall plot but is just too full of holes and logical errors to make it anything better than an average film . That's a shame because I'm sure Truffaut was capable of better . FYI - - One little thing I really DID like about the film is the priest who gets decked towards the middle of the film . When he reappears , I had to laugh out loud !
I just didn't like it very much	Okay , I want to stop all the rumors that I hate America and wanted Hitler to win the war . It's NOT true - - it's just that I really didn't like this film . It just seemed silly and ridiculous . Here's the amazingly silly plot in a nutshell : Spencer Tracy is a hotshot pilot who loves Irene Dunne . The problem is , he crashes and becomes worm food - - well at least that's what happens to his body . The angels apparently are good patriotic Hitler-haters , so they let Tracy come back as a ghost to help the war effort by letting him look over and secretly guide the actions of younger , more alive , pilots . Well , he is assigned to Van Johnson and prevents him from also assuming room temperature . BUT , in the process , Johnson now gets Dunne . Bummer . Okay , I know that many romance lovers out there might see this movie as a classic . It must be true because they recently remade this as the film ALWAYS . Well , given that I am a curmudgeon , I have yet to see ALWAYS and have no interest in doing so . The plot just annoys me . Okay folks , time to send me your hate mail , as I am probably one of the few reviewers that didn't really love the film . It only gets a 5 because I really like p-38s and other cool planes . And finally , I just thought of a really cool movie idea . Let's do the same movie . Then , let's switch to the Germans and show little dead guys working for the Devil helping their pilots ! Now that would be really cool !
pretty dull stuff considering , . . .	Because this movie starred John Garfield and was made by Warner Brothers , I was quite surprised at just how ordinary and unexciting this movie was . Plus , it was a WWII American propaganda film that tried to mobilize the public against the Nazi menace - - just the sort of film I usually love . But , instead of the menacing and almost inhuman enemy , this movie took a more cerebral look at the enemy and presented a much more restrained look at the Nazis . In the process , they also made an " action " movie with hardly any action and A LOT of talking . The end result was certainly watchable , but not exactly interesting or worth my time . It will surely sound low-brow , but I got very tired of John Garfield being so pleasant - - I wanted to see him shoot some of the bad guys . But , again and again , the action just didn't heat up . A case in point - - a guy breaks into the apartment and attacks Garfield . Garfield subdues him , . . . and they just talk ! The guy isn't the least bit cooperative , but instead of either plugging him ( shoot him , in other words ) or at least beat the stuffing out of him . If I was attacked by Nazi agents and I got the upper hand , you bet I would have let ' em have it ! And so would the REAL John Garfield ! ! This Garfield just isn't what I expected .
Not bad , but . . .	This film is about people held captive and by the end of the film , the lady does what she must to escape . This film seems to be based on a theme that has apparently become a clich in short independent films . During the last three or four days , I have seen two other short films about people who have been abducted and held prisoner ( ANOTHER LIFE and CAPTIVE ) . So I have to ask " Why do we need so many similar films and what possible excitement can you get from watching this again and again ? ! " . I haven't even looked for these films - - I'm just looking at various shorts posted on IMDb . In addition to this theme , the cold-blooded killer theme is also getting a bit overused as well . I am NOT saying every film needs to be happy , but it is odd that within small independent films , too many are about murder or kidnappings - - yet not very many mainstream films are . Something to ponder . Overall , pretty well made but perhaps they should choose a different topic next time .
A decent stop-motion film	This is a very simple short film that was made using stop motion and clay . Considering that it was made by an inexperienced film maker who did everything ( Caroline Kastelic ) , the project should be applauded . Heck , it's a lot better than I could make myself . And , because of this , I am encouraged by her prospects and wonder what sort of creative work she'll be doing given time and experience . The idea for this film is very similar to a " Furious George " skit made for " MadTV " years ago - - where the animals turn the tables on an researcher who is performing experiments on them . I don't think Ms . Kastelic copied off the TV skit - - it just is highly reminiscent of it . While the work could of course be more refined , as I said above , it's very nice for a first film and I wish her luck .
Would someone please KILL that cabbie ? !	In this installment of the Falcon series , Tom Lawrence arrives in Hollywood for a vacation . Like practically every other Falcon vacation , this one is punctuated by a murder and the amateur detective is sucked into determining whodunnit . It's nice to see the backlot of RKO and seeing how films are made is a rare treat . Because of this you'd think that this would be a decent addition to the Falcon series - - with an unusual and engaging plot . However , no matter how hard Tom Conway tries in this film , he's saddled with one of the most annoying and pushy supporting characters from any B-detective series . Early in the film , the Falcon catches a ride with a female cabbie ( something not uncommon to find during the war years ) . While she is pretty and could have been a welcome addition , over time she is just annoying . Why she is allowed to follow the Falcon about and annoy everyone is beyond me - - Conway should have just socked her ! But because he doesn't , this film ends up being a below par addition to the series .
Proof that the series has achieved mediocrity	While the film began in the big city , it soon changed venues to the American West and naturally involved an unsolved murder . Changing the locale to the West was certainly unusual and the lead seemed very out of place in such a rustic setting . However , while the locale changed , the overall story is just a typical Falcon mystery . When the series began , the Falcon films were exceptional for the genre with wonderful acting and a freshness that set them apart from the typical B-detective series films . However , as time passed and George Sanders left the series to pursue other acting opportunities , the series began to wane . While Tom Conway ( Sanders ' real life brother ) was excellent and bore a close similarity to Sanders , he wasn't quite as good and he was also saddled with scripts that simply lost their zip and seemed more formulaic . As a result , this film was something that previous Falcon films were not - - a tad dull .
Wow , do I feel out of step !	Before I say anything else , I must point out that I love Daniel Auteuil and have seen many of his films . In fact , I look for films with him in it , as I am almost always guaranteed a wonderful film . In this case , he plays against his wife of the time , the radiant Emmanuelle Bart . Now that I have said that , I regret that this is one of the rare cases where I didn't particularly care for the film . Despite there currently being a very glowing review for the film featured on IMDb ( giving it , inexplicably , a 10 - - a score too often overused ) , I just found the film too slow and uninvolving . Apparently after reviewing more of the comments , people either adored it or disliked it . Auteuil plays a man who is a genius at fine-tuning and repairing violins . He is so good at what he does that he's sought out by people owning the best instruments in the world . The film begins with his business partner introducing Auteuil to his new mistress , Bart . A bit later in the film , Bart falls madly for Auteuil though the motivation for this is seemingly non-existent . That's because Auteuil is a bit of a schizoid personality and he relates much better to things than people . He is someone who is indifferent to friendships and relationships - - a person who is pretty much unable or willing to fall in love . So why would she love him ? Now it is possible that his actions are all an act and he really is just afraid of being hurt ( psychologically speaking , this would make him an Avoidant personality ) . However , throughout the film there didn't appear to be much evidence of this but avoidants would also be very , very hard to get to know well . In actuality during the film it appeared he just didn't care that the incredibly sexy Bart adored him . So what you have in the film is a lady who on rare occasions throws herself at a man and the man reacts like he's a block of wood . And , considering that this is all done very , very slowly and deliberately , the film seem way too long and uninvolving . Technically , it was a pretty film ( with nice music ) but that's about all .
Very , very talky	This story is derived from a story by Chekov ( not the Star Trek one , by the way ) and the movie was very , very , very " talky " . And while the quality of the film's production is there ( this is why it earns a 5 - - for acting , direction and cinematography that are just fine ) , the story itself just seemed dull and lethargic . Plus , I found I really didn't like anyone - - the title character seemed like a direction-less nymph , her boyfriend an insufferable " artist " who just needed to grow up , and the rest of the family just seemed like a bunch of phonies I felt no connection to in any way . And everyone just seemed to talk and talk and argue and then talk again ! About the only thing going for this film to lift if above mediocrity is the very nude body of the title character in the first minutes of the film - - this was tough not to notice ( and this makes this movie inappropriate for kids , as well ) .
hard to follow for many Western viewers	I think this film would be seen very differently by Poles than the average person living in the West . That's because I found it very hard to figure out WHO was WHO in this film . At the end of WWII , the Soviets " liberated " Poland and over the next few years did all they could to wipe out the opposition to this totalitarian regime . However , this film only concerns itself with the final day of the war as well as the next day - - so the big picture is obscured . It's sort of like looking at the Napoleonic Wars only through a telescope - - you see action but really aren't sure who is who and what their motivations are . That's how I felt throughout the entire film - - like I needed a booklet to follow along with the film . I am a history teacher and am very well-versed about " the big picture " but in this tiny little glimpse into Poland , I just felt pretty lost .
Pretty good for 1911	While the quality of this comedy short is a bit suspect ( especially at the end ) , for 1911 it's pretty good and still worth a peek . Mack Sennett and his friend are bums and read about a fancy party in town . The friend goes to town and steals some fancy clothes so his buddy can crash the party and pretend to be the guest of honor . All goes very well with their plan except that one of the two turns out to be a jerk and forgets all about his friend once he's at the party . So , the friend follows him about trying to get him to help him out - - to no avail . Ultimately , the joke's on the bad friend when the real guest of honor arrives and he's chased away at night . The other guy who had snuck into the house uses the guest room and gets a good night sleep as Sennett is stuck outside . Nothing particularly great or " knee slapping " here , but a decent short . By the way , this can be viewed on Google Video BUT the film is misidentified as one of D . W . Griffith's - - it was made by Sennett at Keystons not by Griffith at Biograph .
Some 10s ? ! Is any Charlie Chan movie really deserving of a 10 ?	While I have watched a lot of Charlie Chan movies and I have enjoyed them , they are no doubt very formulaic and the Monogram series is definitely inferior to the original 20th Century-Fox ones . So , how is it that some people gave these B-movies a score of 10 ? ! Sure , they might be entertaining , but aesthetically they are far from high art . Think about it - - some people scored this as high ( or higher ) as many might score GONE WITH THE WIND , THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES or ORDINARY PEOPLE ! ! ! ! Come on , . . . this is just a B-movie , . . . and a very ordinary entry into the series at that . Plus , while I am not the most politically correct person out there , I can't believe a movie with Mantan Moreland's antics could ever merit a 10 - - or even an 8 or 9 . First , let's back up a bit . The original series was pretty entertaining , but like all the Chan films it featured a White guy playing a Chinese man - - not unusual for its day , but certainly something that prevent the films from being better - - especially with the silly use of the English language by Charlie . While Chinese in ethnic origin , he is supposedly from Hawaii and I assumed most Hawaiians of his day did not talk like morons . Plus , this makes little sense because he is so darn smart a detective . But , most fans are able to look past this and accept that this isn't " high art " but still is quite entertaining . Fine . This is where I see myself . After all , even though he talks silly and spouts a lot of so-called " Chinese Wisdom " , he is a decent , brave and intelligent guy - - not exactly a negative stereotype . But , after the success of the initial films , Warner Oland ( the first famous Chan ) had the nerve to up and die and the series started to slip a bit when he was replaced by Sidney Toler . I don't really blame Toler , as he proved in other films he was a good actor . It's just that the original chemistry seemed " different " and Fox soon dropped the series . Enter Monogram Studios to continue the series ( known as a " poverty row " studio due to its low production values ) . Now , the movies featured unknowns doing much of the supporting acting and Mantan Moreland was introduced to the series for new comic relief . Mantand's performances and the writing for his character was highly reminiscent of a smarter and less lazy version of Steppin Fetchit . As a kid , I laughed when he said lines like " feets don't fail me now " when he was scared ( something he always seemed to be in the films ) . Now that I am older , I cringe a bit and know that there are Black people out there who are understandably furious about the stereotype he portrayed - - especially because this type role was about the only one you'd see Black men portraying in mainstream films of the era . So on to the film itself . It's a pretty ordinary Chan film with little to distinguish it . However , occasionally it had some serious plot holes and problems that were ignored - - probably due to the low budgets and a lack of concern for quality - - a Monogram Studios trademark . For instance , after tying up Chan and his # 3 son , the bad guys leave the room with several guns sitting on the table ! DUH ! ! ! These sort of oversights and inconsistencies really prevent this movie from being scored any higher . If you like the series ( like I actually do ) , you'll still have a good time watching this fast-paced film . But , if you don't , this film will do NOTHING to improve your opinion or win you over to Charlie Chan films .
I agree with Galygay - - it just never seems to gel	This is a thoroughly adequate film and not much more . It was intended to try to capitalize on the success of CASABLANCA . Despite Warner Brothers trying to recapture the magic of this earlier film , THE CONSPIRATORS just can't compare - - mostly due to a very poor script and some poor performances . Now the parallels to CASABLANCA are there but the film isn't a remake . Instead , it's a slight reworking of the ideas and a few plot points . Many of the stars in the film were actually originally in CASABLANCA ( Paul Henreid , Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorr ) . Henreid plays a Dutch freedom fighter who has escaped to neutral Portugal . His hope is to go from there to Britain , since he is a wanted man in Nazi occupied Europe . However , once in Lisbon , there is a long and complicated web of Nazis and anti-fascist operatives . Uncovering who were actually friends and who were double-agents was the main theme of the film . As for Henreid and Hedy Lamarr , they are agreeable enough people but just don't have the charisma to make us forget Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman from CASABLANCA . Henreid isn't really bad - - he just isn't Bogie . As for Lamarr , she is the weakest link in the film . Like so many of her films , she is essentially a walking mannequin - - wearing lots and lots of expensive costumes ( common for her films ) but also delivering a rather flat and emotionless performance . Had the part been written more multi-dimensionally , perhaps she would have been a greater asset to the film . Aside from her beauty , she added little to the film - - especially since her romance with Henried seemed to come out of nowhere and there was little chemistry between them . As for the intrigue , it wasn't bad but it also wasn't particularly good . Plus , so many plot holes and inconsistencies made the film very slow going at the end . The finale seemed to drag and much of it just didn't make sense . Still , this is a decent wartime film - - not great , but a decent enough time passer .
Stan seemed too pretty for his own good . . .	In the decade before Laurel and Hardy became a team , Stan Laurel was a very busy comedy actor - - appearing in tons of short films . However , few of the remaining films of this era are all that special - - and most are pretty forgettable comedies ( there are definite exceptions ) . This one is pretty good and you do get to see Stan in drag - - something that seemed to happen a lot in his films ! In fact , I can think of at least three or four films off the top of my head that he did with Oliver Hardy where he played a lady - - and looked surprisingly good in the part ! The last and best of these drag performances was in JITTERBUGS - - a film that wasn't so hot but one that the drag act really improved . Other cross-dressing movies included WHY GIRLS LOVE SAILORS , DUCK SOUP , THAT'S MY WIFE and probably a couple more . Overall , an interesting curio with a few laughs . . . very few laughs at that .
The first half is great and the ending pretty much ruins the film	Michael Douglas is disgusted by the legal system . He is a young judge who is tired of seeing the scum of the earth walking on technicalities while the public good is being ignored . He begins talking to his colleagues about this and is eventually asked by one of them to come to meet some other like-minded individuals . It turns out that there are many judges equally dissatisfied with the current legal system and have decided to band together to re-try cases and dispense " justice " when it was denied the first time in court . This " star chamber " is a way of righting the wrongs in the legal system , as if they all agree , a hired assassin is sent my them to liquidate the wrong-doer ! The idea , by the way , is very similar to the Dirty Harry movie , MAGNUM FORCE . The problem is that although it's a pretty good idea for a film and the acting is pretty good , the film falls completely on its face towards the end . And that's because one minute Douglas ' character likes the idea of a " higher court " for these cases , later he inexplicably recants and tries to destroy the court ! This made little sense and with a better ending this could have been a great film . Perhaps the film had such a stupid conclusion because the people in Hollywood felt really uncomfortable with producing a movie that would have advocated vigilantism and violated the generally ultra-liberal climate in the motion picture industry . Regardless , with a little more ingenuity , this could have been so much better . Just off the top of my head I can think of two or three ways to have improved the ending - - and I don't get paid to do this . What's their excuse ? !
Not one of Price's better horror films	The movie is about a strange rich guy ( Price ) who pays five seemingly random people to come to a party in a haunted house where seven people were supposedly murdered . Each is told if they stay the night , they will receive $10 , 000 in the morning . However , soon after this , murders begin occurring and everyone is terrified for their lives . The film does have a somewhat interesting twist at the end , though otherwise it's a haunted house film . It does try very hard and William Castle threw practically everything into this film to make it entertaining - - except a decent script . Sure , it's fun to watch , but also pretty brainless - - with lots of dumb plot devices and holes . For example , the home that all the people are in has a vat of acid in the basement under a trap door ! Huh ? ! And , later , someone trips into it ! Pretty clumsy , huh ? ! As far as the acting goes , it's not especially inspiring . Price is amazingly restrained in his performance - - and I really wished he'd acted with a little more energy . Most of the rest of the actors were okay , though Elisha Cook should have been a tad embarrassed for his over-acting - - he really was quite silly . Overall , the film is mediocre and very skip-able unless you are a huge Price fan .
A cute idea but this could have certainly been better	The story is about an autograph-crazy teenager and her kooky friends who will do practically anything to meet celebrities . This is a small picture from MGM that has a lot going for it , but it also has a lot against it . Let's first talk about the good . Edward Arnold does a wonderful job as the befuddled father of the lead wacky teen . He is suitably angry and confounded - - an excellent and funny role . In addition , the film has some lovely cameos , as you get to see such notables as Greer Garson , Walter Pidgeon , Robert Taylor and William Powell . It's nice to see them playing themselves , though I seriously doubt that Garson would really invite star-struck teens in for tea , Pidgeon would have a fatherly talk with them - - dispensing advice , or that Robert Taylor would deliver messages . These sweet cameos really were fun to see and did a lot to endear the stars to their fans . Plus it's a cute change of pace to see them as " real folks " . However , the bad outdoes a lot of the good . The autograph-crazy girl , Joan ( Virginia Weidler ) is just too annoying . It was so bad that I really wanted to see Arnold rap her in the mouth ! And , although this girl acted too broadly and was too irritating for words , the character played by Agnes Moorehead was just too hateful and broad - - and much worse ! I actually was rooting to see this witch hit by a bus - - and she was too rotten and conniving to be funny or realistic . In fact , neither seemed the least bit real and were severe detriments to the film . It's really too bad , as the idea for the film was fine but the actual writing and dialog sagged - - and it's no wonder I just couldn't stand Wiedler and Moorehead - - the writers simply gave us little to like . A passable little film with some supposedly behind the scenes views , but nothing more .
Tacky and garish . . . . but also fun in a stupid sort of way .	The film is about a crazy queen and her equally insane son who are trying to wipe out an entire Japanese clan in order to please their evil god . You see , like most evil gods , this one wants the blood of innocents and can also keep these two freaks alive by bathing in blood as well . Nice folks , eh ? Anyway , almost the entire clan is wiped out except for a young princess who is aided by eight samurai - - though because of lousy translating , often the film calls them " ninja " ( they are definitely NOT the same ) . In the end , it's the standard good versus evil final showdown and the film is filled with explosions , blood , magic and more explosions . This movie is obviously NOT one you'll mistake for an Akira Kurosawa flick , as it is loud , silly and far from subtle . I knew I was in trouble when I saw that this was an English-dubbed film and not the original Japanese version . My apprehension increased when the film began , as very tacky American disco music blared on my TV screen . Yecch ! As for the rest of the film , while the fight scenes were well done and the movie was entertaining , it was a silly and over-the-top effort filled with giant millipedes , snakes , magic crystals and demons . It's best with a film like this just to turn off your brain and enjoy . If you question what you're seeing or think too much , your brain might just explode !
very low-key Harry Langdon	This was a very slow and meandering silent comedy about mouse-like Harry Langdon and his attempts to assert himself . In so many ways this film is nothing like contemporary comedies because it does not rely on chases or slapstick , but on story and the slower style of Langdon . At times , I enjoy Langdon's films very much - - such as with HIS MARRIAGE WOW , but in general I should point out that I am really not a fan of his work . If I want a more " cerebral " silent comedian , I prefer Charlie Chase or the early Laurel and Hardy films - - so keep this in mind when you read my review . I just think that too often , Langdon relied too much on his cute little boy look and less on laughs . The film begins with Harry's wife telling a friend that the way to a good marriage is to keep your husband under your thumb at all times . Harry is so hen-pecked that he's aching to be a bad boy ( though just how bad can he be ? ) . Throughout the film , he schemes with his buddy to chase women and have a good time , but never actually gets around to doing anything THAT bad . In the end , the wife sees him stepping out and decides maybe it's her fault for being so tough on him . While mildly entertaining , the laughs were few and far between in the film . There were a few good moments here and there ( such as the running board scene ) , but generally this film looks more like a drama with some comedy than a silent comedy . Not exactly my cup of tea .
An interesting art style isn't enough to make this one worth seeking	This is one of the animated shorts from THE ANIMATION SHOW : VOLUME 2 . Most of the shorts in this DVD collection are rather poor because very few are funny and the emphasis is much more or art than entertainment in this second installment . For better films overall , see VOLUME 1 . This film is actually one of the better ones from the collection , but it still didn't do much for me . The story is about some ladies whose job it is to travel to grocery stores giving out free samples . In addition to describing their job , they talk about what they dislike about it as well . Considering that their job only entails this sort of repetitive work , the narration and plot was incredibly dull . Fortunately , the animation style , while not particularly good ( it was VERY hard on the eyes ) , it was at least different - - unusual enough to merit it being seen if you are an animation junkie . However , as I said , it is hard on the eyes , as none of the animated characters or backgrounds stay still - - they all bob up and down independently of each other and are enough to make you seasick ! !
You CAN'T ban everything just because someone might become offended	This cartoon was shelved a long time ago by Warner Brothers because the cartoon is indeed awfully racist and shows the Japanese to be incredibly stupid and practically sub-human . HOWEVER , as a history teacher , I really wish this toon were more available because it was an important product of the times . Many nations around the world were at war with Japan and this movie was a form of propaganda meant to inspire the folks at home . Political Correctness was NOT a consideration , as the war was a war of survival for many - - the fact that it surely would offend the Japanese certainly wasn't a concern ! So , today , many would like to take these inflammatory cartoons and bury them - - but this is a big mistake , as history ( with all its blemishes ) is not something that you can " cut and paste " to satisfy sensibilities - - if this WERE the case , we might as well just burn offensive books and never teach history . My feeling is that cartoons like these are wonderful when shown and explained in their context . As a teaching tool , they are great and help us to understand the era and the mood of the people at home . This cartoon , the best I can tell , is not available on DVD or video anywhere . I was only able to see it on youtube . com when I typed in " banned cartoons " and after registering and then seeing a warning that indicated it was a racially offensive cartoon . Gee , . . . it's easier to view porn online than this cartoon ! ! The overall quality of the art is just fine but it's in black and white . The jokes , though , are awfully lame AND offensive but the cartoon WAS a very effective tool . See it and learn .
I don't agree with the other reviews - - this was a mediocre Western at best	The film begins with a man breaking into a jail ( Robert Taylor ) to rescue and old friend ( Richard Widmark ) . Oddly , however , it turns out they aren't friends any more and you know that they'll soon reunite and blood will be shed . It turns out Taylor is a sheriff and Widmark is his old partner in crime . This , sadly , is about the only twist in the film that caught me off guard . Despite having Widmark and Taylor in the leads , this is yet another tired old Western - - and in so many ways practically indistinguishable from the countless number made in the 1950s . That's because the film is so predictable and takes no chances - - it's only assets are the stars . Plus , since it's by-the-numbers , you know that by the end of the film , there will be the clichd shoot-out between Taylor and Widmark . And , in between , there is the rather dull girlfriend , the " hot-headed " young punk and an attack by addle-brained Indians - - who , naturally , ride past the cowboys single-file in order to give them a better chance to shoot them ! My advice is find a better Western to watch . While this one isn't bad , it sure isn't good . Plus seeing a middle-aged and paunchy Taylor playing the action hero is a bit of a stretch .
I finally found two Kurasawa flicks I didn't like	There were many reasons I was unimpressed by this film , though one had was certainly not the fault of anyone connected with the movie . Because this and its sequel are rarely seen , they are hard to come by . I finally found them as an import from MEI AH Laser Disc Company - - and boy did THAT leave a lot to be desired . The quality of the print was very poor ( though MUCH worse on the sequel ) and the captioning was beyond abominable ! When my daughter saw part of it , she immediately recognized the problem . It seems that many Japanese movies are released by Chinese companies , so the movie is translated from Japanese to Chinese and finally to English - - and so much was lost in the translation it practically ruined the experience . For example , " JUDO " is translated as either " Karate " or " Kung Fu " in the movie . If you don't know much about martial arts , there is a world of difference between them . For two movies about Judo , the word NEVER appears in the subtitled version ! Also , countless sentences simply make no sense - - it's as if the words are almost random at times . Now , as far as the movie itself goes , this is a purely ordinary film with very little of the magic of later Kurasawa films . It is a not particularly involving movie about a judo master . Some of the cinematography and acting is very good and at other times it isn't - - it's obvious Kurasawa is still learning his craft . Also , part one is ruined by the fact that part two is a worse film in most ways - - so the viewer never really gets a payoff for seeing the conclusion .
It might help if you speak French	This is a cute little animated film that is set to a traditional " nonsense song " - - one that is a popular folk tune whose words make little sense . Using cut out shapes , the animators are able to make the shapes come to life and dance to the music about a bird that keeps losing pieces - - only to have them come back in even greater numbers . This is reasonably interesting but I really think it would be appreciated even more by an audience that actually speaks and understands French . I had trouble following it since my French is only passable at best . Overall , it's an experimental film that many will find not particularly exciting . I've seen several of Norman McLaren's films ( some of which are quite similar ) and I am definitely not a fan - - mostly because it just isn't to my taste . However , lovers of experimental animation will no doubt enjoy it more as would French speaking people who can follow the song .
A decent but not especially distinguished Stan Laurel film	Tyler Brooke is the son of a newspaper owner . His father is angry because the other local rags are finding better scandals than paper and demands the son dig up some dirt on a vamp who is in town . Now this begs the viewer to wonder if the newspaper has any reporters other than Brooke . You'd think they would but you never see any and all this pressure is placed on Brooke to get the scoop . So Brooke decides the best thing to do is arrange for a scandal himself , so he gets his dopey butler ( played by Stan Laurel ) to pose as a rich man and make love to the vamp while Brooke is nearby with his camera . While Stan Laurel is in the film , he really isn't the lead and this was made in the pre-Laurel and Hardy days . Oddly , while Brooke is clearly the lead , the film gives the vamp , Lillian Rich , top billing - - though she is on hand mostly like a decoration . The plot itself could have been very funny , but there honestly aren't all that many good laughs in the film . So it's not a particularly distinguished film and mostly only of interest to Laurel and Hardy die-hards who want to see all of their films ( both before and after their pairing ) or perhaps silent movie die-hards . Either way , the average person probably won't be particularly impressed by the relatively tame antics . By the way , I agree with " wmorrow59 " - - you gotta love the art deco outfits and apartment of Ms . Rich - - particularly the spiderweb curtains .
Not great , but it DOES have Mary Pickford and Lionel Barrymore !	This isn't one of the better silent shorts directed by D . W . Griffith for Biograph Studios . While it isn't overacted or sloppy , the script seems to be awfully simplistic and also seems to be missing something - - and it seems to be conflict . Mary is in love with a local man , but the man breaks off their relationship to go looking for money and adventure up North . So , naturally , she sees other guys and falls for Barrymore . When the old sweetheart later returns , he finds that she is in love with a new guy and this new guy is also his friend , . . . so he does the right thing and bows out of the picture . THAT'S IT ! Not a lot to this 13 minute flick .
odd , . . . . just plain odd , . . . .	This is one of the strangest mainstream movies of its time . That's because the film about escapees from Devil's Island is also an odd religious allegory where Ian Hunter plays a Christ-like being who tries to guide each of the escapees to righteousness before their ultimate demise . At times , the film seems pretty heavy-handed and silly but there is also an odd fascination about the film that keeps you watching . Despite Hunter's odd character , the leads are Clark Gable and Joan Crawford in their final film pairing . She plays a floozy of sorts and Clark plays a variation on the exact same character he often plays - - the cynical anti-hero who isn't really evil but is skirting the edges of the law . Unfortunately , his part isn't new and if he hadn't done so many similar parts , his character would have been a lot more interesting . Overall , the direction and acting are fine , but the often predictability and sappiness of the script ( despite the Hunter character ) prevent this from being a better picture . FYI - - Another film about escapees from Devil's Island that was made only a few years later was Bogart's PASSAGE TO MARSEILLES . Interestingly enough , Peter Lorre and Eduardo Ciannelli appear in both films . Of the two , PASSAGE TO MAREILLES is a slightly better picture .
Not bad , but they should have done their homework	This film is included on a DVD entitled " The Short Stack : Volume 1 " and is a compilation of six short films . This film is about an execution . You see a man about to be electrocuted when there is an accident and he escapes . However , at the end of the film there is a bit of a twist . The idea of having a film about a man's execution and what he thinks just before he is electrocuted is a pretty interesting idea . However , it also looks like in some ways the people making the film didn't do their homework . While the chair sure looks like an electric chair and the observation room is well done ( looking quite realistic ) , the actual procedures are all wrong . The skullcap , sponge , wire to the leg and all the other necessary but creepy touches are missing . As a result , this very , very grisly procedure seems amazingly non-threatening and sterile . While I am not 100 % against capital punishment , it is just way too " nice " here and the few drips of blood at the end are NOT what you'd expect to find after the procedure is complete ( believe me , you don't want to know more - - it ain't pretty , though ) . Had they showed a much more realistic death and slowed it down to show the details , the film would have been much more powerful and haunting .
Where are the insights or the humor ?	I didn't particularly enjoy this documentary , as it neither provided great insights into the most die-hard Star Trek fans ( other than to disingenuously say they are " normal people " although their actions say otherwise ) nor does it use parody to make the documentary funny - - either way of doing it would have worked better . Instead , the film shows the Trek fans and lets them talk and then says what nice folks they are , . . . . . BOR-INGGG ! ! ! Where's the excitement or the tension ? Nowhere , . . . that's where . The film is just dull and I really wish they had interviewed some of the strange Trekkies I've known - - ones who kind of give you the creeps . Such as the ones who would kill another Trekkie in an argument over who was the better Enterprise Captain ( believe me , these arguments can get heated ) . Or perhaps the ones who would skip their mother's funeral if it coincided with the release of a new Trek film - - these are the folks that I wanted to see and hear more about in this film . Despite what some other reviews say , the film did NOT make fun of or hurt the feelings of the Trekkies - - quite the contrary , it was so bland because it said NOTHING . By the way , I am a Trekkie myself . Not a 100 % die-hard one or one who spends my cash on Star Trek memorabilia . But I have seen all the movies and every episode of all the Trek series and I stood in a very , very long line when the first Trek movie debuted - - and I STILL wanted the movie to be edgier and actually say something ! Step on a few toes or be brave to try to say something philosophical - - take a few risks with this film . Instead , this documentary seems like it was only written for the Trekkies and not for a wider audience .
Decent but not especially memorable	About the most interesting thing about this film is that it was directed by Stan Laurel and features Oliver Hardy a year before they clicked as a team . Aside from that that , it's a reasonably amiable silent comedy starring Andy Cook as a stupid cook for a group of men working on a bridge . Hardy , the leader of the group , confronts Cook because his meals are so bad and he demands that the meals improve or he'll be fired . So Andy goes about trying to fix them trout and rabbit for dinner with disastrous results . The worst part of it is that he catches a skunk and is so dumb he thinks it's rabbit - - not a terribly funny situation . Then the next morning , in a contrived bit , some stranger dumps gun powder in the pancake batter and Cook makes exploding flap jacks . This is also pretty stupid , but somehow also funny as the the special effects made this gag actually work . That's really about it - - nothing special but you do get a few laughs and see that Laurel actually did a pretty decent job directing . Having Laurel direct , by the way , was not unusual . Many of the comedy stars from Hal Roach Studios directed in addition to acting . The most famous of these was Charley Chase , who using his real name " Charles Parrot " directed dozens of films .
Fun to watch , but a 100 % rip-off of another film	It just so happens that the same night I watched this very early silent short , I also watched a film by George Albert Smith that was made one year earlier - - entitled " Let Me Dream Again " . And , low and behold , the two films were nearly 100 % identical ! ! This film ( Rve et ralit ) was definitely not inspired from Smith's - - it was a complete rip-off - - - being a wonderful example of early plagiarism . This was not a unique thing , as there were so many tiny studios in the early days and copying others ' films wasn't unusual . But , in this case it's more than re-making the other film - - it's stealing it . Regardless of the spotty pedigree , this still is a pretty funny film . It features an old guy making out with a pretty young lady - - and it all turns out to be too good to be true . This is one of the few early films that still will get you to laugh today - - no small accomplishment .
ENOUGH already with the OK Corral - - give it a rest !	There must have been 62 , 344 movies or television shows that have talked about this gunfight - - and most , if not all , of them are so WRONG ! This true story has morphed into complete fiction over the years AND this relatively unimportant historical event has been overblown into importance it never deserved . I'm a history teacher , so I am right . Trust me on this . ( for those who have read my other reviews , I also teach Psychology ) . How and why such an event can be twisted and contorted like this is beyond me but it just represents bad history and sloppy film making . Despite the generally decent acting in this film , it's departures from reality make it not much better than the incredibly stupid episode of the original Star Trek series where they , too , were transported back to Tombstone to fight this little battle ! I have heard that the newer film Tombstone is a good film but considering everything it's almost 100 % sure I'll never see this film . Gunfight At The OK Corral and My Darling Clementine are enough - - let's stop beating a dead horse , OK ?
Ages about as well as milk !	Aside from wine and cheese , not all things age well . Like a gallon of milk , over time this film has started to sour - - thanks mostly to changing and improving film-making . In fact , had this film been made just a year or two later , it would have been much easier to sit through . Unfortunately , this can be said of most films made in 1929 . This was a transition period in which silent films were changing to sound and the technology frankly wasn't very good . Plus , since this was all new territory , the films tended to be very , very stagy - - mostly because the sound men had no idea how to compensate for people as they moved away or towards microphones . This is all painfully obvious with ALIBI . Some characters are loud and easy to understand , others appear as if whispering and others have their voices fade as they move . Additionally , the film looked a lot like a play in parts as they used very long single shots with few inter-cut scenes . Plus , it was obvious some scenes were originally filmed as silent because the standard 24 frames per second ( used for all sound films ) made these segments seem like people were moving too quickly ( as silents were filmed anywhere from 16 to 22 frames per second ) . As for the plot , it's a crime drama with a lot to like and a lot to hate . I liked how , at times , the film was rather gritty - - particularly in the last few minutes ( the building scene at the very end was amazingly tough and memorable - - one of the best death scenes in film history ) . Some may also like how the cops in the film pretty much ignore the Bill of Rights - - and weren't above slapping a confession out or someone or threatening them with guns ! Some may also be appalled , but this is truly Film Noir-like in its sensibilities . But , the plot also is really stupid at times - - with some of the dumbest criminals you'll ever see in films , clichs galore and a very sappy death scene that will practically make you cringe . Now as for the plot . For 1929 , it was really quite good . If we'd had IMDb and the internet back then , a score of 7 or 8 wouldn't be unexpected . However , by today's standards , I'd have a hard time giving it anything more than a 2 or 3 . So , splitting the difference , a 5 seems appropriate - - for the time , a very good film but when seen today , it's terribly old fashioned and dull .
Just fair thanks to rather mundane retro animation	This short animated film is part of " Spike and Mike's Cutting Edge Classics " - - a DVD filled with an hour and a half of very short animated films . Most of them are pretty good and the DVD is much better than the other Spike and Mike one I saw a few months back . IDDY BIDDY BEAT BOY is an animated film about a beatnik boy who loves to talk Beat Generation style poetry . Sadly , however , IDDY BIDDY BEAT BOY was not one of the better films . While it wasn't bad and was somewhat clever as a concept and had a good ending , it also suffered from very poor animation and a story that just wasn't all that great . The animation makes the film appear to have been made in the late 1960s - - when animation generally sucked . There is wide use of crayons , incredibly simplistic drawings and backgrounds as well as a " cheap " look that might have been acceptable back in the 60s but which looked very out of place in 1993 . I understand that they were going for a retro look , but it just came off looking poor .
Great for aviation buffs , but for the rest it's pretty much a dud	The film has two main themes . A world-famous aviator ( Dix ) has slowly destroyed his once amazing career and he has his pilot's license revoked for being drunk in the cockpit . The film is about his rebuilding his life , though through very long stretches of the film he is absent or practically absent as the second plot took precedence during most of the film . A small aircraft manufacturer is trying to design a fighter plane in order to win a lucrative government contract . So much of the film concerns the struggles they go through as well as a budding relationship that never seems to get off the ground between the project manager and a female draftsman . As far as the plane goes , I know most who see the film won't notice some of the problems with how they executed the flying sequences and the plane itself . While the plane is supposed to be " the latest thing " and capable of flying over 400 m . p . h . , the design is actually similar to experimental craft being produced from 1932-1936 ( looking a lot like the airplane used in the old Universal Studios intros ) , so in so many ways the craft was totally obsolete . This isn't a real issue for the average person , but hey , for us aviation buffs it is noticeable . But what IS noticeable even for the casual viewer are the silly physics of the plane as it flies . It's very obviously a model and it executes turns that no plane EVER could make - - making the tiniest loop-to-loops and spins in history ! A little more money and effort could have made for much more realistic and less silly flying sequences . However , even despite these problems , the movie is about a seldom discussed topic and I found it very interesting from a historical standpoint . As for me , personally , I would score this movie a 6 or 7 , since I am a huge fan of the history of aviation and am a school teacher . However , I also understand that for the average viewer , this film will no doubt be pretty dull stuff and provide little entertainment . Also , as far as a the romance goes , it never really made much sense and never seemed to get past minor infatuation . Plus , for fans of Richard Dix ( and there must be a few out there ) , his role in the film is pretty small and not especially heroic - - despite him receiving top billing .
way too stagy and difficult to watch	The main culprit for this being a poor Marx Brothers film is time . While the brothers are quite funny at times , the film itself really suffers from lousy sound due to its being made at the very beginning of the sound era . This was true of MANY films from 1927-1929 , so it is in no way a slam against the Marxes that this occurs . Secondly , unlike all their later films , this was filmed inside an old film studio on the East Coast and it REALLY REALLY looks like a stage production . In particular , the backgrounds are obvious paintings . So who would enjoy this film ? Well , film buffs will be thrilled to see it because it's the earliest available footage of the Marxes ( though they supposedly made a film appearance before this and it was lost ) . Also , fans of the Marxes will find enough to entertain them to make it worth watching . Most others , though , will not be particularly impressed and should try other Marx Brothers films FIRST so as not to be scared away by the cheapness of this film .
I guess I just didn't get it	I appreciate that the other reviewer for this short film liked it - - they may be right , but I felt compelled to write a review that gives a different perspective . While they described it as funny , I just didn't get it - - and found the short a bit disappointing . An older lady works at a factory testing condoms . One day after work , she stops at a little store and buys a box labeled " happiness " . Again and again , she's tempted to open it up and find out what it is , but in the end she just takes it back to the store to get her money back to buy some shoes . That's it . As I said , maybe I just didn't get it . But I couldn't help but feel pretty bored by the film . The only things that intrigued me was my difficulty discriminating where the film was made . There isn't a lot of dialog , but what little there was was in English and the city appeared to perhaps be in Europe or the US . However , the box was printed in Cyrillic - - possibly from Russia . Sorry . I just wasn't particularly taken by this film . I especially didn't like the jerky camera work indicative of a cheap video camera .
Despite the Fuller touch , it's really just another Western	I recently have been turned on to the films of Sam Fuller - - a great director and writer who had a real knack for making fast low-budget films that still were quality products . However , of all the Fuller films , I think the least satisfying are the Westerns - - mostly because this genre is too chock full of product and after a while it all starts to look alike . While a few details here and there are certainly different , there were enough myths and clichs that I consign this to the category of time-passer . The biggest problem I had with the film was Barbara Stanwyck's character , Jessica Drummond . First , she was supposed to be a sexy she-beast of sorts , but at just about 50 years-old , Miss Stanwyck was sorely miscast - - though she certainly gave it her all ( see the IMDb comment about her doing her own stunts ) . Second , in the Old West , anachronistic women like her didn't exist . Sure there were a few odd-ball ladies ( such as Belle Starr and Calamity Jane ) , but much of this is myth and none were like Jessica Drummond . Had a woman tried to behave like her , she either would have been ignored or manhandled - - not been the strongest and meanest person in the county ! One mild problem is that although the shootouts lacked many clichs , in the Old West they really didn't do this very often and when Barry Nelson just walked up and pistol-whipped the punk , this never could have happened in real life . In the film's defense , however , I was thrilled when on one occasion , the shootout wasn't by the books and the bad guy got it in the back of the head . As an American history teacher , I know that THAT is a much more typical gunfight of the era , though shootouts and the like were incredibly rare . As far as the plot goes , it was okay . I didn't mind that it was a bit slow and meandering and it ended pretty well in the final scene . My advice , though , is see some other Fuller films - - such as his war films or Film Noir . I particularly like his war films ( such as STEEL HELMET ) because Fuller was a foot soldier in the war and he knew the material very well and could show the life of a common soldier unlike any other . If you still watch FORTY GUNS , you won't hate it - - but you also might just mistake it for another run of the mill film in an already overdone genre .
Pretty odd , . . . but it was nice seeing Vienna again .	This short film was recently posted on IMDb and is now available for viewing in the United States . Like most of the shorts , it's by a new film maker and rather experimental in nature . The film begins with lots of film clips of a European city . Then the narrator talks about how we need to stop trying to understand what we see and not try to make sense of what we don't understand . However , by then I wasn't paying much attention , as I saw some familiar Viennese sites ( such as St . Stephen's cathedral ) and was translating the German in my head . So much for not trying to understand or make sense of what I was seeing . The style of the film and the message are interesting and the film is a nice little experiment . It just doesn't work too well if you've been to Vienna and know a bit of German - - this defeated the whole concept of the film .
Not bad but not particularly inspired either	The biggest novelty of this rather dull little mystery is that for once during this era , a person of Chinese ancestry actually plays a Chinese-American amateur detective ! ! That's right , unlike Charlie Chan , Mr . Moto and the previous Mr . Wong films , this one does not feature some Western guy with his eyes taped so that he looks Chinese-ish . And , also interesting is that this actor is none other than Keye Luke - - the guy who played Number One Son in the Chan films . In some ways , this was very culturally sensitive and forward-thinking and Luke's character was bright and articulate - - using definite articles in conversation and seeming less like a walking stereotype . At the same time , the writers were still in the 1940s mindset , as some of the remarks of the incredibly imbecilic chief of detectives are awfully crude stereotypes . An example of this was when he asked all the people what they had for dinner . When he came to the Chinese lady , he said " I assume you just had Chop Suey " . Uggh ! ! ! Now as for the film itself , it seems like a lower than usual quality B-movie - - with most of the usual clichs but with none of the energy or excitement of films from the Boston Blackie , Charlie Chan , Falcon or Sherlock Holmes series . While there were some interesting story elements ( such as the whole oil angle ) , the film was so low energy and dull that it rarely engages the viewer . I think most of this is due to the painfully low budget - - making productions by second-rate poverty row studios ( like rival Monogram Films ) seem vastly superior to this one . It is obvious in this film that the end of the Wong series was in sight and there wasn't much more when it comes to innovation other than the casting of the ever-capable Luke in the lead .
See Nigel Bruce play a guy from Chicago ! !	This film is definite evidence that the films in the latter portion of Kay Francis ' career were pretty ordinary . This film , while competent , is only passable entertainment and certainly won't keep your undivided attention . Kay plays a high-living gold digger . The problem is that she never got married and settled down and now she's broke and her prospects are few . So , on a lark , she finds a young protg and grooms her to be a gold digger as well - - but also to marry and keep a rich guy . The problem is that the young lady has scruples and she just can't bring herself to do this to such a nice guy . So , Kay decides to pull out all the stops and try to get the guy herself - - even though she's older than the young man's mother ! Oddly , one of the beaus that the protg has in the film is Nigel Bruce . While his age is fine for the film ( after all , she was looking for a " sugar daddy " ) , saying he was from Chicago made me laugh . After all , Bruce has a very , very English accent and seeing the guy who later played Dr . Watson in the Sherlock Holmes films as an American from Chicago made me laugh . Otherwise , there's not much in this film that seems new or particularly interesting . Even the noble ending seems all too familiar . Watchable , but that's about it .
Given that it's 1909 , the film isn't that bad , . . . or that good	I really do admire this film because of its amazing production values for 1909 . While the sets certainly won't rival those of later Roman epics like QUO VADIS or CLEOPATRA , the costumes were awfully good for a time when budgets for films hardly surpassed the cost of film ! So , this is a standout film in this sense . However , when it comes to the style of the film and its value as history , it is of dubious value at best . The acting seems very vague and the actors mostly stand around and wait for the next inter-title card - - there just isn't that much action on film and it seems as if the director was only yelling out a few suggestions here and there as the actors ad-libbed . This really was the style of many early films . Plus , the story is pure hokum - - as if it was written by someone only vaguely aware of the facts . It implies Nero had Rome burned and talks about his love for Poppea , but this is odd since most historians today doubt if Nero had anything to do with the fire AND Nero apparently stomped his " beloved " Poppea to death during a fit of jealousy ! ! So much for the romantic aspect of the film ! So I advise you to watch the film for its historic value and if you are a lover of early cinema . Otherwise , the film is pretty easy for the average person to skip , . . . and maybe that wouldn't be such a bad thing .
Good movie , lousy casting	If this slick MGM film had only been intelligently cast , it might have earned a 7 or possibly even an 8 . However , it seems that when it came to assembling a cast , the powers that be put the names of actors on a roulette wheel and just spun it - - as the final casting decision just made no sense at all . The first and biggest mistake was having Joan Crawford play a French lady . It was very odd that all the other French men and women had correct accents but Ms . Crawford didn't even try to sound or act the least bit French . She was simply way outside her range . Second , what numb-skull thought that pairing her with John Wayne would generate any sparks ? ! While he was not the only love interest for Crawford in the film , him pawing at her and kissing her just seemed weird and Joan seemed pretty uncomfortable with all this . There was just no way on this planet that such a pairing could occur ! As for the script , I really feel bad for the writers . They managed to create an exciting and different film to get the public behind the war effort . It was NOT a run-of-the-mill and showed some intelligence . But unfortunately all the nice machinations , decent dialog and exciting action got lost due to the casting and oddness of the final product . It's really too bad , but in the end this is just a time-passer and nothing more .
Pretty entertaining but not at all what I expected	Fans of Vincent Price know and love him for his horror films and with a title like THE BAT , you'd think that this is a film about some evil murderous bat , . . . right ? Well , despite the title , it's actually a murder mystery about some stolen stocks and the murders that occur to try to recover this fortune . For me , this wasn't a problem - - it was still a pretty good film . But some will no doubt be disappointed that this isn't a horror flick . Because this isn't exactly a horror film , it also isn't so surprising then that Agnes Morehead is the star of the film and Price is actually a supporting player . She is a mystery writer ( like TV's Jessica Fletcher ) and the mystery appears to be unfolding all around her . So , it's up to her and her small band of helpers to unravel who is dressing up in silly garb ( the mystery person in a black hood refers to himself as " The Bat " - - hence the title of the film ) and killing people in the house Ms . Morehead is renting . The film features decent writing and acting , but in many ways it's obvious that this was originally a stage production . This isn't a terrible thing , though the staginess of the film is apparent at times . Additionally , since the ladies inside the rented house were being constantly threatened , I couldn't help but think " why don't they just leave the house ? ? ! ! " . Duh . But despite all this , it's still a decent time-passer and worth a look .
hardly as rotten as I expected - - in fact , not bad at all	Norm MacDonald works for a very rich and nasty lady ( Elaine Stritch ) . After putting up with tons of abuse from her , he decided to get revenge by kidnapping her horrid dog and holding it hostage . His friend ( Dave Chappelle ) lends him a hand and soon are the subject of a nationwide manhunt ! Will the guys get away with it or will they go to prison and become somebody's boy toys ? The reviews for this movie were SAVAGE . I've seen wars get better reviews ! The attacks were strong and brutal . That's probably why I am so charitable in my review . It just didn't seem like a bad film to me . Great ? ! No way , but there were enough moments to keep my interest and merit a score of 6 . Sometimes I wonder if I am crazy ( a possibility ) or the movie reviewers are just lemmings who follow each other's leads . Elaine Stritch was incredibly mean and hateful , as her role demanded and there were some other supporting actors who I really liked as well , but the one who really stood out to me was Danny DeVito's incredibly weird and funny bit part as the president of the Jack Lord fan club ( and a total psycho to boot ) . By the way , if you liked this film , try watching another MacDonald film DIRTY WORK . It might be a tad funnier but both very rough comedies make you laugh - - and isn't that enough sometimes ?
Another wartime Sherlock Holmes film that often has little to do with Conan Doyle's character	If you watch the Sherlock Holmes films made by Universal Studios starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce , you might find yourself both hating and loving the films at the same time . There's a lot to like - - the films are pretty good B-pictures with some interesting characters and are better than the average series detective film ( such as The Falcon , Saint or Charlie Chan films ) . But , there's also a lot to dislike - - the stories are set during the war and are often obsessed with plots involving Nazis and other plot elements that you NEVER would have found in the Conan-Doyle stories - - a serious affront to fans of the originals . This film is better than some of the series ( such as SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH ) but still pales in comparison to the original Nigel Bruce-Basil Rathbone films made by 20th Century Fox that actually WERE set in the Edwardian / late-Victorian period like the stories . The biggest problem is that although the movie started off pretty well , the character of Dr . Tobel was stupider than a raccoon AND the movie's conclusion was terrible . If Dr . Tobel was so darn smart , then WHY did he arrive in England and then slip away on his own and nearly get himself killed ? ! Duh ! Then , once Holmes defeats Moriarty's plan , why did he put himself NEEDLESSLY in Moriarty's custody to nearly get himself killed ? ! This was purely a plot device ( and a very wordy one ) and was once again so stupid that Holmes NEVER would have done this . Brain lapses and contrived writing prevented this from being a better film , but despite these serious problems , the film still is a lot of fun to watch - - in a brainless and entertaining sort of way .
Great film - - rotten soundtrack	4-D man starts off very poorly , as the opening music sound like it was written for a 1950s strip club . Unfortunately , while it did get a bit better , it still was brash , loud and cheap and often seemed like music designed for a beatnik coffee house - - not a sci-fi film . Additionally , the film features a romance that just isn't believable - - happening almost instantly and making very little sense . This was less annoying than the music - - more of a minor problem . However , despite having these two strikes against it , the film manages to still be a dandy sci-fi film - - partly because it was NOT about some bug-eyed monsters or aliens . The film begins with a young researcher ( James Congdon ) getting fired . He hitchhikes to the lab where his brother ( Robert Lansing ) is in charge of a team working on a new impervious metal . However , the younger brother says that he's been working on a matter amplifier that will allow ANYTHING to be permeated . Later , when Lansing is playing with Congdon's machinery , he manages to pass his hand through a block of metal - - in a rather terrifying scene . Oddly , soon after this , Lansing finds he's able to continue passing through objects even without using the electronic equipment - - just his own will ! Naturally , being a 50s sci-fi film , this power turns out to be far greater and difficult to control than they'd imagine - - leading to deadly consequences ! The plot is interesting ( and rather reminiscent of THE INVISIBLE MAN ) , the special effects pretty good for 1959 and the story was unique . I liked it a lot - - too bad it was given such annoying and funky music - - it deserved MUCH better .
Adequate , adequate , adequate !	Harry's father is about to lose his business , so to raise money he enters a walking race across America . Despite looking about as athletic as a cheese blintz , he manages to not only excel in the race but catch the eye of the sponsor's daughter . Will he win ? Will he get the girl ? Tune in and see . For years , I have wanted to see more Harry Langdon films - - especially when Robert Youngson played him up so much in his compilation film WHEN COMEDY WAS KING . So I was thrilled to find this and two other of his full-length films on a DVD from Kino . However , after seeing the film , I am not really sure if the wait was worth it . I had liked his short films , but TRAMP , TRAMP , TRAMP left me very flat - - mostly because there just weren't many jokes AND the pacing was so slow . The same can be said about the other films on the disk . Now this does NOT mean I need to have a constant string of pratfalls and side-splitting comedy - - after all , many of my favorite Harold Lloyd , Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton films were NOT their physical comedies but ones that relied a lot on characterizations and plot - - such as THE KID BROTHER , THE CIRCUS and OUR HOSPITALITY . However , compared to TRAMP , TRAMP , TRAMP , these three classic films seem frenetically paced ! There are no BIG gags in TRAMP , TRAMP , TRAMP and only a few small ones . Instead , the film seems to be saying " look how cute and sweet Langdon is - - don't you just love him ? " . Well , no . . . not particularly - - and I am a huge fan of silent comedies but I oddly believe they should also be funny . Still , I didn't dislike the film - - just don't make the mistake of thinking Landon was in the same league as these other three comedy greats ! Passable with some cute moments . By the way , THE STRONG MAN and LONG PANTS also on the DVD and they are both better films .
Full of Chinese stereotypes but so what ! ?	I know I'll ruffle many feathers for saying this , but this banned video shouldn't be banned for being politically incorrect or insensitive . First , I am loathe to ever pull things from the market because they might offend . Second , while the Chinese stereotypes abound , the Asians in this cartoon are not shown as being stupid , sub-human or bad - - just stereotypical . For example , Porky Pig plays a Charlie Chan-style character ( named " Charlie Chan " ) and yet he isn't stupid , evil or bad - - so what harm exactly is being done by this cartoon ? Plus anyone with half a brain should be able to figure out that these are only silly stereotypes and should be able to handle it . Now if you can manage to ignore all the Chinese images , what are you left with in this cartoon ? Well , the quality of the animation is pretty poor for Warner Brothers because it was made in 1959 - - when the studio began cost-cutting by using inferior production values . Plus , it isn't really that funny or memorable . THIS should be the reason people don't watch this - - not because of heightened sensibilities .
A decent film , but often it seemed to try a bit too hard .	The film begins in Columbus , Ohio and young Eileen has visions of stardom on the stage - - though she only has worked in community theater . Her older sister , Rosalind Russell , is an aspiring writer and they agree to both go to New York to seek fame and fortune . Along the way , they meet a bazillion crazy characters who wander into their basement apartment faster than is humanly possible . And , yes , I truly do mean wander into the apartment . It's like Grand Central Station in there and after a while the gimmick just doesn't make sense . Subtle it ain't ! MY SISTER EILEEN is a screwball comedy that is very , very aware that that is exactly what it should be . While often cute and enjoyable , all too often the film seems to think that by being too loud , too chaotic and too goofy , it will be a successful film . Personally , I enjoyed it but wish they'd perhaps slowed the whole thing down and tried for at least some subtlety and style . It made the pacing of ARSENIC AND OLD LACE and BRINGING UP BABY seem absolutely slow by comparison ! ! Throughout this film , whenever the action seems to slow , the film makers seem to just randomly toss characters into the mix with the instructions " act kooky " - - sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't . As a result , it's a very hit or miss production . However , fortunately , the film ends on a very high note with a surprise ( and funny ) cameo appearance . I won't say more - - it might spoil the fun . Overall , it's a good time-passer and a decent film , but don't expect magic .
kinda like THE SHEIK , Part II	This isn't a bad film , but also seems pretty familiar considering it has the same leads in this film as the original SHEIK . And , as well as this similarity , the film at times just seems like a continuation of the original - - even though the story centers on the son ( who , oddly enough , looks EXACTLY like the guy in the first film ! ) . The basic plot involves " love at first sight " - - a screen clich if I've ever seen one ! A nice dancer who is virtually the slave of a band of outlaws falls for the nice young son of a sheik . However , despite their ardor , he is told by one of the scummy gang that the dancer doesn't love him , but it was all part of a trap to lure the rich man to the gang . And , given that Valentino's character didn't read the script , it takes him most of the movie to determine the girl is in fact sweet and worth marrying .
Very well made but weird and unsatisfying	This film is included on a DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume Three " . Oddly , I have seen volume One already and Three is definitely much better - - though both are worth finding for lovers of short films like myself . I am torn on this film . One the technical side , the film is very well made and it's obvious the folks responsible for it were very talented . The music is fantastic , the film work good and the acting and direction all seem very professional . However , the story is bizarre and very unsatisfying - - so much so that when the film was finished I didn't feel satisfied in the least . The story begins with a just-married couple lounging on a hammock in a beautiful hideaway in what appears to be the Mexican Coast - - far from others . However , out of the blue , a stranger appears and interrupts their idyllic honeymoon . While I was happy the story didn't go the violent direction I thought , it just didn't make much sense and made me feel that the story needed to be re-tooled . Others may like it - - I didn't .
Good for 1900	Okay , before you think I am crazy for giving this very brief and not altogether good film a score of 6 , understand that in 1900 MOST of the films lasted only a minute or so and they were amazingly mundane - - though at the time , they were seen as amazing and were the height of entertainment . So , for a film from 1900 , this one is actually a bit above average and still is mildly amusing when seen today . A dirty old man is seen sitting outside a shop . He's peering through a telescope at a woman's ankle ( what a horrid beast ) . And , when her husband finds out , he attacks the harmless old coot . Pretty sexy stuff in 1900 , but today it just seems quaint and silly .
Very unpleasant but also exceptional	If I were solely scoring this film based on how much I enjoyed watching it or what I personally thought about the main characters , then this film would get an exceptionally low score . That's because the main character ( played by Isabelle Huppert ) is one of the most selfish and unlikable ladies I've seen in a film and watching the sick relationship between her and her daughter was often quite painful . When the film begins , you find that Huppert is a prostitute and the film makers really made her up well for the part . She had a world-worn and sad quality about her and it was obvious she'd spend years walking the streets . Seemingly out the the blue , Huppert's 14 year-old comes for a visit . You assume the teen is in foster care and Huppert responds incredibly harshly towards her - - telling her she wanted nothing to do with her . Yet , despite being rebuffed , the child insists on coming home with her . A bit later , Huppert's pimp and another goon show up and begin beating her severely . The child , not surprisingly , comes to her mother's aid and is almost raped . Almost , because she instinctively grabs a knife and kills her attacker . All this happens in just the beginning of the film and much of the rest of the film consists of them running from Nice . At first they wander purposely but later Huppert gets a crazy notion to look up her ex-husband and the 8 year-old she'd abandoned just after birth . This is very , very ironic as she is seeking to re-establish a bond with the boy yet at the same time shows all the motherly instincts of a rabid hamster ! ! You would have a hard time finding a less nurturing and vicious mother towards the girl - - who , throughout most of the film , is treated like a burden and nothing more . Although all this is very sick and disturbing , you sure have to salute Huppert for not choosing an easy character or taking the Hollywood approach to making the lady a " hooker with a heart of gold " . My only gripes about the film are about the difficult to believe plot twists as well as the somewhat pat ending . You see , at one point Huppert abandons her daughter in the countryside and the teen just happens to meet up with a runaway criminal . Now you'd sure think he'd rape the girl or rob her or at least be indifferent . Instead , he abandons his plans and acts like a big brother towards her - - as well as towards Huppert when they eventually find her - - even giving them money when they finally part . This just didn't ring very true and seemed a bit like wishful thinking - - as did the very end where , after all this horrible emotional abuse , there is a hopeful scene of tenderness between the mother and daughter . While I was often disgusted with the characters , I wish the film actually hadn't copped out - - and allowed Huppert to continue rejecting her daughter throughout the film . This blindness to her own issues and parallel with the son is so fascinating and was slightly blunted as a result of the film makers unfortunately pulling a few punches . Usually , this unwillingness to create a ridiculously happy ending is one of the strengths of French films , but here at the last minute , they bowed to convention - - and the film lost a couple points in my review because of this . Overall , unpleasant but interesting . Plus , this film is definitely Huppert's and she does a masterful job with what the writers gave her .
Good , but it's hard to recommend this over many better submarine films	TORPEDO RUN is a decent film and much of the film is pretty exciting . However , it suffers from a serious glut in the genre - - there are just so many really , REALLY good submarine films . Just off the top of my head , DESTINATION TOKYO , OPERATION PACIFIC , RUN SILENT RUN DEEP , CRASH DIVE , THE ENEMY BELOW and the amazing DAS BOOT all come to mind as great sub films - - all of which clearly surpass TORPEDO RUN . However , if you haven't had too much of all this sort of film , then by all means give this film a look . The film stars Glenn Ford and Ernest Borgnine . Ford's character and performance are very quiet and intense - - almost reminiscent of Captain Ahab but in a more subdued way . Borgnine , on the other hand , while not the official star of the film seemed to have a better and more interesting role as the second in command who is friends with Ford but a bit worried about his boss ' mental state . The reason this is a concern is that apparently Ford's wife and daughter are aboard a Japanese prisoner ship that their sub accidentally sinks ( this is WAY too coincidental a plot device - - I mean , what are the chances ? ! ? ) . However , despite the ridiculousness of the plot , the battle sequences are taut , well executed and the special effects are very good . You can't see the sides of the pool in which they filmed the underwater scenes ( something you can see in many other sub films - - even some of the ones listed above ) and only once did I clearly notice a string pulling one of the torpedoes through the water ( again , it's unfortunately common to see this in other sub films ) . So what we have is a fairly good and typical film of the genre that is impeded a bit by a hard to believe plot twist . However , decent performances ( particularly by Borgnine ) still make this reasonably good entertainment .
For 1900 , at least it's a little different	Although movie houses were quite popular in 1900 , most of the films were really dreary and uninteresting - - the people then just didn't know any better ! Most films actually consisted of about a minute's worth of ordinary and mundane activities ( such as street scenes , babies , people working , etc . ) and the audiences were thrilled . The modern notion of a film was still at least two years away with LE VOYAGE DANS LE LUNan early full-length film ( 14 whole minutes ) with real sets and a plot ! In this light , then , it's understandable why this little film is so little and so less than inspiring when seen today - - and at least it's creative . The camera appears to have been placed in the road . A wagon and then a car approach the camera and ultimately the car appears to run over the camera person . That's it ! Nothing more . We're done . Bye .
Not bad compared to other silent comedy shorts , but not up to the standards of later Laurel and Hardy films	This is a bizarre little film in pretty much every way I can think of off the top of my head . Although it technically is a Laurel and Hardy film , it was made early after they became a comedy pair and it was obvious from this film they still hadn't gotten the formula exactly right . Instead of the usual situation in which Stan and Ollie are friends , they are actually rivals in this peculiar film . The film begins in the Stone Age . The king has made a rule that all men or they will be " banished and banned - - or both " . So all the bachelors are out trying to get married . And , in caveman fashion , this means meeting a nice lady and bashing her over the head with their giant clubs . The special effects and sets are pretty minimalistic , as the cast and crew went into the California hills and wore animal skin clothes . The only " prop " other than that was a fake Triceratops . While the film is almost entirely action-oriented ( partly because it was a silent film ) , the film had very peculiar subtitles that had the actors speaking in old English ? ! Overall , this is a very odd little curio and is not an especially good representation of the team's work . This isn't because the film is silent , as they made some excellent silent shorts , such as BIG BUSINESS or SHOULD MARRIED MEN GO HOME ? - - it's more because the film is just weird and one long and not especially hilarious joke . Plus , the movie appears , in spots , to be pretty much filmed without a script and the actors just mug for the camera . For devout fans of the team , this is a must , but for all others , it's pretty skip-able and you should seek out some of their better shorts first .
A pretty good B-detective film thanks to Dunn	An ex-detective is called out of retirement to investigate a recent kidnapping . However , once on the job , one of the suspects becomes a zombie-like being and no one knows exactly how this occurred nor where the missing man is . And , to top it off , murder ( or at least attempted murder ) is in the air ! This is a modest little film produced by poverty row studio , Monogram . B-Detective films like this were a dime a dozen during the 30s and 40s , so there isn't much to distinguish this from the thousands of somewhat similar films . Since it was such an inexpensive film , the film was directed by William Beaudine ( a man well known for NEVER shooting re-takes ) , the actors were all second-tier talent and it starred James Dunn . While not a household name , Dunn had bounced around for years and he did have a lovely role in the great film A TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN . Here he has a nice , witty personality and plenty of excellent one-liners . In fact , this was the best thing about the film - - whereas the mystery itself was purely secondary . . . at best . Due exclusively to Dunn's easy-going personality , he makes this simple little film quite watchable .
The earliest Laurel and Hardy film that actually looks like a Laurel and Hardy film	Stan and Ollie had already appeared in a couple films together before this one but their interactions bore no resemblance to them being a team . DUCK SOUP is the first where they pretty much play the usual Stan and Ollie characters , though with some small differences ( such as Ollie wearing a top hat and the characters not using their real names ) . This style was actually a bit of an accident , as following this film they made quite a few films in 1927 in which the team really wasn't a team and played very different style parts ( such as in SLIPPING WIVES and WHY GIRLS LOVE SAILORS ) . The film begins with news that because local forest fires are so bad , hobos are being drafted by the forest rangers to battle the fire . Stan and Ollie are happy and lazy and want nothing to do with work - - particularly of the dangerous variety . So they escape from the press gang and eventually hide out in a mansion that is vacant . However , soon some people arrive who intend to rent the place and the boys pretend to be the owner ( Ollie plays " the Colonel " ) and his maid ( Stan ) . Seeing Stan in drag was pretty cute and was something he did in several early films . Naturally , the REAL Colonel arrives and finds that Ollie is packing what he can steal from the home . In slapstick tradition that means one thing - - the Colonel will begin shooting wildly as the boys and the innocent renters scramble for their lives . Eventually , the forest rangers catch the boys and force them to work - - leading to a very " forced " ending . While this film is funny and worth watching for Laurel and Hardy fans , the chemistry just isn't there and the film isn't any better than any other Hal Roach short of the day . Worth seeing but far from a must-see unless you are a nut like myself who wants to see every Laurel and Hardy film ever made ( minus the lost ones such as HATS OFF and ROGUE SONG ) . FYI - - When the movie begins , you may notice that a tiny bit of it is missing and the print is , in places , poor . Unfortunately , this seems to be all that remains of this film due to the degradation of the nitrate stock .
A nice little South Korean short	This is a very simple animated film using computer generated technology . In fact , it was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short for 2005 but lost to a film called RYAN ( which I have yet to see ) . The story begins around the time of the Korean War . A little boy is playing around his home and the nearby railroad track . During this time , he drops a bolt on the track to see what happens when the train squishes it and plays soldier as long lines of tanks pass on the freight train . Nothing particularly noteworthy or exciting about this film - - just a slice of life from a sad time and some decent animation . It's nice to see a nominee from South Korea , as you don't normally see their films nominated . By the way , and you'll no doubt think I am crazy , but for a truly outstanding Korean film , try to find DOGGIE POO - - a truly amazing short film that is astoundingly good and heart-warming and light years better than BIRTHDAY BOY .
Very enjoyable but not particularly noteworthy	This film is about a new manager for the Brooklyn Dodgers and how he was able to somehow energize the team enough to make them contenders - - though the film didn't seem to indicate exactly why this was the case other than they bought a few hot prospects . In fact , up until the end of the film , it was very odd for a baseball film because it showed so little on-field action . Because of this , some of the actors playing the ball players didn't have to have any skills for the game and several looked nothing like athletes . Or perhaps this COULD just be a comment about the Dodgers of 1942 - - as most of their stars were fighting in the war ! However , this is a rather mild complaint - - more of an observation , as I was hoping for more on-field action . Despite this , it was a moderately enjoyable B-movie starring Lloyd Nolan and Carole Landis ( in a less recognizable dark hairdo ) . The story was entertaining and the acting competent . However , because there have been so many baseball films over the years and because this one isn't particularly outstanding in any way , then it's quite easy to skip and falls into the " time-passer " category . Now this isn't saying it's a bad film or that you should skip it , but there are simply better baseball movies out there as well as many that are of about equal entertainment value .
" If I lose , I will cut off my own head ! "	It takes a special sort of person to watch these older Hong Kong martial arts films , as the average person will no doubt watch them and laugh themselves silly at the stupid physics , silly plots and hapless dubbing . But if you are like me , you'll consider the cheesiness as all part of the film's charm and understand that this is all part of the genre . In this light , this is a slightly better than average film . Just try to ignore the silly special effects with involve flying heroes , explosions , exploding golden Frisbees , people catching arrows in flight and throwing them back and killing the shooters and many other impossible tasks . The film is about a fight within a family clan . One member is evil but claims that he is seeking a man with a whip to get revenge - - while what he REALLY wants is to murder him and steal a government gold shipment . A fellow clan member , Lei Peng , urges him to abandon his revenge - - and he later realizes that it isn't about revenge after all . When this happens , he takes the gold himself and plans on returning it to the government . In the meantime , the evil dude and his toadies attack and murder all of Lei Peng's family . Later , the guy with the whip's children seek to kill Lei Peng - - thinking he was the one who murdered their father and stole the gold . But , since they want the gold , they pretend to want to help Li Po to find out where it's hidden . In addition , a lady in white joins their merry gang . The four of them eventually have a major showdown ( after they realize Li Po is a good guy ) and the action and silly special effects reach a very strange and odd conclusion when Li Po seemingly arises from the dead to beat the baddie and his evil henchmen . Despite the silliness of the plot , this is a pretty good film with decent fight scenes - - it won't lose your interest if you are a fan of these fantasy films . Plus , there are some really dopey moments that are so unintentionally funny that I loved them , such as when one man said " If I lose , I will cut off my own head " - - huh ? !
very watchable and slight film	This was a John Wayne film before he became a major star . If you remember this and that this was never meant to be a top-quality film with a big budget , then you will probably see that for what it is , it does very well . This western is a bit better than the average western because Wayne's acting is as good as ever and Albert Dekker is a great villain as well . Plus , the writing is very good for this type of film - - with excellent dialog and the plot moves along very nicely as well . So , overall , all the necessary elements for a B-Western are here . Oh , and I almost forgot , it has a lady ( Binnie Barnes ) who is pretty much there as a plot device ( after all , you NEED a woman to come between the men in this type of movie - - or so it seems ) . The bottom line is this is fr from great , but very watchable for those who like the genre .
Pretty much impossible to rate in its current form	This is one of the lost films of Laurel and Hardy - - or at least partially lost . Today only about half of the film remains - - all of the boxing sequence ( which is pretty good ) and bits and pieces of the giant pie fight . The rest , sadly , appears gone forever , though fans of the team hold out hope - - after all , newly discovered bits and pieces have been found of many great supposedly missing or truncated films ( such as the great recent find of a longer version of METROPOLIS ) . Because this film isn't totally intact , it's not fair that anyone should have to give it a numerical score , but IMDb forces this for all reviews . My score of 6 is because I really didn't think much of the pie fight and there just isn't enough of the original film left to get a better score . By the way , according to IMDb , Lou Costello is an extra at ring side . I looked but couldn't really tell he was there . Perhaps he was the guy who caught Hardy at the end of the fight . The problem is that Costello would have been a lot thinner and younger - - as he had himself been an amateur boxer about this same time period . As far as pie fights go , this is probably the best and was the inspiration for the one in THE GREAT RACE many years later . Despite people thinking this is a slapstick clich , there were actually very few pie fights ever shown on film and the few that did occur were rarely as big or crazy as this one - - usually just a pie or two ( like you'd see in a couple of The Three Stooges ' films ) . Also , and this is an odd one , during the fight scene , you see a pretty lady walking by " The Pink Pup " . This is the same place you see featured in THAT'S MY WIFE and THEIR PURPLE MOMENT - - two other silent Laurel and Hardy shorts . If you do want to see this ten minute film , it's included in the huge UK DVD Laurel and Hardy collection .
Unusual and worth a look	While I was not nearly as taken with this film as Leonard Maltin ( who lists it among his 50 films you may have missed at the beginning of his latest guide ) , it is a pretty decent little film . There are some wonderful performances ( particularly the man who played Uncle Paco - - Chalo Gonzlez ) . However , with topics such as teen pregnancy and homosexuality , this is a film you might want to think twice about before letting your teen watch it . I'm sure many will also be offended by the subject matter , so think about this before renting it . Magdalena's Quinceaera is soon approaching . This is sort of like a Mexican rite of passage - - much like a Sweet 16 Party . However , she is mysteriously pregnant and her family's plans for the celebration are thrown into chaos . While this is a starting off point for the film , there are several interesting plot element running parallel to this - - such as the life of her sweet uncle and her gay cousin , Carlos ( who is ostracized by much of the family ) . I read one review that was critical of the gay couple and the affair one of these gay men had with Carlos . They were offended because the couple was NOT monogamous and they were worried this film might feed into the negative stereotype that ALL gay men are promiscuous . While I could understand their concern , this plot element in the film certainly was unique and was worth exploring . And , it's not good to ALWAYS show all gay people as noble - - a stereotype which has been promoted heavily in recent years and which is also very unreal . Why can't they just be good or bad or a bit of both like any other person ? What I found particularly interesting about Carlos was that although in some ways he was a bit of a thug , he was also very vulnerable and was amazingly self-controlled when he had every reason to want to kill these gay men . Despite this , he was able to let go - - and provided some balance ( i . e . , not all gay men in the film were bad - - just this couple ) . As for Ti Paco , he was a beautiful and charming character - - you'll just have to see him and the rest of the family to understand . Magdalena , actually , was the weakest point ( despite her Quinceaera being the subject of the film ) , as her character seemed a bit one dimensional and her predicament amazingly bizarre and tough to believe . Once again , this is a very adult film though it seems to be marketed , somewhat , towards teens . If you do let your teen watch it , watch it with them and discuss the film - - this could be a nice chance to discuss the many topics this film raises during its 90 minutes . It's a decent film with some nice performances as well as a nice opportunity to see what this celebration is . But , it also is a bit of a disappointment - - it just didn't seem as special or magical as Maltin led me to believe . It was good , but not that good .
NOT the strangest Crime Doctor film , but it's still pretty good	This is one of the earliest Crime Doctor films and perhaps when they wrote the script they thought it would be the good doctor's strangest case - - though compared to some of the later films , this one is pretty ordinary though a tad confusing - - certainly NOT particularly strange . The film begins with a very young and handsome Lloyd Bridges taking his fiance to see Dr . Ordway . A short time later , Bridges is accused of committing murder and the doctor decides to investigate . Some of the plot twists were pretty weird and confusing . In fact , though you expect the plot to continue to be Ordway convincing everyone that Bridges is not the killer , this is only the film up to a point - - as soon it becomes apparent that many people had a reason to want to kill the victim . Plus , soon more murder victims begin popping up in the oddest places ! Overally , I really liked the plot ( even though it was confusing ) and the twists and turns worked out very well except for the actual way in which the first person was murdered . The manner chosen was so ridiculous and impossibly complicated that I really think this helped knock the film's rating down a point or so . Otherwise , if you can ignore this silly twist , it's an engaging and entertaining film .
A cute little prohibition comedy	This silent comedy short stars Jack Cooper - - not to be confused with the child actor , Jackie Cooper . Cooper and his friend are making a batch of homemade beer - - something illegal during the days of Prohibition . However , the bottles are poorly made so Jack has to get some more . Later , after the new bottles arrive , the cops come to the door . The boys think they're about to get caught , but instead the police are warning everyone about an escaped maniac . Later that night , imaginations run wild and they all think the crazed man is in the house . To make this easier to imagine , some of the bottles of home brew explode - - adding to the chaos . While this is far from a great film , it has a few decent gags and kept my interest . Nothing special , but still a decent little film from Volume 3 of OLD TIME COMEDY CLASSICS - - a minor collection of mostly forgotten shorts .
So bad that it's good !	This is a film that can definitely be considered a guilty pleasure ! On one hand , the film is very poorly made - - with some terribly over the top performances and lots of gratuitous nudity and violence . On the other , it's so gosh-darn entertaining that you can't stop watching ! ! Pam Grier is the title character . She is on a private mission to kill those she feels are responsible for hooking her much younger sister on heroin . The first ten minutes of the film are probably the best - - with an amazingly silly but highly entertaining pair of killings . Seeing the shotgun scene is something you WON'T soon forget ! Also , seeing the " cat fight " scene is a real hoot - - particularly Coffy's creative use of razor blades ! However , just killing low level pushers isn't all that satisfying to Coffy , as she's determined to work her way up to " Mr . Big " . So much of the film consists of her doing undercover work so she can find and kill this man . Now here's the funny part - - to infiltrate the mob , Pam Grier pretends to be Jamaican yet her accent is atrocious when she actually remembers to use it ! Much of the time , she totally forgets and the director doesn't even seem to notice this omission - - nor do the bad guys ! The leader of the mob is a real piece of work . This White guy falls for Coffy but also takes great pleasure in demeaning her and treating her like garbage because she's Black - - a great metaphor for the Black American experience that must have made quite an emotional impact on audiences of the time . However , before she can kill this creep , she is captured and it looks like Coffy is going to die . See the rest of the film to see the twists and turns and violent ( yet satisfying ) ending . After all , once she is captured , the film shifts into high gear and it doesn't let up until the frenzy of blood-letting is complete . On a totally non-intellectual level , this movie is practically non-stop action and seeing the slimy devils die is very satisfying on a very basic level - - seeing bad guys die and lots of naked women will appeal to the Bevis and Buttheads in the audience ! However , at the same time , there are bad acting , silly plot devices and a general trashiness of the film ( with the rough language , copious amounts of very gratuitous nudity and silly dialog ) . This is a film you can enjoy but it still is essentially a stupid movie with practically no redeeming value . By the way , Pam Grier made three very , very similar movies in successive years - - COFFY ( 1973 ) , FOXY BROWN ( 1974 ) and SHEBA BABY ( 1975 ) . COFFY is the best and the movies steadily declined in quality and excitement .
A decent film in need of a remake	This film was made by Hanna-Barbera - - therefore by default , it has , at best , second-rate animation . And it also features a lot of pretty forgettable songs . Together , these two problems prevent this film from being anything more than average . And it's really a shame , as the story by E . B . White is wonderful and the movie is pretty faithful to the original . In addition , the voice characterizations are just fine . While my complaints will not ruin the film for kids , most adults will understand my observations . From what I have read on IMDb , a new version of the film is in post-production now ! Let's hope they stay faithful to the script and bring up a more adult-friendly version !
A decent Snub Pollard effort	In this film , Snub leaves his extremely tiny town to go live with his aunt , who he doesn't even know . He arrives at her house when she's throwing a party and she doesn't want to invite him inside . . . until she learns he owns an oil well . Then she encourages him to meet and become smitten with her daughter . However , Snub isn't that interested in this vamp and instead is interested in the maid . But due to their persistence , Snub finally agrees to marry the cousin - - at which point the maid hatches a plan to expose the ruse and a silent comedy chase ensues . This isn't a great comedy by any stretch of the imagination , but it does have a decent number of laughs as well as a few that fall very flat ( such as those involving the duck ) . While far from Pollard's best ( IT'S A GIFT ) , it still is watchable and cute . And , unfortunately , it's made worse by the ill-fitting music that was just slapped onto this short in the " Old Time Comedy Classics : Volume 9 " DVD . Like almost all their films , the appropriateness of the music seemed irrelevant to those who assembled this collection .
Very nice art but the message was a bit heavy-handed	This is a very well animated cartoon that was sponsored by the National Film Board of Canada . Like many of their animated films , this one was part of a series dedicated to illustrating the UN's commitment to human rights and I am sure this video was warmly embraced by all nations and generated world peace . . . for about 2 seconds ! Then , people went back to being jerks . The film is about conflict resolution and features two cute gophers . One accidentally kicks dirty on another one and soon they start fighting . Eventually , however , they learn together and all is well . . . until a cute ending . As for me , I would have preferred to watch Mack and Tosh - - the Warner Brothers gopher twins . As you may have guessed from my comment above , working out problems peacefully is wonderful - - too bad the UN rarely has anything to do with it ! On top of my cynicism , the film also comes off as a tad heavy-handed and I really wish it didn't .
A decent idea , but I wonder why this wasn't made live action ?	This short is from the Moviemark DVD Indie Shorts Project Vol . 1 ( 2006 ) . It and the " bonus " short are both from Anthony Thurman - - who wrote , directed , animated and provided the voice for the character . In fact , if you look on IMDb , you'll see he did everything in this film . Because of this and because he's so young , I won't be very hard on the film - - - especially because few people could do so much . He is very talented . However , I have two bits of hopefully constructive criticism . First , although Thurman is an animator , I really would have liked to have seen this live action . The animation didn't seem necessary - - especially since the story is pretty neat . Second , I liked the story idea and wanted the film to be longer or have a followup film . It was intriguing .
Amusing but sub-par	Stan and Ollie are in prison and are constantly trying to escape . The problem is that they are idiots and every plan they try fails . Some of them are pretty funny and some a bit too silly in this film . This is one of the earlier Laurel and Hardy films , so I'm cutting it a bit of slack in scoring it a 6 . The problem is that this prison comedy , while funny , also has a couple bits where the timing is just awful and they milk gags way too long - - something you'd never see in their later and more polished films . The first of these over-long bits is when prisoners Stan and Ollie try to escape by pretending to be painters . When a guard becomes suspicious and follows them out of the prison , they start painting EVERYTHING in sight . When I was a kid and saw this , I thought it was hilarious . Now , as an adult , it just seemed stupid - - and NOT in a good way ! The second was the awful dining scene where Stan chases a cherry all around the table with his spoon . This " funny " bit was often seen in films before this with other comics and it just isn't funny - - and it goes on and on far too long . Overall , even poor Laurel and Hardy is pretty funny and worth seeing . So give this one a look but understand it's not up to their usual high standards .
A bit heavy-handed but good	This film was made for Black-American audiences and stars an all-Black cast . The film in many ways is a social commentary , as again and again it points out that good and respectable citizens are a product of good upbringing and environment . From this theme , you can infer that there were many well-educated and more upwardly mobile Blacks who felt that improved social conditions would eventually lead to equality and opportunity . The film is about a decent lighter-skinned Black man who seems to always be coming to the rescue of someone who is being oppressed , as he has a very strong sense of justice . However , this decent instinct within him make him blind to the importance of nurturing on adult behavior . He makes the mistake of falling for a poor lady who was abused by her awful step-father , so the film make it appear that she is pretty much predestined to pull this decent man into the gutter with her . While all this is very entertaining , it also seems like a rather stereotypical view of the world ! Despite this and all the evil that she dumps on this poor Sir Gallahad , by the end , good does prevail . Huzzah ! The acting is pretty good as are most of the production values , though the script is a bit heavy-handed and preachy . Of course , in the late 1920s , this was true of some mainstream pictures as well , so this can be somewhat forgiven . Still , after all these years , the film is pretty entertaining and a wonderful time capsule into the past .
Far from brilliant , but still very watchable and providing a few chills	First , I know I am probably going to irritate some readers when I mention this , but I really think the stars of the film were Stephanie Beacham's breasts . Ms . Beacham ( known to most American's as ' Sable ' from THE COLBY'S ) has always been a very attractive and shapely lady , but in this film set at about the year 1790 , the dresses she wore throughout the film were extremely low-cut and they tended to highly over-exaggerate her already ample assets . I love my wife dearly and try to never look at another woman , but it was absolutely impossible for any straight man to watch the film without staring ! Oddly , while Ms . Beacham ( and her breasts ) are the clearly the stars of the film , she is listed fourth in the credits ( and and no mention of her chest at all ) . Now , apart from my rather off-color remarks , let's get on to the review . This is a British horror film that is pretty ordinary for the first half . A new bride comes to the mansion and sees a lot of frightening images , though no one else sees them . Slowly , her new hubby starts to think that maybe his wife is unhinged . However , when you learn about the curse and why this is all occurring , then the story gets pretty exciting . In fact , it was nice to see that the longer the film lasted , the better it got . This combined with the relatively low budget make this film a pleasant surprise , as they sure did a lot with what they had . For the casual movie watcher , the film might only merit a 5 or 6 , but for horror fans , a score of 7 or 8 don't seem the least bit out of line .
Cute for Potter fans , but don't expect a lot of magic	This film purports to be the real story of Harry Putter - - the guy who was the inspiration for J . K . Rowling's novels . This guy , however , goes to a far less magical world and he and his friends use far more mundane magic . In fact , the dreaded " Sorcerer's Stone " is actually the just a sorcerer's phone - - and it's great because it can make unlimited phone calls . Again and again , the truth is far less magical and , well , boring . The film is reasonably well made but has all the look of a fan mockumentary . Die-hard fans of the series will love it , mild fans of the series ( like myself ) will see it as a time-passer and those not familiar with the books will probably care less . It's not a fancy or sophisticated film - - just a nice film by some big fans .
Watchable , but so atypical of later Laurel and Hardy films	I really can't fault this movie too much for being a rather sub-par Laurel and Hardy short . After all , the team still wasn't exactly a team . Despite starring in quite a few films together in 1927 , they were still a brand new pairing and the chemistry we all have come to expect still hadn't developed completely . In light of this , it's not surprising then that Ollie and Stan are playing such unusual roles . In this case , they are NOT friends nor do they know each other when the film begins - - a highly unusual situation for any of their films . Plus , Ollie appears to be a successful man - - a big departure from his usual role and Stanley a nephew visiting from Scotland . Talk about a different Laurel and Hardy plot ! ! The rest of the film concerns the hilarity ( ? ) that occurs when Ollie takes his kilted nephew through the city . Again and again , huge crowds gather to laugh at the sight of a guy in a kilt . While as an American I do find the idea of a man in essentially a skirt funny , it certainly was not as funny as the film tried to make it seem and was certainly not enough to sustain an entire comedy short ! Now there were some funny moments here and there , but laughing at a kilt and laughing as Stanley chased women ( much like Harpo Marx in later films ) just isn't that thrilling . As a result of this and the bizarre chemistry , I think this one earns a 6 . For devoted fans of the team like myself , it's a must - - for most others its a film best not seen until you see their better films , as this one might give you the mistaken impression that their films weren't that funny .
It's a family affair !	Everyone associated with this movie seems to have the same last name - - Meyer . My assumption is that the director used his own kids or relatives for the actors as well as pretty much everything else . Well , if this is true , this is amazing , as the film doesn't really look like any family project I have seen in a long time ! This is not some home movie , but a well-made and clever little film . The story begins with two bullies initiating some new kid by forcing him to enter a supposedly haunted house . However , the tables are turned late in the film and it is the bullies who eventually end up running away like a couple of babies - - thanks to some help from Dad . Overall , this isn't a deep or earth-shattering film - - just a nice little production that made me laugh !
Proof that not all of Lon Chaney's characters were golden	By 1927 , Lon Chaney had clearly established that he could play practically any role - - ranging from Quasimodo to the Phantom of the Opera to sideshow freaks to maniacs . However , one type of role that Chaney did that just looks pretty shabby today is his Asian characters . In MR . WU , Chaney plays two characters - - a very , very old Chinese man and his grandson . As the grandfather , Wu looks really weird - - not all that Chinese . As the grandson , with his shaved head and painted eyebrows he looks a little more like Joan Crawford circa 1970 than a Chinese guy ! Interesting performances , yes - - but not at all believable to anyone but the rather unsophisticated audiences of 1927 ( who were used to seeing White guys dressed as Asians ) . As for the story , it's odd because from the point of view of the Western characters , they didn't seem racist but were very open towards Asians . In contrast , Wu was a bigoted old guy who , according to some ancient teachings , could NEVER allow a child of his to marry anyone who wasn't 100 % Chinese . In light of this , it certainly isn't surprising that the grandson ( I guess that would be Wu III ) freaked out when his daughter fell for an American man . This of course leads to a sad and rather crazy conclusion that certainly is interesting - - though it also seemed rather silly and tough to believe . So it it worth seeing ? Well for silent film fans ( particularly lovers of Chaney ) , of course . For others NOT familiar with silents or who mistakenly think they are bad , then they should try some other films first . This film is like a strong cigar - - it can be appreciated by someone used to them but for novices it's best to just stay away for now .
First , read the Cliff Notes , then watch this film , . . .	Unless you are a rabid Shakespeare fan who is very familiar with this play , I strongly recommend that before you watch it you go out and buy some Cliff Notes or Monarch Notes so you'll have some idea about exactly what's happening . While not as sketchy and confusing as some other early Shakespeare short films ( such as KING JOHN ( 1899 ) or THE TEMPEST ( 1908 ) ) , this is a very abbreviated version of the play and is awfully confusing and tough to watch . This doesn't mean that the acting or direction were bad - - for 1909 it is pretty good - - along with the props and cinematography . In fact , I really liked the guy who was given a donkey's head by Puck - - cute stuff for 1909 . But even if the film had wonderful production values ( which it didn't ) , you just can't do justice to Shakespeare or any play in only 11 minutes ! ! My advice is just watch FORBIDDEN PLANET ( derrived from THE TEMPEST , believe it or not ) .
Some interesting new twists , but overall undone by cheap-o touches as well	This is the 379th Frankenstein film done by Hammer Films - - or so it seems . This British studio made tons of Frankenstein and Dracula films that are indeed entertaining , but they also tended to dilute the quality of the films after a while because they made so darn many and the plots were just too similar . I mean - - how many times can you see the twisted Doctor creating yet another monster that ultimately will run amok ? ! Fortunately , there are enough new angles to make this final film of the series worth watching , but unfortunately the film is also undone by some very , very shoddy makeup work ! The film begins with a handsome young doctor buying corpses from a local scoundrel . When the grave robber is caught , the doctor is implicated and sentenced to an institution for the criminally insane . Once there , the doctor soon learns that the " nice doctor " who works at the institution is actually the Baron Frankenstein using an alias . Naturally , Frankenstein is happy to have an eager young apprentice to help him with his patients and his " other work " . Not surprisingly , the other work involves piecing together bits and pieces of the dead to create a creature ( wow , I didn't see THAT coming ! ! ) . Now up until this point , I enjoyed the film quite a bit - - the film had some nice plot twists that kept my attention . However , as for the so-called " creature " , it was ridiculous ! It looked almost like a chimpanzee and a caveman put together - - all covered in hair and with features that looked nothing like any Frankenstein monster I've ever seen ! To make it worse , the latex mask they used for the monster is so thick and ungainly that when it later talks , you can't even see the jaws or mouth move ! And as for the body , it's obviously a rubber suit - - you can tell in some scenes where he's poked and the " doughy " aspects of the suit are apparent ! ! As for the brain removal scenes , they were decent provided you really don't know what a brain should look like . Important bits like the color of the brain and the absence of the outer covering ( meninges ) are wrong but most won't notice . However , overall it looked like the special effects / makeup budget was about $48 . 39 - - not a particularly distinguished Hammer special effects effort I must say ! Now as for the acting , it was just fine . Peter Cushing was his typical Doctor Frankenstein and this isn't surprising considering how many times he played him . According to IMDb , Cushing hated his wig , but I thought it made him look cute ( though perhaps like Helen Hayes , like Cushing said ) ! The rest of the cast are just fine , though it seems his two assistants were both thrown in for their " eye candy " value as well as their acting . The young lady was ravishing and the other doctor was amazingly pretty . I'm straight but I was clearly impressed by Shane Briant as the doc ! But , if you look at Briant's IMDb pictures , they don't do him justice ( particularly the one that is all wormy ) . So , overall , despite some nice changes ( such as setting the film in a mental institution ) , the film is pretty much the standard formula . Plus , despite a decent script , the monster's death is unnecessarily gross and stupid - - like they were running out of film and just tossed in a cheesy ending . A definitely worthwhile for fans of Hammer films , but otherwise , try watching the earlier Hammer films instead - - this tepid one might convince you ( incorrectly ) that the studio was second-rate . One final note : Oddly , the movie was rated R . I saw the DVD and assumed this was the entire film - - yet there was no cursing , no nudity and the gore wasn't all that bad , even for 1974 . It's inexplicable how it got such a rating and I would have no trouble letting older kids see it . The only adult things in the plot involved a subplot about incest , but it wasn't really described or shown in any way .
unlike the original Holmes in so many ways	Years ago , the first Sherlock Holmes film I saw with Basil Rathbone was THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES . While it wasn't super-close to the original story , it was at least in spirit a good recreation of the Conan-Doyle hero . I was excited and ready to see more . And then , I noticed that Holmes wasn't even in 19th century London any more but was now living during WWII and was a great help in the war effort . Well , all these followup films were fun and very entertaining , but to a guy who's a nut about the original stories ( I've read them ALL ) , they are a disappointment . BUT , at the same time , if you are NOT a nut like me about the originals and you like old B-detective movies ( like Charlie Chan or Bulldog Drummond ) , then these are indeed wonderful films . Now as for THIS particular film , I was really perplexed . When I saw George Zucco in the film , I remembered that he had previously played Holmes ' arch-enemy Moriarty in THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES . But in this film , he played another guy . Don't you think that Holmes , with his great deductive reasoning , could have figured this out and known Zucco was the bad guy ? And , the same thing happened with Henry Daniell . He , too played Moriarty , but in this case he's some other bad guy . You would think that Holmes would automatically arrest or just shoot them when they meet considering their past ! Also , having these guys in the film is an anti-climax , as you KNOW they are bad guys the first time you see them ! As far as the plot goes , it's a rather jingoistic " hurrah , hurrah for the Allies " type film made during the war years . While I generally like these propaganda films ( they were fun and performed an invaluable service ) , it just seems inappropriate for Holmes . But , despite this , there were a few good elements in the film . One was Holmes ' investigation of the blanket - - using its clues to help him locate the killers was pure Conan-Doyle in style . Also , although in this series Watson is seen as a complete idiot , in this film he at least gets to shoot someone - - so much for being the ineffectual sidekick ! For fans of the series , it's an okay but slightly below average film . For others , I recommend you find a different Sherlock Holmes movie - - this one is not especially true to the books or characters .
Okay , but lacks subtlety and suspense	Years ago , I watched this film and liked it a lot more than when I just watched it again . I think this is because on second viewing , I noticed some plot problems that hindered me from scoring it higher . I should point out that IMDb users have placed the film in the top 250 , so it's quite possible I am nitpicking , but I just thought the film could have been better - - especially from a suspense point of view . Joseph Cotten plays a man who you think is a multiple murderer . Oddly , whether he is or not COULD have been held until the end of the film , but the truth of it was revealed about halfway into the film - - and kind of took the wind out of the sails . While the only one who knew that he was a murderer was his niece , Theresa Wright , she kept this to herself - - even when it seemed he was trying to kill her ! ! Now I know that Ms . Wright supposedly didn't want to upset her mother by announcing that he was a murderer , but after two attempts and nothing from Wright , you just have to assume she's an idiot ! In addition , she did a lousy job of hiding it from Cotten - - making her an obvious liability . I hate " suspense " movies that rely on the basic stupidity of a character in order to keep the film going ! However , apart from these serious problems , the film STILL is pretty exciting - - and the ending is very , very memorable . However I still think the film is a bit overrated . FYI - - For those who love to spot Hitchcock , you see the back of his head and a bit of his side profile towards the beginning of the film on the train . He has in his hands one of the most stupendous Bridge hands imaginable - - provided he can get control of the table .
interesting but too convoluted a plot	Stylistically speaking , this was a good movie - - with a nice somber mood , excellent acting ( except for M . Emmett Walsh - - who just seemed too over the top ) . However , there were just too many plot devices that just didn't make a lot of sense - - in other words , plot twists that were interesting but were too unrealistic to make the movie more engaging . Some examples : 1 . Dan Hedaya is shot in the chest and he appears dead . He's been bleeding out for what appears to be at least a couple hours . He is found by the male lead and is dragged off to a rural spot to be buried . However , just before he is buried , he starts crawling away with amazing speed and power for a man who appears to have lost at least a gallon of blood AND who has been untreated for quite some time . 2 . Walsh kills Hedaya . Fine - - this double-cross makes sense . But , to then try to kill the wife and her lover doesn't make that much sense - - especially when this scruffy guy suddenly shows that he is an excellent marksman ! Then , after snuffing the lover , the ending is exciting but way too unbelievable for words . SO , my review is an anomaly . Most reviewers liked it a lot . I just thought it was okay and the Coens have done much better films - - such as their comedies . And , for a drama , I think Miller's Crossing is a MUCH better film .
Funny but far from sophisticated !	This film is a decent silent comedy though it isn't much better than average . It stars the surprisingly young Jack Duffy - - who is only about 44 in the film though he appears about 70 . Apparently Duffy was quite the makeup artist and following his career decline , he made a place for himself in Hollywood as a makeup man . The film begins during a meeting of an organization dedicated to the elimination of boxing . However , in a not particularly inspired moment , Duffy and another man get in an argument and agree to settle it by having a box-off - - where both bring a boxer to decide the argument . This really makes no sense considering the club and the transition was rather poor . However , the fight itself was reasonably funny - - especially when Duffy entered the ring and caused a riot - - followed by a lengthy and well made police chase . Is this great or sophisticated humor ? Hardly ! However , it will make you laugh now and then and it's a chance to see Duffy star in a film - - there are lots of films in which he was a supporting player .
Probably the lowest point for the franchise	Okay die-hard trekkies , get ready to send your hate mail , but I was never a huge fan of DEEP SPACE 9 and consider it the worst of the Star Trek shows . Now understand that I STILL watched every episode - - and I have seen every episode of every Star Trek series , so I am not just some crank who loves to stir up trouble ( at least not in this instance ) . It's just that this series did not engage me until the all-out battle with the Dominion occurred late in the life of the show . So what didn't I like ? Well , the series debuted at the same time as BABYLON 5 and there was a lot of talk about which one would be more successful . Well , BABYLON 5 had a shorter run ( five seasons ) but it also seemed to have a more devoted following because it had better characters and plot . Additionally , while both series had a lot of similarities , DEEP SPACE 9 had Major Kira and those annoying Bajorans . Aside from the super-evil character played by Louise Fletcher , these beings just seemed whiny and I could see why the Cardassians hated them - - I did , too ! Also , none of the characters ( with the exception of Odo and Quark ) were all that interesting - - Avery Brooks had a cool goatee and bald head in some episodes but his character was generally too passive , the doctor was a wimp , Terry Ferrell wasn't bad as Dax but she was killed off and reborn as a wimpy Dax , etc . In addition , the series seemed claustrophobic - - being stuck on the space station sure didn't help and they left only on rare occasions until they got their own ship later in the series . And finally , my biggest complaint ( related to the last one ) is that they spend WAY too many episodes in the holodeck and the show bogged down big time when they used this plot device . The most egregious example of this was the episode where they played a baseball game there - - what a horrible idea for the plot . Now for the good . Provided the show keeps your interest long enough to make it to the end , the series vastly improved as it went along . Apart from wimpy Dax , the show got better and better - - leaving the confines of the station more often and having a huge inter-galactic showdown which brought in the Klingons , Romulans and many others . A watchable show , but not up to the quality of other Trek shows .
decent though not particularly outstanding	This Charlie Chase short was fun to watch , but not particularly outstanding compared to his other films . Part of this might just be because the plot is so odd . Charlie's extended family is in a fix and they need $10 , 000 , so Charlie reluctantly agrees to to get the money by marrying a rich and significantly older widow . The problem is that this scenario just isn't funny and his switching from ardent suitor to creeped out guy during the course of the film isn't terribly well done . And , the gags thrown in aren't good enough to help overcome the plot . About the only interesting this is that you get to see Oliver Hardy in a supporting role before he later teamed up with Stan Laurel . See it if you'd like , but Chase certainly did better films .
a 10 if you LOVE films that make no sense , a 5 ( or less ) for most others	This is a very self-selecting film . Those who love Luis Buuel and adore his Surrealism will no doubt think this an an absolutely marvelous and absurd piece of art . Many of those who don't will probably be amused by some of the silliness , but could probably not be convinced it is either great art or something they'd like to see again . And I am also sure that a many of the run-of-the-mill film viewers would probably hate it . I just can't see most teens watching this type of film . In many ways , this movie reminds me of the paintings of Dali , and that is certainly not a surprise considering that the director and Dali had worked together in the past and BOTH adored nonsensical work that both confused and enraged audiences . This film was a deliberate attempt at both - - especially as far as being confusing . Many of the vignettes just seem very random and go nowhere , while others are pretty revolting and others are pretty funny - - it's a very odd mix . I think the one I liked best was the very first vignette with the " dirty old man in the park " who gives little girls " bad pictures " - - it's not as bad as it sounds and was actually pretty funny . I can't say I necessarily hated the film , but I sure wouldn't want a steady diet of these films . It was certainly an unusual experience ( much like eating haggis or hang gliding naked ) . If you liked this film , try seeing BUFFET FROID ( another French film ) - - it is even more absurd and bizarre than this one .
Very silly and ridiculous but still a lot of fun !	I almost gave this film a 7 , since despite the film's many deficiencies it is so much fun . My advice is try to look past the silly excesses and improbabilities and you'll find a film that is both charming and a modern fairy tale . Olivia De Havilland plays a princess staying in America during WWII . It seems that her own country was overrun by the Nazis and she is waiting out the war in the US . While I am a HUGE , HUGE fan of Miss De Havilland , I must say that her part in the film wasn't all that compelling - - she played an overly stiff character . However , this was made up for by the bubbly performances of Jane Wyman , Jack Carson , Charles Coburn and especially Bob Cummings . Olivia is constantly watched by her uncle as well as keepers from the State Department and she has many official duties that seem to bore her . As a result of a desire to see Americans as they really are , she leaves her hotel and eventually bumps into Wyman , Carson and Cummings . They mistake her for a penniless refugee and take her under their wing . While it is pretty predictable , she and Cummings fall in love and decide to marry - - even though Cummings has no idea she is a rich princess . When he does find out , you'd think the movie was about finished , but this isn't the case . There's still about 20 to 30 minutes left in the film . Despite my assuming her uncle ( Coburn ) would be against the marriage , he is thrilled - - especially since Cummings ' family seems chock full of boys and fertility doesn't seem to be a problem ! But , other problems do develop and are eventually worked out , thanks to the help of FDR and his dog , Fala ! Yes , I am NOT kidding ! ! An adorable Scottie plays Fala ( the world famous dog of President Roosevelt ) and while this is almost embarrassingly ridiculous , it's also pretty cute . My advice is to watch this film but just tun off your brain during the final portion of the film - - it's so unbelievable and schmaltzy that your head will explode unless you can force yourself to cope with this !
the movie must be commended for its originality	I did not love this movie , but it was better than average - - particularly because of its originality . However , to an American audience , it may be difficult to relate to the French justice system circa 1974 . At first , the star of the movie , Philippe Noiret , is a rather apolitical man who seems quite ordinary . When the police inform them that his son has murdered someone , he initially does pretty much what the police ask . When the investigating officer tries to get close to Philippe ( sort of " buddy buddy " - like ) , he allows him . However , through the course of the film , Philippe begins to see the police as the enemy and he rebuffs these attempts by the police to be friendly . The problem for me is WHO is right ? Were the police at this point of time quick to violate human rights or manipulate the families of the accused ? I really didn't know if Philippe was having his eyes opened to the truth or if he just learned to identify with and excuse evil . This would NOT pose a problem to a French audience but for those not familiar with the French legal system it seemed confusing - - was Philippe a good man or a good man going bad ? As far as the acting and pacing is concerned , this is a good flick .
Only for lovers of Charles Coburn ( and I'm one of them ! )	I love films with Charles Coburn and although he was mostly a supporting actor , I try to watch every film I can if he's in it . There was just something about his on-screen persona that I found both charming and sweet - - despite the fact that he also often played rather bombastic men ! He was wonderful in THE DEVIL AND MISS JONES as well as THE MORE THE MERRIER , so Columbia Pictures decided in this case to give him the lead ! And , while the film isn't great and the plot is at times silly , the film is still quite watchable just for Coburn . In essence , the film IS Coburn , as the subplots aren't really that important and , in a way , neither is the main plot ! ! Instead , just watching sneaky and curmudgeonly Coburn is a treat all in itself . The film may lack depth and staying power , but it IS still a lot of fun and you could certainly do a lot worse than watch this movie !
A very interesting curio	Dana Andrews was taken prisoner during the Korean War and finally arrives home after being away for many years . But now he has periodic dizzy spells as a result of his brutal captivity . When he goes to Washington to meet his old business partner at a public relations office , he learns that his partner is dead and the business was sold out from under him to a guy that is obviously a jerk . After storming out of the office , Andrews meets with an old friend , a Senator , and learns that his old firm is doing a lot to distort truth and influence opinion - - as they are a probable front group . Oddly , they never say " communist " , but it's obvious that's what they intend . So , in order to expose this evil plot , Andrews returns and makes nice with the jerk and joins the firm . Generally , it's a pretty good curio of the time and it is one of the few chances you'll get to see Mel Torm in an important role ( though , oddly , he gets very low billing despite all his screen time ) . As always Andrews is very good , but towards the very end of the film the writers make a bad gaff - - making the otherwise decent film really clichd . This is when Andrews catches the baddies and is holding a gun on them . Just then , of all times , he gets a blinding headache and drops his gun ! ! ! Come off it , this is just ridiculous and sets up an unnecessary final chase scene . Also , it's rather funny that the things the firm is doing to illegitimately influence public opinion and Congress are EXACTLY the same things many organizations do regularly today ! ! One example in the film is how they ask loaded questions that make it appear the public feels one way when they don't - - something we see on news shows all the time today ! Overall , it's not a great film but interesting enough to make it a little better than just a time passer , though fans of Andrews ( like me ) will probably enjoy it .
While very interesting artistically , it didn't do much for me	This is a fascinating film - - not so much for what it says but because it looks so very , very early 1970s . When I watched it , it brought back memories of super-wide neckties , crazy hair and intense colors . I also liked the quality of the animation - - though it was , at times , hard on the eyes . The way things seemed to morph in the film was pretty interesting . However , while there were some interesting elements , the film got old very , very quickly . It was so hard on the eyes and other senses that it was tough watching it to the conclusion . I can see that all the other reviews have been extremely positive and I'm glad they liked it . However , I truly can't see the average person sitting through this film - - it's definitely for a very select audience .
Read Fisher Forrest's summary - - it says it all	When I read the summary of the featured review for this film by Fisher Forrest , it sure said it all - - " Ridiculous and trite , but it is fun to watch " . I couldn't have summed the film up any better . Claudette Colbert and Fred MacMurray starred in seven movies together and while they are all a lot of fun , this one is certainly pretty silly and trite . However , given the actors ' ability to make even bilge watchable , this film turned out pretty good thanks to their professionalism and talent . With lesser talent in the film it might have struggled to even earn a 4 or 5 - - the plot idea is that silly and forgettable . Claudette plays a woman a lot like Clare Boothe Luce , though instead of writing articles for " Life " and " Vogue " , Claudette is a high-powered photojournalist . Her boss doesn't particularly like her , so he assigns her to to a photo essay on ' sandhogs ' - - men who build tunnels . It's a dirty job but not wanting to be seen as too temperamental , she agrees to the assignment . Once there , the film starts to become a bit goofy . You see , when she sees the ber-macho Fred without his shirt on and muscles bulging , she is smitten with a desire to go slumming ! And her infatuation only gets worse when she seems him get into pointless fights that make absolutely no sense and are so very contrived . Although Colbert is prim and proper and would never admit that she likes to see Fred kick butt , it's obvious to everyone she is smitten . However , it takes another hour until the completely expected final clinch to occur . The biggest deficits in the film are the silly clichs and ridiculousness of the relationship between these people from two totally different worlds . I assume some studio exec must have noticed this , too , as towards the end you find out that Fred isn't really a sandhog but a talented engineer who happens to like working in the muck - - making the pairing seem not quite so silly and vulgar ( after all , he's a college graduate ! ) . Fun despite the terrible dialog and plot . However , don't think too much when you watch this film , as it might make your head explode ! !
A nice idea - - a bummer of a punchline	This is a cute little short Australian film about a young man and woman who are planning on having sex while her parents are away on holiday . However , before they leave , the father mentions ( in a very crude way ) that if ANYONE touches his daughter , they will . . . . um . . . have a certain part of their anatomy removed ! Later that evening , the young couple have sex and use one of her father's condoms . However , the boy is very concerned that they replace the exact condom because he's terrified of the father - - and rightfully so . However , replacing it is not as easy as you'd think and the guy is forced to search high and low and use great ingenuity to find the exact match . This leads to a conclusion that was supposed to be funny , but the punchline just didn't work - - as it provided a bit of a downer at the end instead . Still , it was rather entertaining and is worth a viewing .
A shadow of their former glory , but still rather watchable	Following 1940's SAPS AT SEA , Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy became free agents - - selling their talents to studios such as Fox and RKO . While these and other studios were willing to pay them more than they'd been getting from Hal Roach Studio , the quality of all these post-Roach films took a significant hit . Unless you are a die-hard fan of the team , you really should watch their earlier stuff - - it's just so much funnier and better . While JITTERBUGS isn't a bad film , it's a mere shadow of their former style and glory - - mostly because it has too much plot and too much singing . The beauty of the older Laurel and Hardy films was that they could take very simple plots and milk it for all it was worth just by allowing them to slowly do their thing . Here , however , the film is very plot-heavy and like all these later lesser films , the duo are more supporting actors instead of the whole show . Here , Vivian Blaine and Robert Bailey take away from the focus on Stan and Ollie - - with Blaine singing ( way too much ) and Bailey as a smooth-talking grifter . In the older films , Stan and Ollie were THE focus - - supporting characters were never intended to have much personality and were there merely for the use and abuse of the team . Here , the audience is simply distracted by these lesser talents - - and I wanted much more Stan and Ollie ! ! Now despite these distractions , the film works very well on occasion . First , when the boys are performing as a two-man band , this scene is very clever and the music very catchy - - so , of course , this small scene is never repeated and apart from this tiny scene , there is not Jitterbugging at all - - despite the title ! Second , there are some funny moments - - particularly when Stan dresses up like Ms . Blaine's aunt . While it may not sound all that funny , Stanley handles it well and you can't help but laugh - - especially when he utters the line " I feel so gay " - - you gotta see it to appreciate it ! So overall , it's a very , very mixed bag but an overall product that still has you wondering why the studio didn't just let Stan and Ollie " do their thing " ? Why insert other characters or include lots of distracting singing and show tunes ? ! With the greatest movie duo in history , it was insulting to given them material that just wasn't up to snuff . And speaking of not being up to snuff , how about that floating gas scene where the wires were so obvious and visible ? ! Didn't Laurel and Hardy deserve better than just some cheap stunt than looked third-rate ?
some cute moments but the movie just didn't work for me	This movie was a minor picture with relatively low aspirations . Seen in this light , it's a fairly good picture but definitely one you'll probably forget soon after seeing it . Most of this is due to the difficult to believe chemistry between John Wayne and Jean Arthur and the rest is due to the pretty ordinariness of the plot . Jean is besought by suitors back East . She needs a break and meets up with rodeo star Wayne and is almost instantly smitten . However , despite a good start , things run amiss and it appears that nice girl Jean won't get her man . But , this being a Hollywood picture of the 1940s , then you KNOW it's a cinch it will all work out in the end . This picture probably did nothing to either help or hinder either actors ' career , but it lacked believably chemistry and plausibility . Absolutely no surprises but a pleasant diversion nonetheless . By the way , a very similar movie is THE COWBOY AND THE LADY starring Gary Cooper and Merle Oberon . It also earns a 6 but I must admit that this John Wayne and Jean Arthur film is just a tad better , so if you MUST see one , see LADY TAKES A CHANCE .
Not bad though it's far from his best	This is a Harry Langdon short film made for Mack Sennett and is included with the " Harry Langdon : Lost and Found " four DVD set . Harry's father and brothers are manly and rugged types , so they have little regard for the rather effeminate Harry who would rather make a living playing the bass violin . In fact , the dad throws Harry out , as he feels he's an embarrassment . The problem is that Harry is horrible and his chances of being a professional musician seem nil . After many failed attempts , Harry finally finds his niche and returns home a rich hero at the end of the film . The joke ideas in this film are pretty good , though I don't want to ruin it by describing them . However , there aren't that many laughs and the film just seemed a bit on the mediocre side . Not bad - - just not all that memorable or comedic .
An interesting idea and many interesting parts	The idea of BENNY & JOON is pretty good . Adult brother ( Aiden Quinn ) and sister ( Mary Stuart Masterson ) live together because the sister is mentally unstable and he needs to look after her . However , over time , it's obvious he can't control her and they both need space to grow - - but Benny cannot bring himself to admit this . Being so inextricably intertwined isn't good for either of them . Into this less than idea situation appears the rather child-like and bizarre character played by Johnny Depp . This oddball is a bit like Chaplin and Keaton combined and it's obvious he's addicted to these silent comedies , as Depp nicely recreates the dance with the diner rolls Chaplin did in THE GOLD RUSH . Overall , the biggest plus was Depp's strange but endearing performance . This , combined with the basic plot idea do make the film worth seeing . Unfortunately , two elements really distracted as well . First , exactly what sort of mental illness Joon has is rather vague and strange . In some ways she seems to have a combination of schizophrenia and an intermittent explosive disorder - - - but at other times she seems reasonably normal . Secondly , and this REAALLY irritated me , is that at least three times during the film they had long musical montages that seemed more like music videos than part of a film and they really came out of nowhere - - looking more like padding than anything else or perhaps the film was being deliberately marketed solely towards teens . Still , it's an agreeable little film - - just don't expect a lot of magic .
This movie would have been great if Brooks wasn't 100 % in control	Other than THE PRODUCERS ( and possibly Young Frankenstein ) , Mel Brooks ' movies suffer from TOO MUCH Mel ! In other words , just because Mel Brooks can be very funny does NOT mean he knows everything about movies nor should he write , direct and act in them ( the Jerry Lewis Syndrome ) . Most of his movies in recent years have amply proved this ( Robin Hood Men in Tights as well as Life Stinks come to mind ) . I picked Blazing Saddles to review because , in my opinion , it sparked the beginning of the end of his brilliance . The beginning of his unchecked excesses became so apparent here and only got worse in his following efforts . Unlike The Producers ( where he is in the movie for a VERY brief instant during the Springtime for Hitler scene ) , he is on screen through much of the movie and he is about is as subtle as a brick upside the head . Sure , comedy can be this unsubtle , but I feel that the quality of his movies is inversely related to how much time he seen on screen . Take High Anxiety and Life Stinks for example - - both feature him as the lead actor and they are terribly unfunny flicks . So back to Blazing Saddles . The movie has MANY brilliant bits throughout ( such as those with Mongo or with the town's reactions to the new sheriff ) but also has such infantile segments as the " eating beans around the campfire " segment as well as Mel's acting as he plays the Governor . ENOUGH already - - get a co-director or a STRONG producer to tell him ENOUGH - - STOP ! ! ! ! But instead , the movie goes from moderately funny ( and very funny in parts ) to a horrific mess by the end . Instead of a real ending , it degenerates to a fight scene which spills over into other pictures . Is the ending original ? Maybe - - but certainly not funny . And from here on , it only gets worse . So , my recommendation is watch The Producers . It's a nearly perfect comedy - - too bad it was at the beginning of Brooks ' film career .
At first very interesting to watch but after a while it's a chore	When HISAO begins , the viewer will no doubt be wowed by the visual style of this short film . I have seen hundreds ( if not thousands ) of shorts and yet this one is unique in style - - something I can really appreciate . The film looks as if film of the man has been cut out and then superimposed on the film . I think they actually may have photocopied the film of Hisao and then painstakingly cut it all out ( somewhat like the amazing film COPY SHOP - - but still quite different ) . You really have to see it to believe it and the film looks like something you'd see in a modern art gallery . Unfortunately , apart from the arresting visuals , the film itself is amazingly boring and repetitive . You see him eat , move , make music ( though you can't hear it ) and there is no emotion throughout or interaction with others . It's like he's in his own private little world . And , in an odd touch , when he tires at the end of each day , he's shot with an arrow and falls asleep . Very artsy , yes . . . but not at all entertaining after the initial shock wears off and the viewer is left to watch long and repetitive bits . This short was in part four of the " Short Cinema Journal " - - a film I rented from Netflix but which appears to have originally been a monthly film series for people who like mediocre modern short films AND love to have the DVD chock full of commercials . I have so far tried two of the Journal's DVDs and felt enraged at the horrible way that a viewer needs to navigate the disk in order to see the films . Talk about an over-produced and overly complicated way of doing this ! While I have and will continue to see as many shorts as I can , I really doubt if I'll bother with the Journals because of these factors .
This movie was far from a masterpiece	This movie , though spectacular at times , has a major problem regrading not understanding just WHO its audience is . If it is traditional Christians , they will be offended by the nudity in the film and the MINOR problem where Jesus dies and STAYS dead ( one character says " he's dead " and the other says " yes but he's in our heart forever " and that's how the movie concludes ) . If the audience is made up of atheists or agnostics , then they probably aren't too inclined to watch a religious epic in the first place ! So who's left to watch it ? Spectacular stunts , decent acting and an amazing scope make watching this movie interesting and some may want to see it for these reasons or because of its historical value . An interesting note - - during the ship battle , the leader of the pirates had a head impaled on his sword - - an unusual little touch , indeed ! Overall , this movie needed to be remade and the 1959 version is spectacularly better ! They are indeed like 2 totally different films .
Considering when it was made , this is a very effective propaganda piece	The film begins with a group of employees carpooling to work . It seems that they hardly know each other but they all work at the nearby defense plant . The driver breaks the usual silence by telling them that since they really don't know each other , he's been telling his wife stories about each of them . Now , he needed to confess this because the wife is insisting he invite them all to a party ! From this point on , the film is a long series of flashbacks where you get to learn more about each character as well as why they are now working for the airplane factory . I think that much of the impact of this film is lost today unless you understand the context . The United States was in the middle of WWII and Hollywood felt a strong obligation to aid in the war effort by producing films that encouraged the people at home to do their best to support their country . At the time , a film like this would have been quite popular and few would have second-guessed the producers and writers for making such a sentimental film . So it is in this context that I hope viewers watch this film - - after all , it's easy to see the film as hard to believe now , but at the time this was timely and important . As for the technical merits of the film , the script is rather interesting - - with some of the vignettes being excellent and a couple being just okay . The acting is good and it's nice to see a young Robert Ryan in one of his first films as well as the reliable old character actor , John Carradine in one of his more " normal " roles .
A cute comedy for the 21st century	The film begins with a lady hearing from her doctor's office that she is pregnant . Well , it appears that's the last thing she was expecting from her physical exam and she has a predicament . How will she tell her partner . . . especially since her partner cannot be the father because she's a woman ! This is clearly a comedy for the 21st century , as this topic probably never might have been addressed until recently . Overall , an interesting idea and an enjoyable film that is good for a small laugh or two . My only complaint is that the film is so short that there just isn't much time to develop the story or come to the conclusion .
Practically the same film as THE CLOWN AND THE ALCHEMIST	In the late 1890s and up to almost WWI , the Frenchman , Georges Mlis , made a huge number of wonderful short films that were significantly better than his competition . Instead of the usual dull 30 seconds to a minute and a half of static filming of mundane subjects ( such as the work done by the Lumiere brothers or Edison ) , his films abounded with great camera trickery and wild stories . This was probably inspired by the fact he was a magician and then a film maker . His work was so popular that soon other film makers copied his films . Some made broad copies in the style of Mlis whereas others copied the films nearly exactly - - never crediting the source - - though they were invariably inferior films . This film appears to actually be a case of an idea " borrowed " from Mlis and then re-made almost immediately by Edison in at least two versions - - THE CLOWN AND THE ALCHEMIST and HOOLIGAN ASSISTS THE MAGICIAN . Both are very similar with all kinds of stop-motion magic that by today's and even Mlis standards very crudely done . This one is slightly better than THE CLOWN AND THE ALCHEMIST - - partly because a film crew member isn't accidentally shown in several shots - - as he IS in the other Edison film !
Very interesting . . . too bad the films made during this era just weren't that good	Between 1941 and 1945 , Laurel and Hardy made six rather mediocre films for Fox studios . These six films as well as another film for MGM and RKO were all sub-par - - mostly because these studios didn't have the same special touch for making Laurel and Hardy films that Hal Roach Studios had . The boys were there , but the films themselves were very much unlike their earlier efforts . Some of this no doubt was due to their advancing age as well as the repetitive nature of the films , but most of the problem seemed due to a real ambivalence by these larger studios for the team . Instead of allowing them creative control and asking for their input , they were simply handed scripts by hacks and were expected to follow them exactly and with no improvisation . That was just nuts , but the powers that be demanded it . However , despite all these deficiencies , this documentary that was prepared for the DVD release of the six Fox films seems to indicate that these films were STILL Hollywood gold . While I have recently seen all six and agree they aren't collectively as bad as some books on the team have asserted , they certainly weren't much better than genial time-passers . The best of them , JITTERBUGS and THE BULLFIGHTERS were perhaps a bit better and the worst , THE BIG NOISE , was like a giant migraine - - certainly not the great films the documentary claims . However , when not shamelessly promoting these mediocre films , the documentary gave some very nice insight into the team outside of the camera - - particularly regarding Stanley . The final portion about some kids who often visited with the genial Mr . Laurel was really touching and actually made the whole thing worth while . While Stan's personal life had problems ( several failed marriages ) , it was nice to hear what a sweet fellow he was to ordinary fans .
Much better than I'd expected	While I am a huge fan of Japanese films , I don't care for giant monster films . While Godzilla and the like have huge followings , seeing a guy running around in a rubber monster suit does nothing for me . Because of this AND the fact that the film was made by Toho Studios ( home of ' Zilla ) AND the director of many of these films ( Ishir Honda ) , my expectations were very low . Fortunately , my fears were unfounded and H-MAN turned out to be a decent film - - with an interesting plot and decent dubbing ( though I would have preferred it to be subtitled ) . The film begins with some drug dealers stealing some drugs . However , unexpectedly , one of the men suddenly vanishes and all that is left of him is his clothes ! ! What happened and where he went was a mystery and so far the film reminded me of THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN , where in the town the people were missing and all that was left were their clothes and some powder . However , the similarities to this Michael Crichton film / novel seem to end there and it really seems more like a variation on the film THE BLOB ( also 1958 ) . The police go on the assumption that the criminal is alive ( and naked ) somewhere and refuse to consider anything else . So , when a young scientist insists that he knows what happens , they naturally ignore him completely ( even though they have no leads ) . He insists that nuclear testing ( THE 1950s cause of all evil in horror films ) created a monster that could dissolve people almost instantly but is forced to work on his own . Along the way , he falls for the missing gangster's lady friend and together they both set out to prove it . Eventually , after several folks are dissolved by this evil slime , the cops FINALLY admit that the scientist might just be right ! And , in a very radical departure from what they'd been doing , they order the sewers of Tokyo to be flooded with gasoline and ignited to kill the beasts ( which , apparently , isn't all that hard to kill - - unlike most nuclear mutants ) . But , the girl is kidnapped and carried into the sewers , so it's up to the studly scientist to come to her rescue and save the city - - at the same time ( what a guy ! ! ) . While a lot of the film is the standard " nuclear slime dissolves the masses " film , it manages to do a good job thanks to better than normal dubbing , a decent story and a monster that isn't nearly as laughable as Godzilla , Rodan or Mothra ! ! Good old 50s horror entertainment for all .
short but not bad	As the movie was released in 1910 , it was of course a very short one-reeler - - like most films of the day . However , only a year later , D . W . Griffith was now making slightly longer films and he did a remake , of sorts , of this film and stretched it from the original 13 minutes to 33 in ENOCH ARDEN . A man marries and goes to sea . The boat is lost and they find three corpses that wash up on the shore . The married guy is not among them , but he is presumed to be lost at sea . The widow never remarries but she remains just in case he shows up as well as to raise their only child . Towards the end , a silly plot device is revealed , as the husband is alive and has amnesia ! ! ! When he stumbles onto his old stomping grounds after many , many years , he remembers everything and returns to his faithful bride . That's about it .
Despite not being at all believable , it's a pretty interesting morality tale	This is an interesting little short from D . W . Griffith that is all about the evils of greed . It's a pretty obvious and heavy-handed tale but it somehow redeems itself by providing a horrific and rather interesting end to the old skinflint . It seems in the world of Griffith , people NEVER get an ordinary " comeuppance " , but are killed in the most dramatic and extreme ways - - such as when an unfaithful woman and her lover are sealed away in a room behind a brick wall in THE SEALED ROOM or women with obnoxiously large hats are ripped out of their seats by a giant iron claw in THOSE AWFUL HATS . And , I , for one , like these moments . They are silly but very watchable as they appeal to the non-intellectual that hides within us all !
a little bit good and a little bit bad rolled into one	This film DESPERATELY needed editing and a re-write . As a die-hard Python fan , I had to see this movie and really wanted to like it a lot more than I did . Yes , I knew that not all the Monty Pythoners were in it , but many were and I was ready for big laughs . And , there were quite a few big laughs ( particularly in the first half of the movie ) - - making this film better than many other non-Python films made by ex-Pythoners ( such as the dreadful JABBERWOCKY and ERIK THE VIKING - - yuck ! ) . However , if you are a huge Python fan , the only Pythoner whose part was worth a nickel was the title character , so ably played by Graham Chapman - - he was terrific . John Cleese was fine but was only in the movie for a cameo and Eric Idle was never less funny ( except in 102 Dalmatians - - - YUCK ! ) . As for the non-Pythoners , some were exceptional ( Madeline Kahn , the Doctor and a few others ) and some were so annoying I wanted to kill them ( particularly the unfunny Cheech and Chong - - who ruined the last 20 minutes of the film ) . How could the movie , with so many wonderful moments , also go flat so often ? Whatever the reasons ( other than Cheech and Chong ) , the movie just failed to deliver and I feel it was a mostly forgettable experience - - with some great moments sprinkled in here and there .
Not a great film , but very watchable and slightly better than average for the genre	In this episode of the Falcon , Tom Lawrence is investigating a theft of war bonds and murder . Considering it was made during WWII , it isn't surprising that they added the patriotic angle - - something that happened in other similar films , such as some of the Sherlock Holmes and Charlie Chan movies . This is a pretty good Falcon movie that stars Tom Conway ( real-life brother of George Sanders who had played the Falcon in several earlier films ) . While not his best of the series ( for example , I liked THE FALCON AND THE CO-EDS and THE FALCON'S BROTHER just a bit more ) , it was enjoyable and engaged me . However , no matter how good this film was , I found myself comparing it to the earlier Sanders films again and again . While there is a lot of similarity between the actors ( both physically and in their melodious voices ) , the earlier films seemed to have a bit more energy and charm - - probably because by now the series seemed a bit formulaic and predictable . Still , for a B-detective series film from the era , it's slightly better than average and is definitely worth a watch . By the way , the Harriet Hilliard who plays one of the ladies that turns the Falcon's head is the same Harriet from " The Ozzie and Harriet Show " . While competent in the film , she didn't seem especially like the ladies the Falcon usually fell for or rescued .
The series is sliding towards mediocrity	The Falcon is approached by a college girl at the beginning of the film . A professor died recently and she knows it's a murder even though they say it was a natural death . Before he has a chance to investigate , the impulsive and annoying girl steals his car - - forcing him to go to the school to retrieve it ( and thus get pulled into the investigation ) . As the film unfolds in a rather unremarkable and far-fetched plot , we meet a set of characters who all could have killed the professor - - who , it turns out , did NOT die due to natural causes . When one of the suspects is then clearly murdered , the police become involved as well - - and as usual , they are about as much help as a pilot's license to a fish ! In the end , through some spurious reasoning , the Falcon figures out the murderer - - leading to a very cool scene at the edge of a cliff . While this is not a bad detective film , it did seem that since the earlier Falcon films ( with George Sanders , actor Tom Conway's real-life brother ) that the series went into a bit of a decline . Part of it might be because I miss Sanders in the lead role , though Conway looks and especially sounds so much like him I doubt this is the main reason . I think the problem is that the original formula is gone . There is no great sidekick ( such as Allen Jenkins ) , no fiance and no glib remarks by the Falcon . In fact , it's the glibness that I think sets the earlier films apart from the later ones , as the earlier films had lots of wonderful lines - - full of sarcasm and zip . This was especially noticeable since I had watched Sanders ' second Falcon film and then this one just a few hours later . Still , despite its deficiencies , it is a worthwhile B-detective series film - - just don't expect any spark to set it apart from the many rival series at the other studios . By the way , the psychology professor says of himself " I am a medical doctor and a psychologist " . Actually , if he were an MD , then this would make him a psychiatrist - - a distinction that should have been noted by the script writer . Psychiatrists don't like to be referred to as psychologists and vice-versa , plus their jobs are often quite different ( psychiatrists generally use medication to treat mental illnesses , psychologists cannot legally do this and use counseling to treat problems ) . Oh , and one last thing . While the Falcon was sorely missing his usual sidekick and flustered fiance , I did like the three young triplets . They were pretty amusing in a " huey , Dewey and Louie " sort of way , plus their brief song was a nice and enjoyable piece - - certainly much more so than the other needless songs placed into the film . Competent overall but still somewhat lacking . Perhaps this was due to their being three Falcon films in 1943 and three more in 1944 , and so with all these films a bit less care was being taken in production .
Potentially interesting story handled relatively poorly	This is a D . W . Griffith short starring Mary Pickford as " Wilful Peggy " . Peggy is a spirited girl who catches the eye of a rich older man during the Colonial period in our history . Despite not really knowing her or courting her , he asks for her hand in marriage and they inexplicably marry . This is hard to understand because the diminutive Mary is kind of an amazon woman who is " feisty and then some " . Once married , she does not fit in very well in high society and soon runs off with her husband's nephew . Despite leaving her husband with another man AND going to an inn with him , she is not interested in doing the dirty deed and attacks the man when he touches her ! The hubby comes in just as she's beating up the nephew and Mary is so busy doing her " Calamity Jane " impersonation , that the husband sneaks back home without Mary knowing he was even there . Then , she quickly realizes her hubby is a great guy after all and she returns home to dote on him . While the overall story idea is kind of cute , the film is so rushed and sloppy that the good costumes and story idea are overshadowed . But , since it was made in 1910 and the budget ( relatively speaking ) is amazingly high for its time , it is a decent tale . However , unless you are a major fan of the silents or a film historian , I doubt if you would enjoy this film .
Far , far better than the horrible title would imply	This movie is about an invasion of the planet from deep within the bowels of the Earth . Little stupid looking beings ( that look a lot like the old Cootie game from Schapper ) invade the brains of unsuspecting humans and begin doing their evil bidding . With a title like THE BRAIN EATERS , this sounded like an astoundingly bad movie - - and that's something I can't resist ! Older schlock films are a guilty pleasure for me , as I know I should hate them but enjoy them for a laugh now and again . And , with a terribly low score of 4 , I sure expected it to be bad . Wow , did it come as a surprise when I did watch this super-low budget film , as in many ways it was quite entertaining and clever - - - and deserved a score much higher . In fact , almost all the reviews for the film give it a 5 or above - - yet , incongruously , there is an overall score of 4 ! . Given that there is practically no budget , I was surprised that the film was pretty well written and the acting wasn't bad - - I really expected so much less . Now I am not saying this is Shakespeare - - this is a 50's sci-fi film that seems awfully similar to contemporary films such as INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS . And while it will never come close to the quality of great 50's sci-fi , it is a touch better than average and better than films with five and ten times the budget . While my score of 6 may seem high for such a modest film , considering how successful the end product was and how little the outlay , I think it is well earned . By the way , although he's heavily disguised with a cheesy and very large wig AND he's within a veil of steam , it's Leonard Nimoy as the leader of the little buggers .
Pretty good but a tad uneven	This is a decent Three Stooges featuring Moe , Curly and Larry . Unlike their other shorts , this one has the team working for a charity show for workers at a defense plant and so they can do many of their old and familiar vaudeville routines - - particularly the " Niagara Falls " bit ( also done in 1944 by Abbott and Costello in one of their films ) . The problem is that the Niagara Falls bit is awfully familiar stuff and the ladies who appear in the show with them are a major distraction . Sure , they are included as love interests for the boys but having them do a majorly lame and dull dance routine in the show was a very flat moment in an otherwise decent short . It's watchable to fans and non-fans alike , but it's not one of their best outings . Still , it beats any of the stuff they did with Joe Besser and Joe DeRita !
Pretty good for 1911 , but otherwise it's a reasonably forgettable film	This film will most likely NOT change you into a fan of early films or the once-famous actor , John Bunny , who stars in this film . However , when the film was made , it was a pretty good picture and his fans loved it . Nowadays , you might be bored by the overly simple plot , but for 1911 it was actually pretty good in this regard also - - with some slapstick humor and an " evil stepmother " theme that was pretty popular in its day . Mr . Bunny ( he's not a rabbit - - that's his real name ) is a rich widower who has an obnoxious little daughter who he dotes over continually . However , he is advised my his aunt that the child needs more discipline in the form of a strict governess . He agrees and is sexually fixated on the nasty governess ' hair - - so much so that he not only ignores how mean she is but asks her to marry him ! This plot line isn't very believable and when seen today , this is a bit hard to take . However , the marriage is averted when a housekeeper takes action - - convincing the brat to cut off the nasty governess ' hair while she is sleeping . Since Mr . Bunny only loved the lady for her hair , the wedding is off and the man and child live happily ever after ! A strange plot , I know , but a lot of fun to watch - - especially when the hair is whacked off and the old battle-axe is left with nothing to recommend her .
pretty much like an extended episode of STAR TREK : TNG	The above comment really wasn't meant as an insult . While this film is not a great Star Trek film and quickly fades from your mind after you see it , it is still a well-made movie and is worth a look - - especially if you've already invested your time in seeing the other films of the series . In this film , the Federation , very uncharacteristically , makes a dirty deal with one race from one planet to wipe out another on another planet and colonize it for themselves . The crew of the Enterprise is shocked this could have occurred , but since they are the ultimate arbiters of the Prime Directive , they come to the aid of the beleaguered natives . It's nice to see Anthony Zerbe in the film . He was a perennial slime-ball character actor from the 60s and 70s that hasn't been seen very much in recent years .
Very well done . . . . but a little of this goes a very long way	This animated film from Canada is very well made but it's also a film that probably most viewers would probably dislike . As an art film , you have to respect the time and energy it went into it but commercially it just isn't very satisfying . The film consists of images scratched onto a black background . The film consists of a variety of odd shapes and designs with no anthropomorphic images at all . The images appear and disappear and seem to move to the music . In fact , this is the part that impressed me so much - - the animation and music did film perfectly together . However , after initially being impressed , I soon grew tired of this . Even though the film was short , it wasn't short enough for me and a little of this seems to go a very long way . Overall , interesting and you have to respect the effort but also not a particularly enjoyable film to watch .
ARRGGHH ! ! ! Like other Monogram Studios Chan movies , how can anyone score this a 10 ?	Okay , I must admit that I generally DO like B-movies and series films from the 1940s . I like to watch The Falcon , The Saint , Sherlock Holmes and even Charlie Chan - - they are escapist fun . Predictable and occasionally poorly written ? Sure , . . . but still fun . So , despite my love for the genre , I am still in complete shock that so many people gave this ordinary little film a 10 on IMDb ! ! Come on , people , this is NOT " high art " or even an especially memorable film and the IMDb ratings become irrelevant if such a film is given ridiculously inflated scores ! I would really LOVE to know what scores the people that give this movie a 10 gave to OTHER films . Do they give them all 10s or are they scoring films like GONE WITH THE WIND , BEN HUR , CHARIOTS OF FIRE or ORDINARY PEOPLE with lower scores ? ! I'm just dying to know . Okay , as for the movie itself , it's pretty much what you'd expect from a later Charlie Chan movie from Mongram Studios . Unlike the original Chan movies ( which featured higher production values , better scripts and Warner Oland ) , this movie was made by a " Poverty Row " studio ( Monogram ) - - known for exceptionally low budgets and a quick turnaround on the films ( completing many in just days - - regardless of the aesthetics ) . While a little more interesting because of its plot involving phony psychics and mind control as well as an unusual appearance by one of Chan's daughters instead of the ubiquitous # 1 , 2 or 3 son , it is still an essentially low-budget formulaic film . And , as usual , Chan is supported by the moronic antics of Mantan Moreland - - a Black actor sure to offend many modern viewers due to his stereotypical characterization ( as a scared and rather dim-witted Black man as " comic relief " ) . Despite this MAJOR problem with all the Monogram films , I try to overlook it and understand it was typical of the 1940s ( sadly ) . The film , while occasionally very interesting , isn't well-written or produced and probably will satisfy Chan fans but fail to convince others of the merits of the series .
A relatively run-of-the-mill Charlie Chan outing	Aside from this being the first appearance of Mantan Moreland in a Charlie Chan movie , there's not a lot about this film to distinguish it from a long line of Monogram Pictures Charlie Chan movies . In other words , it's a pretty standard B-movie mystery . While it is a fun picture and I enjoy Charlie Chan pictures , I just can't understand the very biased group of individuals that give EVERY Charlie Chan movie a score of 10 on IMDb . Have these individuals no shame ? ! After all , the movies were always intended to be light entertainment - - not films that would rival GONE WITH THE WIND or THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES . In many ways this film is similar to THE JADE MASK - - a Chan film that came out a year later . Both involve scientists working on War Department projects who are murdered and their top secret plans were stolen ( why , by the way , these super-duper top secret projects are always carried out in their homes and not a secure facility is beyond me ) . And , like so many other Chan films , there are very fancy murders - - with gadgets and gizmos instead of a hard blow to the head or a bullet in the chest ! Believable ? ! Not in the least - - but also highly entertaining . While this and most of the Monogram Chan movies are not as good as the earlier series by Fox , this is still pretty good and a lot of fun . PS - - Yes , I KNOW that the guy playing Chan is some white guy and Mantan Moreland plays a stereotypical " dumb , scared black guy " . This was considered pretty acceptable in its day , though it will no doubt offend many today .
Very entertaining but stupid	Okay , if you are looking for realism , then this film is NOT for you ! This early D . W . Griffith short is a very entertaining film that just seems stupid and totally improbable if you think too much about what's happening on screen ! A miser hoards his money . However , unlike some film misers , he's a nice guy and loves a neighbor's cute little daughter . Some scumbags want his money but can't open the safe , so they threaten the girl's life in the most over-the-top and unbelievable way I could imagine - - but , it's also pretty entertaining in a brain-numbing sort of way . And , of course , like all Griffith morality plays , everything is sure to work out in the end . Plus , uncharacteristically , Griffith has the girl and the man saved through the actions of a vagrant who'd been ordered to leave town - - none other than Lionel Barrymore !
An agreeable time-passer	This is a decent little film but more importantly it's a chance for the star ( John Carradine ) to show he COULD be a leading man and not just a cheesy supporting actor . In fact , I was THRILLED to see this film because only a couple weeks ago , I saw Carradine's worst film ( BILLY THE KID VERSUS Dracula ) . This film helped to wash away the foul stench of failure from my mind - - at least temporarily . The film is , not surprisingly , a low-budget movie . Carradine played in many of these type of films but this one is different because it is actually well written , acted and engaging . And while it is NOT going to change your life by watching it , it does deliver excellent B-movie thrills .
Far from perfect but engaging	Before I review the film , I should point out that Audrey Tautou does NOT star in this film despite DVD covers that show just her on the cover . In the film , she works at the Venus Beauty Salon but the film actually centers on Nathalie Baye and her rather bizarre life . Ms . Tautou is clearly a supporting actress , but following the amazing success of her film " Amlie " , unscrupulous people changed the box art to make it look like it was a starring role for her . For her part , however , he is probably at her most radiant and sensual . As for the film , it's about period of several months in the life of Baye . Baye plays a middle-aged sexually compulsive woman who loves casual sex but is deeply afraid of a deeper commitment . A strangely compulsive younger man suddenly begins stalking her - - announcing that he loves her even though they had never formally met ! In the midst of this very screwed up relationship , you see the co-workers in their relationships , though these are never explored in the same depth as Baye's . If you are looking for some depth or meaning in this film , I sure couldn't find any . While some might see Baye as a " work in progress " and by the end of the film she's finally found happiness , this isn't clearly established and based on her life so far , this seemed unlikely . I certainly hope nobody sees this film and thinks Baye is a role model or even particularly likable . However , it is a well done portrait of a very flawed woman and the acting is very good - - just not particularly pleasant . By the way , there is quite a bit of explicit nudity in this film , as one of the customers is an exhibitionist . Adults should consider this before showing the movie to kids .
Incredibly entertaining . . . and understandably a cult classic .	This is an amazing 1950s movie because it is both highly entertaining and really cheesy fun - - making it a sure cult classic . Unlike some anti-drug teenager cult films like REEFER MADNESS , this one actually has decent production values and performances - - though I'll also admit there is more than enough cheese to please the " bad film fans " out there . Russ Tamblyn plays the lead . He enters a new high school like a typhoon - - walking in like he owns the place and full of hep-cat 50s lingo . At the time , audiences must have been really shocked by his thuggish ways , though today his antics just look pretty silly and way , way over the top . Later in the film , however , you discover that his " new thug on the block " routine is just an act , as he's really working with the cops to get to the bottom of a drug ring selling to rich kids at a local high school . The film's pluses are it's hip lingo and beatnik ways . It's hip style is highly reminiscent of films such as BUCKET OF BLOOD and it is really fun to watch the " wild and untamed youth running wild " ( they are about the tamest " untamed youth " I've seen since WILD ONE ) . Also , the plot isn't bad - - making this like a hipster version of Film Noir . One of the negatives were the occasionally over the top performances - - especially Mamie Van Doren as she plays a cat in heat who is desperate for action . She was perhaps the horniest lady on celluloid in the 1950s ! Again , though , this was cheesy but also rather fun to watch as she acted like a sex addict going through withdrawal . However , the biggest problem with the film by far is that most of the " teenagers " in this film were actually too old even to play college students ! Of the main cast , the youngest was Michael Landon who was 22 and yet they have them all playing high schoolers ! It's laughable but again because it's all so funny and entertaining , I think it really adds to the film's kooky charm . So the final verdict is that this is a highly watchable and pretty well made camp classic . Is it art ? Of course not - - but that's what makes it all work somehow .
yet another French film about adultery	Hmm , . . . . I've seen a lot of French films in the last year and have found that quite a few of them concern adultery . So , I found myself a bit tired of the plot line already before I even began watching this film . Carole Bouquet is a middle-aged woman married to Gerard Depardieu . She's an awfully pretty lady who's a housewife and he's a very traditional working man . Unknown to him , she wants more out of life . She never tells him anything so he assumes the marriage is fine . Well , he's out of work and needs a job so he has to work several hours away and only come home on the weekends . Since she is bored , she doesn't try very hard not to become involved with another married man . During all this , she does a lousy job of concealing it from her teenage son - - eventually this selfish and carefree approach towards her son will result in consequences ( the best part of the film I think because it actually shows the damage this behavior can have on the kids ) . Depardieu finds out but doesn't respond like a clod - - in fact , he's very quick to forgive her and take her back . His character is just too decent about it . He also vows that if she's bored , he'll do anything to change things . But , she's extremely self-centered and runs off with her lover . I actually liked the film better than most of the French " adultery movies " because you can see negative consequences . I think for those who think adultery is an evil , there's enough there to prevent the movie from glorifying it . And , interestingly enough , I could also see the movie being taken as a " do it if it makes you feel good " film by those who think adultery is a legitimate alternative . It's interesting , though , how often in films the message appears to be that it is your partner's job to make you happy - - and isn't YOUR responsibility to make yourself happy . That's just my " two cents worth " . I would have liked it if the film had focused more on this , but this is only a minor quibble . Well-acted and interesting , but not a great film .
In many ways the film is beautifully made - - but with one HUGE flaw	The music , the directing and acting are just fine in the movie . The only problem for me ( and others may NOT care about this ) is the basic relationship problem . Robert Redford is stunningly handsome , rather quiet , rich and conservative in the movie . So WHY would he be interested in Barbra Streisand's character ? She is loud , exceptionally opinionated , liberal and not attractive ( this is a BIG acting stretch for her , I know ) - - at least in a conventional sense . We have all heard the old saying " opposites attract " , but it is only an old saying and really isn't true . If it were , then believing this relationship would be a lot easier . The problem is , they just don't seem to have ANY common ground . If they were incompatible but had SOME mutual interests or similarities , I could buy the conflict . Fans of " Babs " no doubt think I'm a moron for not understanding or appreciating her greatness . While I may be a moron ( the jury's still out ) , most Americans either adore her or can't stand her films . I'm one of the latter ones .
Great in 1943 , today it's just a bit of a curiosity	This is the type of musical that Hollywood did best and it sure was popular with the public . However , 65 years later , the film has lost much of its appeal due to changes in movie styles as well as the fact that the film's value as a propaganda tool is now lost - - after all , the war has been over since 1945 . So what was rousing and exciting then to the folks at home now just seems rather dated and slow - - though the film still does have very good production values . The film is basically a bazillion patriotic songs rolled up into the thinnest of plots . Frankly , I think the film could have been a lot better had the story received greater emphasis and they'd dropped a few musical numbers . This would have given the film a much needed infusion of energy - - though again , back during the war years , this wasn't as big a concern . The story , such as it is , begins during WWI . A group of soldiers ( George Murphy , Alan Hale , George Tobias and Charles Butterworth and others ) are interested in performing a musical to raise morale and the when they are given permission , the show is a huge hit . Many years later , when WWII arrives , the children of these same men and others put on their new and timely stage show . It's a major success and the soldiers are sent on a tour of the USA to increase the public's patriotism and backing of the war . There's a little more to the plot than this - - but not much . As I said , it's really just an excuse to string together tons of musical and dance numbers - - so many that you feel a bit overwhelmed . Some of the numbers are very good , the one with Irving Berlin was interesting ( not good - - just interesting from a historical sense ) and a few were rather bad . The worst was the one that was a minstrel show - - something that you'd hoped would have died out by 1943 . It was just embarrassing and makes you cringe . Also , in a few separate parts of the film , Joe Lewis made some irrelevant appearances , as he couldn't sing and was as light on his dancing feet as a rhino ! He just looked very lost but you can't blame him - - he was ordered to appear in the film and since he was a sergeant , he had no choice ! If I could , I'd give the film a score for 1943 ( 8 ) and one for today ( 4 or 5 ) . But , since I can't , I'll give it a 6 . Interesting from a historical standpoint but pretty tough going at times , though some of the songs were catchy and the color cinematography was lovely . As a history teacher , I was a bit concerned with a couple reviews that gave the film a 1 . It wasn't nearly that bad and some of the reasons they gave it such a low score seemed petty . One was a diatribe about why they hated Ronald Reagan and really didn't review the film itself . Another was very critical about how the film was propaganda . My answer to that is YES it is propaganda and so what ? ! Given that it was a life and death struggle for survival in WWII only a knucklehead would see this sort of propaganda as an evil ! Should Hollywood have either ignored the war or done pro-Hitler films instead ? ! Read your history books or talk to some vets before you make such silly assertions .
Not really a blaxploitation film	While this movie is set mostly in the Black neighborhoods of Philadelphia , many of the Whites are quite prejudiced and many of the actors are Black , this really isn't a blaxploitation film - - though Netflix has categorized it that way on its web site . Instead , it's like a more modern version of THE STING with a multiracial cast . Mel Stewart ( " Henry Jefferson " from ALL IN THE FAMILY ) and Kiel Martin star as con-men who swindle the wrong man . The old guy they cheat out of $10 , 000 suffers a fatal heart attack when he realizes he was swindled AND he's the uncle of a mob boss - - who now has ordered the deaths of these cons . However , unlike THE STING , there is some rough language , nudity and a very , very downbeat ending . I enjoyed the film and appreciated seeing these two lesser name actors getting a chance to play leads , but hate seeing it branded with the label " blaxploitation " because many take this to mean that the film is cheap and formulaic - - which it certainly isn't . Hardly a great film , it is still well worth a look for an interesting story .
A pleasant enough flick - - nothing more	Late in his career , John Wayne made quite a few very leisurely films where he just kind of walked through the parts . Of course , considering he was pretty old and had been battling with cancer , it certainly isn't much of a surprise . What is a surprise is that he was , on occasion , able to play some of the roles he played - - such as in BRANNIGAN and his final film , THE SHOOTIST . THE TRAIN ROBBERS is such a leisurely romp . Sure , they ride their horses a lot ( probably too much , if you ask me ) , but the action scenes were pretty subdued other than a gunfight here and there and a couple punches - - sort of a kinder , gentler sort of John Wayne . This film is about a widow who wants Wayne and his friends to cross into Mexico to rescue some stolen gold and return it for the reward . Along the way , there are a lot of good moments of dialog between those in the party and , not surprisingly , the old professional Ben Johnson came off best in these scenes . While the overall film offered few big surprises , the ending was pretty exciting and for Wayne fans this is a must-see . For others , it's a pleasant enough Western - - you could certainly do a lot worse ! By the way - - Two final comments . Bobby Vinton was in the movie but you'd hardly notice . Also , in one scene , a mule knocks one of them into a huge mud puddle . Only seconds later , the same guy is barely wet at all - - an interesting continuity problem .
A nice idea .	This is a reworking of the Greek myth of Prometheus and how he gave fire to mankind . Instead of being one of the Titans , this Prometheus is a space traveler along with Athena . They have come to Earth to assess the planet's inhabitants and Athena is shocked that the humans have such a strong capacity to learn . Prometheus is excited to hear this , but mostly he's cold and wants to go back home . Unfortunately , he absentmindedly forgets to put out the fire he made to keep them warm - - leaving this " secret " for the humans . The idea of the Greek gods being aliens is pretty cool and is somewhat like the plot of STARGATthough these were Egyptian gods and they were rather evil . The problem , though , is money . While the story idea is interesting , they obviously had no funds at all . The film is made outside in the snow and there are not real sets , high tech equipment ( other than a gizmo that is obviously just a TV remote ) . Because of this , I'd really love to see what these folks could do with a budget - - any sort of budget .
trivial fun	Okay , this is far from the best film either John Wayne or Marlena Dietraich ever did . Sure , it's very silly and cartoon-like at times ( especially due to the supporting performances by Billy Gilbert , Mischa Auer and Broderick Crawford ) , but still it does manage to entertain . Dopey fun ? Sure , you betcha . John Wayne was young and quite dashing in the film and I could certainly see how this movie helped his career . Marlena Dietrich plays pretty much the same type character she played in films such as DESTRY RIDES AGAIN or THE SPOILERS - - you know , the worldly lady with the " heart of gold " . This movie is a little different from her others because she seems to sing MORE than ever . Some will like this , but I don't particularly care for this . In fact , I have never liked the films of Dietrich as I always found her WAY too unreal-looking and I thought it was silly how men act when they see her in movies ( sort of like the way guys acts when they see a " swell dame " in a Tex Avery cartoon ) . Oh , well , . . . I guess it was just something peculiar about the 30s and 40s . Apart from a decent performance by Wayne and some cute , but slight , comedic support , the movie is only about average . It's not as good as the other two films mentioned in this review but it's an agreeable time-passer . Fun but forgettable . PS - - Although I am not exactly an expert on naval ships , Wayne's ship changes significantly ( it's obviously 2 different ships ) - - one is a WWI vintage one with old-fashioned towers while the other is very modern for the time . A true naval expert might even be able to figure out if they are even different types of ships ( like a cruiser and a battleship ) - - but I KNOW they are NOT the same boat . Not a major mistake but one you way want to look for if you see the film .
Nice idea - - but it didn't need to be THAT crude	A couple with severe marital difficulties enter the office of their counselor and just begin screaming and unloading on each other - - so much so that the poor guy behind the desk doesn't have a chance to say anything . When he tries , they just continue arguing . Finally , he's able to get them to stop - - at which point the film takes a lovely little twist . The idea behind THE ONE O'CLOCK and the final punch line were great - - very clever indeed . However , there are some exceptionally crude lines in this little short that are bound to shock most viewers and I don't know why they had to have the lines in the short - - especially because if they delete one line in particularly , this is a short you could show your kids . But , as is , this is a short you'll want to watch when the kids are asleep or visiting friends or are locked safely away in their cages . Too bad . With a tiny , tiny bit of editing , this film could easily earn a score of 8 .
despite bad miscasting , not a bad flick	Once you ignore the fact that there is almost no chemistry between the leads , John Wayne and Sophia Loren , you will probably enjoy this Indiana Jone-like movie . It's seldom shown on American TV , so you may have a hard time finding it . Perhaps this is because these stars have certainly made better films . I honestly think part of the problem with the chemistry is that the love between the two characters only reveals itself towards the end but most of the problem is that in hindsight you wonder WHO thought these two looked good together ? It just didn't seem natural . Most of this , I think , was due to Wayne's being miscast as an adventurer in the African desert . You just don't expect to see Wayne there . Now if it had been the Mojave Desert in the good old USA , then it would have seemed more plausible .
Lots of sordid and interesting story elements , but also suffers from poor pacing	The movie begins with Lon Chaney and his wife doing a stage magic show . Shortly after they finish , the wife runs off with her lover AND the lover attacks Chaney and leaves him paralyzed from the waist down - - and all this occurs in the first few minutes of the film ! Several months later , Chaney finds his wife dead in a church with a baby that he assumes is her lover's child . What an odd coincidence , huh ? ! The movie then picks up about 18 years later . What has Chaney done with his life in order to get revenge on his wife's lover ? Yeah , exactly what any other man would do - - follow the guy to Africa , start a cult among the natives so you can be their chief and bring the now addicted baby ( who is now 18 and going through DTs ) there to torment her in front of her biological father , naturally ! This is all very creepy and convoluted and just plain weird . In a way , it's very entertaining but also pretty ridiculous . This story is one of the more bizarre tales I have seen in a silent film , though pretty consistent with director Browning and Chaney's styles . And while many of the story elements are quite scary and unsettling , the pacing of the film is a real problem - - particularly at the end of the film . Instead of wrapping everything together and dealing with the suspense , the movie just starts to bog down and becomes rather plodding . This is a real shame , as it tends to lessen the dramatic impact and slow the movie to a crawl . A truly interesting and creepy relic , but far from Lon Chaney's best film , though his ability to mimic a disabled man and pull himself along with floor with " dead legs " ( also his nickname in the film ) was incredible - - a fine job of acting on his part .
Uneven but entertaining	This is a series B-movie from MGM , and since it had a much higher budget and production values by Bs at Monogram and Columbia Studios , it was rather pretty to look at - - even if the plot was a bit silly and some of the characters were ridiculous . Walter Pidgeon went slumming in this film , as the usual A-list actor was cast as the detective , Nick Carter . His sidekick ( practically a requirement in all B-detective films ) was a highly unusual choice , as Donald Meek looked and acted nothing like the usual assistant . At first , I did not like this ( though I usually love Meek in films ) . I think this was because they made Meek's character too bizarre and downright loopy ! Him and his stupid bees - - what a dumb plot idea . However , later , when you see Meek ( one of the smallest and most harmless looking supporting actors ) beating the snot out of the Nazi spies , the film really heated up ! ! Oddly , Pidgeon seemed mostly asleep in the film - - and did very little . Most of the time , cute little Donald Meek was the one who sprang into action to save the day ! ! While I liked Meek , I definitely detested the lady detective played by Joyce Compton . While she often played ditsy ladies in films , here she is practically an imbecile and was a major hindrance to the plot . No detective is THAT stupid and I tired of her one-note performance . Still , despite its many flaws , the film was fast-paced and reasonably fun - - making it an excellent time-passer .
a genuinely odd film	Wow . This was one odd little Joan Crawford flick ! Joan is a self-centered spoiled rich lady . And then suddenly , she has a religious conversion and she spends all her energy on God . The problem is , that is soon becomes apparent that the self-centered and histrionic lady is actually the SAME person she always was - - she just annoys everyone around her in a new way by talking about God . At times , she talks as if she has somehow found a direct link to God and has " inside information " . Her conceit is incredible . And , by the end of the film , this dizzy and shallow dame is on to her next obsession . Overall , this isn't a great film - - especially since Joan's character is awfully broad and difficult to believe . But it is entertaining and strange enough to merit a look .
See the OTHER version of this same story line !	1940 was a wonderful year for " lost spouse returning " films . Both this film as well as MY FAVORITE WIFE debuted a short time apart and they are , on the surface , very , very similar movies . In MY FAVORITE WIFE , Irene Dunne is lost at sea and assumed dead . Years later , she's declared legally dead and Cary Grant ( her husband ) remarries . Dunne then returns just after the wedding and hilarity ensues . In TOO MANY HUSBANDS , Fred MacMurray is lost at sea and assumed dead . He's declared dead almost right away and Jean Arthur ( his wife ) remarried . Fred then returns to find she now has two husbands and only a little bit of hilarity ensued ! In fact , because these two films were so similar , lawsuits were launched . I really don't know how they were settled or which movie came first . All I know is that MY FAVORITE WIFE is definitely the better of the two . The fact that TOO MANY HUSBANDS was only showed on TCM for the first time a week ago is probably indication that it is the lesser films - - especially since MY FAVORITE WIFE is a commonly seen film on American cable TV . The problem is the writing . While the cast of TOO MANY HUSBANDS is just fine ( Jean Arthur , Fred MacMurray and Melvin Douglas ) , the lines they are given and the situations they are placed in just aren't as funny . In particular , Jean's character is VERY annoying at times - - as she seems like a selfish and immature person throughout the film . This is BAD , as Jean's usual screen persona is of a sweet and spunky lady - - here she in an indecisive and whiny person . Just think - - in this film , she learns she has two husbands and LIKES IT when the two guys are ready to fight it out as well as all the attention they pay her ! ! Conversely , the fact that Cary and Irene in the other film truly love each other never really is in question - - the problem is just figuring out HOW to extricate themselves from the mess ! While this is still a pretty good film ( nearly meriting a 7 ) , it just isn't in the same league as the other one . If you love old films like I do , see them both . If you only want to pick one , then the answer is pretty obvious .
Great film work , dull story	This short was in part four of the " Short Cinema Journal " - - a film I rented from Netflix but which appears to have originally been a monthly film series for people who like mediocre modern short films AND love to have the DVD chock full of commercials . I have so far tried two of the Journal's DVDs and felt enraged at the horrible way that a viewer needs to navigate the disk in order to see the films . Talk about an over-produced and overly complicated way of doing this ! While I have and will continue to see as many shorts as I can , I really doubt if I'll bother with the Journals because of these factors . TUNNEL OF LOVE is a film that looked great but didn't exactly deliver . The film was almost completely made in lovely black and white and this actually was a big plus , as the film really was enhanced by this . In particular , the film makers chose some people with tons of character in their faces and the lighting and camera work really made the most of this . While not as bizarre as many of the characters that you'd find in a Fellini film , it was a great example of casting and film making . However , despite this and a nice 50s look , the film had two problems . While the motorcycle and most of the cars had a 50s and early 60s look , some of them were modern and this just didn't fit . But , much more importantly , was that although the film work was top-notch , the story itself just seemed shallow and unsatisfying at the end . An example of great style with little substance .
Entertaining because it doesn't take itself at all seriously	This is one of those sci-fi movies of the 50s that obviously did not take itself too seriously . Sure , the typical invasion from outer space was the theme of the film , but the bug-eyed aliens are so gosh-darn cute and the costumes so cool you can't help but smile instead of becoming afraid . And , the script also takes a less than serious look at the invasion . Sure , it is a dopey martian invasion movie but it makes no attempt to be otherwise and that is why I liked the movie so much - - for what it was , it was sure fun . So , if you do watch the film , view it more as comedy and don't be too hard on this old film ! If you do , you'll find it's a delightful little time passer .
Mildly amusing but could have been a lot better	This is a low-budget Hal Roach short feature film ( at only about an hour in length ) . In the mid to late 1930s into the 40s , producer Roach began to make less and less shorts ( 15 to 20 minutes ) and began to make feature-length films averaging only about 60 minutes . Except for the TOPPER series , most of these films seemed to be only modestly successful and none of them were good enough to make up for the defection of Roach's # 1 stars - - Laurel and Hardy . TURNABOUT has a wonderful idea for a plot , though it sure wasn't handled very well at times . It's a fantasy about arguing spouses who are given the opportunity to change bodies to see what life would be like from the other point of view . In a funny scene , the couple's statue ( called " Mr . Ram " ) comes to life to say he's had enough and is tired of hearing them bicker - - hence his telling them he can do the transformation . Considering he IS a talking statue , they believe him and the results are pretty funny . The problem is that the humor in th film just isn't sustained very well - - there are too many sluggish sections and too many places where the laughs seem very corny and forced . Plus , the very best part of the film where the change occurs doesn't even come until about half-way through the movie ! With a small re-write to pick up the pace and having the transference occur much sooner could have really helped this film . Fortunately , though , the film is unique enough and has enough bright moments that it is still worth viewing - - especially if you wait until the very end - - which is VERY funny to say the least ! ! PS - - While a funny joke , there is a very off-color joke about the KKK in the film ! Given the era , this is more understandable but is one of the few times the Klan is mentioned in film ever and it also is pretty insensitive .
While a bit old fashioned it's a good film for 1928 .	I love silent films but I will be the first to admit that some plots from the early days of film tend to look a bit old fashioned and silly today . While A WOMAN OF AFFAIRS is definitely still watchable , it sure doesn't age well and today many who watch it will find the plot silly - - I know I sure did ! Despite the presence of the often overrated Greta Garbo , this film lacks believability . Don't believe any reviews that give this film astronomically high ratings simply because they love Garbo - - the script is just too flawed to merit scores of 9 or 10 . Greta and John Gilbert are in love . However , her family and his are enemies and John's father does his best to keep them apart . John is a bit of a weenie and reluctantly agrees to listen to his dad and take a job in Egypt instead of marrying Garbo . In his mind , he intends to work and make his fortune , then return to marry her . Naturally , though , this absence destroyed their plans and eventually both marry others . She marries a man who turns out to be an embezzler and kills himself on their wedding night . They don't even get a chance to consummate their marriage . However , and this makes no sense at all , Greta spends the rest of the movie being true to her husband - - preserving his image as a nice guy . Without telling people , she manages to pay off all his debts and allows everyone to think she drove him to suicide ( which , by the way , was really cool to watch ) ! This was dumb because there was no legitimate reason for this self-sacrifice - - especially when Greta's brother ( played by a young Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . ) refuses to ever talk with her or see her again and pretty much everyone else treats her like a leper . Heck , when Gilbert marries , it's AFTER this incident - - if he'd known the truth , he and Garbo surely would have married . Garbo could easily have told everyone - - thus avoiding LOTS of trouble and such glaring holes can't be ignored . Later , however , Garbo's one true friend tells Gilbert and his nasty father the truth and everyone agrees that she's a living saint and everyone ( including the wife ) give Gilbert permission to divorce and marry Garbo ! ! ! Talk about contrived and stupid ! So if the plot is so bad and tough to believe , why does it still earn a 6 ? Well , the film is lovely to look at due to nice cinematography . Also , the acting is good and they make the most of a convoluted and dopey plot . Plus , while nowadays you'd laugh at such silly and contrived plotting , for 1928 it wasn't so bad - - audiences made allowances for such plot devices . Also , note that because this film came out before the new tougher Production Code it was grittier and had plot elements that would not have been allowed if they film had come out in 1934 . Starting that year , Hollywood needed to have permission to show such violent deaths or talk positively about divorce - - something that they never would have granted .
Intentionally strange , . . . but still pretty watchable	This film is one of many short films from a DVD collection from Kino Video about silent Avant Garde films . Because of this , the films are extremely artistic but make no attempt to be commercially viable or interesting to the average person . Instead , since they are " art " , the films are often confusing and apparently pointless - - since this IS the point of the Avant Garde movement ! However , of all the many films in this collection , this is probably the most " normal " and approachable film for the common person . The short film is about a sleazy sort of bald , skinny guy who is trying to con people out of money - - passing off a counterfeit coin . However , once he amasses a tidy sum of money , other " rifraff " do their best to steal it away from him . It's all a very strange little morality play that also has a point to make about how far the German people had fallen during the poverty years of the Weimar Republic . Interesting , with some unusual camera-work and images , but probably not a film for most audiences . If you ARE looking for an " artsy " film but find this type of film I described sounds too unusual or esoteric , maybe you should try the films of the great French artist / director Jean Cocteau . Other than his BLOOD OF A POET , his other films combine artistry and Avant Garde imagery with well-constructed plots and familiar movie elements . My favorites of his films are Orphe ( Orpheus ) and La Belle et la bte ( Beauty and the Beast ) .
A pleasant enough film , but a major surprise for many looking for Harry Langdon	Considering that Harry Langdon was one of the top movie comics of the mid-1920s , this film will probably come as quite a bit of a surprise because he plays a role that isn't terribly funny - - nor was it really intended to be . Instead of a hilariously funny film , it's a pleasant little movie with a few small laughs at most . Now this isn't really a complaint , because it IS a decent film , it just isn't a slapstick or belly-laugh comedy that you might expect from Langdon . According to the stories I have read about Langdon , after some success in films it all " went to his head " and he quit the studio and started off on his own - - thinking he could write , direct and produce masterpieces . Considering that he is almost unknown today , you can tell he was not a success in this venture . In fact , for years he had a hard time getting work until Hal Roach hired him in the late 1930s to write gags or act in his new one-hour format films . I've seen quite a few of them lately , though this is only the second starring Langdon I've seen . All of them are moderately funny - - some worth seeing and some definitely not ! None of them are stylistically like Roach's Laurel and Hardy or Our Gang films , but are instead light comedies . In this one , Langdon plays a forgetful mouse of a man who has been happily married for 20 years . Infortunately , on the night of his surprise anniversary party some bizarre events conspire to make him miss the party . He had been accused of murdering a woman but instead it was only a mannequin from his department store he nicknamed " Carole " - - perhaps after actress Carole Landis who was under contract with Roach at the time . Instead of telling his wife that he was late because he was at the police station he tried to sneak back in the house . The wife naturally catches him along with a shoe and some other accessories from the mannequin and she thinks he's been having an affair . This story idea is pretty novel but unfortunately one where a SIMPLE explanation could have avoided the mess that their lives became and that is a problem . But instead of being a normal person and just telling her exactly what occurred and taking her to the police station to verify the story , we spend forty more minutes until the truth comes to light . Now understand , the film is enjoyable and worth a look - - it's just that the plot doesn't make much sense and they should have worked this out better before filming . IMDb claims it was shot in only 15 days and this would lend credence to my feeling they rushed the film before working out all the kinks . Watchable but nothing more .
Silly fun	This is a very short film , so it's hard to adequately review a film like this - - after all , it was less than four minutes long . A man is seeing a therapist - - his ex-wife in fact ! He's having a lot of odd blackouts and waking up in the darnedest places and just can't account for why it's happening . She assures him he'll be fine as she listens and gives him some calming tea . The film is funny and I enjoyed it , though I must say the ending was a bit predictable . Still , it's a film that ex-wives should particularly enjoy . By the way , psychotherapists NEVER treat family members or ex-spouses . It happens on TV , but not in real life .
Ronald Colman is great - - the movie , though , is quite stagy	One of the big reasons I sought out this film was because it starred Ronald Colman . With only a very few exceptions , his films were terribly entertaining and he was a classy actor . In this film , his acting , as always , is great . The problem is that the film as a whole is pretty forgettable . First the good . Apart from his acting , the other actors are generally good ( though his friend " Algy " is played poorly - - just too dopey and pointless a characterization ) . And , for a sound movie from 1929 , the sound quality is great . Of course it won't match films in sound quality made just a few years later , but it's obvious this was no silent movie with sound later tacked on - - which is so typical of Hollywood films of the late 20s ( and French films well into the 1930s ) . Characters moved about and even had their backs to the camera with no sound problems . Now the not so good . It is obvious that this was first a play , as the plot and pacing is very stagy and stilted . AND , the movie kept going on and on and on . The film would have best been completed in about 60 or 70 minutes , but to continue the movie they kept having the characters do really dumb things - - I mean too stupid to make any sense at all . An Example was escaping from the evil gang and instead of going to the police or running to a hidden location , they went back to the inn where the film began and just assumed the gang wouldn't think to look for them there ! Well , they DID find them and the movie continued on and on from there . It's a shame really , because with a tighter script this would have been a terrific film .
It's a bit dusty with age , but for old movie buffs it's a must	This movie hasn't aged very well , but when it debuted it was a heck of a film - - sparking many sequels as well as an entirely new genre of films , such as 42ND STREET , FOOTLIGHT PARADE and DANCING LADY . Because of this , even in spite of its many shortcomings , it's an important film historically speaking . The film may at times look like a bunch of clichs , but you should remember that although many of the plot elements would become clichd over time , here they were quite original . It was also the first all singing / all talking musical ( winning the Oscar for Best Picture ) , so it deserves to be remembered . Hank and Queenie are sisters who have come to Broadway to make it big . Hank knows they will become stars as a team and doesn't seem willing to consider any other option . Frankly , as I watched their act , I couldn't help but think that these two women had practically no chemistry as a team - - they couldn't sing or dance all that well together . Well , despite Hank's confidence , Mr . Zanfield ( a takeoff on Flo Ziegfeld ) wasn't interested in the team - - just Queenie . Queenie was not only much prettier but she also wasn't a giant pain in the neck and would take direction ! Hank was too self-confident as well as pushy and obnoxious . Her only experience had been dancing in small venues but she tried to lecture the great Zanfield on how to put on a show ! Despite Hank's general unlikability ( to some she had " pluck and determination " , to me she needed a rap in the mouth ) , she was still given a small part thanks to Queenie and Eddie's intervention . Hank , by the way , was the show's star and Hank's fianc - - that does sound a bit weird , huh ? The problem is that after a while , Eddie starts to realize that Hank's little sister , Queenie , is prettier and a nicer person . It's obvious that he is falling in love with her and vice-versa . However , both Eddie and Queenie love Hank and can't hurt her , so Queenie begins dating Jock - - a rich guy . Now up until the very end , we really DON'T know Jock is no-good , but the instant Queenie shows interest in Jock , Hank interferes and tries to split them up . This isn't a good idea , as Queenie is only dating Jock in order to get Eddie out of her system . However , the longer the film goes , the more Hank rides Queenie for dating Jock . Eventually , Queenie can't take Hank's bullying any more and runs off to the arms of Jock . Fortunately , at that moment Hank figures out the score and tells Eddie their engagement is over and encourages him to marry Queenie . Eddie confronts Jock and gets punched in the kisser . Queenie runs to him and pledges her undying love , as he was willing to stand up and fight to protect her honor . Now at this point , you assume the film is over but it goes on needlessly for about 15 more minutes . The film had a lot of energy and was unique - - a truly innovative film . There were a few cute supporting characters I liked , such as the extremely flamboyant costumer as well as the three " yes-men " . They added some nice color to the film . Oh , and speaking of color , while the color has vanished over time ( a common problem with Two-Color Technicolor ) , many of the big production numbers were shot in a primitive form of color . Also , the title song ( " Broadway Melody " ) was pretty good , but they sang it about six times during the film and four times in a row ! I chalk this up not to lousy production values but to the fact this was the first musical extravaganza . Another minor problem that for me was not really a problem was the extensive use of inter-title cards . Considering this was such an early talkie , it's not surprising that they relied a bit too much on these cards to connect scenes . Let's address rest of the people in the film . The character " Uncle Jed " was annoying and insensitive . His schtick was stuttering like Porky Pig and this got old very quickly . Also , if you haven't guessed from my above comments , Hank was just too darn unlikable and you wanted Eddie to dump her . Had she been softened up a bit ( less pushy , controlling and rude ) , then the audience would have cared more for her plight . Also , when she and Queenie have their showdown , it's one of the shrillest scenes in movie history and should have been toned down a bit . Now there are also many technical problems with the film . Many of the edits are very sloppy - - either being edited too soon or allowing pointless footage to remain that should have been shortened . Frankly , it's editing is just awful - - especially in one very long and protracted scene where Queenie just stares off in space towards the end . Also , while " Melody of Broadway " is pretty good , the rest of the songs aren't . In fact , during one song that was being sung by a guy dressed as a Roman soldier , the sound and singing was so bad I couldn't understand any of the song . This wasn't just me , either , as the film featured excellent Closed Captioning when shown on Turner Classic Movies but when it came to this song , the captioning stopped - - obviously they couldn't figure it out as well ! Also , while for 1929 the dance numbers were big and impressive , but about 1932 or 1933 , these numbers looked amazingly small , poorly choreographed and flat - - needing a strong injection of the Busby Berkely touch . An important but flawed film .
While very , very dated and preachy , it's an interesting window into this era .	I am a history teacher and I find a few of the comments about this movie disconcerting . While I am quick to admit that this film goes way overboard and is a good example of a propaganda film made during the so-called " Red Scare " , the fears concerning Soviet domination were not unfounded - - though some other reviews seem to indicate this . I remember the era and there were genuine reasons to be afraid - - nuclear war seemed imminent and the Stalin years were a recent memory when the film was made , so I can see the context for RED NIGHTMARE ( by the way kids , Stalin was bad . . . okay ! ) . Now the likelihood of the US being invaded and everyone becoming " good little Commies " was incredibly remote to say the least , though the film did a good job showing some of the ways that a totalitarian Communist system would affect the life of a common man or woman . Of course , Jack Webb's deadly earnest delivery and style is incredibly dated when seen today - - but back in 1962 , the film probably did a great job of scaring the pants off the average viewer . Seen today , it's a quaint but interesting history lesson - - showing insight into the thinking and fears of the average American . Because of this , I don't think just laughing the film off does justice to this well-made but a tad preachy short film .
Heck , it's not a great film but John C . Reilly makes it likable	There is something disarming about John C . Reilly's screen persona that makes you want to like him . In silly films such as TALLADEGA NIGHTS and WALK HARD , even if I didn't love the film ( such as with WALK HARD ) , I found myself liking the character played by Reilly - - even with his many foibles . Here , Reilly stars in a black and white short where he simply asks people " Are you the favorite person of anybody ? " . I assume the people were all actors , but the film has the look of reality about it . What was interesting is that the film got you to think about this for yourself - - a potentially sad and lonely or affirming question indeed . While nothing dramatic or life-changing , this was a likable and interesting little film .
typical preachy but well-made Griffith short	I've seen a decent number of films by D . W . Griffith and one thing I noticed is that he rarely was subtle and some of his shorts were pretty heavy-handed and preachy . This film is one of these films that is is a morality tale meant to instill the values of honesty and hard work . The film shows two parallel marriages - - one of two rich people , the other two very poor . The poor guy can't get work and ultimately resorts to stealing , while the rich guy doesn't need the money but accepts a bribe purely out of greed . When they meet , the rich guy's wife knows that both men are pretty shady characters . She gives them a talking to , and they both go back on the straight and narrow road . Familiar stuff for the 1910s and familiar stuff from the director as well .
Worth a look	Don Ameche plays a very cerebral professor who avoids dealing with his wife ( Rosalind Russell ) by over-intellectualizing their relationship . While she does love him , his refusal to act like a human being irritates her to no end - - especially when he never shows an ounce of jealousy , no matter what she does . Even when Rosalind spends time with her husband's publisher , the lecherous Van Heflin , Ameche refuses to act jealous and he takes his marriage for granted . At first , I found Russell's demands for jealousy to be petty , but after a while I wondered how any woman could live with the cold and annoying Ameche . Only later in the film when Ameche loosened up and showed his wife that he cared was everyone able to live happily ever after . This is a little comedy from MGM that tries very hard to entertain and generally does , though at times the humor does seem a tad forced . However , despite this and the shallowness of the script , the actors are fun to watch and the film has a certain kooky charm that make it a nice , though not especially deep , time-passer . Worth a look , but that's really about all .
You'll love this if you loved THE RABBIT OF SEVILLE , . . . .	The problem for me is that I did NOT like THE RABBIT OF SEVILLE very much . Both that and this short are opera-based Bugs Bunny cartoons that are scored extremely high on IMDb despite the fact that most kids probably hate these toons . When I was a kid watching the Bugs Bunny Show , I often went to the bathroom or got something to eat when they came on . They are definitely marketed for a more adult and opera-loving audience . And , as an adult I still don't particularly like these cartoons . The basic problem is that these cartoons so fundamentally mess with the Bugs Bunny formula . Yes , Elmer Fudd is here trying to " kill the wabbit " , but putting all this violence to opera and then having Bugs seemingly die at the end is just plain wrong ! To me , this seems like a cartoon geared towards Niles and Frasier Crane , not the average bloke !
Interesting but probably not to everyone's taste	This film was one of the first by the director in over twenty years . It seemed that he had run afoul of Iran's Revolutionary Guard and he was banned from making films - - his permits being rejected again and again . I have no idea why he was suddenly allowed to make films , but I'd sure like to know why he was denied the right to make films as well as why he didn't leave the country in order to make movies . Oddly , this film seems to be autobiographical - - with the director also playing the leading character - - a man exactly like the director himself . He is getting older and begins to contemplate his own death . Because he is so obsessed with his demise , this film is NOT recommended for seriously depressed people , as it might push them over the edge ! Plus , many non-depressed people will no doubt dislike the somber and sad mood throughout most of the film . Frankly , it made me feel pretty awful watching it . However , near the end , this very conventional film becomes very unconventional - - with some surreal sequences about death that are somewhat reminiscent of a Berman film . Here is where the film excels , though waiting for these segments is a bit of a chore . As a result of this and the tone of the film , this is an interesting film that is probably not to everyone's taste .
Wow - - it's like I've seen this all before ! But at least the ending is different	Wow , a D . W . Griffith short that is a morality play ! This sure is familiar territory for the great director of yesteryear . He did so many heavy-handed morality tales during the 1910s that it's often difficult to distinguish between them . Such important values as hard work , honesty , thrift , fidelity and simplicity are hammered home in many of his films . And , in this era , the audiences loved the films , though they would not have worked just a decade or two later - - as audiences wanted longer and more complex plots . In this case , a woman is pursued by two business partners . She apparently picked poorly , as the man she marries turns out to be both a party animal and gambler . Ultimately , he steals from the company and ruins himself . All this is , as I said , very familiar . HOWEVER , how it is all resolved it not ! When he is about to get caught , he phones his wife and tells her he is about to commit suicide . While his partner rushes to his aid , the faithful wife tries to get him to stop . Eventually , he puts the gun in his mouth and pulls the trigger ! ! While there are no blood or guts ( after all , this was 1913 ) , you do see the gun smoking and it a VERY intense scene ! And , because of this tension , it elevates the film to a score of 6 .
Pretty good WWII propaganda film suffers , somewhat , from being a bit too long	This was a good WWII propaganda film , but it has an awful lot of deficiencies along with all its good plot elements . First , let's talk about the good . The film has a very good cast . All the Germans who are running across the width and breadth of Canada are well-written and the acting is excellent . Also , there are bit performances by some exceptional actors you just wouldn't expect in small parts - - they were or would be stars in their own right or already were . Laurence Olivier did a surprisingly good job playing a French-Canadian outdoorsman - - not the sort of role you'd expect for the usually delicate actor . Then one of my favorite international actors , Anton Walbrook has a small part as a leader of a religious commune . At this commune , Glynis Johns plays a radiant young lady . Later , Leslie Howard and Raymond Massey ( both well-established stars in 1941 ) appear in small but meaty parts as well . These actors and the dialog are all excellent . In particular , I enjoyed the ending - - it was pretty funny and entertaining . Now as for the bad , the whole plot idea is pretty stupid if you think about it . A sub drops off six guys in the middle of nowhere in the frozen northeast portion of Canada to attack a worthless target . I really can't understand why this target was chosen - - maybe they wanted to steal all the whale blubber and beaver pelts . Then , after making this attack ( and losing a submarine in the process - - wow , that's an even exchange , huh ? ) , the six remaining Nazis trek all the way to the West coast of Canada and then back east to Niagra Falls . This trip is thousands of miles and much of it is through frozen wasteland with few supplies but they manage just fine ! ! ! This is all just a contrived idea in order to take the audience on a travelogue to learn that ALL the good people of Canada are solidly anti-Nazi ! After all , the premise just doesn't make any common sense . On top of this , the film just seemed to go on and on . I really think having the Nazis confine themselves to just a few 100 , 000 square miles and fewer interactions with the locals would have made this a better film . Instead , they jaunt about the second largest country in the world ( by size , not population ) and it all seems so easy ! ! The trip SHOULD have been more akin to Napoleon's trip to Moscow and back ! ! !
Finally , an Ising cartoon that isn't completely insipid !	In the 1930s , the Harmon-Ising production team produced some of the most awful cartoons ever made . They tended to be sickeningly sweet and included a lot of singing - - which might be entertaining to very small kids , but the average person trying to watch their films today would find them downright annoying . Unlike later Warner Brothers and MGM cartoons ( two studios that they worked for ) , there was no edge to the toons and almost no humor - - much like injecting massive doses of the Teletubbies and musicals into a normal toon ! In light of this awful background , I was surprised that I actually DID enjoy this film . While it was pretty cute in its anthropomorphic airplane and early , cuter incarnation of Barney Bear , it still had good quality animation and a winning story , . . . and absolutely NO SINGING ( hallelujah ! ) . Barney is building an airplane and it's a cute and tiny little thing compared to all the modern fighters and bombers . Not a whole lot happens during the course of the cartoon , but just seeing the film unfold was an interesting time capsule . Not a great cartoon by any means , still it held my interest and was a quality product .
Pretty good , but with some odd casting decisions !	I watched this movie mainly because I really like Dana Andrews in films . Unlike many big name stars , he seemed like a real person and didn't play too many pretty boy roles . However , despite my liking his films so much , I was shocked at the casting decisions . The film is about a 15 year reunion for a high school . While Betty Hutton and Jean Hagen aren't that much older than the characters they were playing , Andrews was 48 - - making him a 33 year-old at high school graduation ! ! And to make matters worse , Robert Simon played Hutton's father and he was only a year older than Andrews ! I know you need to often suspend disbelief when you watch a film , but this was ridiculous ! Additionally , Gordon Jones and Herbert Anderson were awfully long in the tooth to be playing such parts . Now if you ignore the silly casting , the film itself is a nice little film , though certainly not one you should rush to see . While the film is set during this reunion , the underlying theme is life choices . Anderson has chosen to live life with few connections and he's lonely , while Hutton has stayed attached to her parents and longs to break free . Interesting and thought-provoking - - but that's about it .
super-funny in its day , though modern audiences probably will lose interest FAST !	This is a cute idea for a movie . A guy learns that he has a huge inheritance coming BUT he cannot collect it for twenty years ! It seems that the dead relative didn't trust this immature guy and felt he would be more responsible when he was older . So , in a bizarre twist , the guy works on a clock to make it run a lot faster . And , being a bizarre comedy , everything in the film began to speed up to an amazing speed . As a result , the years ticked away rapidly until the guy was soon able to claim his inheritance ! Audiences at the time must have delighted at watching everyone in fast motion , though I doubt today this would seem all that novel or impressive . We are just not impressed by such camera tricks , though I do remember as a child many years ago that we laughed at films that were sped up but I just can't see anyone but very little kids liking this .
Very well done , but also very strange	This is a strange little absurdist short film that can be found on the website for PBS . The reason I describe it as " absurdist " is because the reactions by the man in the dry cleaning store as well as his bizarre customers makes no sense - - they don't behave at all like sane people would . This makes the film rather funny and clever but I could also see it turning off some viewers . The film begins with a couple entering the dry cleaning store . They are covered in blood and ask the guy behind the counter if he can get them clean now . Without blinking an eye , he never asks a question but helps out - - and you next see the couple wearing towels and conversing with the guy as if nothing had happened - - no blood or bloody cleaver ! ! They talk about life , the weather , etc . and pass the time as if nothing was unusual about their request or the fact they appear to have killed someone ! I liked the film because unlike a full-length absurdist film , this style fits a shorter format better - - it doesn't get too old too quickly . I also thought the acting was exceptional considering how weird the situation was . Good stuff - - I hope to see more from these folks .
overall , not bad - - pretty interesting	At the onset , I should point out that I am NOT a fan of the films of Cecil B . DeMille . I have always found that although his films are impressive visually , the dialog and acting is purely secondary at best . However , the acting here is a little better than usual for DeMille - - Raymond Massey , John Wayne and Ray Milland are all fine . The only acting that really seemed poor was that of Paulette Goddard , but this isn't surprising because histrionic and over-the-top performances of leading ladies is a DeMille trademark ( see Anne Baxter's performance in The Ten Commandments if you don't believe me ) . Generally , this movie had a well-written plot and it was both unusual and compelling . So because of a decent plot and better than expected acting , this is already a pretty good DeMille film . However , when it comes to the action , some things leave a bit to be desired . While to today's audiences the ship scenes will no doubt look pretty fake , for 1942 they were pretty good AND you could not see the sides of the pool in the underwater shots ( something all too common in underwater scenes of the day ) . So , my BIG argument about the movie visually is the terrible action scene at the end involving the most fake-looking giant squid ever seen on film . I can't imagine , even in 1942 , that people would have seen and believed this segment at all . In fact , I would think they probably would have laughed themselves silly ! So , the overall product is a mixed bag . It is definitely entertaining , reasonably well-acted ( apart from some histrionics here and there ) and has fair special effect . It certainly is far from great , but is worth your time .
Wow . . . is this a screwed up family !	This is a comedy about a very strange and very screwed up family . When it comes to keeping secrets and not talking about what is really happening , these people take the cake ! This short film begins with some grown children having Thanksgiving with their mother . She tells that that she and their father are divorcing and yet none of them act surprised . After she leaves , the family no not put away the food , but instead set up dinner AGAIN because now Dad is coming with his new girlfriend and they don't want him to know that they had a dinner without him ! ! So , when Dad shows up with a very , very young and sexy fiance , once again the kids don't act like it's such a big deal - - or at least most of the kids . One , the only apparently normal one among them , reacts . . . and everyone behaves as if there's something wrong with her ! This sounds like a terribly depressing film , but it's actually a very funny comedy about a dysfunctional family who never deals with things that are painful . It's insightful and clever throughout and a great film for people to watch so they can say " wow . . . and I thought MY family was a mess ! " .
Well made and interesting - - - and also very , very unpleasant	Some who love this film will probably give me some " not helpful " votes for this review because I think this film isn't for most people . However , I really feel I must warn everyone up front that this movie , though well made , is also very unpleasant and probably NOT a film for most people - - particularly not for kids and those who dislike very violent films . The main character is at first pretty likable . He very reluctantly kills someone and feels awful about it . However , inexplicably , instead of being punished , he's congratulated and given present by his neighbors . It seemed the victim was a thug and the police seemed unable or unwilling to deal with him . Because of this positive notoriety , the " nice guy " is then approached to kill more " bad people " - - as he'd be doing the community a favor and making a few bucks in the process ! However , because he is still , at heart , a decent guy , he begins using drugs to cope with the guilt and very quickly the man isn't nice at all and the line between him and his targets becomes very blurred until he is the sort of person that people would pay someone to kill . It's a very good film about the effects of violence on the perpetrator and it's very interesting to see him lose his soul . However , remember that this is a very violent film . There is a lot of blood , though it didn't seem especially gratuitous - - but after all , the film is about contract killings . Also , the acting , writing and production were all very good . This film is set in Brazil and it's yet another film that the Brazilian Tourist Board probably wishes they could make disappear ! That's because many of the recent films from this nation that have made it to America have painted a horrific picture about life in their big cities ( especially Rio and Sao Paulo ) . CITY OF GOD is about drug lords and lawlessness that control the poor sections of town . CENTRAL STATION is about the homelessness problem and urban violence . And , MAN OF THE YEAR is about an assassin . Talk about scaring away tourism ! ! I recently talked with a man from Brazil at length about these films and he swore that this is NOT how most of the country is - - it IS safe and lawlessness isn't everywhere . However , after seeing these three films I am still pretty wary about visiting this beautiful nation . Overall - - recommended with some reservations .
A surprising Oscar nominee . . .	In 2004 , Fox Studio's little film GONE NUTTY was released in the theaters with the film ICE AGE . GONE NUTTY was a cute little film starring that little mouse-like creature as he tries to fetch an acorn and it was highly original - - hence an Oscar Nomination for Best Animated Short . Now , two years later , another installment of the short film was released in conjunction with ICE AGE II and once again , the short film is quite cute and funny - - - however , it's not exactly original - - being in many ways just a continuation of GONE NUTTY . In light of this , I am very surprised that it also received an Oscar nomination - - especially when Pixar's nominated film for the 2007 Oscars was so much more original ( it , too , did not win - - this honor went to a rather flat Norwegian film THE DANISH POET ) . So if you watch it , be prepared for more of the same - - more laughs , more action , more excellent CG animation and more of the same plot . Very good but also not exactly new .
a slight step down in quality but still wonderful fun	Okay , so this is pretty familiar stuff once again - - you know , mad Egyptian cult leader and his resurrection of a mummy to exact revenge on those who have desecrated ancient tombs . About the only big differences here are having Lon Chaney , Jr . play the mummy for the first time and the action is moved to America ( despite this making little sense ) . While this is far from the best mummy film , it is good old fashioned fun and I enjoy this much more than the overly special effects enhanced mummy films of the last decade because of the fun factor . The campiness and the whole ambiance are just so wonderful - - and they remind you that the term " B-movie " isn't such a bad thing . Watch it and let yourself go - - and have FUN !
Unexpectedly original and worth seeing	This movie really surprised me . In the 1940s , Bela Lugosi made a huge number of grade-Z horror films . They might be fun to watch , but all too often the films have tons of plot holes and they were obviously made with practically no budget . This film , however , has very good production values and is quite original - - and as a result , I had a very good time watching it . Now before I go any further , it's important to note that although Lugosi got top billing and the videotape cover prominently shows his face , the film really ISN'T a Bela Lugosi film . His role , unfortunately for " Lugosi-philes " is amazingly small and ill-defined . He never seems to be the star nor does he have much to do with all the weird murders that are occurring in the film . In many ways , this is like the appearance of Lionel Atwill in the film - - he's there but his part is terribly small . Despite this , the film is still excellent and most of this is due to the excellent writing . The story is quite original and although I could guess early on who was committing all the murders , the way it was handled was very clever . Probably the best part of the film , though , was the part played by Robert Homans , as the Constable . He has so many wonderful and funny lines that I thoroughly loved watching the old curmudgeon investigate the crimes . Finally , a bit of trivia . The rich old man in the film is played by Ralph Morgan . He bears a lot of physical resemblance to Frank Morgan ( the Wizard from the Wizard of Oz ) because they were brothers .
Very enjoyable and well-produced " trash "	This is a film that is far more enjoyable than its rating of 7 would suggest . In many ways , it's like a 50s version of VALLEY OF THE DOLLS - - with much of the excesses and sleaziness of VALLEY polished up a bit for the audiences of 1959 . Like this later film , both are about three young ladies who are on the fast-track to success - - though this time it's in the publishing world instead of the entertainment industry ( though one of the ladies in THE BEST OF EVERYTHING does have aspirations of Broadway ) . The film begins with Hope Lange coming into the company for her first day of work . She's assigned to tough-as-nails boss , Joan Crawford , who is appearing in her first supporting role in decades . Despite how nasty Crawford seems , Lange is determined not to give in - - to make it in this job . And , over time , she quickly moves up the ranks from secretary to editor . At the same time , her two new roommates also try to move up the ranks - - one through the stage and one through a relationship with a rich playboy . Like VALLEY OF THE DOLLS , all of them have their ups and downs ( mostly downs ) but by the end of the film there is some hope that at least some of them will make it - - battered and bruised , nevertheless . In this film , men are mostly pigs . The only guy who seems decent is played by Stephen Boyd , so naturally Hope Lange neglects him for a ne'er do well ex-boyfriend . As for the guys played by veteran character actor Brian Ahern and the rest , they are sexist scum and eventually you understand how Crawford became so bitter and nasty . This film has it all - - adultery , premarital sex , abortion , etc . and is certainly NOT an artistic triumph . However , thanks to excellent production values and a juicy script , this one is a joy to watch . Just don't expect Shakespeare ! !
interesting adult drama	This story is about a couple living together . Over and over , Louise tells Remi that she loves him but their lives are so different it's hard to imagine them staying together . She loves to party and he's a real home body . In fact , she loves living " the single life " so much , she's arranged to have an apartment for herself in Paris so she can stay there much of the time - - all the while insisting that she loves Remi . He begs her to stay , but she insists on spending part of her life in town alone . Well , over time , she slowly begins to pull away from him - - especially when she starts to suspect HE might be cheating on her ( though SHE was the one who made all the arrangements to make it possible for her to do the cheating ) . So , since she assumes he's cheating , she picks a guy to sleep with - - no love - - just a one night stand . Well , she returns home to Remi only to discover that he , too , is having an affair but his is very serious and he asks her to leave . This seems to be a great example of the old saying " be careful what you ask for - - you might just get it " . The acting is good and the story pretty involving . I like it because nothing in the movie happens by accident - - Louise sets everything in motion and then is surprised when the life she chose occurs . There's a lot of irony and some lessons about relationships here . PS - - this is NOT a good film for kids . First , they would be bored by the story and because you get to see a pretty explicit view of Louise late in the film . Be forewarned .
Pretty good , but way too familiar territory for Greta Garbo fans	This is a very good silent film , though I had just watched two other Greta Garbo films that were incredibly similar to this one - - as she plays the vamp in all three ! I can't blame Ms . Garbo for this , as MGM definitely type-cast her despite her objections . In fact , she was so irritated by this theme that she went on strike to try to force the studio to give her different roles . But , considering that the public loved the films and they were all very successful , MGM wasn't about to mess with a tried-and-true formula . This film is at least a little different in that much of the time men were destroyed when they fell for Garbo in this film , but she was never directly responsible for their downfall . She was more like the old " Typhoid Mary " character - - someone who just seems to have bad things follow her where ever she goes ! The problem with this is that no matter how sultry and alluring Ms . Garbo might have been , no one is THAT seductive that man after man after man destroy themselves in order to try to get her ! However , the story does have a few new elements and the overall production values are exceptional . So , if you view this film WITHOUT considering how derivative it is , then it's an awfully good film . By the way , the TCM DVD includes an alternative ending that was apparently used when the film was shown in rural settings . Instead of the marvelous original but sad ending ( that , in my opinion is perfect ) , there is an upbeat and sappy one that just doesn't ring true .
I guess I'm just not a huge Sturgis fan	When it comes to icons of classic Hollywood , one of those that I just don't understand is Preston Sturgis . Among those who matter , he was a wonderful writer / director whose work was pure genius and this is probably the general tenor of reviews of his films here on IMDb . It's funny , because while I am a huge fan of screwball comedy from the 1930s and 40s , I just don't ' get ' Sturgis . I've seen almost every film he's made , and with only a few exceptions ( such as HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO and THE LADY EVE ) , I thought most of his films were pretty ordinary . All too often , his films , to me , seem to try too hard and lack subtlety or timing . Some prime examples are the laughing sequences as the chain gang members laugh to a Mickey Mouse cartoon as if they are all on LSD and Rex Harrison's bumbling with a chair and other household items in UNFAITHFULLY YOURS . These moments were just too over-the-top and lacked the charm and timing of such marvelous non-Sturgis screwball comedies like BRINGING UP BABY or MY GIRL Friday . While PALM BEACH STORY isn't a bad film , it certainly didn't do anything to turn me into a " Sturgiphile " . It's a good movie , but has too many improbable and over-the-top moments to keep it consistent . Some examples would include the hunting club scene on the train . While generally this was a cute sequence , it went from mildly cute to just plain stupid - - using slapstick when it actually detracted from the overall plot . Having these drunk hunters running amok shooting hundreds of shotgun blasts throughout the train car just wasn't funny - - it was more like something Elmer Fudd would have done , not a real life person . Also , the film's ending is way , way , way too convenient and contrived - - having identical twins of BOTH McCrea AND Colbert show up out of nowhere to marry the two jilted loves ( Vallee and Astor ) ! This defies possibility and crosses over to just plain dumb . All this is a shame , really , as apart from a few embarrassingly bad scenes ( indicating that the great Sturgis COULD have used an editor ) , the film is a breezy and cute romantic comedy . Some elements , such as the " Wienie King " , were weird but somehow worked and the overall momentum of the film was good . My suggestion is that you SHOULD watch this overrated screwball comedy , . . . AFTER you've seen all of Cary Grant's first ( they were so much better on practically every level ) .
Wow . . . these other reviews were brutal !	This film was made completely without dialog or narration . It's a tale about some possum-like creatures who inhabit a non-industrialized world . This idyllic world is shattered by a massive city that is much like the oppressively dark one from the film BRAZIL . Slowly , the life of the creatures becomes worse and worse and worse due to pollution and over - industrialization - leading you to wonder if there is there any hope ? Wow , were the other two reviews for VARMINTS brutal ! ! While I would agree that the film was far from subtle and suffers from an overly simplistic " industrialization is bad " message , giving the film a one or two is just mean ! After all , even if you don't like the story , any reasonable person would admit that the CGI is lovely and the music quite evocative . While few films can come close to equaling the quality of Pixar or Dreamworks , this film manages to come awfully close and the art work is very engrossing . In fact , the film is good enough to have earned the Oscar nomination instead of just the " commended " status like it did . Now I am NOT saying that it's as good as many of the nominees , but it certainly was better than at least one or two of them purely from a technical standpoint . Sure , the message was far from subtle and too preachy , but you can't just write off a film because of this - - there is far more to this film than that .
One of the better Chan films	Please note - - this review is for the English-dubbed version . It's about 11 minutes shorter than the original film and I have no way of knowing how close it stuck to the original vision . It seemed to be dubbed reasonably well , but having never seen the original Chinese version , I am only guessing . The idea of making a Corsican Brothers-like film with two Jackie Chans sounded pretty dumb when I read about this movie . And , while in parts it is awfully silly , the overall effort was far better than I expected and was one of the better Chan movies I have seen . The movie begins with a prologue which shows how two twins were accidentally separated just after birth . The parents cannot locate the lost child and are forced to raise the remaining child . The second is fund by what appears to be a prostitute and this child is raised in a poor household . Many years later , when the rich and privileged Jackie returns to Hong Kong , he accidentally is mixed up for the poor one - - the one that the local mob wants to kill ! Now had this just been an action film with fight scene after fight scene , I think it wouldn't have worked as well . But , given that Jackie Chan did the movie a huge amount of comedy and clever situations involving two separate girlfriends were infused into the plot . Several times , I found myself laughing at some of the silliness of it all , but I also was impressed by how well the film all worked together pretty seamlessly . There were only two complaints about the film . First , the poor Jackie snorted a lot . Why ? Couldn't there have been a better way to distinguish between them than making one of them sound like he's a pig or has a really bad cold ? Secondly , the film seemed to go on a bit too long - - particularly at the action-packed conclusion . Knocking five or ten minutes off would have probably made the film a bit better - - as the fight scene just went on and on and on . Still , this is a decent martial arts film and is worth a look and a laugh . FYI - - The film's second billing went to Maggie Cheung - - a relatively famous Asian actress who has made a variety of excellent films . However , her role was no bigger or more prominent than the other lady in the film who didn't appear until much further in the credits . Bummer .
A very rough gem that MAY be original , . . . I hope	The same night I watched this silent short , I also saw a French film called " Rve et ralit " ( 1901 ) . It turns out the French movie was a knockoff of this film - - with the exact same plot and scenes ! While it was common for many of the very early studios to plagiarize each other's work , this one is one of the more flagrant examples . I just hope that LET ME DREAM AGAIN is the actual first film of its kind and not a rip-off of another , earlier film ! The story is immensely simple ( as was true of nearly all films from this era ) . An old guy is making out with a pretty young lady and life seems grand - - until he wakes up and realizes it's all a dream ! The idea is cute , though the execution is a tad primitive and rough . Still , given its tremendous age , it's still pretty watchable today .
a nice departure for Roger Moore	Was this a great movie , certainly not . However , it was a good movie and a whole lot better than the Roger Moore Bond pictures had become by that time . Moore plays a therapist whose life is about to be snuffed out - - the problem is , he has NO idea WHO wants him dead . Exactly who really is behind the attempts and why it is occurring I will not reveal ( it would spoil the film ) but it keeps you guessing and the performances are good . This is a good attempt by Moore to do something different and I applaud his efforts . If you like seeing Moore as someone other than 007 , I also suggest you see Ffolkes This is an odd little adventure movie about a group of mercenaries who take over an oil platform . Moore's performance in this one is about as different from Bond as you could possibly find !
An interesting low budget sci-fi short	A PIECE OF WOOD is an interesting little low budget sci-fi film lasting only about 15 minutes . There are only two actors in the film and the set is very simple , yet considering the plot this works out quite well . As the film opens , a soldier enters his commanding officer's office about his next assignment . He is being the choice of serving on the Western or the Northern fronts in a war that has apparently been going on for 16 years . However , instead of making this decision , the young soldier talks about this strange delusion - - that he has actually come up with a way to make all weapons disintegrate into piles of rust and thus ending this war . The officer , naturally , thinks the guy is crazy and when the recruit leaves , he calls the base hospital to report that the man has lost his mind . . . and then things get really weird ! Kudos for making the most of a simple story . It is an interesting film and brings up some interesting ramifications . The only negative , and it's relatively small , is that the acting seemed a bit stiff . It wasn't bad - - just not great . Still , an unusual idea well executed - - this one's worth a look .
Not bad . . . and amazingly unconventional	This film is about a mid-life crisis . The main character is a 50-something man and his life is monotonous and he's beginning to question who he is , his job and his relationships . His boss is horrid , his wife is good but sexually undesirable and the teenage son is a jerk . The way this story is told is pretty creative as well as very confusing . In parts , it seems like a simple narrative whereas in others it's very surreal - - making it tough to understand what is really happening . While I like SOME of this style , I really wish the film had been a little more clear in spots , as by the end of the film you really aren't sure what the man is doing with his life or if he's even sane - - though I am sure this is the intention of the writer / director . This uncertainty , while it will annoy some will also endear this film to others , as life is so uncertain - - especially as you hit middle age and have so many unanswered questions . Would I want to see many more films like this or see this one again and again ? No , but it was a nice film by a group of young film makers and it shows promise for their future careers .
This film's reputation is bigger than life - - don't believe the hype	This is a very good film , but certainly NOT as great as some of the hype would indicate . One IMDb reviewer went so far as to say it was " better than Kane ( CITIZEN KANE ) " ! In fact , over the years a sort of " mystical " adoration of this film has arisen that is completely ridiculous and way out of proportion . In fact , Orson Welles HIMSELF said that the film we all know as THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS was terribly edited and he disowned his film - - so WHY all the hype ? ! Let's first review the history of the film . The ORIGINAL Orson Welles version of the film no longer exists - - or at least no one has found it . When the original and significantly longer version of the film was previewed , the audiences found it depressing and too long - - and possibly this was due to WWII just starting and people wanted a happy an uplifting film . So , when Welles wasn't looking , RKO reedited the film severely and gave it an upbeat ending ! ! So , if the film is only a bastardized version of the original , it just doesn't make sense to declare it a masterpiece as so many have done . In fact , when I watched it for the third time , I noticed many places where the film seemed to skip about and MANY times there was narration instead of action - - as if they'd delete major scenes and then just describe what you missed in a few sentences ! This is NOT great film making ! So what do we have left ? Well , the acting is exceptional throughout and there is often the trademark excellent Orson Welles black and white shadowy cinematography . The total package is pleasant enough , but way too sketchy and disjoint . Good , but certainly NOT great . If only someone would find the original film hiding somewhere in a vault !
Very funny but also unnecessarily crude	I loved John C . Reilly in TALLADEGA NIGHTS , so it isn't surprising that I'd give this film a look . Overall , it's a real mixed bag - - with some hilarious comedy , excellent singing by Reilly but also an amazing amount of completely unnecessary crudity that would prevent me from strongly recommending the film . With only a bit of editing , this film could easily have been rated PG-13 and been a good film for teens as well as adults . The first ten minutes of the film are probably the best , as you see a young Dewey Cox and his brother playing together . You just have to see it to believe it - - especially the dreaded " machete incident " . It was obvious that this was NOT a movie that was meant to be taken very seriously . I also loved soon after that when they showed 40-something Reilly as a 14 year-old . It was really stupid and confusing - - - and I liked these ridiculous aspects of the film . What follows is a decades long saga involving Cox - - one of the dumbest , most selfish and self-destructive singers in history . During this journey , the Cox character incorporates bits and pieces of many rock-n-roll lives - - with obvious nods to Johnny Cash , Jerry Lee Lewis , Brian Wilson and many , many others . I particularly liked the sequence where Cox hung out with the Beatles in India - - the dialog was really goofy . However , despite laughing repeatedly , the film also suffered from occasional lulls but especially from crudeness . Three separate times the film showed a closeup shot of a penis . There really wasn't any reason for this . It wasn't funny and it seemed to be included gratuitously . Additionally , several sex scenes were rather explicit as well . Had the nudity been excised , it wouldn't have noticeably harmed the picture and made it more accessible to teens - - who should be a large audience for the film - - especially since it does have a decent anti-drug message most of the time ( showing what an idiot Cox became each time he used ) . As a result , I strongly recommend that parents act like adults and not let their kids see this movie . Even for a rated R film , it's amazingly graphic .
Not bad , not bad at all	For an early film , this one is actually pretty good . In this silent movie , the crew re-creates a fire and shows the firemen doing their job - - starting with leaving the firehouse all the way through rescuing all the victims . It's sort of like a documentary of their job that is done by re-staging what looks an awful lot like a real fire . Unlike some similar films , this one looks authentic enough that it both entertains and gives us insight into the profession in 1901 . I particularly liked seeing the horse-drawn fire wagon as well as the people jumping out the window into the trampoline-like device the firemen use . Pretty good stuff and a pretty good historical record to boot !
It seems to have inspired the film AKEELAH AND THE BE	This documentary follows several regional winners through the national spelling bee . The film makers don't talk but simply allow you to hear from the winners and their families . Not long after I began watching this documentary , I couldn't help but feel I've seen it before . That's because the film seems to have perhaps been the inspiration for the fictional film AKEELAH AND THE BEas many of the same types of kids and families are repeated . In particular , Akeelah and her mom seem very similar to the champion from the District of Columbia and the hard-driving Indian-American family seems so much like the hard-driving family in the documentary . Perhaps these parallels were unconscious , but it just seemed a lot like someone decided to re-write and fictionalize this film from 2002 . Now this isn't bad , as both are very interesting films and they end very , very differently . However , I've got to admit that this film probably has a much smaller audience than AKEELAH , as many folks just won't find SPELLBOUND that interesting - - after all , the overall theme is kids spelling ! Still , I liked it and found myself pulled into some of the stories and found it to be an interesting sociological and psychological portrait . In particular , I found the one child very interesting from a psychological point of view , as he seemed to have many of the characteristics of a child with Asperger's syndrome . Plus , it was also very interesting that most of the finalists appeared to be of Indian or Pakistani heritage . Overall , mildly interesting and worth seeing but not one of the truly great documentaries . And , if I could only see one film , I'd recommend AKEELAH . Even though it's all fantasy , it is more interesting and high-stress than real life !
Not a bad story idea . . . I just didn't particularly like the direction the film went in the end	The film begins with a young lady who is obviously having financial problems . She has creditors after her and she loses her job . Into this life comes a weird random event . As she stands on the street dressed as a clown , a group of criminals also disguised as clowns pick her up - - assuming she's one of the gang . She has no choice but go along with these armed bandits but at the end when the job falls apart , she splits with the money and seemingly lives happily ever after . My friend recently told me that I am a " hopeless moralist " as I have an overly strong sense of right and wrong . While I am sure this is true , he also said that this colors my reviews some times and now that I think about it , he's probably right again . I bring all this up because although I really liked the story idea for BANKRUPT , the way it ended just felt wrong to me - - and the " hero " ended up being a very selfish person - - and thereby making me like the movie far less . Had it ended with the lady capturing the gang or alerting the police , I would have loved the film . Having her ending up being just as bad as them and keeping stolen money made me feel disappointed . Just my two cents worth . Overall , good but flawed .
difficult to believe ending , but very effective and worthwhile WWII propaganda film	I love watching old American and British WWII propaganda films . Sure , they were often rather one-dimensional or at times ridiculous and some people tend to think that the word " propaganda " is a bad thing , but in this case these films were positive in that they helped to unify the country and get us behind the war effort . Yes , it's true some of them had horrible stereotypes and images of the enemy ( particularly how the Japanese were portrayed as almost subhuman ) , but this was war and , unfortunately , some of the worst images these films showed were BETTER than the real enemy ! The film HITLER'S CHILDREN was a very well-made film from RKO that told a fictional story about some young people - - in particular , Bonita Granville and Tim Holt , who were caught up in the hysteria and evil of the Hitler youth and other organizations targeting children . At first , the story is told from the viewpoint of the fine character actor Kent Smith . Then , later in the film it switches to Granville , as she is forced into a German indoctrination camp and wants desperately to escape . Otto Kruger enters the story as a pretty dumb Nazi officer who has high hopes for Granville and Holt in the party . However , his hopes are dashed when Granville escapes . What happens next , I'll leave to you so I won't spoil the film . However , the weakest aspect of the film involves the ending with young Holt - - this just never would have or could have happened - - but it's very entertaining nevertheless . While this film is much truer in its depiction of the Germans than most contemporary films , the film actually in some ways makes the Nazis look a little dumber and less evil than they actually were . The excellent acting of H . B . Warner as the Bishop is great , except we found out after the war that any clergy speaking out against the regime would have been sent to a concentration camp or killed - - the Bishop's comments to the Nazi officers or his sermon denouncing the party never would have gone unpunished . Still an effective and captivating film .
Possibly rather silly to Western audiences , but also very watchable	PAN SI DONG begins with Xunzng and his three fellow travelers are on a pilgrimage when they come upon a cave that is inhabited by seven evil spider-like ladies and their female entourage . The ladies use tricks and disguises to kidnap Xunzng because they have their hearts set on eating him ( apparently he's particularly yummy ) . Once he's kidnapped , it's up to the very powerful Monkey King to rescue him . But he isn't able to overcome the powerful women alone . So , using a bit of help from his other two companions AND a sly ability to get the women to fight among themselves , he sets about his slow plan to free his friend . I was very surprised by this film . Being a Shaw Brothers release , I was expecting lots of martial arts action , though there was practically none . Instead , it's a retelling of a 500 year-old Chinese tale about Xunzng and his friends , including the Monkey King . Soon after I began watching I realized this was all very familiar , as this was also the basis for the Japanese cartoon ALAKAZAM THE GREAT . It seems that this tale is so familiar and popular , audiences in Asia are very familiar with the characters , though many Westerners might be taken aback by it so much that they give up on the film . While there is lots of magic and dancing ( for no apparent reason ) , stick with it as the film has a nice sense of humor and it's an interesting tale about magic and good triumphing over evil . Overall , not a brilliant film but one that offers a rare chance to look into Chinese literature as well as very familiar characters - - though not to Western audiences . S ? n Wk ? ng , Zh ? B ? jis , Sh ? Wjng and Xunzng are probably about as familiar as many European characters ( such as Cinderella or Snow White or Odysseus ) and it's nice to see them come to life in this charming but very unusual non-martial arts film from the Shaws .
Only for die-hard fans of early cinema	For 1898 , when each individual portion of this film was made , this was an amazing set of films . That's because many films from before the 20th century are dreary little snippets with no attempt to tell a story - - such as showing people getting on a train or showing a storm battering the coast or having a mother feeding her baby . At least here the artists were trying to make something different and tell a story . Unfortunately , when it was made , films like we know them today were not yet developed . So instead of telling one longer and coherent story , this film actually is made up of several very brief scenes from the story of Rip Van Winkle - - each as a separate film . But even when placed together several years later , it does not tell the whole story - - just bits and pieces like a highlight film . But given when it was made this made sense and in many ways this was a work of art like an Ansel Adams print or a Remington statue . With these limited expectations , it's excellent and actually shows costumes , outdoor sets , etc . - - innovations , of sorts , for 1898 . Unfortunately , while it is very important historically speaking , most viewers will no doubt be bored long before the four and a half minute film ends .
Pretty entertaining for 1903	This film is cute and watchable even today - - and that's something you CAN'T say about many of the very early movies - - particularly those of George Albert Smith . Most films of the day are of pretty mundane topics or are only about one or two minutes long . This film , in contrast , is longer and actually tries to have Mary Jane try to be a slapstick comedienne . She is a cook and doesn't seem to do anything right . While not great or amazing like the contemporary films of Georges Mlis , this is still pretty good and watchable - - particularly the slapstick ending ! Plus , films like this eventually led to films like those of the later and much more famous slapstick comedians , so historically it's pretty important .
The film has some problems , BUT with Hepburn and Tracy , it's bound to still be enjoyable	This is one of the less famous films starring Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn and after having seen it again recently , I can see why . While their performances are excellent ( particularly Tracy's ) , the movie itself is a bit hard to believe and comes on a bit too strong . I'm sure this is a result of the time in which it was made , as the film had a very strong injection of patriotism and Americanism thanks to our being brought into WWII . In many ways , the film was like a variation on MR . SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON , except that Smith dies and in the end you find out he's a Fascist ! ! The film begins with the death of a famous American patriot and all around great guy . However , despite a tremendous outpouring of sympathy , his widow refuses to see or talk to anyone . . . that is , until reporter Spencer Tracy appears . Then , slowly the story of this great man begins to unfold , though over time Tracy can sense that it's all a put on - - there IS some secret that they are trying to hide from him . In the end , the secret is revealed and Hepburn inexplicably dies - - and I really didn't understand why she so quickly died and Tracy seemed just fine even though he was in the same burning building ! The film does have a few plot holes ( like the one mentioned above ) and at time it lays it on a bit thick , but still , based on the charisma of the stars , it's still well worth seeing . Just don't expect magic .
Pretty good stuff for 1912	This is a pretty good film for 1912 and at 14 minutes , this is about average length for a movie during this era . The film is a bit overly melodramatic , but its still an interesting story . A young boy in rags is about to go on an outing for underprivileged kids . You see his tough and heart-breaking life and then you see him sneak off to the train that takes them out to the country for the picnic . All this is very well done . However , once at the picnic , things get a bit " schmaltzy " as well as VERY confusing . One of the women is reading the boy and a few other kids some story about magical fairies . Then , a bit later , the kid decides he , too , wants to go off to fairyland and hops aboard a small boat and drifts away and then the movie ends ? ! What did all this mean ? Did the kid die and this was some sort of symbolic tale or did he just go crazy and go off in the boat to die or did he REALLY make it to fairyland ? All this and much more is possible and it's really disappointing how vaguely the film concluded . Up until then , it had been pretty good stuff .
By far the best short in an otherwise awful collection	I recently have rented several DVDs from Netflix that fall under the title " Old Time Comedy Classics " . I know they have at least eight DVDs , as this is volume 8 . The previous DVDs were earlier issues and were a good bit funnier than those in volume 8 , though I still haven't been all that impressed with any of the entries . It seems that these are all lesser-known silent comedies and I can easily see why they aren't as well known - - most just aren't that funny . Fortunately , the first film in the set is actually quite watchable - - though it still seems far from a " comedy classic " . Jimmie Adams , a comedian who bears a strong resemblance to comedian Charley Chase , stars as a man going to the hills of Tennessee to visit his kin . On the way , he meets a sweet lady and they hit it off well . However , they don't realize that both are coming to visit relatives who are in the middle of a serious feud . Instead of a warm welcome , her kin tries to blow his butt off and he is forced to make a run for it . Unfortunately , his relatives don't seem much nicer , as they treat him rather poorly to say the least ! My favorite gag involved the spare bedroom - - a clever little bit indeed . While this film probably won't make you think that Adams is equal to the talents of Chase , it is still a pleasant little film and has more than enough laughs to make it worthwhile . The direction and acting are just fine and the only serious complaint I have is that the ending was rather anticlimactic . Too bad this short isn't much like the other four films in the set .
Odd but very likable	This is a very odd story and I must say I haven't seen another short film like this one ! The film starts out with a guy sitting at a lane at the bowling alley . However , instead of bowling , he's just stalling - - pretending to tie his shoes . It seems that he's been doing this for days . Obviously something is bothering him , but he doesn't want to talk about it . Finally , he talks to a friend and discloses that he caught his wife having sex with someone back by the pin setting machines . Because of this , he's feeling depressed and unable to do his life's passion - - bowl . His psychological block is pretty serious , as he seems unable to reclaim his manhood by once again bowling . An interesting metaphor , huh ? ! The film is a very dry comedy - - not the sort you'd laugh out loud at , but one that is still darkly humorous . Apparently this was a student film for USC's film school and it speaks volumes about the folks who made it , as the film is quite engaging and well made .
Very enjoyable and well made WWII war film	This was a very enjoyable WWII film , though before I discuss why I liked the movie , I should point out that the film does have one BIG clich . When Tyrone Power meets a woman ( Anne Baxter - - here with dark brown hair ) and they immediately hate each other , lovers of classic Hollywood films know that this can only mean one thing - - - they are destined to fall in love by the end of the film ! ! Aside from this predictable aspect of the film , I really did like the movie . The first thing I noticed about the film was the gorgeous color film . For 1943 , it was terrific - - with the most vibrant blues I've ever seen - - much like the look of the great film , THE CAINE MUTINY . Twentieth-Century Fox really pulled out the stops to make this film look nice . As far as the plot goes , it's a pretty exciting and standard submarine film . Now that I write this , I realize that they sure made a lot of great sub films over the years - - with hardly a stinker among them . This film maintains the excellent tradition of such lovely films as RUN SILENT RUN DEEP , THE ENEMY BELOW and DESINTATION TOKYO - - all lovely films that are both gripping and entertaining . The film has more plot than just subs and Anne Baxter . It seems that Tyrone Power was very happy and successful aboard PT boats . When he was transferred to sub duty , he wasn't particularly excited , as he thought that patrol boats were the greatest thing since sliced bread . However , over time , he makes good and grows to love the submarine . CRASH DIVE has some excellent action scenes - - particularly the attack on a secret base near the end . The acting good , script very good for a wartime propaganda flick and I particularly liked the sympathetic portrayal of the Black sailor - - something pretty rare in a film of the era . Overall , a good and enjoyable film .
I wanna see more . . . .	This film was recently spotlighted on IMDb and was the work of Kelly Farrell - - a young actress who in this case co-wrote , directed and edited this short . As it was her first directorial effort and was rather experimental in nature , this should be considered when watching . In other words , with established talent , I tend to judge it more stringently as they have plenty of experience . Likewise , with new directors and writers , the shorts are obviously learning tools and help to hone their craft . Amazingly , for someone of limited experience , there is a lot to like about this film . Now the story itself and how it is constructed seems a tad rough - - after all , it's hard to tell this story in five minutes . However , the skill is obvious as the cinematography is gorgeous , the music terrific and there is a very strong and alluring sense of sensuality about the film . Seeing this green faerie was very enticing . Too bad , then , that the film is so short - - I'd really like to see these characters hashed out more and with a higher budget this can happen - - plus the male lead can get a less cheesy mustache ! Overall , excellent and there is obviously a great future for Ms . Farrell should she capture the attention of the powers that be and not just this lone reviewer .
Not great , but far better than the average Alan Ladd film of the time	While this was a far cry from Alan Ladd's best films ( such as THIS GUN FOR HIRE and THE GLASS KEY ) , it is better than most of the films Ladd was making towards the tail end of his career . By this point , most of his performances lacked energy or any sort of spark - - partly due to poorer scripts and partly due to Ladd's advancing addiction . Ironically , a major plot element of this movie is Ladd's wife's alcoholism ! Carolyn Jones ( yes , that's Morticia from the Addams Family ) plays the exceptionally flaky wife who is both chemically dependent and appears to have many features of a Borderline Personaliy - - a personality that craves excitement , addiction and self-destruction . Psychologically speaking , this makes the movie very exciting to therapists , though the average person might think that she overplayed her part - - though she captured the volatility of these types of individuals well and Borderline Personalities ARE seemingly impossible to believe due to their shallowness and volatility . It's obvious that Ladd can't stand his wife , but he stays with her because he married her and he tries to be a good husband . His wife , on the other hand , has little commitment to him and eventually her wicked and dangerous ways result in her murder . Unfortunately , Ladd is blamed , as few know her for what she really is - - as Ladd protected her and hid her escapades from everyone else . Unfortunately , he did such a great job that EVERYONE thinks he's the murderer and he spends most of the film trying to prove his innocence and avoid a lynch mob ! His assistants in this endeavor are local kids who like him and can't believe he'd hurt his wife . This is a stretch to believe , but it does create some interesting story elements . Overall , the film is pretty exciting and different and well worth a look - - particularly if you are a fan of Alan Ladd .
Very , very dark and maudlin - - but also well-paced and rather funny	This is a very dark and maudlin style of film - - a bit departure over previous Langdon films I have seen . While he , of course , looks like a little cherub , in this film he's not quite the sweet guy you might have come to love . After falling for a woman ( who he didn't know was a one-lady crime-wave ) , he didn't want to follow through with his upcoming marriage . So , to get out of it , he tries to bring himself to kill his fiance on their wedding day ! ! I told you - - this is NOT your typical sweet Langdon film ! After breaking up and NOT killing her , Langdon goes to see this other lady who he THINKS is being falsely imprisoned . When he arrives , she's just escaped and she drags him along for a wild crime spree . Unlike some other Langdon full-length films , this one is relatively short ( at 58 minutes ) and well-edited - - without the usual overly long scenes . After having just seen three of Harry Langdon's full-length films on DVD ( and a couple others years ago ) , I am left feeling that perhaps Langdon's reputation as a comedy great is a bit exaggerated . Having seen these films and a few of his shorts , I feel that there is a bit of a gap between his work and those of the truly great comedians of the 1920s - - Harold Lloyd , Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin . At no point did TRAMP , TRAMP , TRAMP or THE STRONG MAN or LONG PANTS ever approach the greatness of these other star's better films ( such as THE KID BROTHER , OUR HOSPITALITY or THE GOLD RUSH ) . Still , this is an entertaining film and it's too bad that apparently Langdon's ego destroyed his career - - I've read about this several places ( including IMDb ) . It seems that this is the last of Langdon's best films - - as afterwords , he fired his amazingly talented director ( Frank Capra - - yes , THAT Frank Capra ) and he never regained his original comedic touch . Overall , this is a funny film and worth seeing . However , it's far from a great film and I wish they'd left all the darker elements out of the movie as they seemed to compromise the integrity of the character .
very unusual retelling of the Dracula story	I admire this film for trying to be different . Jack Palance as Dracula ? ! Well , it does work provided you are willing to accept a Dracula that looks and acts NOTHING like the one from Dracula ( 1931 ) or Nosferatu ( 1922 ) . Instead of the monstrous Dracula or the weird Dracula , this Dracula is a combination of the vampire and the real-life Vlad the Impaler ( who was named " Dracula " - - literally , " son of the dragon " - - a 15th century maniac who fought against the Muslim invasions of Europe ) . And , because it is so different , it does work . While not " earth shaking " , it is very satisfying and fun to watch . After giving this a shot , also try to find a copy of Palance's earlier DR . JECKYL AND MR . HYDE . They're both pretty good .
a good film that just ends abruptly	This is a beautiful film and I longed for its domestic release . Unfortately , I felt very disappointed at how the movie just abruptly ended . It looked as if they were on some sort of deadline and since they were running behind , they just ended the film ! It's a real shame , as up until the ending , the movie was great - - exceptional animation and direction throughout ! I've seen many Miyazaki films and this was the first that disappointed me ( though , I must admit when I saw Nausicaa I was even more disappointed ) . Instead , try watching Kiki's Delivery Service , My Neighbor Totoro , Spirited Away , Princess Mononoke or Castle in the Sky - - all are much more complete and satisfying Miyazaki films .
a little uneven but fascinating film	This film gives a fascinating look at life in Japan in the last months of WWII . Dr . Akagi brings a sense of humanity and compassion in an otherwise tired and spiritually bankrupt country . So , while the people are either giving up or shouting jingoistic sayings and insisting the war is NOT lost , he just goes about his job saving lives and crusading within the government for more attention and funding for the Hepatitis outbreak . Throughout the film he is tireless and decent . However , along the way , there are a lot of detours and other characters - - some that work and some that tend to distract ( such as the scene involving the prostitute and the whale ) - - taking this movie from a score of 8 or 9 and dropping it to 7 . Nevertheless , it's still an excellent film and well worth your time - - giving unusual historical insights . PS - - an excellent companion film to this would be FIRES ON THE PLAIN ( 1959 ) . This film shows Japanese soldiers in the Phillipines just before the country falls to the Americans . It shows the end of the war through the viewpoint of very tired , hungry and broken soldiers .
A minimalistic mixed bag	This DVD consists of two new episodes of the Babylon 5 series - - both set a decade after the final episode of the series . The first stars Tracy Scoggins and is a strange but decent segment about demonic possession . While it's far from great , it was interesting and is worth a look . The second is a much better episode which reunites Sheridan ( Bruce Boxleitner ) with Galen ( Peter Woodward ) . The theme of this one is the morality of committing a murder in order to save countless lives - - sort of like if you could time travel back to kill Hitler as a child . Unlike the first episode , this one was a bit more exciting and offered an interesting moral dilemma . When this straight to DVD release came out , I knew it had some major strikes against it since almost all the original characters from Babylon 5 were not in this two episode release . Richard Biggs and Andreas Katsulas had to be absent ( this is alluded to , obtusely , in the film ) since they recently died - - a very valid excuse indeed and something I couldn't blame the production staff for occurring . But the rest of the cast were no where to be seen and this was a great pity . I assume that years after the last episode it just must have been a logistical nightmare to try . I also read that most of the props and uniforms from the series had been lost and stolen , so making the film was a major chore and logistical nightmare . Despite all these shortcomings , the overall product is surprisingly good and very watchable to fans of the series .
A tad slow at times and a bit overdone , but a pretty satisfying film nevertheless	This is a very beautiful film , artistically speaking . The French crew that made this movie really tried to make it transcend traditional films by having it look exceptional through the use of wonderful camera-work , exquisite sets , great music , sumptuous costumes and a very slow and deliberate pace . While the film does look great , after a little while I also noticed that slow pacing ! While it might have impacted the look and sound of the film , it really did need a bit of editing and the guy playing the creator of the automatons should have been told he , too , was not to emote and move as one as well ! While none of this ruined the film , it did over time lessen the film's impact . And , frankly , by the time it was over , I felt pretty tired and was more than ready for it to end . This is all a real shame , though , as the basic plot is very interesting and the film has so much going for it . The film is still well worth seeing , but for a better paced " art film " , try some of F . W . Murnau's or Fritz Lang's silent films - - they've got a great look but just seem better paced .
Very sad but also avoids the clichs	This is a very well made film about dating and the loneliness you can experience when you are too scared to act . The main character is a sad and rather pathetic man . For about a year , he has followed a pretty coworker about - - but always at a distance . He is infatuated with her and she probably barely ever notices him . He even goes so far as to hang out in the same bar she frequents after work on Fridays . Yet , throughout all this , he's never gotten up the nerve to talk with her . And , in the meantime , you hear his thoughts as he castigates himself for being weak as well as telling himself that no woman would want a man like him . It's all quite sad but I liked the film for two main reasons . First , many people are like this shy guy - - living in desperation and yet doing nothing to change their lives . Second , and more importantly , the film makers do not cop out and give the film a happy and unrealistic ending . No , instead , you feel for him but are left wondering if he'll ever do anything more with his life . This might be too sad for some , but due to excellent writing and film work , it's all very compelling .
Does it seem realistic , no . But it's still great entertainment .	Hmmm . The casting department at MGM must have just gotten back from a Christmas party where the booze was flowing like rivers , as the way they set up the film was strange to say the least . Fred MacMurray plays an Oxford professor ( ! ) and marries Joan Crawford . This is an odd pairing , I know , but the Oxford part really seemed far-fetched . Then , on the way to their honeymoon , they are approached by the British Foreign Office and asked to do a bit of spying on their trip through southern Germany and Austria ( this was set in early 1939 - - just before the war ) . However , despite the odd casting and basic premise , the film worked pretty well provided you didn't think through how easy it was for them to slip through the Gestapo's fingers on two occasions . So why did it work ? Well , the acting was very good and they were given excellent supporting players in the form of Conrad Veidt and Basil Rathbone . Once again , though , how they assigned these two roles is very odd . Veidt was famous for his portrayals of evil Nazis , but here he is a good German ! And , oddly , the English Rathbone plays a die-hard Nazi ! It really did work - - but for fans of classic Hollywood , this is a bit strange . In addition to the acting , the plot and action were very good and the film was given the full MGM treatment - - excellent music , direction , sets , etc . They really did a good job of making the MGM back lot look like Austria with all the matte painted mountains that were exceptionally realistic . Overall , it's a very good WWII propaganda film and curio that is quite entertaining - - provided you don't think too much during the film .
For its genre , this is a pretty good flick	There were a lot of films made by Hollywood during the war years that were designed to drum up support for our troops from the public . Seen today , some might dismiss them or just see them as propaganda - - which they technically are , but of a positive sort and meant to unify the nation . This film is a pretty effective and entertaining example of the genre - - having a pretty realistic script and good production values . Pat O'Brien plays pretty much the same character he played in MANY other films ( you know , the tough-talking , hard-driven but " swell guy " ) . Randolph Scott is , as always , competent and entertaining and the rest of the extras are excellent ( look for a young Robert Ryan as one of the bombardiers in training ) . While the story is reminiscent of several other movies about our pilots and crews , the film is well-crafted enough to make it interesting and not too far-fetched . That it , perhaps , except for the very end - - where the film is a bit over-the-top but also VERY satisfying . About the only serious negative , and this is mostly for nitpickers , is that some of the stock footage is somewhat sloppily integrated in the film and " nuts " like me who are both history teachers and airplane lovers will probably notice this - - all others probably won't notice .
a decent film about Indian history and culture	This film begins with a happily married Hindu couple . The husband is college educated and rich . His wife is very traditional and her entire world is the inside of her home . However , the husband pushes her to learn English and about the outside world and she reluctantly agrees . Later , an old college pal arrives . He is the head of a nationalistic " buy Indian " movement . While this husband is not entirely in agreement with the movement , he lets his wife learn more about this movement and its leader . She quickly falls under this stranger's spell and begins actively supporting him by selling her jewels to give the movement money . However laudable the cause seemed to be , over time it resulted in widespread persecution of the poor Muslims and as a result , Muslim reprisals . The once peaceful land is now in chaos and the wife finally realizes her new " knight in shining armor " is in fact , self-serving and unconcerned with the ensuing chaos ! The stranger leaves town - - leaving the very decent husband to try to restore order . While I found this movie historically interesting , there were a couple elements that left me a bit cold . First , the wife falling in love with the stranger seemed way too quick and difficult to believe - - plus , I would have thought her husband would have said something sooner considering this man so often met with the wife alone . Second , the movie itself was also a bit cold and didn't hook me emotionally . A similar type of movie about the Muslim-Hindu violence decades later ( when the country finally gained its independence ) was EARTH , but it really managed to strike a much more emotional cord . So , in all , a decent and interesting film but not great .
I completely disagree with the previous review	I have seen this short movie twice and the other review here on IMDb from 2001 has misunderstood the fundamental concepts behind the movie . I mean no offense - - it is an understandable mistake . In Japanese culture ( as in some other cultures , such as the ancient Greeks ) , the concept of " Hell " is not the same as in Christianity . It is more a place where all the dead reside . Just because the judge sends evil people to Hell does NOT mean he is evil - - quite the opposite , he is good and punishes the evil with death . The defense attorney CLEARLY is EVIL in the movie - - he defends ANYONE and could care less if they are guilty . His " defense " included repeated attempts to murder the judge and he defended a completely horrible man - - how could he have seen as " good " ? ! Okay , on to the movie . It looks as if it's some sort of pilot for a failed television series . Too bad there aren't more episodes , as it really is unique . I especially love all the ways the judge puts the evil doers to death - - they are VERY creative ( though a bit gross ) . The down side ? The animation is extremely poor when compared to more recent animation coming to the West . The quality is light years behind Miyazaki's movies ( such as Kiki's Delivery Service and Spirted Away ) and also much more choppy and poorly drawn when compared to any recent anime television series ( such as Inuyasha , Full Metal Alchemist or even Pokemon ) . If you can ignore these limitations , it's still very much worth viewing .
Another decent installment of the Inner Sanctum series	In the 1940s , Universal Studios made a short series of films dubbed " The Inner Sanctum " movies . They all apparently starred Lon Chaney , Jr . and were B-movies . In other words , they were lower budget and ran at only a little over one hour , as they were intended to be the second ( and lesser ) film during a double-feature . In general , Bs were not great films , though compared to other films of the style , Inner Sanctum films are definitely a notch above the rest . In this installment , Chaney plays a Neurosurgeon who also does hypnosis ( an odd combination by the way ) . He seems like a nice guy and you have to feel sorry for him since he's apparently married a horrible woman who treats him like dirt . When this lady is killed , you'd think that would be the end of his problems , however , police think he might be the killer and Chaney isn't sure himself since his memories of that weekend are missing ! Using hypnosis , he gets to the heart of the problem . By the way , the hypnotic portions of the film were wrong in that hypnosis works very little like they showed it . However , as most people watching the film are NOT trained hypnotists ( I am ) , they really won't notice or care that this aspect of the movie is mostly mumbo-jumbo . Aside from that , the acting , writing and direction are all pretty good - - and the film is a nice diverting little mystery . By the way , this film is one of six that have been released on DVwith three episodes on each DVD . This is from Disk 1 and also includes DEAD MAN'S EYES and WEIRD WOMAN - - both of which are of comparable quality . I strongly recommend you see the series and if you like it , also try Columbia Pictures ' WHISTLER series - - as it's very similar in style .
Intensely sad	This is short film from Iran about the incredibly bloody Iran-Iraq War of 1980-1988 . The story is told from the viewpoint of one little Iranian girl and how the war impacted on her . First , you see that there is a little shrine in her home for a dead brother who was lost in the war . Next , when she goes to school , all the school day revolves around the war and those responsible . Oddly , Iraq wasn't mentioned , though when the kids were readying for a skit , the " usual suspects " ( Israel , US and UK ) were among those who were responsible for the war . In fact , education in any real sense didn't seem important in the school , as indoctrination into " correct thinking " and rooting out " enemies within " seemed to be just about all they were concerned with in BAAD , DAH SALEH . I wish I knew more about this film and those who made it - - in particular , did they intend this as an indictment about the indoctrination of children and a loss of innocence ? I really don't know , as many Iranian families sent their 10-12 year-olds to run through Iraqi mine fields in this war . Perhaps this isn't seen as a loss of innocence for the little girl but instead is praising her for her commitment to her country and the Islamic Revolution . I sure hope not , as kids all too often aren't allowed to be kids in this world . This is a well-constructed film - - interesting and worth a look . If anyone knows more about this film and its intended message , drop me a line .
By modern standards , it's really poor , . . . but for 1908 ( or so ) it's pretty good	First off , the video from Milestone Video says this film was made in 1910 but IMDb says 1908 . I am not a real stickler , but they are actually talking about the same film , so try not to be confused . Now considering that all of this Shakespeare play was boiled down to only ten minutes ( about the length of MOST films of that era ) , the film does a respectable job of conveying the story - - though of course all the subtlety is missing as well as the subplots . But , compared to other contemporary movies based on Shakespeare , this is among the best because of its relatively high production values and because the entire film was hand painted to make it a color picture ! Considering most silent films were shown at about 16 to 24 frames per second , that means that about 10 , 000 cels had to be painstakingly painted ! ! And while this certainly doesn't compare well to Technicolor , for 1908 or 1910 , it's truly an amazing job . Overall , it's not a film most today would enjoy ( especially many Shakespeare lovers ) , but for film buffs like me , it's worth the time .
silly and shallow but lots of fun	This movie is a wonderful example of a film that isn't particularly deep or important BUT that still works well because it's so much fun and the writing , though quirky , works . Of course I will admit that the plot from time to time gets really silly ( culminating with the sub being painted pink and being forced to go that way into action ) . I guess it's just that this is a nice blend of acting by Cary Grant and Tony Curtis in a cute little war picture that ALMOST makes WWII look kind of fun . The end result is charming and silly and worth watching but with no real meaning or significance at all - - and is that always such a bad thing ?
An excellent " B " picture	In the 1930s and 40s , Hollywood made thousands of " B " movies - - movies that had lower budgets and were made to run as the lesser of the two films at a double-feature . This little mystery-horror film is one of the better ones I've seen in some time - - thanks to surprisingly decent performances and a novel and well-written script - - things you don't normally find in Bs . The film begins with an attack by what seems to be an animal on some rich folks at their country manor in Britain . While an inspector from Scotland Yard investigates , it soon becomes obvious that many people there are trying to hide the truth . Some claim the attack was the result of a mythical beast that has haunted this family for generations , though the inspector is naturally very dubious of this . The film excels in that the script is lacking the usual holes and logical errors common to B-movies . Plus , while there is a horror element , the film really succeeds as a mystery and suspense film . About the only problem in the film , and it's a small one , is that one of the characters ( the hot-shot female investigator ) is a bit obnoxious and stupid from time to time . However , this is a tiny problem only and seeing the forensics employed in the film is really quite fascinating today .
Very good , but not great drama of love and obsession	This is an extremely beautiful movie that was filmed in the stark landscape of the Canary Islands . The film begins with a rather restrained and dull young man coming from Spain to be the island's doctor . One of his servants is the young Marara and the doctor does not appear to show any great interest in her . Later , an English vulcanologist arrives and is instantly smitten with the girl . They soon begin screwing like sex-crazed weasels and she plans on their upcoming marriage . But , the Englishman is a jerk and has no intention of marrying her - - even when she becomes pregnant . When the doctor hears this , he murders the Englishman and stuffs him and his belongings into one of the volcanic vents . But despite her being jilted , the woman insists the Englishman will return one day . Soon afterwards , the doctor is drafted and does not return for almost six years . When he does , he is obsessed with the woman and even tries to force himself on her . She refuses to marry him ( who would after being pawed like that ? ) . Later , he tells her he murdered the Englishman and she should stop waiting and marry him . She naturally reacts to this and he tries to rape her . She then tosses herself into a fire and the movie ends . While much of the plot is quite interesting , it switches from intelligently written and compelling to stupid and inexplicable - - thus reducing the film's impact . Having the doctor kill the Englishman was not a bad idea , but then to be SO obsessed and attacking the girl repeatedly made no sense - - especially after he had previously shown little interest in her . Plus , her tossing herself into the fire , while cool to watch , made little sense . It's a shame because with a few tweaks , it could have been a much better film . Still , despite its flaws , it's worth seeing .
It probably played better back in 1927 , but it's still pretty watchable	The film is about several thieves and murderers who travel with carnivals and prey on decent people - - in this case , a man who brought his sheep to town to sell them and his overweight daughter . The man is shot and killed ( by Lionel Barrymore ) to get his money , though when it turns out his daughter has the money , another of these low-lives ( John Gilber ) tries to film-flam the money from her . While all a bit silly when you think about it , some of the tricks they tried to use to get the money were really cool . My favorite was when they re-staged the execution of John the Bapist ( who , for some odd reason , they referred to him by some name I have never heard of before - - NOT John ) . The fake chopping off the head and sticking it on a silver platter bit was really exciting to watch - - BOTH times they staged it . Back in 1927 , I am sure this film was considered better than people today would assess it . Now I am not saying it's a bad film - - it's pretty good . But , the melodramatic style of the film seems dated and the idea of evil " carnies " stealing and murdering was an accepted theme back in the 20s - - but today it just seems kind of silly . But despite this and a very , very , very simplistic and moralistic plot , it is pretty good and a good film for silent movie buffs . But , overall , it's not one of John Gilbert's best films nor is it one that has especially lasting appeal .
Exceptionally well done but not exactly a fun ride	This film is very well made and I was impressed by much of it . However , I would assume that at least 95 % of the public would hate the film if they saw it - - probably even more ! That's because all the bizarre and surrealistic elements make a lot of sense to a film historian or someone who loves German or Soviet silent Expressionistic film - - so this makes for a very narrow audience indeed ! ! THE HEART OF THE WORLD appears as if it were made in the 1920s and at first I thought it was made from clips from old movies . However , instead I soon realized that the film actually was imitating such films as METROPOLIS , THE CABINET OF CALIGARI , NOSFERATU , ZEMLYA and even THE KING OF KINGS ( among others ) - - with a very strong emphasis on METROPOLIS . There were also some amazingly unusual phallic images interspersed throughout the film that made me laugh . This , combined with an appropriately stirring and bizarre musical score made for a very skilled picture indeed . The problem with this film , though , is that even if the work shows great skill , who is going to watch it ? I understood the film and psychological references and could appreciate it . . . but I also didn't particularly enjoy it and would hate a steady diet of this sort of filming . It's probably only of interest to a small and select few .
Creepy . . .	This is a short documentary about a very strange period in Hungary between WWI and WWII . At first , you really don't know what the film is about and are intrigued . You know that a certain part of the country has been dying a slow death - - with people moving away from Nagyrev for decades . The people being interviewed talk about how it used to be a nice place to live but now they can't get anyone to buy their homes if they , too , wanted to leave . This , combined with talk of poisonings , convinced me that this town must have been a place destroyed by industrial poisoning of the water or land . However , the film was not about this at all and I was taken by surprise . Yes , people were poisoned but it turns out the whole thing was intentional ! It seemed that the husbands were being lazy and brutal so instead of divorces ( which were morally wrong ) , the ladies decided to poison the men instead ! ! It seems that this became a rather popular pastime in this and surrounding villages ! This story is told through interviews with a few surviving people who were there when the poisonings occurred . However , most interviewed must have learned about the poisonings from family members since it happened so very long ago . Additionally , the film seemed to take a very neutral position on the incidents - - or perhaps excusing it in a way . The women interviewed some times talked as if the murders were somewhat justified and you could detect a certain hostility towards men in a few of the interviews . This wasn't a totally bad thing - - showing this undercurrent of acceptance and condoning of the killings was creepy but also made for a better and more shocking film . I just hope this film isn't adored by ardently anti-male viewers who might see this as a strongly pro-feminist film - - which it should not be . Fascinating though occasionally slow and disjoint , this is a documentary well worth seeing - - just don't get any ideas ! !
excellent entertainment	This isn't among Jimmy Stewart's best films - - I'm quick to admit that . However , while some view his film as pure propaganda , I'm wondering what's so wrong with that ? Yes , sure , like the TV show THE FBI , this is an obvious case of the Bureau doing some PR work to try to drum up support . But , as entertainment goes , it does a good job . Plus , surprisingly enough for the time it was made , the film focuses more on crime than espionage and " Commies " . Instead , it's a fictionalization of one of the earliest agents and the career he chose . Now considering the agent is played by Jimmy Stewart , then it's pretty certain the acting and writing were good - - as this was a movie with a real budget and a studio who wasn't about to waste the star in a third-rate flick . So overall , it's worth seeing but not especially great .
kinda bad but still very likable and worth seeing , . . .	Now if that summary didn't totally confuse you , I am glad ! This is a movie I saw when I was in college and , while I would freely admit it was a really silly and dopey film , it still had a lot of charm and I'm glad I saw it . In particular , I loved the music - - even the stuff from ( yuck ) Boy George . The Giorgio Moroder theme was great and Jeff Lynne's songs were FAR better than the lousy songs he contributed to the rotten film , XANADU . The other contributors also did a good job . I even went so far as to pick up a copy of the album . Lenny von Dohlen and Virginia Madsen were both fine in the movie - - he as a nerdy and hopeless nice guy and she as a beautiful cellist . The ULTRA-STRANGE plot involves Lenny buying a home computer than soon begins showing evidence of a personality . Ultimately , the computer and Lenny fall for Madsen and it is all wrapped together for a happy ending ( what else ? ) . Strange yes , but also rather watchable . And , as an interesting curio from the mid-80s , it's worth a look !
Pretty good comedy - - very light and pleasant	While this film isn't nearly as good as Marion Davies ' best comedy , SHOW PEOPLE , it is still a pretty good silent comedy . It is NOT sophisticated and the humor is rarely laugh out loud funny , but it is nonetheless a sweet movie about mistaken identity as well as a poor and abused girl finally getting a break . Ms . Davies played an abused young lady - - much like Cinderella . However , despite her nasty boss , she maintains a sweet disposition and eventually this decency is rewarded when she meets the right man . However , at about the same time , another woman is being forced to marry a man she does not love and so the two briefly change places - - creating some mildly amusing moments . All in all , this is a nice movie with a few mild laughs - - well made but not exactly life changing . By the way , Davies ' pet mouse is named " Ignatz " in honor of the Krazy Kat cartoons .
An effective and well made propaganda film	Calling this movie a propaganda film is no insult - - it was released very shortly after the actual fall of Wake Islan and was an effective way to put a face on these doomed defenders and energize the people at home in the war effort . Since it was completed so quickly , the exact details of the final doomed days of the soldiers was a bit murky so the studio filled in the gaps with fictionalized accounts of this struggle . The film begins just before December 7 , 1941 and the island is in the process of being turned into a military base . Civilian engineers and soldiers cover the barren island and they are unaware that they were directly in harm's way . Soon , the troops on the island would face invasion and annihilation . As I said , the individual accounts of heroism were fictionalized through the creation of some characters such as those played by William Bendix and Robert Preston ( who seem like an old married couple with their banter ) as well Albert Dekker ( who , as usual , plays a loudmouth patriot ) , Brian Donlevy and Macdonald Carey . The acting was very effective even though by today's standards some of the stories seem a bit clichd - - they were perfect for the time . While far from one of the very best war films made during WWII , it was better than average and is well worth a look . Excellent quality and a rousing script make for a very good film . A final note because I am an aviation nut . I hated one part of the film - - the aerial scenes were often bad , as monoplanes ( with a single wing ) often magically became biplanes in mid-air ( with two wings ) . While I could forgive them making Japanese planes that looked nothing like the real thing , having them change so radically in mid-flight was unforgivable . Did they think the audiences wouldn't notice ?
A well animated and faithful rendition of William Steig	The book " Dr . DeSoto " is a sweet kids ' book that I have read to my own kids . While not among the greats in children's literature , it's a good story and was translated well to the screen - - with decent animation , music and pacing . The only thing is that while it is very good , it never seemed magical or unique enough to merit its being nominated for the Best Animated Short Film Oscar . Perhaps it was just a slow year - - especially since animation was in a bit of a slump at the time and wouldn't begin to pick up for another few years ( with the re-introduction of good Disney animated films and better TV fare for kids in the late 80s and into the 90s ) . If you are a kid , it's worth a look . If you are an adult , then watch it with your child - - otherwise , this one is skip-able . Instead , try watching the winner that year - - CHARADE . It's a very funny film though the ending isn't the most family-friendly I've ever seen !
for what it is , it's very very good	I like films like THE SPOILERS because they have absolutely no pretense about them . They are simple B-movie-type films with relatively simple plots and familiar actors but pack a lot of predictable but fun entertainment into them . Sure , since it's a John Wayne flick you KNOW that he will win in the end and you KNOW what to expect . And , for me , that's not a bad thing . I like a good old fashioned John Wayne flick like most of the ones he did in the 40s - - good , solid , and entertaining . The only odd thing is that the Duke is billed 3rd when it is clearly his film . Top billing went to Marlena Dietrich - - who at the time was the bigger star . However , her part is pretty flat and she clearly acts in support of Wayne . And , second billing went to Randolph Scott . But , once again he was clearly not the leading character but the villain . Now if all this doesn't make sense , you need to understand that although Wayne had made many films by 1942 , most were B-movies and he still was only just becoming the break-out star he would so clearly be in just a few short years . In addition to being a good old John Wayne flick ( among his better ones of the 40s ) , the direction and plot are pretty good as well . A very good movie - - nearly deserving a score of 8 .
A highly entertaining but very adult blaxploitation film	BLACK CAESAR is one of the better so-called blaxploitation films I have seen . Compared to most films in this genre , the production values are much better - - with a decent performance by Fred Williamson and a very good , but violent , script to assist him . The film begins with a kid taking a bribe to a corrupt cop . The amount is short and the sadistic White cop beats the Black child severely - - sending him to the hospital and filling the kid with a desire for revenge . Years pass and this kid turns out to be Fred Williamson - - a tough ex-con who has visions of being a mob boss . Through mob contracts , he's able to ingratiate himself to the prejudiced Italian boss . With so many racial slurs going his way , you just know that eventually Williamson is going to give this man and the rest of his White friends their " comeuppance " - - though in the meantime , he carves out a little piece of the mob pie for himself . Eventually , of course , Williamson is the leader of the mob and now he has to work with the same cop who beat him years earlier . This is because the cop is now the police captain . You know that Williamson must one day pay him back , but you also know that he might just die in the process ! Exciting , well-paced and interesting throughout . The only shortcoming I really see in the film is its frequent nudity , adult content ( Williamson rapes his girlfriend ) and all the blood . Additionally , the ending of the film doesn't really fit in with the fact that there was a sequel to BLACK CAESAR - - a rather unnecessary and contradictory idea indeed .
Pretty entertaining and with a great sense of adventure	This is a pretty entertaining film that works pretty well due to decent writing and an excellent villain in the form of George Sanders . The film begins with a young boy being forcibly taken from his loving grandfather and the boy is made a stable boy for a rich baronet . It seems that this rich guy ( Sanders ) is actually the kid's uncle but instead of being kind , he treats the kid like dirt . The reasons are because the uncle wants to keep the family fortune for himself AND because something about his dead brother and his wife bother him so intensely that he wants to make their child's life hell . The boy is played by Roddy McDowell , but after the first 15 minutes or so , he is " Hollywood aged " and is played by Tyrone Power . Power is very good in the film , but a few macho scenes didn't seem all that plausible - - especially after seeing his rather scrawny frame once he took his shirt off part-way through the film . Well , Power cannot stay at the manor to take the abuse forever , especially since the uncle seems intent on eventually killing him - - beating him savagely and making up a story that Power attacked and tried to kill him ! So , he runs off to sea and meets up with a friend , John Carradine - - in one of his non-crazy or monster roles . Together they plan to jump ship , make their fortunes and return to England . Well , all this DOESN'T go exactly as planned and Power meets a beautiful native girl played pretty convincingly by Gene Tierney . What happens next I really don't want to divulge - - it would spoil the film's many surprises . However , the film does have many twists and surprises - - especially at the end and enough that it elevates this film above the norm and makes it very watchable - - nearly earning it a score of 8 .
strange ! ! !	This is one of the weirder Japanese movies I've seen ( though not nearly as weird as my favorite , HAPPINESS OF KATAKURIS ) and not exactly a comedy . The lead is an older male who is having impotency problems . So , he receives injections ( more about that later ) and gets his sexual satisfaction drugging his wife and photographing her nude or putting her in intimate situations with a young doctor ( they don't have sex , but the old guy enjoys feeling jealous of them - - it makes him feel younger ) . Unfortunately , the old guy is REALLY sick and dies after watching his wife strip for him . Then , in an odd twist of fate , the wife , the doctor and the old man's odd daughter all accidentally ingest poison and die ! Well , not all of it was accidental - - the daughter put poison in her mom's tea because she was jealous of the relationship between the doctor and the mother . Too weird ! Although I guess I liked it ( just because it dared to be so different ) it is not a movie I would rush out to watch . Another problem is that the version from The International Collection has crappy dubbing . In the prologue to the movie , the doctor must talk for about 5 minutes and NONE of it was subtitled - - what he said is completely beyond anyone who doesn't speak Japanese . Also , the material is VERY sexually charged ( though there is no nudity in the film ) but they talk so cryptically about the impotence I had a strong feeling either the people that did the subtitles left A LOT out or perhaps the movie was originally very cryptic . For example , we have no injections what sort of injections the old man gets or why it's BAD that he's been getting them so often . I was just baffled .
An exceptionally weird but very watchable propaganda film from WWII	This was one weird film . . . . and I mean REALLY , REALLY weird ! Yet , despite being so weird as well as being such an obvious propaganda piece , it is still very watchable today . Plus , I know that when the original play and this movie debuted in Britain , they were extremely successful , so it was obviously an important film for the morale of the British people . The film begins with a whole lot of obviously British actors trying to fake American accents and doing a terrible job - - so badly that it made me laugh to think that the British saw us that way and I now wonder if Americans doing British accents sound that bad to the Brits ( I assume we must ) . Oddly , some of the actors ( such as the very English James Mason ) didn't even attempt accents and I wonder how many people noticed this at the time . I'm sure American audiences would have noticed . This is not a major problem , but it sure was noticeable . The story is about a disenchanted newspaper reporter ( Michael Redgrave ) . Well before the war , he traveled the globe documenting all the signs that a war was approaching . However , despite the rise of militarism in Japan , Italy and Germany , the people at home were sick of war following the last one and just didn't want to listen ( which was definitely true ) . So , when the war finally arrived , Redgrave left the UK and moved to the most isolated place he could find - - a lonely lighthouse on a tiny island in the Great Lakes . However , and here's the really weird part , he wasn't alone as the ghost-like memories of the victims of a shipwreck near the lighthouse were his constant companions ! No books , no TV and no radio - - just him and his imaginary dead friends ! The most exciting and wonderful actor among these dead imaginary friends was the Captain , played by Finlay Currie - - a wonderful actor you might have seen in IVANHOE , WHISKY GALORE ! or BEN HUR . While his name is NOT well-known , this very prolific and exceptional actor really made an impossibly silly plot come to life . Currie and Redgrave both introduce several of the dead passengers from the long-lost ship ( from 1849 ) and both had their own unique perspective . Redgrave imagined their deaths to be both meaningless and bigger than life , while Currie showed that all these people were running from something - - something bigger than them - - just like Redgrave . By the end of the film , Currie ( who was imaginary ) convinced Redgrave to stop being a hermit and do his part for the war effort against Fascism - - a not especially subtle but very rousing ending indeed ! Good acting made this silly stage production come to life . A very interesting yet preachy film from WWII .
The film sure looks great .	One thing you sure have to say about OLD SAN FRANCISCO is that it is a very lovely film to see . The print , though very old , is in almost pristine shape ( at least the version they showed on Turner Classic Movies ) and the soundtrack exceptional . In addition , the director and cinematographer were absolutely brilliant - - making the most of every scene with the most artistic touch for a silent I have seen in a very long time . Delores Costello is simply luminous thanks to them and so many of the scenes were treats for the eyes - - such as the scene between Costello and her suitor at the fountain . It just doesn't get much prettier than this . As for the story , it was nice to see that Hollywood was trying to be sensitive towards Hispanic-Americans , as they are shown in a very sympathetic light . A major problem is that despite being so very pro-minority , none of the people playing these roles are Hispanic - - a very common problem in Hollywood until the 1960s ( and sometimes beyond ) . Today such a practice would be condemned - - in 1927 , it was par for the course . In this film , Delores Costello did a great job acting ( she was terrific ) , but she looked about as Hispanic as Shirley Temple . If you don't believe me that such casting was common , try watching a Charlie Chan or Mr . Moto film - - - as these characters were repeatedly played by actors of European descent . In fact , Warner Oland who popularized the Chan role is even in this film playing the role of a big dumb jerk who happens to be a Mongolian man posing as a White man ! Oh , and most of the Asians in this film are drug dealers , pimps or assorted low-lifes , so I am pretty sure Asian-Americans probably didn't line up to see this film ! The story is about a family of noble Spanish blood living in San Francisco in the early 20th century . Though they have lived there before the Americans arrived , they are continually treated like outsiders as the Anglos and Chinese gangs take advantage of them again and again . Thanks to a nice young Irishman who has fallen for sweet Delores , the family has a benefactor and things might work out for the better . . . . or not ! See it for yourself to see if sweet Delores manages to escape the lecherous clutches of the Chinese underworld white slavers and greedy land speculators ( for a hint : God doesn't like what is happening and perhaps He'll have to intervene ) . Despite the film's many shortcomings and overt racism as well as a sappy ending ( all of which can be understood based on the age of the film and prevailing social mores ) , the film certainly IS exciting - - mostly because of its scandalous subject matter and fast pace . This combined with the artistic nature of the film make it a film worth seeing . Just don't let your politically correct friends and co-workers know ! The sight of Oland's midget brother kept locked in a cage throughout the film like a dog is just too much to bear .
a decent version of the Conan Doyle story	While ANY Sherlock Holmes movie WITHOUT Jeremy Brett can only be second-rate in my opinion ( he is the best Holmes by far ) , this is still worth watching . Is it a perfect recreation of the book - - certainly not , but at least it is more like the original than the Basil Rathbone versions ( they were entertaining but bore very little semblance to the original stories ) . Peter Cushing is fine as Holmes , though it would have been nice if he'd done MORE Holmes movies to see how he would have developed the characterization . For a movie from Hammer Films , the production values are good - - special effects and location shooting was very good . I guess my only complaints were too much emphasis on the silly and needless romance between Christopher Lee and the psycho lady . It was way too unbelievable and histrionic and detracted , somewhat , from the story .
Not without a few flaws , it's still very interesting and compelling	While this isn't one of John Ford's best films , it's still very good and well worth seeing . That's because it's one of the few films I have seen that actually talks about the US Cavalry during the Civil War . In fact , now that I think about it , it's amazing how few films Hollywood has made about this supremely important and devastating war . And , fortunately , the film has a strong basis in reality , as the mission John Wayne leads his men on is inspired by real incidents . The battle scenes are excellent and in the case of the battle fought on the main street in one town , quite compelling and sad . About the only negatives are the seemingly artificial animosity between Wayne and William Holden . At times , it seems like this is more a plot device than anything else , though this is hashed out better as the story unfolds . Also , another minor problem is the female lead . Considering how often she tried to escape , that she was a spy and tried to alert the Confederates , I just couldn't buy Wayne in how he treated her . I would have shot her and be done with it ! ! ! What's worse is near the very end , completely out of no where , he confesses to her that he loves her ! ! ! Where did this come from anyways ? ! Please try to look past these issues and enjoy the film for what it is - - a tribute to some very brave men on a seemingly impossible mission .
Pretty good but the plot was a bit hard to believe	This film stars Joan Fontaine and Tyrone Power as a couple who meet and fall in love during the darkest days of WWII - - even though Fontaine actually knows very little about Power and his checkered past . From the onset , I was a bit surprised by the decision to cast Tyrone Power . Sure , he was a big , handsome star with 20th Century-Fox , but he was playing a Brit - - even though he had no trace of a British accent . Now had they said he was a Canadian , it might have been much more believable . As for Ms . Fontaine , I am often critical of her performances ( since I think she got the Oscar for a lackluster performance ) , but here she is exceptional and very effective . The other major problem I have with the film is the whole notion of the romance . First , Fontaine is a true patriot - - a member of the nobility that could have sat on her butt through the war but volunteered for the military . Yet , she manages to fall in love with a man who , as far as she knows , hasn't volunteered or served . And , when it turns out he's a deserter , she STILL agrees to marry him ! ! ! Now , you do discover that he's really not such a coward and he does manage to redeem himself , but still you wonder how Fontaine could come to love this man based on who he was at that time . It's a shame really because apart from these problems , it's a very lovely film - - with exceptional direction , music , acting and a wonderful evocative mood . In fact , as a positive propaganda piece , it's exceptional and was very timely in 1942 - - though just a tad preachy . Overall , it's still a good film and worth your time - - just don't try to get too hung up on the plot holes or it will ruin your viewing . PS - - In the film , Fontaine says " I am not a blue stocking " . I looked up this term and it's an outdated slur that refers to a educated rich woman who was a member of a particular British literary society . The members were known for being total " fuddy-duddies " .
While far from perfect , a very enjoyable Joan Crawford flick	This is certainly not one of the more famous films made by Joan Crawford in her long career , but I wish it was because in many ways she parodies the hard as nails image she strongly cultivated in films . The movie begins with the fascist-like Crawford at a board meeting for a corporation she heads . You can tell right away that she is the stereotypical hard working , sex loathing , female image common in some 1940s films . In fact , in many ways , she seems like a 1940s version of Scrooge - - though perhaps a bit less likable ! ! Into this rigid and career-driven world arrives Melvin Douglas - - a writer who is doing a book on the way this corporation mistreats the employees . Crawford is angered by this , but considering it's all true and her actions fuel the fire , there isn't much she can do . Douglas also enjoys baiting and irritating Crawford - - once again , because she makes this so much fun ! In many ways , this film is reminiscent of the wonderful DEVIL AND MISS JONES , as later , Crawford attends an employee function and is accepted with open arms - - because they have no idea she's their hated boss ! And , like this other film , it's a good comedy with plenty to make audiences happy . The only serious deficit is that the ending is drawn out way too long and could have benefited from a trimming . All the actors were just fine , though I was particularly impressed by Bilie Burke's supporting role . Unlike most of her films , she was much more restrained and less annoying than usual - - this time , she was a very welcome addition . By the way , a few final observations . First , when the doctor was describing the symptoms of falling in love , he actually described symptoms of schizophrenia ! Also , there is a mistake in that the alarm that CONSTANTLY goes off at night on the trucks only occurs at the beginning of the film . Later , at the same time of night , the alarm is strangely silent .
Well made and sad	This is a very well made film but it's also sad in many ways . Manny is a young man - - probably about 12 . He's about to have a birthday and is trying to find where his mom hid his present . Finally , he finds a new pair of cool basketball shoes and instead of waiting , puts them on and goes for a walk . He stops by a local basketball court in the city where he lives and some older guys are playing . One of them is a real jerk - - he's pushy and mean and obnoxious as can be - - so much so that the others finally just go home . Manny sticks around and shoots some baskets with this mean guy . Suddenly , the jerk knocks Manny down and steals the shoes . Manny can't do much of anything to stop him . Later , this same jerk is playing ball again and he's even more of a jerk - - full of viciousness . Just for kicks , he destroys another guy's boom box - - at which point he's just gone too far . The next scene , the jerk is shot in the head and as he lays there dying , Manny goes back to retrieve his shoes ! This is a very sad film in many ways . While the punk was a total jerk and you want him to get a comeuppance , having him shot in the head and dying in the snow was a sad end to say the least . The story is about how life is sometimes cheap - - and it vividly illustrates the point . Well made and sad - - I'd like to see more from the folks who made this short film .
A rather melancholy portrait but one worth seeing	This is the story of a long-time New Orleans resident , Louis Harding , and his recollections of the Black community long before Hurricane Katrina as well as his feelings about the state of the community today . He actually feels that they were much better off in the early 20th century during the years of the UNIA ( an organization created by civil rights leader , Marcus Garvey ) , as Black ownership of businesses and pride was much stronger long ago . Now , the sense of pride is diminished but Harding refuses to give up and has been working to help his community . Even after Katrina destroyed much of the city , including his properties he's worked a lifetime to own , he is determined to see the city rise again . I enjoyed this little portrait , but I would have loved more background information about New Orleans in the 1920s . I am very familiar with the UNIA and Garveyism , but nowadays , the importance of this organization and its push for Black entrepreneurs to create inner city businesses has been forgotten . Showing this connection along with Harding's insights would have made for a much more interesting film , though it is still well worth seeing .
The animation style is really well done	DREAMS AND DESIRES is one of many animated short films that make up THE ANIMATION SHOW VOLUME THREE . This is an excellent collection and although VOLUME TWO was pretty poor , VOLUMES ONE and THREE were both very good and are worth seeking . The first thing you'll probably notice is all the nudity . While most of it is pretty innocent and not especially salacious , there is quite a bit and the film is a bit crude here and there ( with a scene of a dog unloading his bowels on the rug ) . The second thing you'll probably notice is the animation style - - which is wonderful . In some ways , it looks a bit like the cartoons of Bill Plympton - - though the hand drawn animation is less detailed but far more billowy and quite beautiful . I don't think they used colored pencils but perhaps pastel crayons - - I'm really not sure but it is lovely and unique . The plot involves an older woman who has agreed to videotape a friend's daughter's wedding . However , the lady ends up mucking up practically everything and the wedding turns out to be a bit of a fiasco . Cute stuff and well worth a look .
Some might find this in bad taste , but it was pretty funny	Years ago , there was a " Twilight Zone " episode involving magical shoes . When a person put them on , they assumed the identity of the dead man who used to wear the shoes . While they still looked like their old selves , they knew everything the murdered man knew ! Well , this short film takes this idea and twists it into a funny knot ! In this case , a hobo puts on a power tie that he finds ( or perhaps it finds him ! ) . Immediately , the tie takes over and pulls him into the corporate world ( literally ) . Oddly , everyone seems to know the bum - - even though he's still dressed in his old rags and all he really cares about is finding more alcohol ! Still , with this tie , he can apparently do no wrong and he is a huge hit at work . That is , until he fights the tie to get a drink - - when disaster strikes . This leads to a clever finale . Now I am sure than many won't think that this film is funny , as it seems to make fun of hobos . Plus , my using words like " bum " and " hobo " aren't exactly politically correct , so I guess they'll feel much the same way about the review ! Still , it's very funny and weird and if you aren't a thin-skinned person , you'll probably have a laugh or two watching POWER TIE .
Pretty good and not preachy like some WWII era Holmes films	This is one of several Sherlock Holmes films made by Universal Studios starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce . And while it isn't the best of the 1940s series , it certainly is better written and more watchable than many as well - - particularly since so many of the ones made during the war were too propaganda-inundated to be the least bit believable . Plus , they were so , so very different from the original Conan Doyle stories that they were really awfully tough to watch . The film is about a manor home in which several murders and a near-murder take place . Holmes and Lestrade both investigate and in the end , surprise , surprise , the bad guy gets caught . And , catching this criminal is made easier because like all villains in these films , he's amazingly stupid and easy to trap ! It's pretty standard B-movie detective type fare - - no better or worse . All good fun , but a far cry from the exquisite Grenada Films shows of the 1980s starring Jeremy Brett - - now THOSE were wonderful and amazingly authentic films .
inconsistent but often funny	I love what Rocko did for TV . Up until the show and subsequent shows by Nickelodeon debuted , many of the common cartoons marketed to kids were practically unwatchable for adults or people with functioning brains . But , Rocko actually had decent writing and tried to appeal to adults as well as kids . It and Ren and Stimpy were the first cartoons in almost three decades that actually tried to be more than just drivel . As I mentioned above , there were some dull episodes but some that were so gosh darn funny I'll never forget them - - especially the episodes involving Ed Bighead ! The three that jump out in my mind right away were the Wacky Deli episode ( involving Ed's son ) , Ed's dog , Earl as well as the Magic Meatball episode . They were hilarious and I still laugh out loud when they occasionally come on TV .
a slight film with some charm	While this isn't among Woody Allen's best , I was thrilled when I saw it because , in some ways , it was a welcome departure from his overly self-analytical and self-indulgent films . In other words , the film was made simply to entertain and I liked that . While not as crazy and goofy as his earliest films , it's a cute little film where he plays a nice but hopeless talent agent that represents the weirdest and worst talent imaginable ! Well , he somehow gets mixed up with the mob and most of the movie is spent watching him nearly getting killed again and again . Mia Farrow plays a very unusual role as the gangster gal - - quite a departure from her usual roles . It's worth seeing but not especially memorable .
Why did it take four years to release this film ? It was excellent and very watchable .	This is a deceptive little film . First off , because it was made and sat for four years before release , you might be inclined to think it is a dud - - but that's far from true . The film is very good - - good enough to almost earn an 8 . Second , while the film has some horrific scenes and features Boris Karloff and Christopher Lee , it is not a horror film but more of a drama . So if you see it , don't expect monsters or madness - - instead , there are just bad people and good people doing bad things . The film is set in 1840 and Karloff plays an exceptionally skilled surgeon who is dismayed that there are no drugs to alleviate the suffering of patients during surgery . Basically , people were wide awake and felt EVERYTHING during surgery and amputations ! This is true , as the first anesthesias didn't come about until around 1850 . Despite his concerns , other doctors didn't share his enthusiasm for change , so Karloff foolishly begins experimenting on himself - - inhaling a mixture of various chemicals ( including opium ) . Not surprisingly , he becomes addicted and this once sweet man becomes an unwilling pawn in the seedy underworld . The film gets very high marks for construction , writing , direction and the performance of Karloff . There isn't much I'd change about the film , though fans of Christopher Lee might be disappointed that his role isn't that big and his character isn't that interesting ( despite the fact he's a cold-blooded murderer ) . Give this intelligent little film a watch - - it's really very good .
Very good , but no real surprises either	I have seen quite a few Hammer horror films and was excited to finally see their first Dracula film . Unfortunately , while very well made and interesting , not much occurred in it that was novel or interesting . Sure , the story was changed around a bit so that now the motive for the killings is more revenge than just a need to drink blood , but otherwise nothing that I haven't seen before . I guess part of the problem is that I've seen a couple of Hammer's Frankenstein movies and liked how they created a very different vision of the monster and monster maker from the 1930s Universal films . Here , it's not too different from the Lugosi Dracula except that I still greatly preferred Lugosi . Unfortunately for poor old Christopher Lee is that he's actually given very few lines even though he got second billing . Michael Gough , a perennial performer in Hammer and other British productions actually had a lot more to say and do even though he received lower billing . So my overall rating is a 7 , since it is competently made and fun for horror movie fans . However , due to it being very familiar material made in a rather familiar way , I can't give it a higher rating . I have 5 or 6 more Hammer Dracula films on DVD yet to watch - - hopefully they'll shed some new light on the Drac legend .
Cute film with a very odd style of animation	This is a cute film , as the film is supposedly the product of a stone-age film production company - - and is reminiscent of the Flintstones in many ways . You not only get to see what the caveman crew made but the actual steps they take to make this strange little film . And for 1922 , this is a pretty cute idea and is overall a very watchable film . Warner Brothers did some films like this in the 1930s and I am guessing that the producers of THE ORIGINAL MOVIE may have been inspired by the success of Winsor McCay's Gertie the Dinosaur . Oddly though , the style of animation looks a lot like Asian shadow puppets . This really isn't bad , but certainly is unusual and gives this short a unique look . It's an excellent film for historians and lovers of early animation . Others might find the film a bit dull , but considering it's a short you haven't got much to lose by watching this .
an odd little curio	I have seen quite a few older silent films and because of this , I could tell that this was a relatively well-made film . The only problem is that the acting style is a bit old-fashioned - - even for 1909 . There is a bit too much melodrama and over-acting even in an age when this was much more acceptable than it would have been just a decade later . Plus , the film really looks like it could have used more inter-title cards to explain the action . So , a little less over-acting and a few more cards explaining everything would have improved the film . However , despite these shortcomings , the film STILL is pretty entertaining for the era and tells a complete story of a down-and-out family whose fortunes turn around for the holiday . It is a very interesting curio indeed !
well-made historical soaper	This film is about a doomed relationship between the daughter of a rich fascist-type landowner in Argentina about 1830 or so ( after the successful revolution against the Spanish ) . The new government , it seems , feels that the end justifies the means and repression is used to keep control of the fledgling nation . Camila finds that she is not attracted to the macho rich suitors but instead finds herself drawn to the new Jesuit priest . Despite common sense and many obstacles , they run off together . What I found most interesting in the movie was the character of her father , who was instrumental in tracking them down and exacting punishment . In many ways , the plot reminded me of The Thorn Bird mini-series combined with a fascist-like backdrop . A pretty good film overall .
slick and well-made	This is a very well-made and enjoyable film . While not exactly a wonderful film , it is very worth watching and an excellent example of Cary Grant's acting and charm . It's a wartime propaganda film that takes a different slant - - instead of being heavy-handed and centering on war , it focuses on a con man who thinks he's slick for avoiding the draft - - fighting is only for " suckers " . As the film progresses , his unshakable bravado suddenly becomes shaken when he meets lovely Loraine Day . Somehow , she gets through to this charming jerk and he knows he can't continue as he's been doing . It's an interesting character study and a welcome change from the usual .
Short but pretty well made short	This film was included in " Spike and Mike's Cutting Edge Classics " - - a DVD compilation of short animated films . This particular short was only about three minutes and many of the shorts are of about that length . This film is animated using computer generated graphics and for 2000 it's awfully good . Nice rendering and it looked lovely . The story is about a scientist trying to clone a sheep - - just like the famous " Dolly " several years back . However , this lab experiment has a twist - - one that makes it a clever little film but also which I can't talk about or it would ruin the film . Just understand that Hoshi and the rest of the crew did a lovely job and the film is one of the better ones in the set .
One of the better Civil War films of the era	During the 1910s , there were a large number of films made in the US about the Civil War - - most likely since the 50th anniversary of its start and finish were being celebrated . I've seen quite a few compared to most people alive today and some of them are pretty good ( like this one ) and some are incredibly old fashioned and totally ridiculous . I was happy to see that even though the plot here is a bit difficult to imagine actually happening , the film itself isn't so heavy-handed and schmaltzy as many of the day . In fact , the film is pretty low-key and the acting is a bit easier to believe than most - - with less wild gesticulating and over-acting than usual . The film is a very simple film about a family living in a Border state that is caught up in the war . In many ways , it's like the old story about the lion and the mouse that pulled the splinter out of the lion's paw - - only to later have this act of kindness repaid in kind . While this film WON'T change your life , it's well-made , interesting and gives what looks like a real window into the Civil War .
For what it is , it's pretty effective	This is a patriotic short designed to drum up support from the folks at home during WWII . And while you might find it a bit " schmaltzy " , for what it is , it's a very effective piece . The film stars George Reeves ( later , TV's SUPERMAN ) as a prisoner of war - - shot down while bombing Japanese targets . The Japanese commander is , of course , an American-educated man who has rejected our culture in favor of a brutal Japanese one ( a clich seen in countless WWII-era films ) . He informs Reeves that he will be executed in just a few minutes and Reeves takes this time to assess his life and what he is giving up in defense of freedom and liberty . After the vivid execution , Reeves'grandfather ( Lioniel Barrymore ) give a little pep talk to Walter Brennan about the sacrifices those at home can make for the war effort . All-in-all , an effective Hollywood short that surely inspired the people at home . See it for its historical value and for a chance to see some stars in a very unusual film .
Super-effective B-picture	This film had very modest pretensions , with a relatively low budget and second-string actors . Plus , at only 66 minutes , it's obvious that this was a " B-picture " - - in other words , intended as the second and less expensive film on a double-feature . This isn't meant to insult the film , but to describe a style of film common mostly in the 1940s . Because of this , you really can't compare this film to A-pictures , but need to understand that despite the budget , this is an excellent film - - though not as eerie or effective as other Val Lewton produced films such as THE CAT PEOPLE or I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE . The film starts with a publicity stunt gone awry , as in the process a black leopard escapes and the town is quite naturally scared . Over the next several days , three women are mauled and this is assumed to be the work of the escaped cat . However , the exact cause of the deaths isn't sure - - is it due to the leopard or is it murder ? ! The film had decent though not especially inspired acting . However , the plot itself was the star , as it took several nifty twists and turns and the film was intelligently written from start to finish . A smart and effective film that's well worth your time .
Well , it certainly is unique !	I watched this film with my daughter and her college friends . I think that there is a significant difference in how you'll like it base on your age . Among teens and college students , this is a very hot film . Among older viewers , it's a bit incomprehensible - - though I was surprised that Leonard Maltin gave such a positive review for the film . Several of the teens watching with me were singing along while my daughter kept covering her eyes at the goriest moments . Me , I just sat there and felt that the plot was awfully convoluted and had a lot of gaps , though I did admire the uniqueness of the film . I guess this is a sign that I am just getting old ! The film is a rock opera unlike any other . The music is certainly NOT the type you can hum along with or you'd expect to hear on the radio . Instead , it's as if they merged traditional opera with THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW , the stage play " Les Misrables " and a traditional slasher film - - with gallons and gallons of blood and tons of gore . Because it's such an odd combination , it's a truly surreal experience . And speaking of surreal , think about the strange casting - - Paul Sorvino , Anthony Head , Sarah Brightman and . . . . Paris Hilton ! ? Despite the oddness of the cast , it did work pretty well . For the first time ever , Hilton seemed well cast as a self-absorbed lady who is addicted to plastic surgery . Her singing , while not great , was certainly NOT an embarrassment and she was more than capable . As for the plot , this is one of the weakest points . In many ways , it seemed like it was never truly complete and it left me a bit confused here and there . I know they are talking about making a prequel , but I really wish that had been made first in order to fill in the gaps . In order to fill the viewers in on the back story , graphic novel-style graphics are inserted here and there to fill in the gaps and explain the characters . However , some ( such as Sorvino's demented children ) seemed to have no discernible motivation and I also was left wondering who and where there mother is and why they were total psychos . Also , the cities appear to have been blown to pieces and you wonder what has happened to the government and society . The film begins near the middle of the 21st century . Apparently some sort of plague hit a few years back and caused widespread organ failures . In the midst of the death and carnage , Sorvino's company created a " cure " - - synthetic organs for the masses . However , because many could not readily afford them , a " buy now-pay later " scheme was created . But , because some defaulted , " repo men " were created to repossess the organs if they failed to pay . In the midst of this , there is a concurrent plot that never really seemed complete . A character named " Graverobber " and others have begun harvesting some sort of drug from corpses . You see this guy here and there and he's obviously been inserted in the film to please the ladies , but he is never really explained and the drug angle is never really realized . My daughter disagrees , as she sees him as an archetypal Fool - - like a combination narrator , comic relief and the only character who seems to know what's going on in the film - - sort of a literary device . Regardless , he just seemed to appear randomly and I wish there'd been some back story for him or necessary reason for his inclusion . The main plot involves a sick relationship between Sorvino and Anthony Head ( who , secretly , is a Repo Man ) . Years earlier , Sorvino's girlfriend left him and married Head . She died and left a daughter who Head adores but also smothers in his own little cocooned world . There's a lot more to this plot than this , but I don't want to introduce spoilers . If I were scoring this film only on how much I enjoyed watching it , I probably would only give it a 4 or a 5 . It was a bloody , disjointed and disgusting film . However , this is a hard film to rate and I need to consider how innovative and unique the film is as well - - and in this department , it certainly rates a 10 . Overall , my score of 7 seems like a reasonable compromise . I would love to see similar style films in the future , but with the blood and senseless violence toned down a bit .
An interesting documentary about survival	This is one of many shorts that are included on the DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume 4 " . In general , this is an excellent collection of short films and all four of the editions are worth seeking . This documentary film is about an odd group of music lovers who survive the four year long siege of Sarajevo . Instead of giving up or allowing themselves to lose hope , a small but dedicated group of people keep up their spirits through music . Despite practically no resources , they keep a small radio station operating ( when possible ) , keep a dance club going and even organize a concert . In many ways , this true story is very surreal , but it did occur . And , once the war was over , it was amazing how quickly all seemed to be forgotten . An interesting but not great short film . It's worth a look .
An excellent film . . . . but NOT robbed at the Oscars	After seeing THE CATHEDRAL ( KATEDRA ) , I looked on IMDb for reviews of this Oscar-nominated short and the first one dramatically proclaimed it was " robbed at the Oscars " - - implying the winner should not have won . So , that encouraged me to see out the winner ( with the bizarre and less than exciting title " THE CHUBBCHUBBS " ) and I'm convinced that the AMPAS people ( the organization giving out the Oscars ) did NOT screw up by not giving the award to THE CATHEDRAL . While THE CATHEDRAL was amazing to watch from a visual perspective , it really looked much more like a cut scene from a video game than an actual short film . Whereas the CHUBBCHUBBS was very funny and a complete narrative - - with excellent animation , writing , voice acting , etc . Plus , when I dug further , I watched ALL the nominees and found that DAS RAD ( another nominee that failed to win ) was also much better than THE CATHEDRAL . In fact , for originality , DAS RAD definitely was supreme in this category . Still , my advice is see them all - - and perhaps the other Oscar nominees from the 2003 Oscars . They're lovely little short films - - though ATAMA-YAMA might make your brain hurt since it's so very weird .
A nice little tribute to granddad	This is a sweet little film that a grandson made about his grandfather after his death . The old man's life is recounted through his correspondence - - which , oddly , always seems to be about cars . Perhaps this was done to show how the man was emotionally constricted or he was just obsessed with cars . Either way , as the film progresses , the man's freedom dwindles away and he can no longer drive the car he loves . Following these odd letters , the film ends with a little epilogue by his grandson . While none of this seemed super-profound , the film was a nice gentle short film and it was accentuated by excellent emotive music and a nice use of archival footage and letters . Style-wise , this was a lovely film and a nice tribute to a man most would never have heard about otherwise .
Whoa - - this AIN'T for people who can't enjoy really , really weird films !	Wow , was this a weird , weird little animated short ! ! I can truly say it is different from just about everything I've seen before and probably will see in the future ! ! For this reason , it's well worth a look . Here is the bizarre and twisted plot : The film is set on a mythical world and in this world is a hell-hole called " Nling " where all the garbage is dumped . People live in Nling as a permanent underclass and they spend their time sifting through the garbage and drinking all the booze that is tossed into their kingdom . The booze is easy to come by and apparently is used to keep the masses quiet . One day , however , the booze and garbage stops coming and the story is about a man and his talking donkey professor friend as they try to find a way out of this mess in order to get more liquor . Cannibalism , violence and lots of other nastiness occur throughout the film and most of it seems rather pointless as the film tries very hard to be a confusing absurdist sci-fi film . Despite how awful the plot sounds , it's oddly compelling and worth a look . Just understand that it won't be to everyone's liking , so if you don't like the unconventional , then you'd probably best skip this one .
Poor by today's standards , but for the time period it's pretty good	I have seen quite a few very early Shakespeare films - - probably because I am some sort of masochist ! ! Just think about it - - there were many silent versions of Shakepeare's plays made around the turn of the 19th century that lasted from three to twenty minutes long - - not nearly enough time to do any of his plays any justice at all . It's like trying to condense the Encyclopedia Brittanica into a bumper sticker ! ! And given the low production values of the average picture of the time and generally poor acting , the films aren't especially watchable today like those of early film geniuses like Georges Mlis . However , for a bad early version of Shakepeare , this is among the best because at least a novice will have a general idea of what the play was about when the movie concludes and it's nice to see a hand painted color film - - I have got to admire all the hard work that went into making it .
Better than average music though the story is awfully familiar	This was an engaging musical , though I must admit that this is probably my least familiar genre . While I like the occasional musical , they aren't something I rush to see . John Payne and Alice Faye star in this Fox film . They are partners along with Jack Oakie and June Havoc and they hit the big time thanks to their musical talents as well as Payne's amazing business sense . It seems to everyone except Payne that Faye is in love with him , but the big dope never recognizes her for her decency and charm . Instead , he has the eyes for selfish Lynn Bari - - mostly because she is rich and well-heeled and a place in society is what Payne wants most . However , the marriage is a bust and Bari does nothing except bleed Payne's bank accounts . Now destitute , poor long-suffering Faye returns to help him back on his feet as the movie fades . The story of a man too blind to see love and too proud to ask for help is familiar and I've seen it a few times already - - so the plot was awfully familiar and predictable . However , despite this , it was entertaining and my wife , who hates old musicals , actually sat through the film and enjoyed it . Also , the choice of songs is excellent - - with many old hits . Not among the very best musicals , but still very good . And , unlike me , if you love the genre , then this is a must-see film .
Cute and worth a look	Beatrice Lillie plays a somewhat dim but likable lady who works for a traveling repertory company . She does all the grunt work and occasionally fills in for small roles . Although she envisions playing the lead ( the " vamp " ) , in truth she's not very competent and has a hard enough time with her own job . A bit later , a nice young man ( Jack Pickford ) joins the company and Beatrice is smitten . He likes her as well , but for her it's " love at first sight " . The reason Jack joined them is that he was framed - - accused of embezzling money from the bank in which he worked . Later , when the company goes to the town where Jack was from , he hides because he doesn't want to get caught . And Beatrice gives it her all to prove Jack's innocence . The film is a light comedy-romance , though it is much more a comedy - - with Beatrice sometimes hamming it up and other times doing a good job of playing this ditsy character . It's pretty likable but also rather insignificant - - worth seeing , but not a film you should rush to see . A few observations about several of the actors . This is Franklin Pangborn's first movie and he plays a very effeminate wimp who also happens to play the rugged hero in the company . The film was shown as part of Turner Classic Movie's salute to gay images in film . He's pretty good in this role and I doubt if gay people would be particularly offended by his role . Also , this is Jack Pickford's second to last film . This ill-fated screw-up was the brother of Mary Pickford and by the early 30s and had a significant career in acting , although a combination of hard living , alcohol and STDs brought his life to an early end . What a shame . Also , while Beatrice Lillie had a long and remarkable career on stage , she made very , very few films so this is a rare opportunity to see her in action .
A pretty good silent comedy	This is a cute little comedy that is much more plot-driven than most silent comedies of the era - - relying more on a story than on gags . Now by 1926 , slapstick style humor was rather pass , but there still were usually more laughs in the average comedy . Now this isn't to say FLIRTY FOUR-FLUSHERS is bad - - it just isn't a belly-laugh type comedy . The film begins with a young lady receiving a check for $500 . She decides to quit her job as a waitress and invest the money in creating a new persona - - and using that persona to land a millionaire husband . Unfortunately for her plans , the millionaire that she meets and falls for is also a fake and she ends up declining a genuine proposal from a genuine millionaire to get him . What I particularly liked was how this plot did not end as the clich usually would indicate - - that the poor guy was so nice that they decided to get married anyway and live happily ever after . This is NOT what happens and this helped the short to get a slightly higher score as a result . A decent little comedy that won't change your life but is worth a look .
Very good and moody reworking of Jane Eyre	This is a very strange movie in several ways - - beyond just that fact that the producer and director wanted a " strange " film . The genre of film is very tough to determine for I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE . Despite the title and the zombies , this really isn't a horror film - - though there are definitely some scary elements . And , unlike the original , it isn't exactly a romance . Sure , the nurse ( Francis Dee ) does become infatuated with the older brother ( Tom Conway - - the real life brother of George Sanders ) , but unlike the original Jane Eyre , this is not really fully developed in the film . And , in some ways , it's a mystery film because HOW Conway's wife became a zombie was a secret that is only revealed at the end . And , it's a tragedy as the ending , in particular , is quite sad . So , in effect , it's a horror-like romantic-suspense-mystery ! Considering that the movie was a B-movie with a small budget and lesser name actors , they certainly had a very successful film that delivered a lot of " bang for the buck " . The acting was decent , the direction superb and the sets super-effective . While not a great film , it is quite entertaining and worth seeing . I was really torn on how to score this film - - it's more of a 7 . 5 !
Rather claustrophobic and simplistic	The Three Stooges ( Moe , Larry and Curly ) are defense workers who have just come home after a long day at the plant . Oddly , the fact that they are working for the war effort is NOT explored in this film - - it sure looked like it would be when the film started . I guess they just had this element in the story to make the film more patriotic and timely due to WWII . Soon , the real plot of the film is evident - - Curly has a bad toothache and needs his tooth pulled . Considering that this is ALL the plot the film has and that about 80 % of the film takes place in their house , the overall effect is amazingly claustrophobic and simple . Some on IMDb have said this is among their best . While I would agree that the gags work pretty well and it's enjoyable enough , the plot and locale prevent this from being a truly memorable film . Still , it does feature Curly , and this is always a big plus .
A tiny bit preachy , but sweet	This is a film made for the Canadian Film Board as well as the United Nations to illustrate articles of its convention . While the artwork for the short is very simple ( looking a lot like the work of a talented child or teen ) , the story is well-told without using words . Most of the films from this series are wordless since they were meant to be shown around the world , but in this one it's even more important because the story is about a deaf girl . A nasty young man is to play this girl in a tournament and he doesn't take her seriously - - possibly because she's deaf or because he's so arrogant ( or both ) . However , when she quickly defeats him , she shows that intelligence knows no bounds and a young hearing boy is captivated by her . Fortunately , I am fluent in sign language and was delighted to see that the signs used in the film were real sign language signs ( this is not always true in films ) . As a father of a deaf child , I appreciated the message though can understand if some find it a tad preachy . Still , it's a very good film - - one that would be even more appreciated if you have a loved one with a disability - - and especially since the character in this film is perfectly capable despite this .
what happened to the second half of the film ?	I really liked the first portion of the movie when the little boy went to go live with his flamboyant and fun Auntie Mame . Watching all the interaction between her and the boy was really sweet and fun . And , when other " do gooders " tried to make her be a more conventional parent , this provided some wonderful moments as well . And so , up until towards the end , I really loved this film . And then , out of nowhere , the kid suddenly grows up in the space of only a few minutes and the film ends ? ! It was as if someone in charge said " hey - - they public doesn't need a three hour film - - just stop here and no one will be the wiser " . And so , the story just seems to abruptly stop and left me very unsatisfied . It's too bad , as Rosalind Russell was in top form as the amazingly odd but lovable Auntie Mame .
Intriguing idea - - but # 26 on IMDb ? ? ! ? ! ? ! ? !	Huh ? Talk about an unreliable score for a film ! Unfortunately , IMDb is very , very , very skewed by recent movies . So many older great films have very few reviews or have generally lower scores - - not because they are worse than newer films , but because there is a bias against older films because SOME reviewers are teens or people who simply won't consider anything that was not made in the last decade or so . Likewise , there is often a strong bias only for Hollywood blockbusters , even though many foreign or " small " films deserve recognition but are ignored because people just refuse to try something outside their comfort zone . This is a real shame , as there is just so much more out there . While MEMENTO is a decent and very unconventional film ( I sure respect them for trying something DIFFERENT ) , it isn't great when viewed in context . Okay , so you may think I am just some crazy crank who is totally negative ! Well , this might be true ( the verdict is still out ) , but of the IMDb top 250 , over 30 % were made just in the last two decades . Also , films like THE WALLACE AND GROMIT movie , MAGNOLIA , FINDING NEVERLAND and V FOR VENDETTA make the top 250 and yet films like MARTY , THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US , SHOW PEOPLE , MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO , BANSHUN , THE CAINE MUTINY , CAPTAIN BLOOD , MY MOTHER'S CASTLE , CHARIOTS OF FIRE , DINNER AT EIGHT , DODSWORTH and ELMER GANTRY don't make this list ( among others ) . It's sort of the like the expression " out of sight , out of mind " - - if a film isn't recent or make a ton of dough at the box office , it's chances of making the list are very low indeed . Okay , enough of my rant - - now on to this movie . MEMENTO is a very strange movie in that the film starts at the very end and works its way backwards towards the beginning . This is an intriguing and clever idea . You know that the main character who was brain injured committed a murder , but because his injury makes it physically impossible for him to remember any events AFTER his injury , he tries to solve a mystery by leaving notes for himself and tattooing himself so he can eventually put all the pieces together . The problem is that after a while , the very stylish film becomes awfully tedious . Plus , the ending , to me , just wasn't very satisfying - - it's an ending you will either love or hate . Leonard Maltin gave the film only . I won't be THAT critical , but I just can't see how stylish film making and an odd plot result in this movie being elevated to near the top of the IMDb list of films ! ! NOTE TO PARENTS - - the " f-word " is used about 200 times in the film and there is some intense violence , so this film is rated R . I watched it with my 16 year-old , but you might want to think twice about letting the kids see this one .
Good silent college epic	This is apparently the second remake of this film , having been filmed before in 1911 and 1918 . And , in so many ways it reminds me of the later film , A YANK AT OXFORD . Both films concern a conceited blow-hard who arrives at one of the top schools in the world and both , ultimately , show the blow-hard slowly learning about teamwork and decency . In this film , William Haines is " Tom Brown " and his main rival , " Bob " is played by Frances X . Bushman . And , in a supporting role is Jack Pickford - - always remembered as the brother of Mary . Of these three , Pickford comes off the best , as the sympathetic loser who becomes Tom's pal - - he actually has a few decent scenes as well as a dramatic moment just before the Big Game ! All the standard clichs are there and the movie , because it was done so many times before and since , offers few surprises . However , it is pleasant film and is enjoyable viewing . In my opinion , for a better silent college film , try Harold Lloyd's THE FRESHMAN - - it's football scenes are frankly more exciting and Harold is far more likable and sympathetic than the annoying Tom Brown . THE FRESHMAN is probably the best college picture you can find from the era . Another reason why BROWN AT HARVARD is a lesser picture is that William Haines played essentially the same unlikable and bombastic character with the same plot again and again and again ( such as in WESTPOINT and THE SMART SET , among others ) - - and if you've seen one of these films , you've seen them all . Well made , but certainly NOT original ! And , because it is just a rehash of his other films , anyone giving the film a score of 10 is STRONGLY advised to see these other films . / 08 = = I just checked and saw this this small film was the highest rated film on IMDb from the 1920 ! ! Talk about over-rated ! There are dozens and dozens of better films - - how this film got to be # 1 is anyone's guess .
Extremely simple and very effective	This is a super simple documentary shot in a very direct and compelling fashion . The narrator is a young boy ( he looks about 8 or 10 ) who spends his days with his father breaking stones to sell so that they can have food . Day in and day out , this is their existence . Yet despite the great hardship , there is a sound of hopefulness in this boy that is quite surprising . However , also understand that it's really tough to watch this film and not be effected - - this is no life for any child and it is heartbreaking . Well made and it gets the point across without coming off as preachy or with an obvious agenda . If you want to see this film , it is available online at http www mediathatmattersfest org
See the world's oldest teenagers battle a monster from space ! !	This is a very famous 50s sci-fi film that was indifferently remade in the 1980s . It stars Steven McQueen ( age 28 ) and Aneta Corsaut ( 25 ) as teenagers ( ! ) who discover a strange blob-like thing from outer space . However , when they go to the police , the cops mostly think it's all a teenage prank and there is no obvious evidence that the monster has already eaten the doctor and his assistant . While McQueen and Corsaut ( who played " Helen " on THE ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW ) did fine jobs acting , they looked nothing like real teenagers and it make me smile every time the panic was being blamed on " those crazy kids " ! This is a very simple story idea and has been repeated many times - - an alien lands and the " kids " see it but no one believes them , such as in INVASION OF THE SAUCER MEN . However , this low-budget film worked better than most because somehow everything worked well - - the monster was simple but effective , the acting better than usual and somehow they had enough money to afford to actually film it in color . A very effective and fun film - - though one that fuddy-duddies and ultra-serious people should avoid . By the way , the title song is very , very catchy and goofy and was written by Burt Bacharach . I heard it for the first time at the Sci-Fi Dine-In restaurant at the Disney-Hollywood Studios in Orlando , Florida . At this amazingly cool retro restaurant , you sit in fake 50s cars with tables and these " cars " all face a giant screen on which old fashioned sci-fi clips are shown . Among the many clips and cartoons is a music video of sorts featuring this catchy song . If you ever get to the park , try this place . The food it okay but the atmosphere is amazing and perfect for people who love this genre . Also , this film was part of a double-feature with another great 50s sci-fi film ( and one of my favorites ) I MARRIED A MONSTER FROM OUTER SPACE . What a terrific double-billing !
Not exactly a vampire film , but it's scary and entertaining as well	Despite the title , there really are no vampires in this film . However , despite this , it is still a scary film - - sort of like a film in the same vein as THE TORTURE CHAMBER OF DR . SADISM . Here , the horrible monster is a very human one . When the film begins , a man ( Dr . Callistratus ) is being impaled in the grave . Apparently , he had done something rather nasty and was getting his just reward . However , as the body is about to be buried , a goofy-eyed hunchback attacks the grave digger and takes the body to a drunk doctor who performs a heart transplant - - a pretty good feat for the 1800s ! Later , you find that the dead man was indeed revived and changed his identity - - making himself the warden of a prison for the criminally insane . Unfortunately , the most insane aspect of this " institution " are the staff who beat the prisoners and the doctor that performs vivisection on the prisoners . Soon , another doctor is wrongly convicted of killing one of his patients and the most damning evidence is a letter from the doctor's mentor saying that they should " throw the book at the doc " . Oddly , instead of the usual penal colony , the guy is sent to the mental institution and becomes the unwilling assistant to Callistratus . Later , exactly why he was needed by Callistratus comes to light as well as the diabolical way that the madman is running the place . There's a lot more to the movie than this and there is a plot element involving blood - - but remember , there are no vampires in this one . In many ways , the fact that a supposedly " normal " man would commit many acts of horror and torture is probably a lot scarier than if Callistrautus HAD been a true vampire . For lovers of the genre , this is good stuff . Others might wince at the blood and horror - - this is NOT a film for the kiddies !
Diverting and mildly interesting but also pretty easy to skip	While in hyperspace , some of the fighters from B-5 find a huge ship that has been abandoned and lost there for who knows how long . It's obviously from a very advanced civilization - - something way in excess of human technology . In addition , the ship is HUGso big that the jump-gates must be modified to allow it to pass through in one piece . Despite this being a super-important find , in the end it turns out that they have brought something back that was best left alone ! There was one particular scene I loved and one I really hated from this movie . I really liked the scene with Zack on the elevator with Lyta - - his pouring his heart out to her made a lot of sense , as in the regular series it was obvious he felt something but it never was pursued . How they handled this was pretty funny and clever . What I really disliked was the nuclear detonation scene . It APPEARED as if Sheridan detonated a nuke in pretty close proximity to him in space and he was only wearing a space suit - - yet seemed to suffer no ill-effects ! ! ! Come off it - - this just made no sense , even if Sheridan IS " the chosen one " . I am such a huge Babylon 5 fan that I have watched everything - - all five seasons ( even the poor final one ) , the spin-off series ( CRUSADE ) and the made for TV movies . So for freaks like me , this is a must-see movie . But I also realize that I am a freak and many more casual viewers will not necessarily NEED to see everything B-5 . If this is the case , then this is definitely one of the more expendable Babylon 5 productions . That's because what occurs in this made for TV movie has no impact of the episodes of the show , nor is it alluded to in any way . Plus , oddly , the movie is missing some of the important character from the series - - Garibaldi , Londo and G'Kar . And finally , the movie itself isn't super-exciting - - watchable and mildly interesting , yes . A must-see , no .
Far from great , but not a bad little time-passer	For those of you unfamiliar with Jimmy Stewart , this is one of his " lesser " films from later in his career . And , while it isn't a great film compared to many of his other pictures , it isn't bad and is a decent time-passer - - but not much more . Kim Novak is a witch in New York City and for some inexplicable reason , she decides to cast a spell on poor Jimmy to make him fall in love with her . Over time , the cold and detached Ms . Novak also begins to fall in love with Stewart - - and apparently in the witch's rule book , this is a definite NO , NO ! ! The film is odd in its sensibilities about the witches . They are neither the baby-sacrificing nor the all-powerful variety . Most of their magic is pretty limited and pointless ( such as Jack Lemmon using his powers to turn off street lamps ) . And , very oddly , the witches all seem to be bohemians who hang out in hip bars where you might find people wearing berets and listening to crappy jazz . Considering what I think of jazz , it must really stink to be a witch in this movie's world ! Anyway , the film is pretty romantic and mildly comedic , but not something I would rush out to watch . The acting is pretty good , but the script doesn't offer enough payoff to make this an exceptional film - - in fact , I almost scored the film a 6 - - it was really close .
confusing casting decision !	Okay , so far Boris Karloff played the monster in the first three Frankenstein films . Next , Lon Chaney , Jr . played him . However , now the monster was to meet the Wolfman - - - who is ALSO played by Chaney ! So , the studio asked another guy to don the costume - - the even shorter Bela Lugosi ! This is pretty ironic , as many years earlier Lugosi had refused to play the monster in the original film ( a lousy career move in hindsight ) . This time , the two monsters meet and for some inexplicable reason don't get along very well . Considering they are BOTH hell-bent on murder , it sure SEEMED like an ideal friendship . By the end of the film , the monsters are both assumed to be dead - - until they miraculously appear once again - - and none the worse for wear . This ending , by the way , was pretty spectacular and memorable . The movie is competently directed and the stars try their best . The mood and cinematography , though , are not so hot - - the film just looks a bit tired , but it's still fun .
Very strange and unique - - but rewarding and worth seeing	AUSREISSER is a very odd little German film . It begins with a rather ordinary man getting ready to go to a job interview . However , out of the blue , a small boy ( Yuri ) arrives and asks him to drive him to school . He doesn't know Yuri , but the boy insists that his mother wanted the man to do this and after a while , he relents and takes the child to school . Later , after dropping him off , he realizes the boy left his backpack behind , so he goes to the school looking for the kid . He can't find him there , but instead finds him wandering by a skating rink in the park . The boy insists that the man is his father and he needs to take care of him . Since they can't locate the mother , the man reluctantly agrees to take the boy home to sleep . Where the film went next was very odd and unexpected , but rather rewarding . What I particularly liked was the unconventional nature of the film - - it certainly WASN'T the usual sort of film you'd see ! Interesting , somewhat heartwarming and clever , I can see why this film was nominated for an Oscar in the category of Best Live Action Short Film .
Subtle it ain't but it still is quite funny	If you are looking for a subtle or sophisticated silent comedy , then I suggest you skip this film . However , if you are able to just turn off your brain and enjoy , then this is a dandy little Charley Chase short . The film begins at a mansion and you learn that the parents have arranged a marriage between their daughter and an old friend of the father's - - even though the kids have never met . I know this is a contrived plot element for an American film , but bear with it . Both the daughter and fianc ( Charley ) are convinced that they can't go through with the wedding though when they accidentally meet and have no idea who the other one is , they fall in love . Yes , this is impossible to believe ( especially since they fell in love so quickly ) - - but , once again , turn off your brain and keep watching . Charley thinks up a way out of the arranged marriage so he can marry the nice girl he met at the train station . He'll pretend to be crazy so her parents will insist on breaking the engagement . On the way to her mansion , he meets up with Oliver Hardy ( in a small bit part ) and tests out his crazy routine . He's so convincing that Hardy calls the local sanitarium and they dispatch men to catch " the madman " . Well , this can't happen immediately , so Charley arrives at the home during an important party with the governor as the guest of honor . Charley attacks the man and acts totally insane . This might either put you off since it isn't very subtle or you might just have a few laughs - - since it is awfully funny in a low-brow sort of way . Later , when the attendants arrive to take away the madman , they accidentally take away the girl's father ( though he was acting awfully strangely ) and consider taking Charley . Though by now , he's realized that his intended IS the girl he loves and he's decided to act normally and go through with the wedding plans .
Someone must have cloned my mother !	This is a film you watch NOT because it has a particularly believable plot . Instead , you watch it the way you might stop to view a train wreck ! The film begins with two guys in a hospital . One is heavily sedated and goes to sleep . Soon after , a very , very loud and overbearing lady barges past the nursing station and comes into the room - - demanding to see her long-lost son . In reality , one of the guys is one of her other long-lost kids and he tries his darnedest to convince her that the sleeping guy is her kid . And , given the mother's horrid disposition , you can't blame him in this funny little independent short . Cute and it left me wondering if perhaps they managed to clone my mother - - she didn't look like her , exactly , but sounded and acted exactly like her . There CAN'T be more than one woman like this on the planet ! !
Great comedy ? Not really . . . but it was FUN !	This isn't one of Charley Chase's best silent films , though it still is very watchable today and it is a very good film . And while the film is a bit predictable here and there , it is also pretty original . The film begins with a princess learning that her father , the king , has died and she will become queen IF she gets married within 24 hours ! This is quite ridiculous as a plot device , though exactly how she came to marry Charley is awfully original and funny . And once they arrive at her kingdom , the welcome for Charley is anything but warm - - culminating in a duel to the death in order to get rid of him ! Interestingly , the main henchman for the bad guy is Oliver Hardy and he sports an unusual mustache . Some original moments , some moderately funny comedy and a few lulls here and there result in a film earning a score of 7 . While some might not like the style of film , for silent film buffs it is well worth their time .
good film but so much like the original , why not just watch it instead ?	Jack Benny did a few really good films - - such as THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD and TO BE OR NOT TO BE . Despite that he often made fun of his film career , he was pretty good when he played something other than " Jack Benny " . And , in this version of TO BE OR NOT TO BE , Mel Brooks , instead , plays the lead . And , he does a competent job . The problem is , Jack Benny did such a good job in the original , why remake the film in the first place ? I would have been a lot happier if they had just re-released the original to the theaters once again . Although , I must admit that Brooks is unusually restrained and does show respect for the material . So my advice : watch this film and then see the VERY SIMILAR original .
A sweet little animated film	This is a sweet little animated film about a guy who is struggling . . . . REAAALLY struggling with being able to put into words how he feels about his girlfriend . The problem is that as he sits there trying to write something original and " perfect " , everything he writes either ends up being lyrics to pop songs , is a clich that really makes no sense or just sounds dumb . Again and again , he thinks he's found the ultimate way to express himself - - only to realize he didn't . The animation is not the highest quality CGI , but considering it's not made by a big-name studio , it's very nice and fits the film just fine . Overall , it's cute and funny here and there and is definitely worth seeing .
While not especially original , it was very enjoyable	In 1940 , the British version of GASLIGHT debuted . Until very recently , most people didn't even know that it existed , as Hollywood execs bought up all the prints and remade it into an Oscar-winning film ( the 1944 version with Ingrid Bergman ) . When the more famous version debuted in 1944 , EXPERIMENT PERILOUS also appeared in theaters and BOTH films are very , very similar . Both films concern a seemingly normal husband who is insane and is trying to drive their wives insane - - and it just doesn't seem like a mere coincidence that they both were made at about the same time . Despite the lack of originality , EXPERIMENT PERILOUS is still an excellent film - - though I naturally have to knock off a point for being derivative . As far as the acting goes , it was generally exceptional . I particularly liked Paul Lukas , as the insane husband bent on manipulating and destroying his wife , Heddy Lamar . While sounding like Bela Lugosi ( after all , they were both Hungarian ) , he was menacing and exciting to watch . As for George Brent , we was his usual competent and interesting self - - sort of an " everyman " character and he did a good job . The only negative can't be blamed on Brent but the writers . That's because at the end of the film , there is a really dumb and clichd moment-something you know cannot possibly happen . That's because in the huge confrontation scene with Lukas , Brent beats him up and kicks away the gun - - - but he never bothers to pick up the gun and runs to the next room . Then , as the clich goes , Lukas returns again and it's yet another fight . In real life , you'd either keep the gun or just shoot Lukas to end the threat once and for all ! Hedy Lamarr was the weakest of the main characters , as she was given a typical Hedy Lamarr role . Hollywood insisted on casting her as a zombie-like lady who went through wardrobe change after wardrobe change . Of course she was a beautiful woman , but these sort of " Barbie doll roles " did little to challenge this highly intelligent woman . Sadly , despite having a brilliant mind , you'd never know it from most of the scripts she was given . I do have a mild complaint , though , about the producer not doing his job well in casting the film . Lukas was a Hungarian and Lamarr was Austrian - - yet they played parts that made no sense . First , Lukas spoke with this accent but his sister sounded like a typical American . Second , although Lamarr hid her accent better than most European-born American starlets ( such as Greta Garbo and Marlene Dietrich ) , she did NOT sound like a lady from Vermont ! ! I think Hattie McDaniel or Marjorie Main sounded more like New Englanders than Miss Lamarr ! Mentioning where she was from was unnecessary for the plot - - they could have easily just said she was from " the country " and left it at that . Despite several mistakes here and there and a derivative plot , the film still works because it was exciting and captivated me . Plus , although this was made by a " 2nd tier studio " ( RKO ) , it looked great - - with the most realistic weather in any 1940s film I can recall - - with rain , snow and sleet at different times in the film . That and the set designs and decoration were lovely . Overall , it's worth a look , but my advice is to seek out the original GASLIGHT - - it's the best and most original in the genre .
Another excellent Wayne wartime propaganda piece	Saying this film is " propaganda " is not an insult . No , it was deliberately crafted to encourage Americans that we can and will win the war if we stand firm . And what better image of this than the ever-vigilant John Wayne - - the embodiment of the Hollywood image of heroism . This film reminds me a lot of The Flying Tigers , though the plot isn't so melodramatic . It's about a crew of civilian engineers sent overseas to do construction for our troops ( such as building runways and other projects ) . BUT , the evil Japanese in the movie take advantage of the fact that these are unarmed civilians and butcher them at every opportunity . So , what is The Duke and his trusted pals to do ? Take up arms and use their own equipment when necessary to beat the stuffing out of the Japs ! Yes , guys with bulldozers and clubs NEVER could have inflicted the casualties you witness in the movie , but man if it isn't entertaining to watch - - particularly the explosive ending .
Too short . . .	This is a very touching little film , but when it was finished I sure felt like there should have been a lot more - - perhaps more from the older gentleman or perhaps stories from other people about the holocaust and perhaps about how a joke ( or something similar ) saved their life or helped them cope . The film is less like a traditional short and more like a home movie as a patriarch tells of his life in Birkenau prison camp ( part of Auschwitz ) . Throughout his story , pictures , drawings and music are used to provide a professional touch to his story about how he was saved by Dr . Melgele due , of all things , to his inability to tell a good joke . Short , interesting but maddeningly short .
For a B-Movie , it's exceptional	This is one of a series of B-Movies made by Universal as part of their " Inner Sanctum " series - - sort of like an Alfred Hitchcock Presents or Outer Limits series for theaters . As a " B-Film " , it was not meant as a feature film but a second film on a double-feature , so production values were lower and the film is only about an hour long . Because of this , you just don't expect as much quality out of a B , but occasionally you are surprised to see an example where the writing and acting is still very good and the film engages you despite a meager budget - - this is definitely such a film . Lon Chaney , Jr . stars as an artist who is accidentally blinded . A older man who is like a father to him promises to give him his corneas when he dies for transplantation . Surprisingly , this nice old guy is soon murdered and everyone suspects Lon did this to get the eyes ! ! This makes for a truly unusual and interesting plot . About the only short-coming is that WHO committed the murder isn't super-hard to guess . But , considering the excellent writing and pacing of this short film , it's well worth a look - - particularly for lovers of mystery or suspense . By the way , on video , this film is part of a two film set of Inner Sanctum mysteries - - the other being the less interesting PILLOW OF DEATH . UPDATSince doing this review , I found out that they have also packaged DEAD MAN'S EYES in a six episode DVD set . On volume 1 , you get this film as well as CALLING DR . DEATH and WEIRD WOMAN - - all starring Lon Chaney , Jr . in different roles .
Funny	The summary says it all as far as I'm concerned , but IMDb demands more , so here goes . . . The movie is very funny and was a welcome relief compared to some of the terrible films Eddie Murphy made early in his career ( such as BEST DEFENSE ) - - ditto for Dan Aykroyd ( NEIGHBORS ) . But in my opinion , the real stars in the films aren't the comedians , but the nasty old codgers ( Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy ) who manipulate both Murphy and Aykroyd for their own petty amusement . They are just plain evil and awful and seeing them in action was quite a treat for these two aging actors . The film is about trading places , as rich-guy Aykroyd is forced to live on the street and homeless guy Murphy is suddenly elevated to wealth and privilege . Along the way , there are lots of laughs and the script generally is very good , though occasionally the humor becomes painfully unfunny and stupid ( such as the gorilla scene near the end ) . But overall , the laughs greatly outweigh the lulls , so it's a wonderful film if you need a chuckle .
A nice time-passer worth your time	Okay , it's a fact that not every Disney full-length cartoon can be as magical and transcendent as BEAUTY AND THE BEAST , BAMBI or LITTLE MERMAID . So because some other full-length Disney films such as LILO AND STITCH and THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE are a bit of a let-down isn't a bad thing nor does it mean they are bad films - - it's just that these other films are so perfect that you can't help but make comparisons . Fortunately , the intended audience for this film ( kids ) don't usually make this comparison and I was just happy that the movie didn't make the history teacher within me scream like it did when I saw POCAHONTAS ! The movie is about a selfish Incan leader . While anachronisms and historical inaccuracies might have been a problem , Disney wisely made the time period very vague and it's pure fantasy . Sure , witches like the one played by Eartha Kitt did not exist in ancient Peru , but it was obvious to everyone watching that this was not meant to be a history lesson - - just silly fun with a decent central message . Just sit back and enjoy this cute little time-passer .
Kind of schmaltzy , but still quite fun	The film begins in the 17th century . In an odd bit of casting , portly Charles Laughton ( age 45 ) is the younger brother of Peter Lawford ( age 21 at the time of the making of this film ) . Charles is expected to fight for the honor of his noble family but instead turns and runs . As a result of this infamy , he is cursed to remain a ghost until a relative can perform a brave deed - - a tough order to fill because the next 300 years saw coward after coward pass down the family line ! Now , cut to 1943 and a regiment of American soldiers in the UK is stationed in Canterville Castle - - the place haunted by the sad ghost . Through some coincidences only possible in movies , American soldier Robert Young discovers he's related to the nice ghost and realizes he can break the curse by performing gallantly at war . THE CANTERVILLE GHOST is an enjoyable film - - thanks mostly to a rather saccharine-like yet enjoyable performance by young Margaret O'Brien . On one hand , she's so adorable that the cynical out there might just dismiss the whole thing . But on the other , at age 6 , she was already a better actress than many adult professionals and only a true curmudgeon could hate her ! When I was younger , I was not a particular fan of Margaret's ( hence , I was more of a curmudgeon ) but over the years I have really come to appreciate her charm and talent . O'Brien is supported by Charles Laughton ( as the ghost ) and Robert Young . Laughton was often the scene stealer in films with his acting ( and occasional over-acting ) but here his blustery style was just fine for the ghost . As for Young , he had a typical " nice guy " performance . Considering how well he worked with O'Brien in this and other films , it's not surprising that he was later cast as " America's Dad " on television . So with some wonderful performances , most of the movie is lovely - - typical MGM family fare with nice directing , writing and the full glossy treatment . The only problem is that towards the end , the film switched gear and became a kooky film - - something that tended to cheapen the film significantly . While only a few minutes earlier Young was off bravely fighting the Nazis and the tension was great , just a bit later he was dragging a time bomb across the field in a scene that looked more at home in an Abbott and Costello film . Seeing the jeep jumping about wildly while towing a bomb through the middle of the regiment just looked dumb ( and , by the way , this is NOT the best method of bomb disposal ) . This scene was a sad decision because the rest of the film was delightful . Still , even with this dumb finale , the film is solidly entertaining and you may just find your heart-strings tugged by sweet Margaret . And , if not , you'll still probably enjoy the movie .
This gets better mid-way through the film	This film is told without words and is a truly strange movie . Steve Carell , dressed a lot like Dick Tracy , is walking down the street and comes upon a group of three thugs who begin throwing dodge balls at him - - reminding him of a childhood dodge ball trauma ! However , the very straight-laced Carell shows that he's learned a lot over the years and is amazing with his skills - - quickly knocking two of the thugs out - - sending them running . However , with the final thug , the film begins to look like a John Woo film - - with Matrix or Jet Li-like moves that are fun to watch . A good film with some interesting scenes , but probably not worth the entire 10 minutes - - the story did seem a bit overly long considering how minuscule the plot was . Still , it's worth a look .
This is more like an experiment as opposed to a funny film - - it's worth a look	This film was included in THE ANIMATION SHOW VOLUME THREa compilation of short films arranged by Don Hertzfeldt and Mike Judge . Overall , this is a very impressive DVand much of it is due to CITY PARADISE . The film consists of anthropomorphic animals - - dressed and acting like people but clearly wild animals . As a water buffalo , hippo and rhino sit around the breakfast table , their roommate a croc appears . The plot consists of them talking like they are having a house meeting on a show such as " The Real World " and the only way it differs is that they are animals . It's really NOT very funny but creative and unique enough that fans of independent animation should enjoy it immensely .
Not much in the way of a story , but great visuals	This is an odd little film with few words and the story itself leaves so much unsaid - - yet it's still a dandy little film due to the excellent camera work and editing . The story begins with a man with a full head of hair and beard . He goes to an older woman's apartment and together they go to the barber's for his hair and beard to be completely shaved . When finished , the lady collects the hairs and they leave . This kept happening again and again - - showing that over many months or years this occurred . There was no reason given for this odd ritual but the film is still worth seeing because of clever camera work and visuals . Interesting , but very odd - - and certainly not everyone's cup of tea , so to speak .
a nifty and LONG bio-pic	This was originally a made for TV miniseries in France . And , while it was exceptionally well-acted and pretty faithful to the life of Balzac , it was way too long and I agree with the reviewer Missy C who said that it was hard to really like the characters - - as Balzac was really screwed up and the women in his life were enablers . It was true that Balzac spent money WAY out of proportion to his income but had rich mistresses or his family to bail him out time and again . Actually , while this aspect of the film was pretty tedious on one level , psychologically speaking it is quite interesting . That's because his nasty and cold mother and he had a real love / hate relationship - - she bailed him out again and again but there seemed to be little , if any , affection between them . THEN , in a symbolic way ( at least as seen by Freudian therapists ) , Balzac tried to replicate this horrid relationship with his lovers - - all who were older women and seemed reminiscent of his mother . So , on one hand he hated his mother and on another , at least psychologically , he wanted her sexually . A very interesting aspect to the film , indeed , though something mostly of interest to psychology students and therapists . Now , as far as the film being too long , the most obvious example is the last hour of the movie . It focuses on the last three to six months or so of his life - - when he was very sickly and on the verge of death . This easily could have been summed up in 5-10 minutes but instead went on and on and on . However , at the same time WHAT Balzac wrote and what made him famous really was never explored . Perhaps the average Frenchman would know , but for non-French and non-literature majors , this is a glaring omission . A good , though flawed biography - - worth seeing , but perhaps too long and dull for many viewers .
A whole lotta Western in only 13 minutes ! !	This is a short silent drama by D . W . Griffith about an Indian attack on a group of settlers . However , when the movie started , two men want to marry the same woman in a small Eastern town . She chooses , to her dismay , poorly , as her husband is turns out to be a drunk . The other , is a real " standup guy " . Later , all three travel west to make a new life in the wild West . Unlike another Griffith Western , THE BATTLE OF ELDERBUSH GULCH , the reason for the ensuing Indian attack is uncertain ( in the other , it was started over Indians eating the White folks ' dogs ! ) . Regardless of WHY , the settlers are surrounded and are running out of water and BOTH of the men who wooed the lady at the beginning are volunteered to risk their lives to go for water . Fortunately , in addition to getting water , the cavalry arrives but it is too late to save the drunk - - who , in a moment of clarity , gives his life for the other man . Decent acting , direction and a not too overly dramatic script make this one of Griffith's better shorts .
Very funny - - and featuring the " hero " from several other Plympton films .	Like last year , I went to a special showing of the Oscar-nominated animated short films . However , unlike last year , in addition to the nominees , several " commended films " were also shown . HOT DOG by Bill Plympton was one of these commended films . This short is about a dog who is desperate to become a fire dog - - even though he's not a dalmatian . However , try as he might , either the dumb firemen are too preoccupied to notice when he does good or the dog screws up and makes everything a lot worse . If I had never seen GUIDE DOG and GUARD DOG , I think I would have liked HOT DOG even more . However , the same silly and very accident-prone mutt is in each of the films and I liked the previous two films even more - - especially because they ended up being much more violent and weird than HOT DOG - - thinks you've come to expect from the films of Bill Plympton ! ! Still , it's enjoyable and fun - - with the typical colored pencil art you'd expect .
Practically a full-length film	This is a Harry Langdon short film made for Mack Sennett and is included with the " Harry Langdon : Lost and Found " four DVD set . At 48 minutes , it's hard to think of this as a short , though the DVD set is made up of his surviving shorts . After watching it , I suspect that originally this was a full-length film as it looks as if in one spot a portion of the film is missing . Considering some abrupt transitions and how obvious the damage was in some portions , I think there is some missing film and would love to see this movie one day fully restored . Harry is graduating college and eager to get married and settle down and raise a family . The trouble is that his fiance has no real interest in Harry - - just his money . At the same time , unknown to everyone , her sweet sister loves Harry for who he is . Harry's uncle , the fire chief , hates women - - having already been unsuccessfully married several times . Thinking he's doing Harry a favor , he calls the fiance and tells her that Harry is broke - - and soon she's out looking for another man . In fact , when the uncle rescues her in a fire , she vamps him and Harry comes upon them as the uncle and his girl are kissing - - crushing poor Harry . However , the sister sees him there at the fire and gets an idea to pretend to be stuck in a fire and get Harry to come to her rescue - - and win Harry's heart . Considering that Harry is alone in the fire house , he reluctantly agrees to do the job himself - - and by the end he's discovered the love of a truly worthy ( but wacky ) woman . Although there were two pretty much unrelated scenes that occurred rather abruptly , these are pretty good and should be mentioned . One is a cute scene where a lady pickpocket is avoiding the police . She hits poor Harry over the head and switches clothes with him . Seeing Harry walking around town in drag was awfully funny - - not something to be missed . The other is when he meets and old friend and goes home with him - - only to find the friend and his wife AND the neighbors are all very , very unhappily married . Seeing these crazy couples fight is pretty funny for the soon to be married Harry . So , this film has a decent number of laughs and a nice story as well . The only negatives are some poor transitions that , like I said above , probably come from having some loss of film stock due to the ravages of time . However , none of this seriously negatively impacts the film and it's one of Langdon's best . FYI - - In a very short scene , Harry enters a department store and mistakes a mannequin leg for a lady's leg . A better variation of this gag appeared in his first film , PICKING PEACHES .
kudos for originality but doesn't score a bullseye	I love Japanese films , so it was hardly surprising I tried this film . In many ways I really liked it and can't understand some of the reviews that were so hard on the movie - - though I will admit , there are some plot problems now and again . The main character is the 17 year-old sister of a detective who is investigating a string of shootings . This girl , once she sees the composite photo of the suspect thinks it's the strange guy she saw on the subway . BUT ( and here we come to my biggest complaint about the movie ) , she decides to look for the guy himself instead of telling her brother ! ! This reminds me of the stupid teenagers in slasher movies that decide to check and see if the guy in the hockey mask REALLY is dead - - instead of just running away ! ! ! However , she is lucky that although he IS the guy in question , he isn't exactly that dangerous . I liked this part a lot - - particularly the twists that occur that make you realize you haven't exactly been seeing what you thought you saw . This was pretty clever . By the way , if you do watch this movie , do NOT watch it because Beat Takeshi is in it . He's only in a small role and is barely in the movie at all . One final comment , this movie is like " suspense-Lite " - - not the deepest or most suspenseful movie with a strong edge towards the younger audience . This also keeps the movie from rising to the next level though its freshness and originality help it to rise slightly above the norm .
An interesting DVD extra for MR . MOTO ON DANGER ISLAN	This short is one of the extras included with MR . MOTO IN DANGER ISLAND . It's a 15 minute film about the Moto series - - with lots of behind the scenes information and analysis . While there's a limit to just how good this can be given its short time constraints , the film does a nice job of providing information about the character and Peter Lorre that fans will no doubt enjoy . It does this with quite a few interviews - - including with the guy who wrote the biography of the author of the Moto books as well as the author's son . Overall verdict - - not absolutely necessary viewing but a good and enjoyable DVD extra .
Decent , but the end practically made me cry	This short film is about an honors student who is taken out of school for the day because his family can't pay their rent and he's trying to hire himself out for undocumented day labor . During the course of this kid's day , you see his fellow students at school talking about the situation with illegal aliens in America today . I am a school teacher in Florida - - a state known for its high Hispanic population , so this short film hit home . By far the largest minority in my school is Hispanic and I have known my high schoolers to be taken out of school or arrive late due to their needing to work for the family business or take care of kids while their parents to manual labor . This film reminded me of several of these kids and how tough it is for their families to make ends meet . In addition , the very end of the film really made me think - - and practically made me cry . In fact , the ending really made the film , as the student discussion was only okay - - but the chance meeting really hit home . Well made and interesting - - I hope to see more from these film makers .
Very good film - - and naturally hard to watch	This is a film featuring a Hawaiian woman's recollection of her teenage years of physical and sexual abuse . In light of this , it's a very hard film to watch and is certainly not fun by any sane standard . However , considering the sad subject matter , it is a good film and offers insight into the impact of this on a young girl's life . According to the Atom Films website , this film is about Hawaiian author Lois-Ann Yamanaka who apparently wrote poems about these experiences . The way the film is made is a tad disconcerting at first because all the dialog and narration are done by the same person and they are in Hawaiian Pidgen English . Once you are used to the style of the language , it is very compelling . There are a few obscenities and violent situations , though you'd expect them in a film like this and it didn't seem gratuitous .
Don't give up on this one . . .	Viewers who see this short might see it as an attack on people of faith . While this may or may not have been the goal of the film makers ( heck , I'm not a mind reader ) , there's a lot to this story - - and I know a guy who went through something a lot like this . The film begins with a street evangelist standing on the corner in a seedy neighborhood handing out tracts . Across the street is a prostitute and the young preacher seems to keep noticing her . Later , you see them in a car together but it isn't sex that's about to occur - - the evangelist has paid her to sit and listen to him witness to her . It's obvious she wants nothing to do with him , as once time is up , she grabs the money and runs . Later , however , you see that when this happens again , she's less quick to run AND he seems to have some interest in her beyond just evangelism . While exactly where this eventually leads is NOT shown in the film , it sure does make you think and wonder what might happen next ! Exceptional writing and direction - - this story is told in a clever fashion and is far from conventional . I like a movie like this that dares to be different .
very cute and inconsequential	This is a very cute and inconsequential family film starring Cary Grant and the very young Sophia Loren . While it is not a movie that will change your life or make a huge impression , it's still an awful lot of fun . Cary is a widower who lives on a houseboat with his kids . The trouble is that he needs a combination housekeeper and mom for the kids , so he goes about trying to hire one . He picks Ms . Loren and after a while everyone in the family succumbs to her very ample charms . Considering she was a great housekeeper ( though she couldn't cook ) , loved the kids and was built like , . . . . Sophia Loren , it certainly isn't surprising that by the end of the film Cary has also recognized her as prime wife material . Predictable , . . . yes . But who cares , as it's a lot of fun and yet another nice outing from Grant . Plus , the romance that predictably develops between them and the way the film ends is highly entertaining . While I give this movie only a 7 , it is well worth seeing - - deep no - - but lots of fun . About the only serious negative is the REALLY annoying song that Loren sings throughout the movie . But , once again , being Sophia Loren , most audiences of the day probably weren't there to hear her singing .
A pleasant and strange little tale . . .	This is a very interesting short film from the onset due to it unusual graphics . Instead of being live action , cartoon or CGI ( which is quite the craze these days ) , the story is told through odd black pencil-like drawings that have an odd Gothic charm . While it's not the most colorful and exciting style I have ever seen , it deserves very high marks for being original . As for the story , it's a bizarre fairy tale of sorts . I little girl has a very odd heart condition - - it beats much faster than normal and it beats so loudly that it bothers the neighbors . After a while , she is hated by everyone and quite sad - - culminating in an exciting ending that makes you wonder who you should really feel sad for in this quirky film . This is a cute little tale that is worth a look - - pretty interesting and I look forward to seeing more from this crew .
Very good except for one small brainless scene	Apart for about five minutes of the film , this was a " thinking man's " pro-Allies propaganda film made during WWII . Unlike so many other similar films , this one has a more interesting plot and many unique plot elements that help it stand above the pack . For once , the film is about a lady - - one who apparently is leaving England because of her pro-Nazi sympathies . She evidently wore out her welcome and was moving to Canada to sit out the war . Because she was famous for publicly voicing her sentiments , most of the people on the boat avoid and despise her . Once in Canada , she is recruited to work as a spy for the Nazis and then the film gets even more interesting . So far , so good - - the film is intricately written , well-acted and very , very interesting through most of the film . As I mentioned above , there is a MAJOR problem where the writers apparently fell asleep or had a psychotic episode about of the way through the movie . Up until then , the main character ( played by Anna Nagel ) was a very smart lady as were her contacts withing the British secret service . However , shortly after she infiltrates the Nazi gang and is made a member , she meets with a Commander who is known to be a high-ranking secret service member . They meet in a very public place and then later kiss in a hallway . DUH ! ! ! After supposedly spending years cultivating a pro-Nazi persona and withstanding LOTS of public scorn and threats , she does this and thereby might just be letting the Nazis know she really is a double agent ! Duh ! Fortunately , after this brainless segment , the film does get back on track and races to a fitting conclusion . And overall , a film well worth your time .
Mildly funny and pretty odd	This is a hard film to really talk about since it is a short and if I say much it will spoil the suspense - - but I'll try . The film starts with a very young boy playing with crayons . His mother offers him a snack . When the child briefly leaves , his drawing comes to life and causes trouble . As I said , I can't really say more . The production values are fine , the child ( I think ) is the writer / director's son and the film does have a professional quality about it as well as gives a few laughs . I'd like to see more from the team that made this , as something this strange needs a follow-up .
Very enjoyable - - unlike the later sound version with Spencer Tracy	This film was based on a play that has been around a long time and been made into films on several occasions . As far as I know , this is the earliest version , though I know they also made a 1930 version as well as an awful one in 1934 ( starring Spencer Tracy ) and yet another in 1946 with Red Skelton . I've seen the 1934 version and had I realized that this 1926 film was essentially the same plot , I probably wouldn't have watched it ! That's because the 1934 film was horrible - - with Tracy playing the most obnoxious and detestable character I can think of one film ! While the plot is very similar to the 1934 film which I disliked , there is enough different about it so that I do recommend you see this film . First , this is a rare case where a film is better as a silent because listening to the title character brag and talk incessantly really gets on your nerves when it's a talkie . But , silencing the guy made it much more bearable . Also , the intensity of his boorishness is less in this film , as Tracy ( still relatively new to acting ) actually way over-played the part . Ford Sterling , in contrast , had a performance that was a bit more comical as well as not so unlikable . I won't say much about the plot , as I don't want to spoil it . However , here's the basic outline : Sterling plays a braggart who is always making it sound as if he's a big-wig with the railroad . In reality , he's just another clerk . He manages to convince a dim girl from a nice family that he's rich and successful , so she marries him . Only after the wedding does she realize who he really is . Unfortunately , like for them is tough , as Sterling can't support them with his meager salary and extravagant spending . What happens next and how he manages to turn things around is just something you'll need to see for yourself . A good film , though one that you don't need to rush to see . And please , do NOT see the 1934 version unless you are a glutton for punishment !
very good but a bit dated and tedious at times	I think this movie was probably a lot more powerful when it first debuted in 1943 , though nowadays it seems a bit too preachy and static to elevate it to greatness . The film is set in 1940 - - just before the entry of the US into the war . Paul Lukas plays the very earnest and decent head of his family . He's a German who has spent seven years fighting the Nazis and avoiding capture . Bette Davis is his very understanding and long-suffering wife who has managed to educate and raise the children without him from time to time . As the film begins , they are crossing the border from Mexico to the USA and for the first time in years , they are going to relax and stop running . The problem for me was that the family was too perfect and too decent - - making them seem like obvious positive propaganda instead of a real family suffering through real problems . While this had a very noble goal at the time , it just seems phony today . In particular , the incredibly odd and extremely scripted dialog used by the children just didn't ring true . It sounded more like anti-Fascism speeches than the voices of real children . They were as a result extremely annoying - - particularly the littlest one who came off , at times , as a brat . About the only ones who sounded real were Bette Davis and her extended American family as well as the scumbag Romanian living with them ( though he had no discernible accent ) . It's really tough to believe that the ultra-famous Dashiel Hammett wrote this dialog , as it just doesn't sound true to life . The story was based on the play by his lover , Lillian Hellman . And , the basic story idea and plot is good , . . . but the dialog is just bad at times . Overall , an interesting curio and a film with some excellent moments , . . . but that's really about all .
Inexplicably low rated	This is an interesting little film that is brave enough to tackle lesbian issues but more importantly deals with commitment - - a rather universal concept regardless of the sexual orientation . The film begins with Serena and her girlfriend preparing for Tisha's wedding . In the past , Tisha had lived the gay lifestyle , but now wanted the " straight life " with all the trappings - - fancy dress , church wedding and a handsome groom . However , soon after they arrive at Tisha's house , it's obvious that Tisha is only playing lip-service to marriage - - she still wants to fool around with Serena since according to Tisha " this is just fun and games . . . it's not cheating " . This rocks Serena , because while she is gay , she has a strong need for commitment in her life . It's obvious she wants more than her promiscuous girlfriend is willing to give her . As I said , I'm not sure why this film is rated so low . Perhaps some were uncomfortable with the Lesbian issues , but frankly the film seems much more about commitment . Plus , the idea of a gay person marrying a straight one is an important topic to discuss . I've known several cases where the gay partner lied and used their spouse - - later leaving and announcing that " the straight life " isn't for them ! And , since many marriages do fail due to infidelity , this , too , is a great topic for film . An interesting adult drama that is worth a look . By the way , the statistic spouted in the film about of all marriages ending in divorce is deceptive . This does NOT mean of all people who marry stand the chance of divorce - - this number actually counts 2nd , 3rd , 4th , etc . marriages as well ( which are much more likely to end in divorce ) . For first marriages , the actual percentage that end up in divorce is about - - perhaps less than that . Also , the divorce rate has been rather constant in recent decades - - and is actually lower than in the 1970s ! Really - - I'm not making this up , folks .
Awfully well-done propaganda piece	Why the Nazis chose to spend a lot of money to make a film about the Titanic during the middle of WWII I'll never know . You can see that the real story of the ship is twisted into a propaganda piece that both extols German decency and decries the evils of a Capitalist society . It does this by creating some Germans and making them all nice folks - - particularly the First Officer that tries very hard to do what is right even though Captain Smith and the nefarious forces of Capitalistic greed are risking the lives of everyone aboard ! In the National Socialist Germany , the importance of individual profit and gain was publicly forbidden and America and Britain were seen as dominated by selfish self-interest . So the " nice Germans " are always mindful of the ultimate good and the rich Americans are the worse stereotypes of Capitalism . And so time and again , the First Officer is good and dutiful and tries his best to protect the ship and passengers while industrialists / speculators Ismay and Astor do everything purely for self-interest . All this was meant to convince Germans of the rightness of their political system , though the ugly truth was that many rich German industrialists became immensely wealthy thanks to German re-armament . Despite the obvious propaganda in the film , the movie itself was surprisingly well-made . While the shot of the Titanic ( using a model ) was incredibly sloppily done ( with VERY fuzzy camera-work to try to hide that it was a model ) , the rest of the film looks pretty opulent and the acting was very convincing considering it was made in 1943 - - as things were turning VERY bad for the Germans . Sadly , although the film is watchable and VERY interesting , it was not shown in Germany and was only recently discovered - - it deserved a wider audience despite its shortcomings .
Very good , but compares poorly to later pairings of Daffy and Elmer	I guess I might have enjoyed this cartoon a lot more if it weren't for the fact that there were so many better Looney Toons cartoons that also paired Daffy and Elmer Fudd . The most famous of these later pairings also included Bugs Bunny and it was all about whether or not it was duck or rabbit hunting season . There also was another where Elmer took Daffy home after a hunt and Daffy pretended to be Santa ! Both of these are classics . As for this cartoon , the animation isn't quite as pretty as some of the cartoons from the late 40s , but it's still awfully good . The story begins with Elmer and his dog hunting . Daffy is hit and caught but he begins to verbally attack Elmer for " unsportsman-like behavior " and challenges him to a very one-sided and obviously fixed boxing match - - with another duck as the referee . The laughs are there and there is a lot to like - - but I never loved this or laughed like I did for the later times that I saw these two great Looney Tunes characters together .
An excellent and rousing WWII action film	This movie is in many ways reminiscent of several of Robert Taylor's previous films - - in particular A YANK AT OXFORD . Like YANK , in this film Taylor is a bit of a " pretty boy " who is more concerned with sucking up to the navy brass and parties than ever going into action . However , with a decrepit old destroyer about to be re-commissioned , his commanding officer ( Charles Laughton ) assigns him to be the first officer - - and help him be a REAL navy man . At first , Taylor thinks this is beneath him and balks at the assignment , but through the film he ( not surprisingly ) proves he's made of tougher material and by the end of the film Taylor achieves a truly impossible deed - - taking out a Japanese battleship with this lowly destroyer . While there is a lot of predictability about the plot and some silly clichs concerning picking up some women and babies , this film has a lot going for it . First , there are four exceptional actors all at the top of their game ( Robert Taylor , Charles Laughton , Brian Donlevy and Walter Brennan ) . Second , the action scenes were generally exceptional in quality . While some of the scenes were obviously models ( particularly before the big battle ) , most of the special effects were exceptional and really felt and looked real . Third , while formulaic , it was GOOD formula and featured exceptional dialog for a WWII propaganda film . All these elements worked together to make a very enjoyable film .
A dandy little film with a restrained performance by Frank Morgan	Oddly , this film stars Frank Morgan as a Supreme Court justice ! He's on vacation and runs afoul of a small town's corrupt administration . The crooked judge , mayor and their henchmen don't realize who Morgan is , so he's able to see first-hand their under-handed tactics . Because of their abuse of political power , Morgan decides to stick around and assist a naive young lawyer ( Richard Carlson ) in his bid to become mayor . At first , they are pretty much ignored , though in time , when the race for mayor seems tight , the old mayor unleashed a wave of dirty tricks - - not realizing that Morgan holds the ultimate trump card . I had a hard time deciding whether to score this one a 7 or an 8 . It was very good - - particularly for a B-movie . Being a " B " , it is a relatively short picture ( only 67 minutes ) but unlike many Bs it has excellent production values ( especially the writing ) and is very entertaining . About the only knock against it is that I thought the fight scenes were a bit too " slapsticky " and didn't exactly integrate well into the rest of the picture . Still , it's a dandy performance by Frank Morgan , as he's more restrained ( i . e . , less " hammy " ) than in most of his starring vehicles - - well worth seeing and a lot of fun - - as well as a decent civics lesson .
not nearly as good as the original , but still worth seeing	The story behind this film must be very interesting . For some odd reason , the studio decided to do a sequel to Dracula ( 1931 ) but have a different person play the count AND make everyone think it's Dracula's son , when it's really the old vampire himself ! ! While this " surprise twist " is hardly a surprise at all to those who watch the movie ( especially since the character is named " Count Alucard " - - " Alucard " is " Dracula " spelled backwards - - what an amazingly clever ruse - - NOT ) , the movie itself is still chilling and lots of fun . While Universal horror lovers like myself find this whole movie to be a step down for the franchise , it's still a decent film that's worth your time .
Sort of like " Dr . Phibes III "	In the early 1970s , Vincent Price made two Dr . Phibes films that the fans adored . Much of the reason these films did so well were the many very creative and rather cool murders Phibes committed in the film . Phibes , who seemed to have died in a traffic accident , is actually alive and with much style and panache kills those who he thinks were responsible for his wife's death - - using each of the ten plagues as a basis for the killings in the first film ( though a few were mixed up - - they should have read their Bible better ) . In the second , he just uses an amazing array of ways to kill . During this crusade , Phibes is accompanied by a beautiful mute girl and his weird clockwork automatons . Here , in THEATER OF BLOOD , we have just about the exact same formula once again and the film was made just a year after the last Phibes film . Instead of revenge for his wife's death , it's revenge on theater critics who savaged his career - - saying his Shakespeare performances were unoriginal and lacked creativity . So , after appearing to die , Price returns to kill off the critics one by one in the most devilish ways - - all inspired by the plays of Shakespeare . And , instead of a mute girl and automatons , he's accompanied by his daughter ( Diana Rigg ) and a group of wacky homeless freaks who are his audience for each murder . In addition , just as in THE ABOMNIBLE DR . PHIBES , one of his intended victims does escape at the end - - so you can tell that the writers chose to stick closely to this successful formula . So let's talk about the film aesthetically as well as the " cool factor " . Since the film is very derivative , it certainly can't be see as one of Price's best works , though the acting is quite competent and Price gets a chance to really ham it up when he creates scenes from Shakespeare . The role must have been a lot of fun for him . Now as for the " cool factor " , this isn't the greatest horror film I've seen , that's for sure , and the ending was rather poor when Miss Rigg got inexplicably bonked on the head , but because of the creativity of the murders and how funny they were ( yes , it's sort of a dark comedy ) , this was definitely a film that kept my interest despite its cheesiness . I also liked seeing Rigg in drag - - she looked a lot like a Muppet character ( you know , that guy with glasses in the Muppet band ) . So for fans of horror and or Vincent Price , then this is a wonderful film . The artsy people out there that like high-brow films will most likely hate this film . Depending on which group you most likely gravitate towards will determine what you think of the film . I really liked it .
A very likable silent short	This silent short has a very interesting pedigree . Not only do James Finlayson and Oliver Hardy appear in the film , but it was capably directed by Stan Laurel - - making it very nice for Laurel and Hardy fans to see the three involved in a pre-teaming of Laurel and Hardy and their best nemesis in one film . However , the value in this film isn't just for the cast but because it also manages to be a very likable short film - - one that I am glad I saw . The film begins with a family learning that their daughter has gotten married and she's bringing her new husband ( Finlayson ) over to meet them . However , upon seeing him , they immediately assume he's not much of a husband and treat him pretty shabbily . To make things worse , their dog , Pete , isn't nice to him either . In fact , I really liked seeing this mischievous animal ( of the Our Gang fame ) as it attacked him and later stole the poor man's toupee ! Finally , after taking a lot of abuse , things get worse when his wife's old boyfriend ( Hardy ) arrives and begins manhandling Finlayson . Pushed to the wall , the husband finally explodes and puts everyone in their place - - resulting in a very satisfying conclusion . Short , well directed and funny - - this one is worth a look .
This one kind of got lost among the many Trek films	This Star Trek film is one of the more difficult ones to remember in my mind after I saw it . I thought it was okay , but that was really about it . Then I saw it again a few years later and I realized it was actually a good film but just feel it gets lost in the mind of many fans because it is the last in the series to star all the original cast and has a different tempo . This film more than most focuses on " the big three " - - Spock , McCoy and Shatner . The film begins with an appeal from the Klingons for help - - it seems their planet is doomed and for the first time they want an alliance with the Federation . Kirk's solution is simple - - they are Klingons so let them die ! ! But , despite this view , the meeting where they sign the accord is going to happen anyway . At the historic meeting , there is an assassination and Kirk and McCoy are convicted for the murder . Well you KNOW that they didn't do it , but the real culprets must be found . This mystery-suspense aspect of the film makes it pretty interesting and at least different . Not a great film but a worthy addition to the series .
Believe it or not , this is not the first Oscar-nominated animated film about an inflatable partner	Back in 1979 , a rather smutty film called DREAM DOLL was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film . Well , talk about being surprised when I found out tonight that a few years later , another film ( SECOND CLASS MAIL ) was nominated in this same category and was also about an inflatable mate - - though fortunately in this case the film was not smutty and it was actually rather charming . Instead of the sex angle , the character in this film wants an inflatable man for companionship . It's actually rather cute , as instead of being naked , when inflated he looks like a middle-aged couch potato ! The ending , while not totally unexpected , is also quite funny and this is a lovely little cartoon - - though I can see why it ultimately didn't win since it was up against two amazing cartoons , ANNA & BELLA ( which won ) and THE BIG SNIT - - a wonderful comedy .
Fairly typical of a D . W . Griffith Biograph short	This is a pretty good silent short from D . W . Griffith , as it features bandits , a steadfast and good heroine and some nifty action . While it isn't the deepest film I have ever seen , it does make for a good film because it has a well-developed plot and is paced very well . Unlike some other films of the same period , this film has a definite beginning , middle and end and is quite watchable in the 21st century . Part of this is because the acting is somewhat restrained for 1912 - - being a little less over-done than you might often see at the time . Instead of hysterics , the lady in the film is cool-headed and does her best to stop two evil tramps from stealing the payroll . Pretty old fashioned , but still well made and watchable .
Amazingly familiar but funny	This film features Laurel and Hardy in a very familiar plot . As is often the case , the boys go out to play and lie to the wives about it - - with disastrous results . This type of situation was featured in several films made by the team ( such as THEIR PURPLE MOMENT and BLOTTO ) and was remade very closely in SONS OF THE DESERT . In fact , after Laurel and Hardy , this same plot was reworked on " The Honeymooners " and even " The Flintstones " ! In this film , Stan and Ollie go out for a good time and meet two ladies who eventually ask them back to their apartment . What they don't know is that the wives suspect the boys are playing around and one of the lady has a boyfriend who is a professional boxer ! The wives actually catch them in the act but Stan and Ollie don't know it - - and there is a very , very long segment where the boys make up lie after lie to explain themselves . This leads to an expectedly violent confrontation . The end was cute and repeated very closely in BLOCKHEADS . While there's a lot of familiar material in this short , it is very well done and funny .
excellent but not among his very best	I absolutely love the films of Akira Kurasawa and have seen most of them . And , for some reason , this is not among my favorites although it is one of his highest rated films on IMDb . Perhaps I'm just being too picky , but I think MAYBE its popularity is because it was made somewhat recently and some of his older ( and I think more interesting ) films are sometime forgotten . After all , MOST of the IMDb reviewers are old enough that they could have seen this film on the big screen , while very few could have seen his earlier films in all their glory . The other reason why I think it's a little overrated is that his version of Macbeth ( Throne of Blood ) is the best retelling of Shakespeare and so Ran , despite it being wonderful , pales if you see them one after another ( like I did ) . So what DOES this film have going for it ? Well , the word is SPECTACLE . Like KAGAMUSHA ( which came out around the same time ) , it had a big budget and glorious locations . It is simply a gorgeous film to see . Some watch Kurosawa for the spectacle , I tend to look more at the characterizations which are really secondary in this film .
Of great historical importance , but not exactly deep or memorable	Okay , I'll admit this isn't the greatest cartoon ever made . It's silent , consists only of simple pencil drawings and never is all that interesting . So why is it STILL a worthwhile film ? Well , it's so early and in its day it was considered state of the art . Plus , the film's creator , Winsor McCay , was responsible for some of the first animated heroes - - in the forms of Gertie the Dinosaur and Little Nemo . So , because of this very important and impressive pedigree , this film is of great importance to animators , historians and Cinephiles alike . For what it is ( an early experimental film ) , it is pretty good . Plus , without films like this , later more fleshed out cartoons wouldn't have been possible . Interesting and unique , that's for sure .
Lovely graphics	This is one of two short animated films that were nominated for the 1992 Oscar for this category . It seems that the Canadian National Film Board sponsors many animated shorts and this is one of many I have seen from them that was Oscar nominated - - my favorite of which might just be THE BIG SNIT from 1985 . However , in most ways this older and the newer films are like complete opposites . THE BIG SNIT has only passable animation but the story is so funny and the humor so bizarre I couldn't help but like it . With STRINGS , the story really didn't seem all that important - - I was taken in more by the exceptional and striking graphics . As for whether I liked the film , it was nice but not one to get terribly excited about and in retrospect , all three Oscar nominees that year were rather limp . Of the three , my favorite is STRINGS and is worth a peek .
A highly underrated film . . . . plus it DOES have midgets !	Stan and Ollie have tough wives . No only are these women meaner looking than those you usually see in a Laurel and Hardy domestic comedy , but they are incredibly over-bearing and keep practically every dime the boys make . It didn't seem all that surprising then when they boys wanted to stash away a few bucks and go for a night on the town . The problem is that Stan's wife finds the stash and substitutes it for coupons . The other problem is that the boys run up a huge tab and chase after girls . Hmm . . . . perhaps the wives DID have the right idea after all ! I was very surprised when I looked at all the reviews on IMDb for this early Laurel and Hardy film because the ratings were so darn low . I can't understand this as this is a pretty typical Laurel and Hardy short - - certainly NOT among their worst . Another thing that surprised me is that IMDb mentions a lost segment with midgets , but there were quite a few scenes in this film with midgets performing at a nightclub ( the ubiquitous " Pink Pup " ) . The film has more than its share of laughs and is highly reminiscent of many of the team's better efforts such as SONS OF THE DESERT and BLOTTO . Sure , it's familiar - - but it's also quite funny . By the way , I mentioned The Pink Pup because I recently noticed that it also appears in at least two other Laurel and Hardy films made about this same time - - THE BATTLE OF THE CENTURY and THAT'S MY WIFE .
NOT a film for the average film viewer	I really didn't like this movie much at all . Much of it was because I didn't like either main character much at all - - particularly Marie , as she's mostly a self-involved and hateful person . So , because of this and the generally gloomy and awful mood of the film , I can't see the average viewer liking this film . However , this is a rare film that is actually well-written but probably doesn't have a large audience . Those who will like it are either those who like depressing and awful films ( fans of Bergman's most depressing films , this is probably for you ) OR someone who watches it for the psychological studies . I was a therapist before my mid-life crisis and now I teach psychology in high school . If it weren't for all the nudity in the film , it would be a great film to show the kids when we discuss personality disorders . Isa is a pretty good example of an immature person who MIGHT be diagnosed with a Schizotypal Personality Disorder because she is just plain weird , though not apparently mentally ill . The connection she creates with the girl in the coma is just bizarre as are many of her other behaviors . Marie , though , is the more unlikable character and is a more clearly defined demonstration of a personality disorder . She actually shifts from an apparent Avoidant Personality Disorder ( a person who acts like they need no one and may be quite surly to prove it ) to a Dependent Personality Disorder ( she MUST have one particular man , even though he mistreats her and is a bad person ) . Once again , this is not a fun movie to watch and the ending is depressing as can be , so don't rush out to see this movie unless you are a person looking for this specific type film .
very uneven but well worth seeing	This was the last film starring Charlie Chaplin and he went on to do only a very brief cameo in the last film he directed , THE COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG . And , while it lacks the quality of many of his famous full-length films , it is well worth your time . One of the reasons I say that the film lacks quality is the unevenness of the film . While the music Chaplin composed is very good and parts of the film are quite touching , other parts look a bit choppy and some of the camera work is rough . But , considering that mediocre Chaplin is still head and shoulders above most other work , this can all be forgiven . Chaplin plays the deposed benevolent king of a fictional European country . When he arrives in America , he is treated like a celebrity and he intends to make it his new home . However , over time his opinion about living here sours - - partly due to the intensity and shallowness of American culture but mostly due to the zealous anti-Communist movement of the day . The film consists of two parts . The initial portion is pretty light-hearted and involves Chaplin's becoming acquainted with American culture ( such as TV , Rock and Roll and even plastic surgery ) . While I have heard some comment that this makes the movie seem too episodic and lacks focus , I actually liked this part and found it charming - - even though not all the gentle ribbing worked in every case . The second part begins when Chaplin visits an odd " progressive school " in the city . Here children are encouraged to express themselves and avoid inhibitions . In reality , it means that the kids are brats and have absolutely no discipline . This is a pretty funny segment - - particularly when Chaplin is introduced to the editor of the school paper ( actually played by Chaplin's 10 year-old son , Michael ) . This kid ( Rupert ) is incredibly obnoxious and instead of discussing politics with the democratic-natured king , he " speachifies " about the evils of all government and sounds a lot like Leon Trotsky ! Although it is not apparent at first , this little vignette actually changes the course of the film . A bit later , Rupert is seen wandering about New York in the snow all alone . The king sees him and takes pity despite their political differences . He feeds and clothes the kid and Rupert repays him by telling people that he is the king's nephew . Well , people think that because the kid sounds like a Communist that the king must also be one - - leading to a lot of confusion and a few laughs . It turns out that the kid had run away from the school after his parent had been forced to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities . The parents admit that they had been Communists in the past but refused to implicate others , so they are jailed for contempt . Next , the committee subpoenas Chaplin to testify while federal agents begin badgering Rupert to get him to talk . This leads to a very tiring and badly written part of the film . On the way to testify , Chaplin gets his finger stuck in a fire hose and he eventually has to charge into the committee room with it still stuck on his hand . Then , the hose gets connected to another hose and turned on - - at which point , Chaplin thoroughly douses the committee . This part of the film just isn't very funny and lasts way too long . Despite this hosing , the scene abruptly ends and newspapers announce that Chaplin is cleared and he is once again beloved by the American people . Why and how this occurs is beyond me , as the last scene ended with the committee charging him with contempt ! It is like there is a missing scene explaining how this all occurred . Regardless , Chaplin is tired of the hysteria about Communism and vows to return to Europe . On the way , he stops to see Rupert and finds his spirit is broken . . . as Rupert was tricked into betraying his parents ' former associates . The film then ends as it shows Chaplin and his trusted aid flying out of New York . While Chaplin denied that this film was an attempt to get back at America for its shabby treatment of him in the early 50s , it is pretty obvious that this movie is a comedic and very poignant attempt to do precisely that . It reminds me a lot of the Woody Allen film THE FRONT , though it preceded it by almost two decades . While it was true that there was significant infiltration of our government by Stalinist spies ( based on recent data released by the Kremlin ) , along with legitimate concerns many innocent people were hurt just because of their political leanings . Chaplin's leftist beliefs and movies that depicted the little guy as being oppressed by an uncaring Capitalist society came back to haunt him during this era of fear . In the end , he was forced to return to Europe to live out the remainder of his life . So , in many , many ways , this movie was an autobiographical film wrapped in comedy . Now as for the good and the bad about this film . The film has many amusing little segments and is quite charming . Its autobiographical aspects make for an interesting insight into Chaplin's psyche and even without that , it is a pretty good film .
Sometimes you just need a stupid film like this to make you laugh	Although I love a good foreign or independent film , sometimes I am in the mood for a good old stupid film like THE WATERBOY . This is not meant as an insult , as the makers of this film intended for it to be very dumb and in the process the film is also quite entertaining . There are many times I could just use some mindless fun and I am thankful that films like the Bill and Ted films , UHF , TALLADEGA NIGHTS and THE WATERBOY are there when I am in the mood for goofiness . Adam Sandler stars as Bobby Boucher - - a guy so socially inept people assume he is an idiot . His sole desire in life when he film begins is to be a waterboy for a football team - - even though he's in his 30s ! When he shows up at South Central Louisiana State University looking for this job , the coach ( Henry Winkler ) lets him do it - - - provided he doesn't have to pay Boucher ! Oddly , Boucher looks at his job as if it were a science and he takes amazing pride in such a menial and worthless job . In the process , he looks like a total geek and the players make fun of him constantly . Eventually , all the needling reminds him of all the many , many , many times others have made fun of him over the years and he reacts by knocking one of the players off his feet . Not realizing it , Boucher was able to channel his 31 years of rage into tackling . Winkler realizes Boucher's potential and gets him to agree to play football - - even though Boucher's mama ( Kathy Bates ) thinks " foosball is of the Devil ! " . This is accomplished by pretending that he's just the team's waterboy . I loved when he came home bruised up after a game and explained that it was because he was beaten up by an escaped gorilla . . . . and she believed it ! ! However , when Mama finally learns the truth , she slips into an unknown illness and Waterboy is unable to bring himself to play in the super-important Bourbon Bowl ! The film abounds with stupid moments - - the sort that make kids laugh and adult often pretend aren't funny . I believe that most sophisticated adults WILL like the film but should probably only watch it when the kids are asleep - - otherwise the children will realize that their parents are capable of laughing at Adam Sandler . Clever writing , lots of silly gags ( such as his run-in with ' Colonel Sanders ' ) and a part that works well for Sandler , this is one of his better films . I also recommend you try watching THE WEDDING SINGER . And , because I care about you , I advise you to avoid LITTLE NICKY like the plague , as its juvenile humor is something only the most seriously brain damaged can appreciate . It's just not funny .
While far from their best , this silent Laurel and Hardy short is well worth a look	Laurel and Hardy are collection agents sent to both serve Edgar Kennedy with a court order as well as repossess Kennedy's radio - - since he apparently hadn't made any payments since 1921 ! However , when they try to give Kennedy the court papers , he's very slippery and doesn't give in very easily . BACON GRABBERS is a decent Laurel and Hardy short , though far from the team's best . The reason it isn't top-notch isn't because it's a silent short , as some of their very best films ( in particular , BIG BUSINESS ) were silents . I think the problem , and it's a minor one , is that the film is a bit slow and doesn't pack in quite the same number of laughs as most of their other films . But , even a lesser Laurel and Hardy short is STILL a thing of beauty , so I do recommend you give it a watch - - even if the ending is awfully contrived ( after all , a steam roller doesn't just come along and do what this one does ! ) . Ironically , just five years later , Edgar Kennedy himself plays a man trying unsuccessfully to serve a court summons in the film WE'RE RICH AGAIN . I guess the tables are turned !
A surprising type of film for the Duke .	Well , if this isn't one of the more unusual films for John Wayne , I don't know what is ! The film begins with a radio program in America where the host is encouraging small American towns to sort of ' adopt ' doctors displaced by the war in Europe . While the US would not enter the war officially until almost 1942 , this film had a very anti-Nazi tone - - something new to Hollywood films . One of the doctors is Charles Coburn who plays an Austrian ( ! ) and he has a daughter who is a nurse ( Sigrid Gurie ) . They are offered a job in North Dakota and when they arrive they find that it is nothing but dust and misery . The two want to leave immediately , but the townspeople need them so much that they agree to stay . However , in the meantime two important things happen . First , the dust problem becomes so severe that the town decides to relocate to Oregon . Second , Sigrid falls in love with John Wayne . While her love for Wayne is no surprise , their impending marriage is scuttled when they learn that her long-dead fianc is actually alive and coming to America . It seems that the Nazis didn't kill him after all . So we are facing two dilemmas . How to get everyone in town to move en masse to Oregon ( especially when there are a couple hot-heads in the group ) and how will Wayne and Gurie be able to marry ? Tune in and see . I liked this film a lot more than I expected - - much of it because of the historical aspects of it . Other than THE GRAPES OF WRATH and IT'S A GIFT ( to a lesser extent ) , I can't think of any films that talked about the dust bowl years . And it was nice , also , because THE GRAPES OF WRATH offer a view that is a bit biased - - as Steinbeck was trying to make more of a political statement in his writings ( so the true historical nature of the Joads are sensationalized quite a bit ) . Here , it's a more optimistic view of this upheaval . Additionally , it was a nice change of pace for Wayne - - who before this had done mostly Westerns . Overall , a surprisingly good film . PS - - In a rather poorly done scene , a US Department of Agriculture representative is talking to Wayne and he points to the map where supposedly Wayne's town in North Dakota is located . The pointer actually appears to be about 1000 miles off ! !
Not exactly a " sound " movie , but still excellent fare	I really wish I could have seen the original silent version of this movie . I read somewhere that it does exist , but I saw the sound version marketed by Laserlight Video . And , given just how poor the print was and what a poor job the studio did in making this a " sound " film , it leaves a lot to be desired . This dual version dilemma is the same thing that occurred with the French film Prix de beaut ( Miss Europe ) - - the movie was originally silent , but they decided to clumsily add some sound and claim it was a " talkie " . Both films featured newly redone scenes where the actors talked but also many silent scenes ( that were shown at a different frame-rate - - thus making the silent part look too fast and jerky ) and some " clever " scenes where voices are dubbed horribly over scenes which were obviously silent originally . In both films , they did this latter stunt by showing the actors from behind and sloppily pasting sound over the scene . I really wish they had either just shown the original version or re-shot the entire thing - - this hybrid version isn't done very well . The plot itself is pretty good stuff , though . A young woman is sneaking behind her boyfriend's back to see another man . Unfortunately , this other man is a total cad and tries to rape the girl ! She escapes only by performing an escape highly reminiscent of Grace Kelly's in Hitchcock's DIAL M FOR MURDER . The rest of the film is awfully exciting as well , as a scumbag apparently saw something and tries to blackmail both this girl and her boyfriend - - who happens to be a detective investigating the death of the cad ! ! ! While really tough to believe , I like how this was handled - - and the ending was just terrific . This excellent ending helped make up for the slow spots and roughness of the film . Finally , for all those " Hitchcock Watchers " out there that love to spot the director as he sneaks himself into small scenes , this one features one of the best of any of his films . Look for the poor man on the subway being harassed by a little brat - - that's Hitchcock !
Not bad , . . . plus you get to see Lionel Barrymore bashed over the head !	I always like seeing stars when they were younger and this film features a relatively young Lionel Barrymore as a nice guy who is hated by his jealous brother . The brother conks Lionel over the head and he appears to be dead . Fortunately for the bad brother , a robber climbs into the house just after this . The brother runs to get the cops - - assuming he can blame the robber for the assault and get away with it ! And , it sure looks like the hapless burglar is going to get in very serious trouble indeed - - until Barrymore wakes up and tells the cops the burglar DIDN'T hurt him . Then , magnanimously , he forgives his crappy brother and they all live happily ever after . I would have loved it if then they would have had the brother try AGAIN to kill him , but that wouldn't have sat well with the audiences of the day . By the way , like in some other American Biograph shorts , this one his their " AB " logo on the wall of the home . Who would use this as part of their decorating scheme ? !
a " classier " sci-fi movie from the 50s	The same era and genre that brought us ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN and THE AMAZING COLOSSAL MAN also gave us this more cerebral and less sensationalistic account of a man who shrinks thanks to the miracle of atomic mutation ! Because it takes a slightly less sensationalistic bent and the acting and writing are a definite notch above these other two movies , this is more likely to impress viewers . But , if you are looking for a good laugh , this really isn't your film , as it is both a fantasy sci-fi film AND takes a rather philosophical attitude towards this poor man . Additionally , people who MUST have a clear ending in a movie will be greatly disappointed , as the film ends but the problems of this shrinking man aren't really resolved .
Vivian Leigh , . . . . as a prostitute ? !	This movie has been remade several times and I doubt if in this day and age the old fashioned plot would succeed . This is because the plot is full of lots of melodrama and situations that today just seem too unbelievable . However , being a fan of older films , I was able to suspend disbelief and just watch the movie and accept it for what it was . Ms . Leigh is a struggling ballerina in love with a rich guy about to go off to WWI . They are desperately in love and she ultimately gives up her career for him . Unfortunately , he goes off to war and is assumed to be lost and she has no income . His family is far from welcoming and so she is forced to sell her body to support herself ! Now , most people today would think " yeah , she COULD just scream and yell and demand support from his family or why doesn't she just go out and get a job ? " and this is the main problem with the film . Also , it's hard to reconcile the fine romance and romantic cinematography and music with her becoming a hooker . They just don't go together . These plot holes , it turns out , are a result of a massive re-writing of the script from the 1931 film of the same name - - where the character Ms . Leigh plays is already a prostitute when she meets her love AND she never was a ballerina ! ! However , in spite of this , it's still an excellent film and is worth seeing .
Like a prettier and more well-made version of La Terra Trema	This film is highly reminiscent of another film , LA TERRA TREMA . Both might be considered Italian Neo-realist films , though LA GRAND STRADA AZZURA does feature a big-name actor in the lead ( Yves Montand ) and a big budget - - somethings that a Neo-realist film cannot have to be technically this type of film . However , I am apparently one of the few reviewers on IMDb that really disliked LA TERRA TREMbecause the acting was so incredibly amateurish as well as the lousy camera-work . Instead , LA GRAND STRADA is beautifully filmed in color and Montand is the centerpiece around which all the non-professional actors are anchored . The film itself is also a little more exciting because it deals not just with a family of fishermen like the other film , but a family that illegally uses homemade dynamite to fish ! ! And the negative impact on the fishing industry and the other fishermen makes for some great tension . While this certainly isn't a great film , it's a very , very good one and has an excellent ending to wrap it all together . By the way , do not get the idea that I dislike Neo-realist films and prefer big-name actors and budgets . No , I actually love movies such as UMBERTO D , MIRACLE IN MILAN and THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US ( all by Vittorio De Sica ) - - it's just that there are also a couple truly awful and amateurishly made Neo-realist films as well that I really hate - - and apart from STOMBOLI , LA TERRA TREMA is probably the most boring and unwatchable Neo-realist film I have seen . You are MUCH better off just watching this film - - it's very similar but interesting - - and avoid LA TERRA TREMA unless you are a masochist and you actually like very slow and miserable films .
My goodness this is strange ! ! !	This film was included in THE ANIMATION SHOW VOLUME THREa compilation of short films arranged by Don Hertzfeldt and Mike Judge . Overall , this is a very impressive DVand much of it is due to CITY PARADISE . Even for Don Hertzfeldt , this is a super-strange short film ! ! While it is not funny like the films you find on Volume One , it is so incredibly creative and bizarre that it's also quite compelling . EVERYTHING IS O . K . is a surreal stream of consciousness which features the usual Hertzfeldt stick men drawings . However , instead of violence ( which we love ) in this film , it's more about a guy who's going crazy . He's either got schizophrenia or a brain tumor ( more likely ) and you see through the course of this film as he looses his mind . What I particularly liked was his use of multiple screens to show how this sick man perceives the world . Some may find it all quite funny - - I just found it strangely compelling .
A very nice one-man performance	I have seen between 200-400 short films on IMDb and I must say that I can't recall another short like this one . That's because Benjamin Green does a monologue and despite no other actors , he's able to maintain the viewer's attention because he is a very good actor . No doubt the writing and direction helped as well . Regardless , it's worth seeing . The film starts with Green in the tub . He begins talking to the camera about how he's completely screwed up his career as an artist . It seems at his first one man show , he got nervous and had a few drinks . . . a few too many drinks . Instead of being charming , he came off as a boorish jerk and now he's afraid to do anything other than sit and soak and wait . You really have to feel sorry for the guy , as he tells a good story and makes you understand how a guy can get himself into such a mess . The only other comment is that the language is a bit harsh . While it's appropriate to the situation , it makes this a lousy film to show kids .
Despite what you might think , not a sequel to DODGE CITY and features the weirdest casting choice I've seen in some time !	This is a very good and watchable Warner Brothers Western that COULD have been a lot better if it had been a true sequel to the Flynn film , DODGE CITY . You see , just a year earlier Flynn and his two side-kicks , Alan Hale and Guinn ' Big Boy ' Williams , had starred in the marvelous film DODGE CITY . At the very end , the trio ( plus Olivia DeHavilland who is strangely absent from this next film ) agree at the film's conclusion to leave Dodge City and move to Virginia City to bring the town law and order . Well , here there are again but the plot and characters have been changed so much it really isn't a sequel - - even though it was announced as one in the previous film . It really looks like the writers never even saw the other film or read the script , as this time Errol and his buddies are not ex-Confederate soldiers , but Union spies ! However , the mood and tempo of the two films are awfully similar . In fact , they are so similar that it is very , very easy to mix them up in your mind . As just one example , both feature a cute little boy in a " dead meat " role . In other words , they are nice kids who ultimately MUST be killed because that is part of the Hollywood formula . Apart from a small age difference , the two boys look almost exactly the same . The films also feature lawless towns and the same fearless trio who arrive to clean it up and do good . And , most of the rest of the actors are identical and play very , very similar parts ! So , here is an easy way to distinguish them - - DODGE CITY is filmed in gorgeous Technicolor and VIRGINIA CITY features Humphrey Bogart as a swarthy Mexican bandit ! ! ! Oh , and by the way , Bogart as a Mexican actually is a lot worse than it sounds ! ! When it comes to stupid casting decisions , this SHOULD rank up there with John Wayne as Genghis Khan or Katherine Hepburn as a Chinese woman or Liberace as a handsome leading man torn between his music and his woman , though oddly , the dumbness of this casting has mostly been forgotten over the years . Despite the movie being excellent overall , the few scenes where Bogart speaks are unintentionally hilarious . Now , in addition to Bogart , there is another weakness in the film and that was the casting of Miriam Hopkins as Flynn's love interest . After having seen the immensely beautiful Olivia DeHavilland in the previous film , it really was odd that they would have chosen a woman who just looked old and not particularly attractive . I know this sounds cruel , but I just couldn't see Flynn falling for her . Plus , in DODGE CITY , they fortunately never got DeHavilland to sing but passed that chore on to Ann Sheridan - - a woman with a very competent voice . But Miss Hopkins sang her own songs as a bar room chanteuse and sounded pretty awful . So I assumed that the guys in the bar have been pretty drunk to enjoy having her as their host . Now despite all these many complaints , I still gave the movie a score of 7 . This is possible due to the always wonderful acting of Flynn in his prime as well as the rest of the cast . Bogart and Hopkins aside , the cast was terrific ( McHugh , Hale , Williams and others ) and adding Randolph Scott to the mix was a very good thing . Good old fashioned Warner Brothers fun - - not to be missed by fans of the genre .
Wow , and I thought maybe doing movie reviews on IMDb was compulsive !	At last , a short film that speaks to me . With over 6000 reviews to my credit , I have begun wondering if perhaps I am a bit of a loser . Finally , though , I found people who are a lot more compulsive than me ! ! George and Juliet are in love and say such platitudes as " I love you more than all the drops of water in the ocean " . However , one day George asks how much , exactly , that is and so Juliet spends most of the rest of her life obsessively counting . After wasting most of her life , she stumbles upon George and they both have forgotten why they are counting as well as who the other was ! There's more to it than this , but talk about two people who need to get a new hobby ! ! This is a cute little fairytale told with cut out shapes that are reminiscent of the art of Ezra Jack Keats . A cute story .
This film was remade by the team just a few years later , . . .	This was Laurel and Hardy's last silent film for Roach Studios . However , since the public had a real thirst for " talkies " , this same short was re-made by the team just a few years later with only a few small plot changes . LAUGHING GRAVY was essentially the same plot except that Stan and Ollie were trying to hide a cute puppy from their grouchy landlord - - not a goat like in ANGORA LOVE . This whole goat angle is the worst part of the film . While you could understand the boys wanting to keep a cute little dog ( after all , it is snowy outside ) , why exactly they bring a goat home is just contrived and pointless . According to the plot , the goat followed them home and so they got tired of shooing it away and kept it . Huh ? ! This just doesn't make any sense - - if it had been a giraffe or a cow , would they have done the same thing ? ! Apart from being an unconvincing plot , the movie itself is pure Laurel and Hardy , with a familiar plot and familiar roles for the comedians . This film features quite a few laughs , but unfortunately isn't one of their better films to wrap up their silent careers . This aspect of their careers just seems to have ended with a whimper .
Yet another beautiful CG animated film	GOPHER BROKE was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short and while it is a cute four minutes of film , it also seems a bit ordinary . Now this isn't to say that it's bad . It's just that in the last decade there have been so many similar looking films that it just doesn't seem very special . With Pixar , Dreamworks , Fox and many , many independents making films of about comparable graphic quality , GOPHER BROKE isn't exactly innovative . Now the main character is pretty cute and the story engaging , but I also wished the film had been longer than just four minutes . With this style of animation getting better and better , the bar is being raised and GOPHER BROKE seems like yet another CGI film and that's really it . By the way , if you'd like to see a smaller studio that did an exceptional job with similar graphics , try watching the Welsh film FETCH . While only about a minute and a half long , it seems to pack in more laughs and is a delight .
Pretty exciting	This is a better than average so-called " blaxploitation " film about a bounty hunter named Truck Turner ( Isaac Hayes ) . When he and his partner are trying to bring in a pimp after he jumped bail , the pimp tries to shoot Turner and Turner has no choice but to shoot him . However , he never anticipated that the pimp's woman ( Nichelle Nichols ) was a total psycho and she put a contract out on Turner . The rest of the film consists of various hoods ( most notably Yahpet Kotto ) trying to kill Turner . This is a pretty exciting film and is well directed , written and acted - - making this very unusual for the genre . Most blaxploitation films have horrible production values and are best seen as " guilty pleasures " - - this film stands well on its own and doesn't suffer from many of the clichs you'd normally find in one of these films . One of the more interesting reasons to see the movie is to see Nichols in a non-Star Trek role . Here , she is 100 % different from Lt . Uruhu , as she's a very filthy mouthed and angry lady indeed ! ! She's intensely nasty - - and one of the most despicable women you'd ever see in a blaxploitation film ! While this film is far from high art and not exactly subtle , if you are looking for a 1970s Black-American themed action picture , it's hard to do much better than this one .
Decent acting but the story itself is a bit too vague for my taste	Two 19th century women by chance meet each other in a caf . One does all the talking and prattles on and on in an apparent attempt to " one up " her rival . During this very long monologue , the other lady says absolutely nothing but conveys some messages through her facial expressions . In the end , you are left wondering what really occurred as well as the back story . This is a production created by a Kentucky community college . Considering its humble origins , the film is far better than you'd expect - - showing very good camera work as well as decent acting . The problem is that the one act play itself just didn't do much for me - - particularly as the resolution was a bit too vague and unsatisfying . Still , it's worth a look and is currently featured on IMDb for viewing in the United States .
The biggest reason to see this Laurel and Hardy film is to see a very young Jean Harlow	For years there has been a half-truth among Hollywood lore that Howard Hughes " discovered " Jean Harlow when he cast her to star in HELL'S ANGELS . While this may have been her first big role , she'd already appeared in quite a few shorts for the Hal Roach Studios . This film , in fact , was the second Laurel and Hardy film in which she appeared ( the other being LIBERTY ) . While her role is not huge , it's very clear that this is Jean - - though her 1930s trademark looks are not present in DOUBLE WHOOPEE . Aside from Jean , it's pretty much an average to below average Laurel and Hardy film . I think most of this is because while funny , the chemistry isn't quite right here , though it's hard to exactly put my finger on it . It just didn't seem quite like a Laurel and Hardy film - - and by 1929 the style and format of their shorts was pretty much established . The boys play employees that are sent by an agency to work at a nice New York hotel . At the same time , a rich European prince arrives and the folks at the hotel mistake Stan and Ollie for the prince and his Prime Minister . After finally discovering the mistake , they put the boys to work . There are two main " big gags " in this film . The first involves a contrived bit involving an incredibly unsafe elevator . Through no fault of Stan and Ollie , the Prince keeps falling down the elevator shaft . This bit was a bit over-used and also had me wondering if they really made elevators like this . If so , then I am surprised that most Americans weren't killed ! The second is a series of bit like you'd see in other Laurel and Hardy films such as TIT FOR TAT and TWO TARS . A small argument escalates and Ollie and a tough guy ( Charles Hall - - in a very typical role for him ) start destroying each other's clothes - - and Stan joining in for good measure . This bit is reprised later inside the hotel with the other hotel employees and soon everyone is fighting and destroying each other's outfits . Both gags are reasonably funny to watch but also seem amazingly contrived if not impossible - - making the humor just a bit forced . Still , it's not a bad film at all , though one that is best remembered for a small part played by a young and relatively inexperienced Jean Harlow .
Pretty nifty	This film is about a deadly poison that is contained in small glass globes that is used to kill . This is apparently done to hide an espionage ring intent on stealing plans for a new American bomber . Now much of this plot was repeated in other Chan films , THE JADE MASK and THE DOCKS OF NEW ORLEANS . Additionally , it was first used in MR . WONG , DETECTIVall had the exploding glass globes - - a plot element that obviously has been overused . It was interesting in MURDER OVER NEW YORK , but by these later films it was rather pass . Fortunately , the rest of the film was fresh and the plot worked out very well - - with a nifty conclusion where , of course , the culprit reveals himself . However , no plane could fly the way this one did - - especially in 1940 . Such extreme dives and rapid ascents were pretty silly out of this already obsolete plane . By the way , in a small role as a porter you'll see Frank Coghlan Jr . - - the same actor who played Billy Batson in the CAPTAIN MARVEL serial . According to IMDb , Mr . Coughlan is 93 years old and retired from the film industry .
A nice conclusion to the four Secret Service films	Starting with SECRET SERVICE OF THE AIR ( 1938 ) , Ronald Reagan made four B-movie series film with the character of " Brass Bancroft " . I have seen all but SMASHING THE MONEY RING . The first film , despite its very low budget and modest pretense , was an exceptional film for the genre . The second , CODE OF THE SECRET SERVICE was just awful - - with an extremely poorly written script that wasn't worthy of the franchise . This final film , MURDER IN THE AIR , isn't quite as good as the first film but it sure comes close - - making a nice conclusion to this series . Reagan is given a special assignment to infiltrate a mob of spies who are seeking to destroy American . Oddly , like in his other films , the exact countries involved never are alluded to , though in this one Communists are mentioned . These evil rats have a big plan , but Reagan and the rest of his fellow agents have no idea what it will be . Fortunately , one of the spies is accidentally killed and Reagan assumes his identity . I'd rather not discuss exactly what happens next , as it might spoil the surprise , but I was excited to see that the film was set partially on board a US Navy dirigible and the scene involving it crashing was pretty exciting . All in all , this is not a film that you'll long remember - - it's a B-film through and through . But for a B , it's an excellent one and stand above the crowd of many B series films .
I'm hungry .	I know this was an odd summary , but while watching this short documentary about the huge over-population problem with nutria in Louisiana , I kept wondering where I could get one to taste for myself ! Perhaps I've been watching too much of Andrew Zimmern on the Travel Channel , but I found myself thinking how nice it would be to find a restaurant in my part of the country that featured this giant rat-like creature on the menu ! As for the film , it's a decent little introduction to the common nutria and it discusses a wide range of topics about the little beast - - such as its becoming a nuisance creature , how it got to the US in the first place , nutria cuisine and pop culture and the nutria . About the only thing it didn't talk about ( and I wished it had ) is that the critter is NOT the same thing as a muskrat - - though they look about the same to me . Overall , fascinating and a little-discussed part of our American culture that's worth seeing for yourself .
A " must see " for fans of the series , probably NOT all that watchable to others	I adore BABYLON 5 . It's my all-time favorite sci-fi series because unlike any other show , it is almost like one huge movie - - where almost all the episodes connect into one large and captivating tapestry . This made for TV movie is meant to fill in the gaps for die-hard fans , as it goes back in time BEFORE the series opener to explain a lot of the back story . People who have seen all the prior episodes will probably not be all that surprised by the events of the film , as you've already heard and seen bits and pieces . More importantly , you already know the outcome of the Earth-Minbari war as well as WHY the whole conflict was just " called off " . However , for someone who hasn't seen the show before or isn't a huge sci-fi fan , I could also see that they could find the film pretty dull - - especially since the first 20 minutes or so is filled with so much talking and no action . So who is the movie for ? Well , die-hard lovers of the show and those who like the show but haven't seen most of the episodes of seasons 1-4 . Intesesting , well acted and written , yes , but nothing compelling enough to merit making the film in the first place .
See " Gordon " from SESAME STREET playing a pimp ! ! ! !	This film is brought to you by the letter " P " . Kids , let's think of some words that start with " P " , . . . In probably the weirdest case of casting I can think of , Roscoe Orman plays the title character - - who is a pimp ! Years later , Orman would achieve some notoriety playing " Gordon " on SESAME STREET - - now THAT'S interesting casting ! ! Seeing this 70s " super-pimp " all decked out in furs and pimp costume is very , very surreal - - especially with the amazingly over-the-top style and language and crazy pimp-mobiles ! Now , although Willie is on top of his game , his world begins to crumble when an ex-hooker turned social worker decides that enough is enough . She encourages the prostitutes to dump this jerk and either go into business for themselves or try something legitimate . Willie responds by threatening the lady . She decides to declare war on Willie and things look really , really bad for the pimp-meister . However , when things go worst for Willie , the movie takes a very , very strange twist with the social worker - - one that rather blindsided me . While not at all believable , it was certainly an interesting twist . While this is a so-called " blaxploitation " film in many ways ( especially due to the lead being a pimp ) , the film is much different than you'd expect . First , it's story is stronger than the genre - - with some complexity . Second , the film isn't all " black and white " with cartoon-like characters and silly stereotypes . The cop who hates Willie the most is a Black cop who's a Muslim . Third , the film lacks the nudity and hard edge you'd normally see . And finally , the story doesn't seem either anti-White or glorify evil by the time it's finished - - and as such , is a much more three dimensional film that's worth a look . Needless to say , this film that , at times , glamorizes pimps may seem like the ultimate misogynistic film , but stick with it . Rabid feminists probably should not watch this film or they'll suffer a stroke , but if they'd bear with it , by the end it does have a positive message and is not a " pro-pimp " film like THE MACK ! ! !
A little slow , but also very haunting and well made	This is one of about 100 short films that were recently posted on IMDb for viewing in the United States . However , unlike most of the films , this is a joint US-Norwegian project - - filmed in both countries . The film is about a lady who you don't at first realize is a ghost . However , instead of haunting homes , she leads a very quiet and tranquil life . She goes to the park , sits around the house and imagines life with another person - - though instead she's cursed to only be an observer of the living . It's all very , very melancholy and haunting - - exceptionally well made but also very slow and perhaps not everybody's cup of tea . Still , the film shows quality throughout and their view of the life of a ghost certainly is unique and daring .
While no Frankenstein film comes close to the wonderful book , this one offers some unique insight	As my summary indicates , no Frankenstein movie really has done justice to Mary Shelley's masterpiece novel . One of the biggest problems is that the movies all tend to spend too much time on how the creature is created ( it was barely mentioned in the book ) . The other is that the fundamental moral question posed in the book is also often absent ( the guilt of the doctor for creating and then abandoning his creation ) . Instead , films focus almost voyeuristically at the creature's actions . This movie isn't quite as bad in this regard , because the monster is not the mass-murdering creature he is in some versions and the doctor is truly a bad man ! Peter Cushing plays a strange Dr . Frankenstein in that this time he is very willing to commit murders himself to further his work plus he is a selfish user ( having impregnated and then killing his housekeeper ) . This is no kindly man wanting to help humanity - - instead it's all about glory and a desire to play god . The monster is the least traditional monster I've seen in a very long time . Instead of looking like Karloff , Christopher Lee looks like a combination of a person and a festering piece of blue cheese ! ! This isn't necessarily a bad thing - - the monster was supposed to look pretty bad and her certainly does ! However , this cheesy guy never really is allowed to do all that much damage to the populace - - and spends most of the movie confined to Frankenstein's castle . I think that the best part of the film is actually its conclusion . I don't want to spoil it , but thought it was great that it brought up a lot of questions as to what really occurred . This vagueness I really liked because I am sure that people will be debating this for some time and I love endings that are open to multiple interpretations . It's a very good , but not great version of the classic tale .
good and unusual film marred by the musical numbers	This was a very good film that could have been great had it not been a musical . But , in 1929 when the movie came out , Hollywood seemed to be producing tons of musicals ( so they could show off the new medium of talking pictures ) and a lot of stage numbers were used to stretch out the film . Unfortunately , they had a tendency to distract from the main plot and after a while got really tedious . I think showing bits and pieces of the musical numbers or eliminating them altogether would have been a good idea in retrospect . Erich von Stroheim played " Gabbo " , the world's greatest but seriously flawed ventriloquist . He could make his dummy " Otto " say nice things but he himself was a cruel , pompous jerk when the film began . The film starts with Gabbo unmercifully berating his companion , Mary , and blaming her for every little flaw in his act . It seems that he was just a mean-spirited perfectionist who felt a need to scapegoat someone . Well , after thoroughly mistreating her , she left him . Despite this , his act improved considerably and Gabbo was the star of Broadway within two years . But , he was also incredibly lonely and longed to have Mary back . And , as luck would have it , he ended up performing in the same show as Mary and had high hopes of getting back with her and telling her he loved her and was sorry for his past behavior . This aspect of the film and how it all worked out was the most satisfying and movie part of the film . However , while the film ultimately concerned Gabbo and his ultimate loneliness over losing Mary , there is a strange aspect of the film that is never fully developed and I really wished it had been . You see , in the first of the film , Otto seems way too real and creepy . He is able to move and talk rather independently of Gabbo - - as if he is either REAL or that he is in fact Gabbo's alter-ego and he cannot separate himself from his dummy . Either way , it's strange that von Stroheim can eat and drink - - all the while Otto talks and talks and even lectures Gabbo ! It is highly reminiscent of the later film , MAGIC , as well as an episode of THE TWILIGHT ZONE , where the dummy turns out to be real . But , this entirely brilliant aspect of the film just vanishes as if they forgot to continue this subplot ! Still , overall it's a highly originally plot for its time and a great curio . Plus , for 1929 , the sound and picture quality on the new Library of Congress restoration released by Kino Video . PS - - As a homage to this film , THE SIMPSONS had an episode where a ventriloquist and his dummy , Gabbo , became a huge hit with the kids and briefly put Krusty out of work .
Like a bunch of Griffith's short films all spliced together ! ! !	This is the very last film included with the GRIFFITH'S MASTERWORKS DVD set from Kino Video . And , after seeing 22 other shorts , I noticed a lot of the previous films in this 30 minute film ( that's very long for one of these shorts , by the way ) . It was highly reminiscent of both THE BATTLE OF ELDERBUSH GULCH and THE LAST DROP OF WATER - - two other Western shorts he made in 1913 and 1911 - - as they were all about Indian massacres of White settlers . Plus , like both these two films and DEATH'S MARATHON and THE MOTHERING HEART , it's about what happens AFTER a woman is pursued by two suitors and marries one of them . In this film , we are treated to the obligatory " will you marry me scene " with the two male leads . And , after choosing one , the other becomes a Cavalry scout who just happens to be involved in a raid on an Indian village . The Indians are understandably ticked and attack the nearby settlers - - and guess who is among them ? ! Yep , the lady and her new hubby . While a very derivative film , it's final scene in which practically everyone is massacred is very unique and worth seeing . Not a great film , but still pretty good .
For 1912 , not bad at all	This is a tragic romance starring Mary Pickford . At the film's start , she is being courted by a local fisherman and she is ecstatic . However , after agreeing to marry him , her brother catches the boyfriend with his old flame ( Mabel Normand ) ! So , he confronts the boyfriend and tries to kill him ! When Mary sees this , she runs to the boyfriend's rescue - - not realizing that her brother had pretty good reason for wanting to kill the jerk . But , when Mary discovers the truth , like a good soul , she wishes them luck and returns to her nets . Poor Mary ! While this ISN'T the deepest film , for 1912 , it's pretty good stuff . Not exactly great , but pretty watchable today - - especially since it's short and fast-paced .
exceptionally well-made but a HORRIBLE ending	SPOILER ALERT - - AND I REALLY MEAN IT ! ! READ NO FURTHER UNLESS YOU ARE PREPARED TO HAVE A MAJOR PLOT ELEMENT REVEALED ! ! Okay , first I've gotta say that I have a relatively high tolerance for depressing films . I'll watch and appreciate films about true life horrors ( such as war and the holocaust ) or where death and sadness are important to the plot BUT I hate films like STEAL MAGNOLIAS and TERMS OF ENDEARMENT where the film is built around a manipulative death of a main character . So , already no matter how well made this film is , it's got a MAJOR strike against it because one of the main characters dies from a disease at the end ( though they never say WHAT he had in the English subtitled version ) . So you might ask yourself , " then if this blow-hard hates this type of film , then why did he watch it in the first place ? " You would have an excellent point to ask this , though I hope I am not really a blow-hard ! Well , when I found it in our local library I had no idea what it was about ! ! ! The movie was not intended specifically for export , as the subtitles were in Korean , English and Japanese and the box was printed all in Korean . Well , being a fan of trying films from any nation ( I've seen films from probably at least 30-40 different countries ) , I gave it a try . Well , apart from the obligatory death , I loved the film and so hated the way it ended . While I usually hate Hollywood-type miraculous endings , I wanted to see the guy saved through some new drug or experimental surgery . I was really bummed that he had to die - - particularly since he seemed like one of the nicest people I've seen in films in a long time . His smile was infectious and I really wanted him to get the girl in the end . Oh well , at least I can appreciate the film's message that you need to seize the moment . Great acting , music , etc . , but just not the most satisfying ending for me . This film was good enough to encourage me to try some more Korean cinema .
Excellent and beautiful , . . . but all too familiar	While I love Japanese versions of Western stories ( such as Kurosawa's version of Macbeth - - THRONE OF BLOOD ) , I guess I've just never been the biggest fan of the story of Cyrano . I have seen the Jos Ferrer and Grard Depardieu versions and this film is at least as good - - perhaps a little better due to its wonderful sense of artistry and the acting of Toshiro Mifune ( though the other two did great jobs as well ) . The cinematography is exquisite and the poetic nature of the dialog is wonderful as well . But , because I knew exactly how the story would go , there was no suspense and this prevented the movie from receiving a higher score . THRONE OF BLOOD did receive a higher score because it was so unique in how it approached the material that it was almost a completely different story , but this one never veered far enough off course to make it more watchable . Excellent , but familiar .
a bit silly and soapy but great fun	My first exposure to this film was Carol Burnett's parody of it on television . Interestingly enough , her version wasn't all that different from the real story . It is a soapy story of a VERY long-suffering woman ( Greer Garson ) who falls for an amnesiac ( Ronald Coleman ) . They marry and live happily ever after , . . . . until Coleman suddenly reverts to his original personality and has no recollection of Garson at all ! This sounds a lot like a soap opera or the Flintstones or some sitcom plot device , but despite it being so improbable , it still works . Why ? Well the direction , cinematography and acting are SO good you can't help but suspend belief and enjoy - - provided you are one who appreciates films from the Golden Age of Hollywood . FYI - - I also read the book and the plot is VERY different . Not necessarily better - - just different .
interesting look into the world of film making	This movie reminded me very much of Fellini's movie , 8 - - except it seemed a little more narrative and a lot less surreal than the Italian film . For some , this might mean that this Truffaut film is perhaps a little less " exciting " and more concrete , but I still preferred it to 8 . Truffaut played , what else , a film director making a film entitled " Pamela " . It was a little odd that the names were all changed - - the actors , director , producer , etc . I think this is because this isn't really a documentary but a movie about you watching a movie being made and so it isn't exactly reality . This left some questions , though , about where reality and fiction diverged . In particular , I was curious if Truffaut REALLY was hard of hearing , as in the role of the director he wore a hearing aid . I never saw Truffaut with one before , though he couldn't have worn it when he acted in the movie Wild Child , as it was set in the later 18th century ! Overall , the film was very interesting and worth watching . Great ? Not really , but certainly on of Truffaut's better films and much more conventional that the similar but wildly surreal film 8 .
Typical Plympton	I enjoy the short films of Bill Plympton . The artwork is lovely ( featuring unusual colored pencil animation ) and the sense of humor is always rather twisted and weird . GUIDE DOG is exactly what I expected from the man - - for good and for bad . I was not disappointed , though very little caught me by surprise either . I can almost guarantee if you watch it you'll like it . The film begins with a dopey-looking dog responding to an ad for guide dogs . However , he's not the most competent dog and he isn't very lucky , so again and again bad things befall the blind people he's trying to guide . It's all pretty funny - - somewhat like a Roadrunner cartoon . This film is one of the bonus shorts included with the wonderful DVD " A Collection of 2006 Academy Award Nominated Short Films " - - a must have for fans of the genre .
Exceptionally interesting and a good introduction to those not acquainted with the " Pre-Code " era	This film is a wonderful introduction to the women of the so-called " Pre-Code " movies - - movies that were made through about the middle of 1935 . They were called " Pre-Code " in that they were made before the rigid Production Code was enforced and the films abounded with sexuality , violence and topics of questionable taste for the time . This documentary focuses not on this overall topic , but specifically on women of the films and their smoldering sexuality . Because of this it is NOT indicative of the general topic of Pre-Code films but on a narrow aspect of the movies . The documentary is great because I was shocked how well-preserved some of these old leading ladies were and listening to their stories about the era was extremely fascinating . I also liked all the old clips , though I felt that many times important films were omitted from discussion or clips . For example , while the very tawdry nude swimming scene from TARZAN AND HIS MATE was mentioned and shown several times ( a very spicy scene even by today's standards ) , very little mention was made of equally famous films with similar content , such as THE BARBARIAN and THE SIGN OF THE CROSS - - the two bathing scenes in these films are amazing for the early 1930s . Also , the film seemed to indicate that the Pre-Code era was from the beginning of talkies until 1934 , whereas there were MANY films in the silent era that featured copious amounts of nudity or sexually liberated females . Both these quibbles , though , are very minor , as only to film nuts like me will even notice or care !
not much fun to watch but a good film	Is this film fun to watch ? Generally NO . BUT , I still appreciated the fine acting and the film's refusal to give into cheap sentimentality . The main character is a realistic portrait of a woman with a heart of aluminum at best ( certainly not GOLD ) . She is generally uncaring a self-serving but over time she grows a little - - if you expect much , then boy are you in for a disappointment . And , considering how this violates the clichs associated with this type of film , I was thrilled . In many ways this film was a Brazilian version of the Japanese film Kikujir no natsu ( or vice-versa ) in that both main characters are terribly flawed and try to help a lost child . FYI - - Central Station appeared a year before Kitano's film , Kikujir no natsu .
Utterly bizarre . . . .	This film is included on a DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume Three " . Oddly , I have seen volume One already and Three is definitely much better - - though both are worth finding for lovers of short films like myself . This is not a short film for everyone , as the film is very strange and surreal and is not particularly pretty . It's filmed in a somewhat grainy black and white and looks much like it was made during the 1960s . Also , there really is a lot that isn't explained which might irritate some viewers , but it did have a lot to say about alienation and depersonalization . The film begins with someone approaching the main character and handing him a business card that said " Good Life " on it . Apparently , this was for a job interview , though it's all so very deliberately vague . Later , when the guy goes to the address on the card , things get very weird and the viewer is deliberately confused . My advice is to stick with it - - the film ends on a haunting and interesting note - - one that no doubt will spark many heated discussions . Creative and utterly bizarre . It's nice to see the makers of this French film took some risks .
Very dark and strange	Glen the zombie is the subject of this film but unlike other zombies you may have seen , Glen has personality and depth and this film is his attempt to convince the public of this . Instead of the traditional one-dimensional monster , Glen is caring and just wants acceptance . He jokes , plays sports and has many of the same goals and aspirations as the rest of us . The only difference is , he's dead ! This is a cute little short film that is a mockumentary - - a film that LOOKS and SOUNDS like a documentary but is a spoof . Instead of yet another zombie film , it's a cute and original film that kept my interest . I was especially impressed because I frankly think the entire zombie genre is way over-done - - with too many unoriginal and derivative films . After all , what thinking person would want to watch zombie films again and again ? ! Teens may love the films , but it doesn't take any talent or originality to make many of the undead films - - but this one is fresh ( although is " fresh " the best word to describe a zombie film ? ! ) . Good acting and a fresh script help this one to hit a bullseye . See it and have a laugh .
very good but not as great as you might expect since it received the Oscar for Best Picture	This is a very capable and competent film with a wonderful cast and direction . Greer Garson is absolutely captivating as the title character and it was probably her best film - - so it's not surprising she received an Oscar for her performance . The movie also made many nice supporting performances and was just lovely to watch . The problem , though , is this little film was elevated to greatness by WWII and received an Oscar for Best Picture that it probably did not deserve , though I must admit that the 1943 award nominees weren't very distinguished compared to other years just before this . If the movie had been made either before of a few years after the war , it probably would never have received the Oscar for Best Picture . It probably won because of the times - - it came out in 1942 ( just after the USA joined the war ) and it was a very effective piece of propaganda - - and very good propaganda at that . So in essence , a vote for this picture was like a vote for the war effort . I assume that viewers in 1942 were captivated by the movie and based on sentiment at the time , it may have been the odds on favorite to win . It's just that taken from this context the film just doesn't hold up as well and seems , on occasion , a little heavy-handed . Still a decent film but a disappointment to many who will be expecting more .
Fresh enough to merit a watch	I must admit up front that I am not a huge fan of Westerns and the biggest reason I watched this film was because it had Robert Ryan in it . For some time , I have thought that Ryan was one of the best " unknown " actors , as he appeared and even starred in quite a few films but most people today have no idea who he was . My admiration for him is because he looked a lot like an ordinary guy ( since he wasn't overly handsome ) but despite this , his performances always seemed so realistic . He really was a heck of a good actor and his work in this film is no exception . DAY OF THE OUTLAW isn't a great Western but it is different enough from the average film that it seems fresh enough to merit watching . What I particularly liked is how the first 15 minutes or so of the film turned out to be not at all directly related to where the film went next . Not knowing the plot , this really took me off guard - - and I like when a film isn't easy to predict . I also liked the idea of a gang of thugs invading and holding a town hostage - - though this idea has been done before in Westerns ( FIRECREEK ) and non-Westerns ( THE WILD ONE ) . What made this one stand out more from the others is that this group wasn't just bad in the usual sense , they were moral degenerates - - rapists and sadists , not just socipaths or thieves . Plus , the idea of a strong but wounded leader ( Burl Ives ) trying to control these sick freaks was fascinating - - as was the final showdown . All in all , a very good film and one you should try to find due to its intelligent script and excellent acting . By the way , one reviewer said they felt Burl Ives was wrong for the part since in real life he was a nice-guy folk singer . Well , with gritty previous roles in CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF and THE BIG COUNTRY , I would certainly have to disagree with the sentiment , as Ives played the heavy in movies about as often as he played a good guy .
super silly fun	This is a totally silly silent comedy . Is it sophisticated or cerebral ? NO WAY ! ! But , despite being just totally silly , it made me laugh repeatedly and my wife kept laughing at me because I couldn't stop laughing at the antics of Andy Clyde and Billy Bevan . The film starts with the duo complaining because they are hungry and have no money . They try a variety of ways to steal a meal , but keep getting caught . Billy sees a cop walking his beat and taking a few liberties along the way - - taking some " free " fruit from a local grocer . Billy reasons that if he has a police uniform , free food would naturally come his way . Andy wants to get in on the act and jumps in a baby carriage that Billy pushes along his supposed beat . When they enter a restaurant , Billy just assumes he can eat whatever he wants for free . Andy's solution is to cover himself up completely with a blanket and keep reaching around stealing other diners ' food . I particularly liked when Andy started smoking under the blanket and customers were shocked to see that the " baby " was a smoker ! It is interesting to note that the movie was directed by Del Lord . Lord later directed many of the Three Stooges shorts and you can see some of the Stooges ' bits here being done a decade earlier by different people ( so apparently they weren't Stooge bits after all ) . In particular , the oyster soup with the oyster that is very alive and very annoying - - Curly Howard did this same bit at least three or four times on film . All-in-all , a very silly and unbelievable film that is just plain funny . And if you are the type of person that can laugh at silly and stupid things , then this movie is for you !
Far from perfect , but excellent for its time	This is an odd little film that looks a lot like a re-telling of the first half of another Mary Pickford film , DADDY LONG LEGS combined with the films PAPILLON and NIGHT OF THE HUNTER ! ! In other words , Mary once again is a poor little orphan who has a heart of gold AND she lives in a gator-infested swamp and ultimately makes her escape with the other orphans from an evil menace . The film begins at a hellhole in the middle of a swamp . They don't say where it is but it looks a lot like Louisiana or northern Florida . An evil man and woman live there with their evil son and on their farm they have about ten kids ( the number changes from time to time ) who they work as slaves . Some were entrusted to their care by others - - the man and wife claiming they ran a foster home for poor kids . And some others were actually stolen from their parents and brought there ! On the farm , the kids are starved , beaten and some even die due to the horrid conditions - - during which time , the oldest ( Mary Pickford ) acts like the mother to the brood and keeps their spirits high . Eventually , though , when Mary learns that the evil man is planning on tossing one of the kids into quicksand to get rid of her , she plans a daring escape with the kids . In the process , they must survive many obstacles to reach safety . The film is beautifully filmed for a movie from 1926 and the production values are high throughout . However , despite being well-made and interesting , the film is also pretty heavy-handed at times - - especially with some of the religious imagery . Back in the twenties , this probably played a lot better than it does now . Today it seems a tad dated because of this . But , considering how entertaining the film STILL is and how well it stacks up against other movies of the day , it does deserve an eight . Not my favorite Pickford film ( these would be SUDS , MY BEST GIRL and DADDY LONG LEGS ) , but well worth seeing .
Almost a great film	The first 85 % of this film was as great a film as I have seen . Bette Davis ' transformation from the browbeaten woman to a whole person was marvelous and beautifully done - - thanks to her performance , exquisite music and deliberately paced direction . It worked so well and really captured my heart . The illicit romance that ensued also worked , . . . up to a point . When she wisely breaks off the budding romance , instead of going out and creating a healthy life for herself , she stupidly decides to become a teacher and work at the school where her ex-boyfriend's shy daughter resides in order to help her , too , come out of her shell . Huh ? This seemed really convoluted and silly but despite this , the excellence of the first portion of the film is so glaring that you should still give it a look .
A pretty good and rather long short comedy	This is a Harry Langdon short film made for Mack Sennett and is included with the " Harry Langdon : Lost and Found " four DVD set . During most of the 1920s , Harry Langdon made two-reel shorts that were about 20 minutes in length . However , this film is over thirty - - making it a long short film . Because of the length , he was able to create a more detailed and almost full-length style film . The first portion is probably the best as you see that Harry is the only soldier in WWI who has no idea that the war had ended ! When a farmer is using dynamite to blow up old stumps , Harry thinks the German army is after him . I really liked the scene where Harry thought the cow had been blown apart - - it was very original . I really wish more time had been spent on this , as I found myself laughing quite a bit . Eventually , his travels take him to a far-off European land where the worthless King Strudel is about to be kidnapped . But , like the story of " The Prisoner of Zenda " , Harry is the spitting image of the king and the king's # 1 man decides to have Harry pose as the monarch . The problem is that everyone seems to hate the king and the queen is even plotting to kill the guy . How Harry resolves all this is pretty cute . While not great , this is a very good and polished silent comedy - - and among Langdon's best .
Funny - - - but watch this one when the kids aren't around !	An older lady who seems to be blind invites a young man into her home to look at a couch to see if he wanted to buy it . However , it soon becomes obvious that he isn't interested in the couch but is a dirt bag interested in stealing from this dear old lady . In fact , when she tells him about a very expensive suit her son left there , he decides to steal it . Heck , since she's blind , he also decides to just take off his clothes there and make the switch ! I can't say any more - - it will spoil the twist ending . This is a very strange film that is best watched when the kids aren't around due to the nudity and crude language in the film . While often this turns me off films , it was quite appropriate and resulted in a very funny short film .
Very good .	The film begins in WWI and Harry is a Belgian soldier who has an American pen pal . After the war , he comes to America as a sideshow strong man's assistant . However , he thinks it will be easy to find a girl named " Mary Smith " - - which it naturally isn't . Eventually , he and the act arrive in a small town where Mary happens to live , but she is avoiding meeting Harry and it looks bad for our intrepid hero . Years ago , I saw a compilation film about silent comedians ( WHEN COMEDY WAS KING ) and the film said there were " three truly great comedians of this age - - Buster Keaton , Charlie Chaplin and Harry Langdon " . Well , I knew this wasn't true , since Arbuckle ( before the scandal ) was much more famous and during most of the twenties , the most successful ( and possibly best ) comedian was Harold Lloyd . I truly think the film made this assertion because back in 1960 when it was made , Lloyd's films were not available - - being owned by Lloyd and were locked in his safe . As for Langdon , I've not seen tons of his films , though most are no longer in existence today . However , I've seen enough to know he wasn't one of the greats - - perhaps a near-great . This film is supposed to be one of his best films and at no point did it approach the great work of Lloyd , Keaton or Chaplin . In fact , I much prefer Langdon's short films more than his full-length ones because the pacing is much better . In THE STRONG MAN , the film is 75 minutes long , but could easily had 10 minutes snipped off without harming the film at all . Plus , there are a few really good gags , but only a few . Now this doesn't mean that I must have a silent comedy that is constantly funny ( after all , the other three greats I mentioned did make some wonderful character-driven full-length films ) . However , poor pacing undid the film and with this slight trimming , it would have probably earned a 9 . A very good comedy , just not one of the great ones .
The best Beatnik murder comedy I've ever seen !	The film begins in a beatnik coffee house where the customers love to listen to bad poetry and revel in their own senses of self-importance ! In this locale , we have Dick Miller who is a somewhat simple-minded waiter who desperately wants to fit in but is mostly laughed at by the stupid customers . After accidentally committing a murder AND wanting to fit in , Miller becomes an artist by covering a hapless cat with clay . Well , these self-absorbed boobs were amazed at the sculpture and proclaimed Miller's genius - - not knowing that a REAL cat resided within . But , needing to produce more " great works of art " , he feels compelled to kill humans for the sake of art . Fortunately , as his first human victim he chooses Bert Convey - - not a bad choice , really , as I never particularly liked this 1970s game-show regular and frequent guest on The Love Boat ! While this is NOT a great film by any objective standard , I can see why due to its oddness and silliness that it's become a cult favorite . As you would expect from early Roger Corman films , the budget is negligible and the film was designed for drive-in crowds ( i . e . , 1950s teenagers ) , so you know it can't be especially deep . However , considering just how low the expectations should be for such a small film , it was a pleasant surprise - - offering excellent writing , a great sense of humor and generally decent acting . While it isn't nearly as silly or as fun as the original LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS ( which co-starred Dick Miller ) , it does have some similarities and is well worth your time .
A clever commentary about modern art	It's great timing that I watched this short film , as I just got back from a trip to New York and the prestigious Museum of Modern Art . Call me a total slob , but most of the art in this building seemed very pretentious . Now I am not against modern art - - the Hirshhorn Gallery ( in Washington , DC ) is one of my favorite . However , so much of what is termed ' great ' often confuses most patrons and for the average person , MoMA in New York is very , very confusing . And this brings me to BREAKING IN . It's a very cute film that begins in a police station . Two teens are being questioned and you assume they were shoplifting . However , as they explain , you learn that they actually tiptoed into the gallery and left their own art ( a statue made of spare parts ) in the hopes that they'll be discovered . All they seemed to get was arrested . . . The short is a great commentary on art but more than that it's very well made and fun . Plus , it was nice to see a film with real teens - - as both girls looked about 14 and acted like girls that age - - something you rarely see on TV or in films ! Well directed , acted and performed - - this film shows a lot of promise .
Another wonderful Murnau film	While this film does not have the amazing scenes with breathtaking cinematography like FAUST or SUNRISE , this Murnau film still does excel due to the camera-work and great care taken in its production . And , while not the very best silent film available , it's certainly among the better ones . This story differs from Molire's play in that the entire play is actually part of a larger story - - with a prologue and epilogue . The story begins with a rich old man living alone with his supposedly devoted housekeeper . She has convinced the man that his grandson is evil and should be disinherited because he is , oh , horrors , . . . an ACTOR ! ! ! Instead , she's fooled him into making her the beneficiary . When the grandson shows up to say hello , the old man chases him away and it appears the housekeeper has won . However , given that the young man is an actor , he dresses up as a traveling showman and comes to the house to show them a film - - TARTUFFE . The film stars Emil Jannings as the evil priest , Tartuffe , who has fooled a rich nobleman into forsaking the pleasures of life and becoming an aesthetic , like him . But , the man's wife soon realizes the priest is a charlatan and much of the movie is spent trying to trap the priest in his lies . Naturally , all this is symbolic of the relationship between the housekeeper and the rich man . The sets , direction and acting are all excellent . The acting is rather restrained compared to some silent films and the story is told in a brisk and watchable manner .
It's very good , but , . . . .	This review may never be read , as I am sure that there are tons of reviews . Plus , as my review isn't really negative nor is it glowing , the fact that you now are reading it is really cool . Really , . . . you are obvious a very special person . I have seen this movie twice , as the first time I couldn't see exactly what everyone was so excited about when it came to this film . And , after the second time , I found I liked it a little more but still can't understand how it made it to the top 250 here on IMDb . Yes , it's a very good film , . . . but certainly not great . The plot has a lotta nice twists and the camera work is lovely and very Noir-ish , but the film also has a few flaws that can't be overlooked and should keep this in the " good but not marvelous " category . First , whose stupid idea was it to paint Charlton Heston's hair and have him play a Mexican ? ! While it's not as silly as John Wayne playing Genghis Khan , it is approaching that - - especially since Heston has not a trace of an accent . Second , while some praised Orson Welles ' performance , I did also find him menacing , but he looked so bloated and winded all the time , he looked like he was nearly ready to keel over at any minute . Both should have been replaced - - great actors in the WRONG movie - - then the film might have merited a 9 or 10 .
NOT for everyone ! ! !	I watched this with my daughter and wife and based on our reactions , I really think this is NOT a cartoon for everyone . I loved it and it made me laugh , my daughter chuckled and my wife thought we were both crazy ! ! The short film begins with , of all things , a young lady on a date with a zombie . TRY NOT TO THINK THIS OUT - - OF COURSE THE IDEA MAKES NO SENSE . My wife had a hard time with the concept - - I say just turn off your brain and watch . I'd like to say more about what exactly happens , but I can't as the film is only 3 minutes long and I am sure I'd spoil the film . The bottom line is that the film is very dry but has a great punchline . If you are weird , you'll probably like it . If not , then you might just want to skip it . If you DO like this , also try to watch another excellent zombie short ( ZOMBIE-AMERICAN ) .
I am not a particular fan of Felix , but this is a cute cartoon	Since this cartoon was made in the old days , Felix talks using cartoon bubbles and the animation style is very crude when compared to today . However , compared to its contemporaries , it's a pretty good cartoon and still holds up well . That's because despite its age , the cartoon is very creative and funny . Felix meets a guy whose shoe business is folding because he can't sell any shoes . Well , Felix needs money so he can go to Hollywood , so he tells the guy at the shop he'll get every shoe sold . Felix spreads chewing gum all over town and soon people are stuck and leave their shoes - - rushing to buy new ones from the shoe store . In gratitude , the guy gives Felix $500 ! However , Felix's owner wants to take the money and go alone , so Felix figures out a way to sneak along . Once there , Felix barges into a studio and makes a bit of a nuisance of himself . Along the way , he meets cartoon versions of comics Ben Turpin and Charlie Chaplin . In the end , though , through luck , Felix is discovered and offered a movie contract . Hurray !
How do you rate a film this short ?	This is one of the very earliest attempts at producing an animated short , having been produced in 1900 . And just how can I accurately rate this film as it only lasts about 1 minute ? Well , it's just guesswork and considering the context for when it was made , it's an amazing film and still watchable today . A man walks in front of an easel . He draws a face as well as a bottle of wine and a glass . Then very seamlessly , he takes the wine bottle and glass off the paper and they become real and he drinks it . The face on the paper looks sad until he gives it a taste of the wine and a cigar - - then the face becomes very happy . The artist is live and the drawings he makes seem magical and well-integrated into the film .
Full of many wonderful moments and performances	This is a lovely little romantic-comedy that actually has a lot more to say than first meets the eye . Mousy college professor Henry Fonda is married to flighty Olivia DeHavilland . She is excited because an old boyfriend is coming to town for the big homecoming game at the college . Fonda is less excited because this old boyfriend ( Jack Carson ) is both obnoxious and not all that bright - - yet Carson is a big hero because he was an All-American football player . Fonda's distaste is well-founded , as Carson is a jerk and DeHavilland becomes an idiotic " fan girl " . This naturally makes Fonda feel very inferior , though this inferiority is made worse because DeHavilland is an idiot . On one hand , she admires Carson for his manliness , but on the other she encourages Fonda to give up his intellectual integrity to get along with the fascist-like college president . My wife and daughter watched this film with me and they both instantly hated DeHavilland and I can't say I blamed them . This is one of her less likable roles ( heck , I liked her more as a person even in HUSH HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE ) . At the same time all this is occurring , there is a similar but lesser plot involving Herbert Anderson ( otherwise known as Dennis the Menace's dad from the TV show ) . He wrote an article about intellectual integrity and fascism creeping into our schools and instead of being applauded for standing up for the American system , he is attacked for being a " red " . Later , when Anderson and Fonda get together to complain about their lots in life and share a few drinks , the film switches into comedic high gear - - as both ( particularly Fonda ) become roaring drunk and it is handled in a very funny way . I particularly liked when Fonda then attacked Carson and tweaked his nose ! At the end , there is a nice little showdown scene in the film highly reminiscent of the stand taken by Jimmy Stewart in MR . SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON . Everything is wrapped up perfectly and everyone lives happily ever after - - huzzah ! This is just a lovely old fashioned film - - quality throughout and with a great message about intellectual integrity in our colleges . Unfortunately , I am not sure how many people learned from this film , as the right-wing repression of the early 40s and " red scares " have in some schools been replaced with left-wing repression and " political correctness " during the last couple of decades . Too bad , as the prospect of BOTH is enough to nauseate me .
a real cute flick with the unlikely pairing of Clark Gable and Doris Day !	I really like this cute romantic comedy . Despite their obvious age difference , this one really worked for me . Doris Day is a night school teacher who runs a journalism class . Gable is an experienced reporter and a fathead . He finds out about the class and decides to attend just so he can show up this lady who THINKS she knows what it takes to be a journalist . When the sexist pig goes to class , he is very surprised that she is not at all impressed by the quality of his work or his expertise , though he has kept his true job a secret . When he reveals he is a great reporter , she still isn't particularly impressed and the sparks fly ! Of course being a formula movie , you know they will eventually fall for each other , but it's just so fun to watch them along the way !
Not especially great until the final wonderful scene !	This film is highly reminiscent of the Edison film " Execution of Czolgosz " - - a recreation of the execution of the man that murdered President McKinley . The Czolgosz execution was re-staged and many people believed it was the real thing , though today's audiences would easily be able to figure out it was faked . This is much like this French film from the exact same year . In fact , it was not uncommon for companies to " borrow " ideas from other ones and I'm not sure which of the studios ( Edison or Pathe ) really made their film first . The first portion of the movie is a relatively dull story about a guy who murders another , is apprehended and sent to prison . While there are real sets and plot ( making it better than MOST films from 1901 ) , the thing looks pretty cheesy . That is , until the very end . Then , to my utter surprise and initial horror , they do a pretty realistic guillotining of the prisoner and you see the head pop off ! ! If your kids want to see a very , very old film , show them this one - - it's creepy but cool and guaranteed to make them laugh !
Pointless and depressing . . . but fun !	This is a strange little short film and the oddness and pointlessness of it all didn't come as a surprise to me since I'd already seen three other claymation shorts by the same man responsible for this film ( Adam Elliot ) . In his previous shorts , which were shorter but very similar , he explored various people from his life ( a cousin , uncle and brother ) and I have no idea if these were real people or not - - but I do know that the shorts were funny and strange yet quite touching . In HARVIE KRUMPET , you have pretty much the same thing except the overall message seems to be that life is pretty meaningless but you should live it with gusto . Now I know that this sounds very depressing , and at times it is , but with all the weird animation and jokes , it still made me smile - - even when it seem a bit creepy now and again . However , I am sure that this short is NOT for everyone - - it's just so odd and seemingly pointless that many will be inclined to just give up and stop watching . However , please keep viewing the short - - it is infectious - - the more you watch , the more you want to see . Decent animation , good narration ( how the creator was able to get Geoffrey Rush to narrate is beyond me ) and an odd and twisted style of story telling make this a fascinating video . If you like this , please try his others . They can all be found at Atoms Films ' website as well as on the Sundance Channel . By the way , I have seen a couple of the films that KRUMPET beat out in the Oscar race . BOUNDIN ' is a well-made but rather bland Pixar short about a bouncing sheep and GONE NUTTY is a very pleasant short from Fox that stars that primordial mouse who chases the acorn in ICE AGE . While I really liked GONE NUTTY , it lacked innovation so of the three films KRUMPET does seem to be the best . I want to see DESTINOS , but since it's a Disney product , I doubt if I'll find it on the internet for free ( Disney give away something free ? ! ? ! Ha , ha , ha , ha , ha ! ) and I don't know if it's on DVD .
Excellent family entertainment - - and thank goodness it doesn't stray too far from the source material .	Okay , many of you are about to become offended , but I've gotta say it . The movie version of " How the Grinch Stole Christmas " ( THE GRINCH ) was a horrible movie in practically every way . The worst problem with it is that the entire moral lesson of the original story is lost and in fact the movie states the exact opposite of what the author intended ! ! In the book and Chuck Jones special , the Whos were nice folks that didn't need all the presents as they were sincere in their reverence for the holidays . In the Jim Carey remake , the Whos were all selfish and materialistic ! ! What a horrible way to ruin Dr . Seuss ' vision ! It's like translating the Bible and making Satan the good guy ! In light of how far THE GRINCH strayed , I especially loved HORTON HEARS A WHO because it didn't wander far from the source material or convolute the moral of the story . Sure , the story was changed a bit and several subplots were added , but I could accept this - - after all , they had about 88 minutes to fill and there had to be SOME padding . However , the original story can still easily be distinguished and perhaps after this film , Seuss can finally stop spinning in his grave ! ! So , apart from the faithfulness to the original story , what did I like ? Well , I was once again thrilled to see Fox making CGI films . Their ICE AGE films were pretty good and HORTON is even prettier and more entertaining . Quality-wise , this is about on-par with a Pixar or Dreamworks production . I particularly loved Whoville - - as with powerful computers , they were able to animate hundreds , if not thousands , of wonderful Whos . And it was cute all the little tiny touches - - so much so that the film holds up well to repeated viewing in order to catch all the action and details . Plus the town looked very Seuss-ian - - like the pages of the books come to life . It was a real joy to watch . Was there anything I didn't like ? Well , the song at the end by REO Speedwagon was simply terrible way to wrap up the film . It was schmaltzy and pointless and looked as if the producers were stuck finding a decent way to tie everything together . However , considering this is my only gripe , then this is still a heck of a film - - one the kids AND parents can enjoy . Kids will love it and parents will actually not be bored - - a rare achievement in a film .
Painful to watch - - and I like that in a comedy !	This style of movie from Steve Martin is surely not everyone's taste , as the overall rating on IMDb isn't particularly high and this movie has been pretty much forgotten by most people . However , I have always liked this film and have seen it several times - - even though my wife thinks the humor is , at times , very painful to watch . I actually like that kind of humor on occasion and when horrible things keep happening to nice guys Steve Martin and Charles Grodin , I laugh while others might feel sorry for the schmoes . What I particularly like are the very surreal moments buried within a somewhat conventional film about Martin's lonely bachelor life . My two favorite skits were his dining alone at a restaurant ( a classic ) and when he's up on the roof screaming about how meaningless his life is . . . only to then see EXACTLY the same thing going on rooftop after rooftop across the city . In addition , while painful , there is also a wonderful likability and charm about the film and the performances of the leads . A nice and funny film but not necessarily for all tastes .
exceptional production values	This movie had incredible production values - - with amazing and creepy cinematography and an excellent musical score in the latest restored version . They did so much to set the mood and make this a genuinely scary film . The story concerns a rich old guy who has written a strange will . It is only to be read after 20 years and remains sealed until that time . His surviving relatives all return like vultures to pick at the fortune but instead of dividing it among them , he leaves it to one of them with another to receive the fortune if anything happens to the sole inheritor . Naturally , bad things start to happen and the film becomes a whodunit . At times it's really good - - with lots of trap doors and suspense , but it also suffers from predictability . The actual conclusion isn't all that surprising . Considering how few potential murderers there are among them and how the one guy sneaks away early in the film with a flimsy excuse , it isn't too surprising who is doing all the bad things in the old dark home . It's very entertaining and fun - - just not exactly the best conclusion I have ever seen .
Exceptional - - sort of like Film Noir combined with A STAR IS BORN	This was an exceptional film - - one that nearly earned a 9 and the deciding factor for me were the musical numbers which actually seemed to sometimes get in the way of the exceptional plot and acting . While this film was quite the coup for a young Joan Leslie , the real star of this film was Ida Lupino and this might just be her best performance . She plays an amoral and conniving woman who will do just about anything to make her younger sister ( Leslie ) a star - - even use nice people like Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan to make it big . The fact that the script is so unrelenting in its way that it shows the depths to which Lupino would go made this a real standout film . Many other films of the day would have tried to soften her character more or give her a shot at redemption towards the end - - a big mistake had they chosen to follow the typical formula of the day . Aside from Lupino , the other standout actor in the film seemed to be Jack Carson , as his character had much more depth and was much more sympathetic than the usual brash character he played . Also , while their acting wasn't a huge standout , Morgan really belted out some excellent songs and I was surprised to see Leslie dance as well as she did ( though I wonder if it really was her doing all the flips - - you CAN'T see her face and it could have been a double ) . Good , gritty entertainment - - it's well worth a look .
This really is NOT a Laurel and Hardy film - - and in some ways that's not a bad thing	Despite this Hal Roach short being in a collection of Laurel and Hardy films , it's not really one of the boys ' films . Instead , they are tiny bit players along with some other famous Roach stars ( such as James Finlayson and Charley Chase ) who play lunatics in only a few very brief scenes . The real star is Max Davidson who plays his very funny " Papa Gimplewart " character - - a man he played in three films for Roach . I've seen two of them ( this film and Jewish PRUDENCE ) and they were very , very funny comedies - - at least as funny or perhaps funnier than the average silent Laurel and Hardy film . Sadly , however , today he's pretty much forgotten and his Jewish ethnic humor probably would be seen as politically incorrect as well - - even though it's very funny . The film begins with the Gimplewart family trying to sell their home . That's because they live next to a bunch of lunatics who really ham it up in the film . You're not sure if they live in some asylum or perhaps the crazies are just roommates - - either way , they're driving the Gimplewarts crazy ! Because of this , Papa quickly accepts the first offer he gets without even questioning why the guy wanted to trade houses sight unseen ! Well , when the Gimplewarts arrive to inspect their lovely new home , you soon see why it was such a " bargain " - - and much of the next 10 minutes is made up of some very imaginative and clever gags . You just have to see the home to believe it . To top it all off , the film ends on a very funny note . The bottom line is that this film has aged very well and is still very enjoyable today . Plus , it's a rare chance to see Max Davidson in all his glory . In fact , when you see this film , you'll probably see more of his than you'd expected . FYI - - Since the last Gimplewart film , Papa seems to have lost or misplaced two of his kids , as here in CALL OF THE CUCKOO he seems to only have two while in Jewish PRUDENCE he had three !
One of the better Bond films starring Roger Moore	Despite the film having a lot of " mumbo jumbo " ( such as voodoo and fortune telling ) , it is a standout film and much , much better than the last Bond film , DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER . While I would agree that Sean Connery is the best of the Bonds , his last film was simply awful - - with lousy writing and too much self-parody to be taken seriously . Here , Roger Moore steps into the role and was blessed with much better writing and a nice lack of the gadgetry that so hindered the franchise . Over the years , gadgets took precedence over intelligent writing - - here , there is no ' Q ' and the film seems more menacing and realistic . So what are the short-comings ? Well , as I mentioned above , there is a lot of silliness with the fortune telling and voodoo . Also , the Southern sheriff bit with Clifton James ( which was repeated , oddly , in the next film ) , was played for laughs - - disrupting the general flow of the film . Still , it's a better Bond film - - one of Moore's best .
Probably the second best animated short of the year	If it hadn't been for MONA LISA DESCENDING THE STAIRS , there's a very strong chance that THE SANDMAN would have won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film - - it was that striking and groundbreaking . Paul Berry created a stop motion world very similar to his later projects such as THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE Christmas and JAMES AND THE GIANT PEACH . While the animation is not quite as fluid here in this early film , you can clearly see that it led to these very successful Disney films . Sadly , Barry died at age 40 and his output was quite limited . So what did I like about this film ? Well , the character designs were amazing and the sets had a strange and twisted quality that was both charming and creepy . As for the story , I am probably in the minority here , it was really good up until the surprise ending . I thought it was too creepy and disturbing and knocked the film from a 9 to an 8 - - this is certainly NOT a film to show to young and impressionable kids . Of course , for an older crowd , they'll probably love the sick finale . Watch it and see for yourself . This is an exceptional and brilliant film .
A fascinating wartime curio	This film was made during World War II and it's an excellent example of positive propaganda . The purpose was not just to entertain but solidify the American public behind the war effort . Instead of the usual war films or escapism , the hero of this story is a regular guy - - - just like those in the audience - - and it shows how even people on the home front can be important to the war effort . Robert Young plays a defense plant worker who is the crew chief responsible to assembling bombers . However , after being interviewed by federal authorities , he's given a super-top secret job installing bomb sights . The American bomb sights were one of the biggest secrets of the war , as planes were able to use this simple computing device to make much more accurate bombing runs . Soon after beginning this job , Young is kidnapped by enemy agents and is beaten rather brutally in order to get him to talk . However , Young is a true hero and not only refuses , but uses his brain in order to take in every detail and plan his escape . When he does ultimately get away , his incredible mind for details and courage leads to the apprehension of the gang . While the film at first seemed a tad hokey , over the course of the film it became obvious that this was an extremely well written and exciting film . Plus , Robert Young did an excellent job in the lead role . Even today , over sixty years later , this is still a great suspense film and great curio to give us insight into what it was like to live at the time in the US .
Not exactly original , but extremely well-constructed for a B-film	In the 1930s and 40s , Hollywood made a huge number of " B " detective series films . They were called " B " because they had lower budgets , were shorter than the average film and were meant to be the second film in a double feature - - the lesser of the two films . In general , these films were a lot of fun to watch BUT they also were very formulaic and repetitive . I enjoy Sherlock Holmes , Charlie Chan , Boston Blackie and the Saint , but will gladly admit that once you've seen a few they all seem to blend together - - particularly the Blackie series . It is because of this sameness that I really , really appreciate the Crime Doctor films - - they are not so predictable and offer some nice innovations . This movie is the first , and from what I've seen , the best of the Crime Doctor films . It sets the stage for future films by explaining how Warner Baxter became a psychiatrist and crime solver and is well-written and interesting throughout - - even though this movie's plot isn't original - - having been a variation on a film from 1936 . The acting is very good and the film is played more seriously than the average film of the genre - - with no goofy sidekick or stupid police investigator . And , frankly , this is a good thing as the others are clichs that just seem to permeate almost every B detective film . Give it a watch - - it's very enjoyable and doesn't disappoint , as the characters behave intelligently and believably .
one of the only Speedy Gonzales cartoons worth watching	Apart from a few early Speedy Gonzales shorts , the rest were very pitiful and annoying . In fact , in the 1960s , they actually paired Speedy with Daffy Duck in some shorts that made absolutely no sense ( why would a duck hunt a mouse ? ) and were perhaps the worst cartoons Warner Brothers made . Despite all this , this is still a very good cartoon - - probably the best Speedy Gonzales cartoon of them all . Two stupid cats try again and again to catch Speedy and they end up getting the stuffing knocked out of them by the rodent . Then , in a very funny conclusion , they given up on chasing Speedy Gonzales and one of them quickly chases after " Slowpoke Rodriquez " - - the slowest mouse in Mexico . But his friend begins yelling at him to stop , as he then explains that Slowpoke also carries a gun ! Well , unfortunately for the other cat , this warning comes a bit too late and you see a wonderful scene of a very lazy mouse carrying a huge smoking revolver !
an excellent mummy film - - about on-par with many of the Universal mummy flicks	In many ways , this film reminds me of the Universal Mummy films of the 1940s . It really can't be compared to the Boris Karloff film of 1932 , as this is THE best of the genre to date . Instead , it is more reminiscent of the 1940s Universal Mummy movies with only a few differences - - the primary one being that this was not a black & white film . The pacing , special effects and story line itself is what make it a very close copy of these earlier films - - plus , the creature dies the same way in this film as it did in the swamps of the Southern US like it did in one of the Universal film . And , while this means that new ground isn't broken in THE MUMMY ( 1959 ) , it certainly won't offend fans of the older films and is sure to entertain . While it isn't an Earth-shattering film , for old-fashioned horror films it is excellent .
Welcome to the 21st century !	This is a very well made film . Despite being very simple in construction , the folks who mounted this production sure knew how to do it right and it sure hits home during this age of radicalism . The scene is aboard a tram . Nothing that unusual happens until a man ( who MIGHT be of Middle Eastern extraction ) gets off the tram and leaves his duffel bag behind . While not immediate , the passengers all become very nervous and begin wildly yanking on the rope to stop to vehicle . Only then , before they get off , does the man who left the bag return - - as it had all been a simple mistake - - not an act of terror . Almost immediately after this , the bratty kid on board pops a HUGE bubblegum bubble and nearly gives everyone a heart attack - - and I wanted to throttle the kid ! ! This is not only a very well made film , but it is exceptionally timely and is a bit ambiguous . This is a rare case where many on the far left and far right can BOTH enjoy the film because it gives you a lot to think about . Excellent work .
If you DON'T think of it as a Laurel and Hardy film , it's exceptional for 1927	While this is often billed as a " Laurel and Hardy film " , it really isn't . A more correct description might be a " Laurel and James Finlayson film with a small bit part by Oliver Hardy " . And as long as your heart is not 100 % set on seeing a Laurel and Hardy film , you'll probably enjoy this film a lot , as the film does compare very well to the other comedy shorts released at the latter portion of the silent era . James and Stanley are involved in a situation that would later be repeated in several Laurel and Hardy shorts - - a woman from James ' past is trying to blackmail him into paying her for silence . James did nothing wrong , as he dated this woman years earlier , but this evil vixen threatens to tell the wife and swear James has been seeing her AFTER he got married ! So , desperate and unwilling to risk telling the wife the truth , he gets his employee , Stanley , to run interference by taking the vixen out for a good time until James can slip away and make the payoff . Unfortunately , Stan is ALSO married and the bad woman makes his life pretty tough as well . Much of the film is spent on this dilemma . However , the film ends very well with an exceptional sight gag , as Stan tries to nonchalantly walk out the door with , . . . well , I guess you just need to see this final scene yourself . Despite not truly being a Laurel and Hardy film , the short is very well-made and entertaining . Give it a shot - - it's much better than you'd expect from a film without the later Laurel and Hardy formula .
just turn off your brain and enjoy !	If you are the sort of person looking for a realistic film or one with a strong and believable plot , then this film is NOT for you . Nope - - you'll hate it . However , for those who like sweet , slightly screwball comedies , then you'll have a nice time watching this slight film . Tony Randall works for the IRS and he investigates a very nice farmer who never realized he needed to file an income tax return . However hard he tries to convince them of the seriousness of his visit , everyone in the family is thrilled to have company . They dote on him and treat him like one of the family , . . . and have plans on getting him hitched to their daughter , Debbie Reynolds . That's really about all the plot there is . But the film gets high marks for a fun script and decent acting . A really nice little curio from the late 1950s .
excellent " sub " picture that stands out from the norm	There were a lot of war pictures made during WWII , though this one stands out as being far better than average . Part of this is the excellent acting and direction and part of this must be the result in writing an unusual plot for a submarine movie . Instead of just blowing up Japanese ships , the crew is ordered to sneak into Tokyo Bay . The tension , as a result of this slow covert mission , is incredible . About the only negative I can think of for the film is that there are more shots of toy subs AND the sides of the back lot pool in it than usual . Most sub films , if you look carefully , were filmed in these pools and the sides of the pool can occasionally be seen . However , the number of times you see the shot is fake is higher than normal , so it reduces my rating slightly . FYI - - try watching OPERATION PACIFIC ( 1951 ) after you see this film . In this sub movie , the crew trades movies with another sub crew so they can be entertained on their long missions . They trade a cowboy flick and are given DESTINATION TOKYO . Later , one of the crew members remarks that he liked the film , but it was REALLY SHORT ON REALISM ! ! That's funny , huh ? !
If you liked THE DANISH POET , you'll probably like this one as well .	The film begins with a brief history lesson about Norway after achieving independence . The people actually voted to have a king and this short is a very silly story about the woman who ironed this man's shirts . While there's not a huge amount of depth to it , the film has a very likable quality about it and a kooky but subtle sense of humor . The maker of MY GRANDMOTHER IRONED THE KING'S SHIRTS was the same lady ( Torill Kove ) who was responsible for the Oscar-winning short , THE DANISH POET . Both films are very similar - - both are about Norway , both have very similar artwork , both have similar narration and both have a very odd and quirky sense of humor . Both are exceptional , but perhaps THE DANISH POET was ever so slightly better . Sadly , though both films were wonderful , Kove has only made a small number of shorts .
Don't judge this too harshly - - it's a milestone in animation	If you are a lover of the history of cinema , then FANTASMAGORIE is an absolute must - - particularly if you are interested in animation . That's because this short little film is the first animated film and considering everything , it's a darn good one . Instead of the usual structure , style and narrative , this film is rather unique and free-flowing . A series of drawings morph and change with no apparent rhyme or reason . In many ways , it's more like a work of art than a traditional cartoon and it's all done in black and white . It must have taken a very , very long time to make and for 1908 , it's an incredible little film . Sure , films made just a few years later would make this seem obsolete , but given the context , it's a grand little film .
Such a simple story so expertly handled	Budd Boetticher and Randolph Scott teamed up for quite a few westerns . While most of them have the simplest of plots , they managed to rise above the vast pool of mediocre films of the genre . Now this wasn't necessarily because the plots were that unusual . In fact , the plot for RIDE LONESOME seems rather similar to quite a few westerns I've seen . The difference is the nice meandering style and Scott's simple and seemingly effortless delivery . Some of this was Scott - - he was a much better actor than people thought at the time . Some of this was Boetticher's ability to bring out this from Scott and the other actors . So together they have produced with RIDE LONESOME yet another classic film - - - one that is strikingly beautiful and once again has an object lesson about doing the right thing - - a common theme in their films together . The film begins with Scott catching up to wanted man James Best . However , this occurs after Best tells the rest of the gang to fetch his much-feared brother , played by Lee Van Cleef . Much of the rest of the film consists of Best and Scott waiting for the eventual confrontation - - as they are days away from town and are in the middle of the desert . Along the way , they meet up with two criminals who become partners , of sorts , with Scott . That's because apparently Best is SUCH a wanted man that they are offering amnesty to anyone who brings him back to face justice - - and these two ruffians are looking to make a new start . There's a lot more to the story than this - - including a few twists and turns along the way that keep the whole thing very interesting . The end , in particular , works great - - and it's always nice to watch a film than manages to end well . In addition to good acting , as usual , from Scott , he's joined by James Coburn in his first film and Pernell Roberts in a role just before becoming famous on " Gunsmoke " . I lovely story from start to finish that manages to breath life into a glutted genre - - after all , they must have made a bazillion cowboy pictures during this era and only a few manage to stand above the pack .
very sad tale - - much closer to the original story than the Karloff version	While I am a firm believer that there will NEVER be a version of Frankentein that is as good as the book , this is at least a step in the right direction . While I would rate the Karloff version higher simply because of its technical merits and ability to scare you , this made for TV version is superior in many ways . Unlike earlier versions , this one really centers on the creature and its unfortunate existence . Like the book , the focus is on the " monster " after it is soon abandoned by its maker and the life the creature creates for itself shows great humanity and depth . In fact , in this way , the movie is terribly sad and heart-wrenching . Let me give a couple of examples . First , soon after the creature is created , Frankenstein's assistant plays with him . The monster , unaware of his immense strength , crushes the poor assistant to death . When Frankenstein returns to find this , the creature is saying " Otto , play " over and over again because he has no idea what he's done . Second , after running away , the creature hides out in a pantry - - living among the bags of potatoes . He is so lonely for human contact that he delights in listening to the family talk and interact - - knowing he cannot reveal his ugly self to them . In fact , he is so miserable , that he creates a little pretend man out of a potato and talks to it out of desperation . How pathetic ! This film chooses to focus on the creature and portray him like a toddler sent out to live alone . On this level it is very successful .
another excellent Ealing film with Alec Guinness	Although most Americans have little knowledge of his work other than Star Wars , Alec Guinness produced an amazing body of work - - particularly in the 1940s-1950s - - ranging from dramas to quirky comedies . I particularly love his comedies , as they are so well-done and seem so natural and real on the screen - - far different from the usual fare from Hollywood . I liked this movie a lot - - the acting and direction were superb . The only downside is that the movie uses a rather tired old movie clich - - that of identical strangers who switch parts . It's been done with The Prince and the Pauper as well as The Prisoner of Zenda . So to get into the movie , you really need to first suspend your sense of disbelief . Once you've done this and do not question the basic premise , you are rewarded with an excellent little film well worth your time .
very good but not great	I have seen this movie twice . The first time , I thought it was an okay picture . However , because it is such an important French New Wave film and because so much positive stuff has been written about it , I thought I'd give it another try . Well , it did improve some with the second watching - - particularly since I have also seen the rest of the " Antoine Doinel " films . But , was it " great " , . . . not really , though it still was a very very good film . There is very little negative about it other than the occasionally poor sound track . As many New Wave films are supposed to have a " home-made " quality about them , much of the time this wasn't a problem . But , there were times when the amateurish quality of the music was distracting . Also , a smaller complaint was the abrupt ending , though this is only a small complaint since the director returned to his alter-ego in follow-up films .
Believe it or not , this is pretty much the same basic plot as in I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA .	Now in many ways , GORDON'S WAR and the comedy I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA are very , very dissimilar movies . However , if you think about the basic plot , the stories are practically the same . Both feature a soldier coming home to find out someone they love was killed by gangs of pushers . Both then consist of the leading men gathering a group of Vietnam vets to put the hurt on the dealers and eventually kill off " Mr . Big " . Now GORDON'S WAR might easily be categorized as a " Blaxploitation Film " , but in many ways it defies the genre . Whites aren't really even mentioned in this film and most of the warfare is directed against Black drug dealers , so the anti-White America rhetoric is missing . Plus , the film , while violent and idealizing vigilantism , has a much more positive message than many films of the genre . But of course , for those who love Blaxploitation , rest assured that this one still has a lot of amazing violence , lots of boobs and tough " take no crap from anyone " leading men . In this case , the lead is played by a man not associated with the genre , Paul Winfield . Winfield returns from ' Nam to discover that his wife got hooked on drugs and died . Instead of brooding about it , he vows to clean up the ghetto with the help of his army buddies . The film , while not especially deep , has a lot of action , a fantastic musical score ( one of the best of the era ) and is entertaining throughout . Well worth viewing .
better than average war flick	This is a very well made war movie , though I've got to admit that this is a genre that usually doesn't do that much for me . What sets this movie apart is its strong desire for realism - - instead of a Hollywood version of war , this WAS war as it really appeared . Fanatics who love realism will really be pleased about this . Plus , it focuses on the Korean War , a period in our history that is generally ignored in movies . Gregory Peck does a fine job in the lead , though I thought he looked a little old to be such a fine career soldier and only a lieutenant . At his age , he could have easily been playing colonels or even a general . The supporting cast are a lot of then unknowns who later went on to more visible careers . Watch the movie and see all the familiar faces . About the only negative of this movie is its pace . It involves one engagement and seems a bit " claustrophobic " or static at times , as you have trench after trench and explosion after explosion . Still , it's pretty good stuff .
Lovely	This is a truly unusual short film because it uses both computer generated images and puppets . In both cases , the quality is exceptional and you can't help but notice how beautiful a little film this is - - particularly the puppets . Now as far as the story goes , it is touching and interesting - - a story about a lonely man whose family was killed many , many years earlier in a bear attack . The man himself did survive the attack and much of the film concerns the man having memories of these loved ones as he is lying on his death bed . Considering this appears to be the first film made by Todd Fjelsted , it's an awfully impressive start so it's not surprising that he is now very active in the film and TV industry .
imagine what COULD have been	This TV pilot had an excellent premise . A man ( Alex Cord ) is placed in suspended animation for research purposes and the intention is to revive him shortly afterwards . However , an earthquake occurs and the base is buried . During this time , the man continues to slumber only to be awakened LONG after everyone he knew had died . In fact , his world as it was is dead as well , as nuclear wars have decimated the planet and created a variety of mutant races and civilizations . When Cord is revived , he is told that he is staying with an organization called " PAX " - - a group of scientists and do-gooders whose goals are to promote knowledge and peace . However , his evil nurse ( Mariette Hartley ) tells him this is all a lie and convinces him to escape with her . He does and soon learns she is from a race of 2-belly buttoned freaks who LOVE inflicting pain and dehumanizing others . Talk about your BAD choices ! Well , what happens next is really up to you to find out IF you can find this film ( that's a big IF ) . That's because it was a Gene Roddenberry pilot for a TV series that wasn't accepted by the networks . In addition , the original story was reworked with John Saxon and involved the character infiltrating a group of rabid amazons . While lighter in spirit and more " Star Trek-like " , the second attempt failed to arouse sufficient interest from the networks to merit a series . Too bad , as the idea was novel and the results quite watchable .
A very effective propaganda war film	This is a very good war film with so many excellent performances and wonderful writing . About the only strikes against it were that it tends to occasionally portray stereotypes instead of true people and because the audience knows that regardless what occurs in the film , the US DID lose the Battle of Bataan . First , as far as the characters go , I can easily forgive this . Since the film was made during the war , it was meant to encourage and rally the folks at home , so they made sure to put in some clichd characters to illustrate certain themes ( such as the sweet sailor , the jive-talking Chicano or the proud and hardworking Black soldier ) . These people weren't played badly , but they just seemed like characters pulled from a formula instead of being real folks . The same thing also occurred in such wartime films as SAHARA and DESTINATION TOKYO . However , despite this , the rest of the characters were very good captivating . As far as losing the battle goes , this can't be changed , but the Americans in the film are practically super-men because they kill off so many Japanese soldiers and make some incredibly lucky shots . Again , this is because the film was intended as positive propaganda , so I can look past this as well . As for the rest of the movie , despite a very simple plot , the film did a very good job of keeping my attention and providing a lot of realism . In particular , I noticed late in the film that the surviving characters were just coated in blood splatters - - something you'd almost never see in contemporary films . Excellent acting didn't hurt as well - - particularly by Robert Taylor who previously had been seen as more of a " pretty boy " than a rugged actor . Ironically , I saw this just after I saw Taylor in CAMILLwhere he played a pretty , simpering wuss ! ! ! BATAAN was such a welcome change !
Is this a short film or a music video ?	This was included on the disk " Shorts : Volume 2 " - - a rather dull collection of short films . Shorts are among my favorite style of films but somehow the people assembling this second collection had a hard time finding quality content - - and it wasn't nearly as good as the first volume or other shorts collections . What makes this choice unusual for inclusion in the set is that I am not sure if this should be considered a short film or just a music video . My daughter recognized the video right away and said she thought all along it had just been a music video - - though it is one where you don't really see the singer - - just unusual visuals . As for the quality of the video performance , it was excellent - - the graphics were really neat and the song was funny in a very sick and twisted way . If you haven't guessed , it's all about using poison to murder people and it looks as if it was produced by the Addams Family ( the film version , not the nice TV Addams ' ) . Lovers of the weird and especially Goths will adore this film / video - - others , most likely , will find it too weird and creepy . See for yourself - - it is awfully clever .
A neat idea	This short film is about a strange man who apparently has the ability to instantly heal from an injury or cure someone who is injured just by touching them . However , he doesn't know what to do with this power and no one else knows . The film begins with him showing his brother , a doctor , this power . However , unexpectedly , his brother encourages him NOT to go public with this - - as he'll no doubt be locked up and society will change for the worse . Then , at the end , something unexpected happens and the man with the amazing healing powers just stands back and does nothing - - just as the brother had suggested . This is a really neat concept for a film , though you wonder if it might just make a better full-length film . Regardless , I liked the film because it requires thinking to make and appreciate the film - - something that unfortunately is quite rare .
Fortunately the series rebounded well with Volume Three	I loved the first installment of THE ANIMATION SHOW . It was incredibly funny - - particularly because of its sick and twisted Don Hertzfeldt cartoons as well as the great films by Adam Elliot ( UNCLE , BROTHER and COUSIN ) . However , with Volume Two , I was very disappointed - - few of the cartoons ( including Hertzfeldt's ) were funny and the entire DVD is a bore with only one or two exceptions . I assumed that Volume Three would continue this downward spiral of the series , though fortunately Three was about as good as the first DVD . However , the overall type of cartoon is very different . While One featured many overtly funny toons , Three featured much more visually striking and risky shorts - - spectacular and impressive . My favorite was RABBIT - - a short that I've seen on a couple other compilation DVDs . Because Volume Thee was so good , I can't wait until they bring out more - - this is a great series of short animated films .
Highly disturbing but very well made	This short film has a very sick sense of humor and while I was a bit horrified but it , I also have to admit that it was very well made . However , I certainly DON'T recommend you allow younger viewers to see this film - - for rather obvious reasons . The film was made in Norway and features the most amazingly appropriate narration in English - - the voice and style was great as was the script . As the narrator talks , you see several hunters stalking their prey - - though for a long time in the film you have no idea what it is . Later , when they finally open fire , you see they are shooting at a naked " feral " Santa using tranquilizer guns . Apparently , according to this film , the Santas you see at shopping malls are actually bagged in the wild and subjected to excruciating " conditioning " ( i . e , torture ) to make them jolly and child-friendly ! The whole thing is one long sick joke . Many will find it funny but many will also be horrified at seeing the naked Father Christmas being shot at , slapped around and beaten . Sick . . . but just the sort of film for grinches who dislike the holidays .
Well made	This is a very well made and interesting short film about the cultural gap between native-born Americans and Mexican immigrants - - as well as their common ground . A retired man is relaxing at home when he looks outside and sees a guy planting his rose bushes - - and he has no idea who this man is or why he's doing it . When he goes outside to talk to him , it's all a confusing mess because neither understands the language . At first he assumed his wife arranged for the man to do the work , but a phone call to her reveals that she also knows nothing about the guy . So , the wife calls a Hispanic friend and this lady talks to the Mexican man to figure out what's happening . It seems that he's a recent arrival in the country and simply wants to do anything to get a meal - - and perhaps if he plants the roses he'll get food . Well , the retired guy is shocked by how hard this man works , so he buys him lunch . Later , when the yard looks great , the Mexican man is gone - - it seems he assumed the lunch was payment for all the work . I was happy to see this was not an " evil American taking advantage of the poor Mexican film " - - and for hours the retired guy drove about town - - trying to find the man to pay him . It's a nice film and gives some nice insights into the experience of hard working Mexicans in a new land where they are all but lost . Well acted and directed .
Well , even if you do dislike it , it's less than 2 minutes out of your life !	This is a very imaginative and very short film . The best part about it is that even if you somehow dislike it ( and I doubt if you will ) , the whole thing is less than 2 minutes long , so it won't take a chunk out of your life - - you know , like watching THE LAST EMPEROR ( which seemed like 9 hours long ) . When the film begins , you can hear but not really see a group of guys chatting in a studio . They're in colorful clothes , but you can only vaguely see them . Then , when the director calls them to attention , they line up and make that loud high-pitched sound we hate when we see the color bars on the screen after a TV channel has gone off the air . These guys are apparently the " actors " who do this color band test pattern . It's pretty silly , I know , but well done .
Pretty sick . . . . and that's GOO	Okay , I must admit that this is a " guilty pleasure " - - a film that while offensive and crude , is also very , very funny and makes you laugh . So try watching it when you are alone so others don't realize the sick sort of stuff that makes you laugh ! The film begins with a school counselor preparing for a visit from a parent . It seems that a child has been bad at school . Unfortunately , his troubles are far , far deeper than the parent suspects ! I can't say more because it would spoil the film , but the punchline is funny and the film especially made me laugh because I am a teacher and would occasionally LOVE to say what the counselor says ! One minor complaint was the anti-George W . Bush comment . While I would agree with the film's assessment , frankly the same could be said for practically all politicians . Watch the film and see what I mean .
Amazingly enough , this story of serial killers and stolen corpses is based on a REAL story !	In 1945 , Val Lewton produced a wonderfully creepy film starring Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi ( THE BODY SNATCHER ) . It was based on a Robert Louis Stevenson novel which was a fictional story based on real-life serial killers , William Burke and William Hare , who were WAAAY over-zealous in procuring corpses for the local medical school in Edinburgh . Apparently they didn't bother waiting until the people died in order to make a few pounds - - often suffocating their hapless victims ! ! Years later , in 1960 , another variation of the William Burke and William Hare story came to the theaters , but this one ( starring Peter Cushing ) was not based on the Stevenson novel but the actual crimes . While the Lewton movie was marvelous and horrifying , this one seems worth seeing as well because it is more realistic and unflinching ( with some very brutal murders ) , plus it sticks much closer to the facts and mirrors the real decisions in the courts . Although whether or not Hare was blinded is a popular account that was never confirmed , this make for a cool inclusion in the film . Plus , I was really impressed by Peter Cushing's performance as a surgeon on a crusade - - his speech before the graduating class and impassioned argument with old established " surgeons " was very impressive - - some great oration indeed ! Very , very interesting as well as well made - - this British horror film is well worth seeing - - especially since it's true ! !
Very good and very unexpected	I have been very surprised recently that I have actually enjoyed several Will Ferrell movies . Why surprised ? Well , to put it bluntly , most films made by ex-Saturday Night Live performers have been pretty wretched ( though there are some exceptions ) and I usually avoid them like the plague . With films like DR . DETROIT , NEIGHBORS , A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY , FUNNY FARM , BEST DEFENSE , HERE'S PAT , etc . , it's easy to understand my misgivings . However , despite my strong bias , I must admit I really enjoyed TALLADEGA NIGHTS as well as STRANGER THAN FICTION - - though they are both very , very different movies . While TALLADEGA NIGHTS is extremely silly and a great parody , STRANGER THAN FICTION is not exactly a comedy , though it has some nice comedic moments . Instead , it's a fantasy , comedy and romance all rolled into one and it was nice to see Ferrell finally underplay a role . His character was extremely obsessive-compulsive and emotionally constricted - - yet this was NOT played for laughs - - an excellent decision . The film initially seems a lot like the old skits on " The Carol Burnett Show " which featured a writer typing a story and you saw actors playing it out as if they were real . However , the simple story idea was drawn out but didn't seem padded and offered some lovely insights into deeper philosophical issues . It was NOT a film for dopey teens or an undemanding audience , but a thoughtful and intelligently constructed film that caught my interest . If you are looking for screwball comedy or lots of laughs , then you will no doubt be disappointed . However , if you watch the film with few preconceptions and expectations and have an open mind , I am sure you'll enjoy the film . It's nice to see that I was wrong about the film and the " SNL curse " did not seem to apply .
a lovingly made little film	This was the first pairing of Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn and it's one of their better films together . Hepburn is a sort of Claire Booth Luce-type woman who has traveled the world and conquered pretty much everything she's tried . However , when it comes to love , she is a novice and her relationship with sports writer , Tracy , does not come easy - - about the only thing in her life that doesn't . Tracy is forced by her frequent travels to try to be both husband and housewife but is too old fashioned to take to it . Eventually , their very different and complex lives take a toll on their marriage . Will it survive ? Will love triumph after all ? Well , this is a Hollywood film of the 1940s , so it's not hard to guess how it all ends . However , the acting and writing is so good , you'll have a great time watching their journey .
What a wonderful curio from WWII	This is a very fascinating curio from WWII starring Jimmy Stewart . This is an Army Air Corps recruitment short in which Stewart , after a year in the service , addresses the public to sell them on joining . The film is briskly paced , interesting to watch and has a lot of great footage of aircraft ( particularly interesting to airplane aficionados are the early B-17 A and B versions - - pretty rare to see this footage ) . While I doubt if this film would excite most kids , it is a great film historically . Plus , it is one of the few films Stewart made exploiting his service , as he tended to downplay this and few people actually knew that he eventually retired a Brigadeer General after many years of service . By the way , one of the young guys in the film that was thrilled about joining up had a girlfriend that looks like Judy Garland . It's not - - I checked and it's Juanita Stark . They could have been sisters !
I liked it , but the ending left me unsatisfied	This is one weird film - - and Fellini intended it to be . The plot doesn't seem all that important , but the " voyage " there is the substance of the film . A luxury liner is chartered by a group of rich admirers of a recently deceased opera diva . Their purpose is to bury her ashes at sea , but the actual burial only takes a very tiny portion of the film . Instead , the focus is on the journey itself and it is done in a combination of SLOW and artistic shot combined with a very surreal sensibility . Sometimes , the people move in a rhythmic fashion , while at others they break into VERY elaborate operatic numbers and the sets are NOT the least bit realistic at times but look more like art nouveau pieces of art . I particularly was captivated by the scene in which the rich travelers visit the boiler room and try to outdo each other in singing . It's just so strange yet compelling . I liked the film very much , but would certainly NOT want a steady diet of this type of movie . About the only thing I really hated was at the very end when the cameras panned back and showed the actual film crew and set . This completely took me out of the weird moment and seemed unnecessary - - I wanted to remain stuck in this strange world a little longer and hated to be reminded it was all a movie . This was , by the way , the same reaction I had at the ending to THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO .
Super-depressing , but also very well made and worth seeing	This short film was just posted on IMDb for viewing in the US , though hopefully it will be available in other countries for online viewing in the near future . The film begins with a little girl ( Zoe ) and her two parents in their home . You aren't sure what's going on , but you get a strong sense of foreboding as the girl and her father get ready to go to the park . Mom looks either sick or depressed and when the two return home later , it wasn't too surprising what has occurred . However , despite this , it's an excellent and VERY emotionally draining film . What I liked ( despite the film being so hard to watch from an emotional standpoint ) was the realistic writing and especially the excellent acting by the father when they return home to find tragedy has struck . Enjoyable , no . But a very well done film by a talented group of people .
Show this one to your co-workers .	This is a clever short film that deals with a common problem in many offices - - the rumor mill . When some innocent things take place , employees put 2 and 3 together and come up with 35 ! And , once the ugly rumor begins , it morphs and becomes wilder and wilder until you wonder how the heck anyone can believe it . It's a good look at one of the darker aspects of human nature and would probably work very well as a film shown by Human Resources to a company's employees . I sure know that where I work some incredibly stupid rumors have made the rounds over the years . Well written and acted , I look forward to seeing more from the people who made OFFICE BANTER .
Sentimental yes , but also a very well acted drama	Paul Muni came out of retirement from films to make this movie - - the first in about a dozen years . According to Robert Osborne ( from Turner Classic Movies ) this was because Muni was so incredibly difficult to work with that he was virtually blackballed from films . However , you'd never suspect this when you see the film as his performance is flawless . Perhaps it was because Muni might have been playing a part close to heart - - a cranky old doctor who was devoted to his patients but also who wasn't afraid to say exactly what was on his mind ! The story begins with cranky old Paul having a patient literally dumped on his front steps in the poor part of Brooklyn . You learn that despite working as a doctor for many years , he wasn't concerned with wealth or success as many people would see it . This devotion to duty resulted in a small article in the newspaper and a TV producer ( David Wayne ) decided an interview show about the doc would be great television . The problem , however , is that cranky old Paul has no interest in fame and getting him to agree to be on TV was a major problem . Just when you think that perhaps he'll finally do the show , other events intercede - - leading to a touching but perhaps a bit too melodramatic an ending . I liked the way the film ended but my wife thought it was a bit too much to believe . Regardless , you can't ignore the rest of this lovely film - - the acting and writing were exceptional . With minimal stunts and action , the film managed to entertain and make you think . Overall , a powerful and interesting film that is perhaps marred a tad by a bit too much sentimentality and melodrama - - but not so much that you should avoid the movie . PS - - Didn't David Wayne's boss remind you of Larry Tate from " Bewitched " ? See the film and you'll understand what I mean .
stylish jewel theft film	This film was pretty good and it was nice to see older men in lead roles who are not particularly sexy . Our hero ( ? ) is a sophisticated thief who has intricately planned , along with his friend , the theft of a famous jewel store . It reminded me of the movies Rafifi and Grand Slam , though this caper was performed by 2 instead of it being a larger group effort . Also , it differs in that it diverges into a romance that builds with a woman whose store is next to the jewelers . Although I liked this relationship part of the movie , the speed at which the woman fell for him and the depth of this love seemed rather unreal , but this is a small quibble for an otherwise excellent film .
Despite a very slow and confusing start , stick with this film	Last night , I saw A PECK ON THE CHEEK ( KANNATHIL MUTHAMITTAL with English subtitles ) . Oddly , it was 137 minutes long - - slightly longer than the time listed on IMDb . At first , I found myself losing interest in this film because the rather confusing style of filming really lost me . The context for what was occurring was missing and I am glad I stuck with it . At the beginning , a young couple is married and shortly after the wedding , war breaks out in their native Sri Lanka and the lovers are separated . Months later , the wife is very pregnant and on board a refugee vessel heading to India . At a refugee center , you see the lady about to give birth - - after which the titles to the film finally are revealed . The entire focus of the film then changes completely - - to a young girl who is about to turn 9 in Madras , India . You see her in her home and she talks to the camera about her life and family . None of this seems that interesting or important and you wonder what is missing - - what about the lady who was about to give birth ? My wife and I debated this and we finally guessed that this little girl was actually the child of the lady in the first part of the film . Somehow or another , she had been adopted and was talking about her life with mom and dad # 2 - - though she did NOT realize these people were not her biological parents . Soon after this , the parents revealed themselves to be total idiots ( one of the complaints I had about the film ) , as they decided to tell this very young girl the truth about her parentage AND tell it in a way that left the girl emotionally screwed up and confused . Despite a stupid decision and telling her in the worst way , the parents made up for this by agreeing to help her find her biological mother . Seeing the impact all this had on the girl and parents ( particularly the adoptive mother ) was impressive to watch and sure sparked my interest . Unfortunately , Sri Lanka has been involved in a very , very long and brutal civil war with Tamilese militants , off and on , for three decades . The family's decision to look for the mom back in Sri Lanka was indeed noble , but also a bit stupid at times - - as they took so many risks and nearly got killed again and again by just blindly jumping into the middle of a war ! This was all exciting and captivating but also left me wondering about the sanity of the adoptive parents - - first you tell her she ISN'T your biological child and now you take her in the middle of a WAR ZONE ! ! ! Sure , the kid really wanted to meet her biological mother , but this really was stupid in hind sight . If it were me , I might have been tempted to pay an unemployed actress to play the part and fool the kid - - thus avoiding being in the middle of a war ! Despite my complaints , the film was lovely to watch and was very rewarding . Far from perfect , it sure hits an emotional home run . Also , while I expected this because I have seen several Indian films , many Westerners will be a bit surprised by the vivid songs that seem to come out of no where - - this IS standard in most films from India - - including those made in Bollywood ( Bombay ) and Tamilwood / Kollywood ( Madras ) .
Is this a film by J . Stuart Blackton or Georges Mlis ?	I watched this short silent film online tonight and it was identified as a film by the genius French director Georges Mlis . However , when I looked on IMDb , it said it was by J . Stuart Blackton ! Obviously SOMEONE is wrong ! While watching it , I sure thought it was a Mlis film because it was so creative and the camera tricks were so masterfully done . If it IS a Mlis film , then it's pretty typical of the amazing stuff he did . If it is NOT , then obviously by 1909 other directors starting imitating his style and techniques . Regardless WHO is responsible , it is a cute and interesting little film well worth seeing - - particularly by Cinephiles like myself . If you want to see this movie yourself , you can see it online at http www archive org search php query melies
Interesting documentary-like film about the Soviet Revolution	This film is highly reminiscent of Eisenstein's later work , POTEMKIN , in that it looks like like a typical historical film but more like a re-creation of the events - - much like a documentary . However , like POTEMKIN , it too is a very politically driven propaganda film . While most of the moments on film are pretty realistic , Eisenstein and Alexandropov also intersperse little scenes that portray the Communists as noble peasants and the Kerensky government as patently evil . While depicting the Czarist regime that preceded the Kerensky government as evil is pretty accurate , the story of Kerensky isn't quite that cut and dry . While he did create his own downfall due to the foolish decision to continue the war against Germany after the May Revolution ( the non-Communist revolution of 1917 that sought reforms and forced the czar to abdicate ) , Kerensky and his men weren't quite the evil pigs they were depicted as in the film . But , of course , considering the October Communist Revolution was still recent history when the film was made , this sort of hyperbole is rather understandable . Plus , given the control exercised over the Soviet film industry , it is doubtful that Kerensky and his cronies could have been depicted any other way . Particular standouts in the film are the interesting and very imaginative camera-work as well as the brisk pace and realism of the film . About the only negatives ( other than the way they depicted the Kerensky government ) were the excessive use of some footage to make a simple point - - such as showing men scrambling out of a doorway again and again and again to let the audience know people are pouring into a room or returning to the same shot repeatedly . At the time , this was pretty forgivable and normal , but today it appears , at times , like it could have used a bit tighter editing .
aside from a few plot problems , a brilliant film	This was a break-out film for Alan Ladd . Up until then , he'd just been performing bit roles . Here , he is given 3rd billing , but he clearly is the star of the film . Ladd plays a sociopathic hit-man who seems to have not one ounce of compassion for anyone - - except animals . After fulfilling a contract , he meets with the super-sleazy guy who hired him ( Laird Cregar ) to get paid . Creger is great - - he just drips sleaze and menace as well as cowardice ! And , being a sleaze , he tries to get Ladd arrested by giving him money that was supposedly stolen . This point in the film actually made no sense - - there was no reason to do this AND Ladd could always tell the cops about Creger . Miraculously , Ladd escapes arrest and vows to kill Creger and the mystery man he was working for but who was not yet revealed . He meets up with Veronica Lake and she helps him escape . Now the ironies involving him meeting up with Lake is way over the top . She is ALREADY working secretly for the government spying on Creger AND her boyfriend just happens to be the cop leading the investigation of Ladd . This and the stolen money aspect bring the overall rating down to an 8 - - this film could have earned a 10 due to Ladd's characterization and the interesting plot ( much of the time ) . Instead of continuing to telling you the rest of the story and spoiling it , I will just point out that the actual story is deeper and involves selling poison gas to our enemy - - the Japanese . It is then a propaganda film AND a Film Noir flick - - a pretty good combination all-in-all .
Silly but insightful	If it hadn't been for the fact that a similar ( though less cynical ) film had been made just a few years earlier ( THE MAN IN THE WHITE SUIT ) , I might have scored this parody a bit higher . Despite obviously being a comedy , the film is an amazingly insightful attack on the floundering state of British labor following the Second World War . While Britain used to be the most productive country on the planet , during this era they were torn apart by strikes and work slowdowns . Yet the film doesn't just attack labor unions with their unreasonable demands and poor work ethic . It also attacks factory owners who actually exploit this to their own interests . This film is obviously a loud declaration that the British Empire is in fact dead . The film begins with an upper class twit named ' Windrush ' going to work for the first time . However , he really isn't cut out for management despite his Oxford education - - and he seems better suited to manual labor . The problem is that after failing again and again in management , he is simply too good as a blue collar worker . This is because he works way too hard and makes all his extremely lazy co-workers look bad ! And , when management documents how much work one motivated man CAN do , this ultimately results in a strike , as management wants the workers output to increase - - or at least that's what they claimed . All this set in motion by a slow-witted but very decent upper class gent working as a forklift driver ! ! The film is very well written and clever . While younger audience members might not appreciate the film's insights , it is funny in a droll sort of way . Additionally , having wonderful actors such as Peter Sellers and Terry-Thomas sure didn't hurt ! Overall , sharp social and political satire that does a great job of attacking labor and management and giving insights into the decline of the British economy .
really strange but good	This was an odd movie . The pairing of Cary Grant with Ronald Coleman was a bit odd , although most of their scenes are done separately due to the way the story was written . Jean Arthur , as always , did a marvelous job and she spends much of the movie bouncing back and forth between the two men . The plot was especially odd , with Grant played a man accused of arson and murder but being hounded more for his political views in a town with a " lynch mob " mentality . So how did all these odd elements work so well ? Well , most of it , I think , is due to the wonderful acting - - with these three in a film it's nearly impossible for the movie to be average or below average . Plus , the writing was good enough to make the silly plot actually work . So , while it's not a great film , it's well above average and worth a look . In many ways , the movie looks like it took characters from two different films and combined them into one . Cary Grant is highly reminiscent of Jimmy Stewart from MR . SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON , as he's a man who fights the entrenched special interest and ends up being set up for a crime he didn't commit . Ronald Coleman is also quite a bit like Frank Morgan from A STRANGER IN TOWN - - a film where a Supreme Court justice stumbles into a crooked town and ends up springing into action to help make things right . The only thing I should add is that this movie is much less a comedy than I'd been led to believe by reading the Leonard Maltin Guide and reading other reviews . Yes , there are some comedic moments , but the film is more of a drama and civics lesson with a bit of humor . This is certainly NOT a " screwball comedy " and it works just fine . By the way , although I don't think it was intended , a viewer could make a strong argument that there was a gay subtext in the film . When Cary Grant became friends with Coleman , it sure seemed that there was ample evidence to show that perhaps Coleman was attracted to Grant . Not only did Coleman very quickly bond with Grant , but he showed absolutely no interest in Jean Arthur or any other women - - though he remarked about how " wonderful " and " close " he felt to Grant's character . As I said , I don't think this was intended but I could easily see someone seeing this without trying too hard to read this into the plot .
For adults only - - but it's also exceptional	This short film is very different from most you find floating around the internet these days . Unlike most independent shorts , this one actually stars some established actors and has a professional quality rarely seen on short films on IMDb and other sites . Jamie Anne Allman and Marshall Cook star in this film and are supported by Will Sasso ( " Mad TV " and DROP DEAD GORGEOUS ) and Andy Dick ( " Talk Radio " and countless self-promotional stints on MTV ) . It's a wacky film about an old sex tape that disrupts a new relationship . While unpacking things , Cook discovers the tape hidden inside a stuffed animal ( though it's a rather adult stuffed animal ) . He's curious what it is and finds it's a tape of his girlfriend having sex with another man ! This leads to some very funny and very adult moments indeed and the film is actually pretty timely in light of all the idiots out there making home sex movies and not thinking about the consequences if the tape should pop up in the future . While very funny and clever , it's also ( not surprisingly ) a very adult film . JUST THE WORST is not a film for the kids but for older audiences it should provide a few chuckles . By the way , many of the same people who made this made the hilarious DIVISION III - - one of the best shorts I've seen in a long time .
Cool variation on the Poe tale	Had this movie been made a few years later , I would have given it a lower score . However , for 1909 , this was a dandy little movie and still stands up pretty well today . Just don't try to compare this silent film to later silents - - the industry changed so radically that the shorts of the first decade of the 20th century don't look at all like movies made in the 1910s and beyond . This movie is 11 minutes long ( about average for most films back then ) and is a variation of the Edgar Allen Poe story , THE CASK OF AMONTILLADO . While many are familiar with the story , I won't elaborate further as I don't want to ruin the film . Just suffice to say that it's very creepy ! !
Weird and very disturbing if you think about it , but still a lovely short film	This short animated film is part of " Spike and Mike's Cutting Edge Classics " - - a DVD filled with an hour and a half of very short animated films . Most of them are pretty good and the DVD is much better than the other Spike and Mike one I saw a few months back . This film and KATTEN MONS ( also by the same director ) are included in the set . While I liked the art of KATTEN MONS , this short is even better - - though the story might just creep you out if you think about it ! That's because the claymation work is even better and really catches your attention . A man moves into a house that's been empty for many years . There is a huge rat inside and the man tries a variety of ways to kill the pest , though the rat very oddly thinks the man is in love with it ! This leads to a very , very creepy ending that is both sweet and nauseating if you think about it too much , as the rat and man marry and live happily ever after ! ! !
a cute little film that occasionally tries too hard	I think some of the reason I like this film so much is that it re-pairs Charles Coburn and Jean Arthur - - who starred in the magnificent little comedy , THE DEVIL AND MISS JONES . They had great chemistry together the first time and once again , they work splendidly together . Joining them is the ever-capable Joel McCrea and together they make a terrific cast in this little comedy about the war-time housing shortage in Washington , DC . Coburn is exceptional and at his best as the VERY manipulative but sweet old meddler . In addition , the writing and direction are generally on target and everything combines to make a dandy film . The only MINOR problem is that the film , on occasion , seems to " try too hard " - - in other words , occasionally , unsubtle moments invade this nice film and disrupt the flow ( such as McCrea's bellowing in the bathroom - - what's up with that ? ! ) . Despite a few flat moments , this movie is a great example of excellent and sweet material coming from the Golden Age of Hollywood , and unfortunately , they don't make ' em like they used to .
A surprisingly wonderful version of the life of Munchausen	Considering that this film was made in Nazi Germany during the middle of WWII , I expected the film to be a dogmatic piece of propaganda . Surprisingly , despite its pedigree , it was a wonderful piece of escapist fantasy and seemed to have nothing to do with the Nazi regime . In fact , a writer whose works were burned by the Nazis is the man responsible for this screenplay ( though , of course , under a pseudonym ) . So my advice is try to forget when it was made and just sit back and enjoy . Baron Munchausen was , despite the weirdness of the film , was a real adventurer and war hero . In real life , he tended to greatly exaggerate his exploits and this was the basis for later stories of his life . In this film , the movie starts in the present day ( 1943 ) , but it was brilliant how the writer and director made it look like it was in the 17th or 18th century . This was very clever . Then , when a party guest begs the host to tell them about the exploits of his ancestor ( Munchausen ) , the story of Munchausen's adventures begins . This is a wonderful way to both introduce and conclude the film and makes this aspect of the film better than the 1988 version of Baron Munchausen . Now this isn't to say the 1943 version is superior overall - - it certainly isn't . In fact , BOTH are extraordinary films and I recommend you see both . However , if you can only see one , try the 1988 version by Terry Gilliam first , as the story itself is a little more action-packed and the special effects are truly amazing even today , whereas the 1943 film at times looks a bit " cheesy " - - mostly because special effects of the day just weren't up to the story in a few places ( since it was SO weird and over-the-top ) . PS - - A note to parents - - there is some nudity in the film , which is surprising considering this seems to be a family-oriented film . While not super-graphic , you do see a lot of topless harem girls during one scene . It's really a shame , as it doesn't exactly fit in with the rest of the film , though compared to some newer films the nude scene is rather tame . However , you should consider this when you think about having your kids watch the film .
Very moving and perhaps NOT for everyone .	The first 20 or so minutes of this film didn't engage me very much . Other than think that many of the kids were idiots ( as they played a game like Chicken with oncoming trains ) and cursed too much , I really didn't think much one way of the other . However , as the film continued , the plot took an unexpected twist as you learn that the title character ( a kid who looks to be about 11 years-old ) is being seriously abused by his god-awful father . The violence he inflicts is amazingly realistic in one scene and so this film is provisionally recommended . While it was very well made , children and people who were victims of child abuse probably should not watch it - - and I could see the film instigating flashbacks of abuse . However , aside from this warning , the film is well constructed , extremely well acted and engaging . You really can't stop watching after a while because it really hooks you . See this film - - just think twice about who you ask to watch it with you .
The ONLY Fly movie you must see - - with a terrific ending to boot	Okay , up front you ought to know that I absolutely hated the remake of this film starring Jeff Goldbloom . I felt the remake had zero subtlety or charm and was just a special effects-laden and grotesque movie . If you care , look for my review of this film to see just how much I hated it ( and my hatred of this film is INTENSE ) . Probably so much of why I hated the disgusting remake was because the original film was everything the remake was not - - it was charming , low budget , effective and campy fun . The film is about a scientist who has a basement lab . He's working on a device to teleport things from one place to another ( kind of like a Star Trek transporter ) . It works great , but when he makes the trip himself , a fly buzzes into the chamber and the DNA of him and the fly become fused - - producing a human-sized creature with a giant fly head and arm ( it's so coooool when you finally see him without a sheet draped over his head , as he was during so much of the movie to avoid scaring his wife ) . Attempts to find the fly-sized creature with a human head and arm are totally unsuccessful , so eventual the fated scientist shoves himself into a press and squishes himself . The police suspect that this was just a murder , and they want to charge the scientist's wife . All looks bleak until the very final scene ( one of the most memorable ones in screen history ) when the detective hears a screaming fly calling for help - - just before it is devoured by a spider . You see a little human head and hear him screeching in a high pitched voice " HELP ME ! " . What a cool scene . The film also stars Vincent Price , who actually plays a normal person , not the bug-man . However , he does return for a sequel and you can guess what happens to Vincent in that one ! This is great campy fun - - a not to be missed film for horror movie fans .
rather unusual wartime propaganda piece	This film was designed to bolster the war effort yet despite this , it sometimes portrays Germans in a softer light instead of the typical " maniac " of American and British wartime films . The film follows the career of an idealistic young officer that recently won the Victoria Cross ( the British equivalent to the Medal of Honor ) . He is shown as brash and daring and gets himself into trouble in 1902 Germany . However , in the process he befriends a German officer ( Walbrook ) and their stories periodically intertwine . The first few minutes of the movie I found to be rather slow and stuffy . The video itself was also a problem as it had so yellowed it was hard to tell at times that the movie was originally in Technicolor . But , apart from these things , try to bear with the film as it is both inspiring and yet very human and compelling .
Despite a couple poorly written performances , an excellent film that is NOT exploitational or even a horror film	I liked this movie a heck of a lot more than I thought I would , as I had little interest in seeing a horror film ( this just isn't a genre I enjoy most of the time ) . A lot of this was because the movie really wasn't a horror film per se , but a courtroom drama following the death of a supposedly possessed girl as well as a film that discusses the possibility of demonic possession - - though this is handled in a pretty ambiguous way and with no easy or pat answers . I could see people who say demonic possession can be explained away by natural phenomena AND those who believe in its existence both enjoying this interesting and thought-provoking film . It probably won't offend religious people nor will like likely offend others - - it's just a good film . It's even more interesting when you learn that the story is based on a real case , though artistic license was used in making this film ( just how much , I don't know ) . Despite an excellent script , excellent acting by the actress playing " Emily Rose " and a real creepy mood , there is one problem with the film and that is the acting by BOTH the prosecuting and defense attorney in the film . The prosecutor seemed too wooden , angry and unprofessional to be real and I truly doubt if his histrionics in the courtroom would have been tolerated by a sane judge . Likewise , the defense attorney , at times , seemed rather dumb and presented nearly as poor a case at the prosecutor . Plus , the average person probably could have done a better job than they did ! I really wonder if the writers ever consulted with real lawyers to find out how to create these roles - - they just were not believable and tended to detract from the rest of the film . Still , despite this serious complaint , this IS a good film - - though I really doubt if it's a good idea to let young kids see this due to the subject matter . Also , if you get a chance , see REQUIEM . This is a German-made version of the exact same case of Anneliese Michel - - the inspiration for both stories . Both are very good but have a much different focus .
Great ? No , but it still held my interest	This is a bizarre little film and it's no wonder , as it was directed by Tod Browning and starred Lon Chaney , Sr . - - a potent combination that led to many other strange and scary films . Chaney plays a ventriloquist who leads a gang of thieves . The others are a midget and a strong man ( though Victor McLaglen doesn't look quite muscular enough for the role ) . The three leave the traveling sideshow they work for and use disguises to set up robberies . In a VERY interesting bit of casting , Chaney is dressed up as an old lady during most of the film ! This is highly reminiscent of the excellent later MGM film THE DEVIL DOLL - - where Lionel Barrymore does the same to avoid suspicion . Also , the midget is so small and young-looking , that he poses as Chaney's grandson - - a baby ! Believe it or not , they actually look pretty convincing in these roles . Later in the film , two of the three thieves stage a robbery AND kill the rich guy whose safe they robbed - - and leaving his young daughter badly injured . When the police start investigating , they decide to divert suspicion by planting the stolen necklace on a poor sap ! And , while Chaney was NOT one of these robbers or the murderer , he reluctantly agrees to help his girlfriend , Mae Busch , exonerate the man accused since she has fallen for the accused man . Now Chaney's plan to help the accused is really pretty hair-brained and was a low-point in the film . He uses his ventriloquism in a lame attempt to help out , but no one is particularly impressed ( no surprise there ) . So , he finally admits what he knows and admits that he knows who committed the crime . Now , oddly and completely out of the blue , Chaney's pet gorilla ( ! ) escapes at this same time and kills the other two crooks . Considering they deserved to die for their crimes , this seemed awfully convenient . And , despite a history of crime , the court agrees to just forgive Chaney and everyone is set for a happy , if not exactly believable , ending . While the film has many excellent scenes , some interesting plot elements and some great cross-dressing scenes , the film has a lot of hokey holes - - not enough to ruin the film , but enough to lessen its impact . FYI - - Originally , the film also featured a horrible scene where the murder victim's child was also murdered by the midget . It was apparently VERY disturbing , so the scene was removed and the title cards indicate she was only injured .
Schmaltzy but amazingly endearing	A young Margaret O'Brien plays a very peculiar 6 year-old named Alpha . Alpha , it seems is a scientific project being conducted by a psychiatric research facility . In a case of extremely unethical behavior , they adopted her as an infant and spent all of her life cramming her head with knowledge - - advanced mathematics , Chinese , economics and many other very advanced topics . Finally , after six years work , the institute is ready to have two outside investigators examine the child to determine their success in raising a " super-child " . But , before this child genius can be examined , a reporter ( James Craig ) meets with her and thoroughly disarms the very adult-like O'Brien . Fascinated by Craig's wild stories about magic , giants and leprechauns ( things any normal child would know about , but Alpha doesn't ) , she is so captivated that she later escapes to find Craig - - who she seems to see as a great father figure . This film is very , very schmaltzy - - in other words , it's loaded with sentimentality and dripping with saccharine . And while this usually means you've got a bad film , despite it shamelessly tugging at your heart , the film actually works - - mostly thanks to a sweet script and some nice performances . While not perfect ( for example her crying seemed rather fake ) , O'Brien proved that for her age , she was an amazing actress . And Craig and Marsha Hunt ( not exactly household names ) also showed a nice hand at family comedy . All in all , this is a wonderful film for most everyone . However , the easily jaded probably will find the going a bit too sticky - - but as for this curmudgeon , I still found it charming .
one of the better bio-pics of the 40s	Hollywood did a lot of biography pictures in the 1940s . Most of them were awfully good , though a little bit too idealized . Almost all were pretty entertaining . Among them , there are some standouts , such as Dr . Ehrlich's Magic Bullet and Madame Curie . This film was reasonably faithful to her real story , though most notably Greer Garson was a tall lady and Ms . Curie was , according to everything I have read , a tiny little woman . And , thankfully , the MGM people didn't change how her husband died ( such as having him survive in order to give the movie an upbeat ending ) . So what we have is a good primer for kids and teens about the accomplishments of this great lady . Garson and Pigeon did a nice job - - give it a try .
So spectacular , you should see it once	While this is far from my favorite Chinese movie , it is one I strongly recommend you see simply because of its spectacular battle sequences in the last third of the film . While it's obvious in places that lots of CG technology was used , it still is amazing seeing battle sequences that come close to those from the Lord of the Rings films in grandeur and scope . The plot itself reminds me a bit of A LION IN WINTER and I , CLAUDIUS since it follows the very dysfunctional machinations of the emperor and his family . After a while , it becomes a bit difficult figuring who's scheming against who and keeping track of all the amoral actions of the cast that make them seem much like a more dysfunctional and power-made group than the famed Borgias of Italy ! All this is done in amazing style and grace , though the first third of the film might seem a bit too slow for many . I'll concede this is a bit true , but urge the viewer to stick with it - - the film inexorably draws to an amazing conclusion in which 1000 extras were employed in a huge battle in which it appears that about 50000 troops were fighting to a very , very bloody death . And please note that I did say " bloody " . This film earned an R rating even though there is no nudity and the language is rather tame - - all because buckets and buckets of fake blood are used and the deaths are at times very brutal . In closing , there are a couple things to look for . First , the ninja-like assassins are really high on the cool factor . They are of course over-the-top as is some of the action , but it is far more believable and uses far less of the high-flying gadgetry of films such as CROUCHING TIGER , HIDDEN DRAGON . Also , watch the scene were the emperor and his # 2 son have a sword fight near the beginning of the film - - wow is THAT exciting !
Ha !	I have a dark secret . Many , many years ago , I worked as a part-time parking enforcement officer ( i . e , a " meter maid " ) while in college and so I really enjoyed this funny little film about a tough parking enforcement officer and a surly driver . However , even if you haven't worked such a thankless job , you still will no doubt love this funny short film . During the course of the film , a small boy on a scooter acts much like a representative of the audience . He just silently watches as the chaos ensues . The kid sees a car about to get a ticket . However , when the man is in the midst of writing it , a lady comes out and begins verbally abusing the guy - - so much so that he just looks for more and more excuses to give her more and more tickets - - often for very picky rule violations . Then , comes the punchline - - which you'll just have to see for yourself . While this film is packed full of obscenities , it's all quite appropriate to the film and you can't help but laugh at this smartly made independent film . I dare you to watch it and NOT laugh !
excellent and without obvious clichs	This is an excellent little film with good acting and writing and fortunately it is also without some of the obvious clichs you might expect from such a movie . What I mean by that is that repeatedly , the film does not go exactly where you'd expect it . Here are some examples : although the poor folks are generally decent in the film , they are not always so noble but are living at rock bottom for a variety of reasons . Some films or TV shows have shown the homeless as being almost saintly . Next , while the title character cannot remember who he was , once he finds out he was neither a monster nor a saint - - and I was REALLY expecting this to happen . What we have left is a clever film about a guy who cannot remember who he is and so he sets about creating a new identity for himself instead of just sitting around waiting for his past to return . Along the way he meets some really interesting characters ( such as the guy in the bank and the amazingly complex Anttila ) . Not a great film , but so smart and refreshing it is one of the better films you could watch . The film is rated PG-13 because it has one brief scene of violence ( when the lead is beaten savagely by a gang ) , but other than that there's nothing offensive about the film and is acceptable viewing for teens .
odd little comedy about Hell	Believe it or not , this movie owes a lot to the incredibly long-winded and horrid epic German poem , FAUST . While it is not a word-for-word recreation of this horror , it is very similar - - particularly at the very end when the lead character is miraculously transported from Hell to Heaven due to his love for a woman . Do yourself a favor and DON'T read the poem - - its tedious and only something pseudo-intellectuals read so they can seem smarter they are . I only read it because I was held hostage by a group of deranged English Lit majors and forced at gunpoint ! Anyway , back to the review . The story is a long series of flashbacks in Hell as Don Ameche tells his life story to the most erudite and pleasant Satan I have ever seen on film - - it makes you kind of look forward to eternal damnation . The story is handled beautifully and extremely artistically - - thanks to the great director , Ernst Lubitsch . Watch it and enjoy - - it's a heck of a film .
excellent Lloyd film	Okay , I'll admit that this isn't Harold Lloyd's best picture . However , even a second-rate Lloyd feature is still an excellent movie and well worth your time due to its excellent story telling and acting . Harold is a young multi-millionaire who falls for the daughter of a social reformer in the poor part of town . Harold wants to help them - - mostly because he finds Jobyna Ralston to be quite a hot tamale - - something that seems to occur in all their films . At one point , to help her and her missionary father , Harold runs throughout the slums starting fights and irritating people in order to get them to chase him . Ultimately he leads these dozens of men into the mission where he is able to persuade them to stay and the mission is a success . This is a cute gag sequence . What happens after this and the climatic chase sequence is certainly nothing new - - it all reminds you of many other Lloyd films . But considering how well-made it is , this can be forgiven .
Garbo cast as the ultimate evil temptress slut !	This is a very good silent film , though I had just watched two other Greta Garbo films the same day I saw this one that were incredibly similar to this one - - as she plays the vamp in all three ! They were all part of the same set by TCM . In hindsight , I really wish they had packaged three Garbo movies that were more dissimilar in plot - - as the movies all tended to run together . I can't blame Ms . Garbo for this general trend in many of her silent movies , as MGM definitely type-cast her despite her objections . In fact , she was so irritated by this theme that she went on strike to try to force the studio to give her different roles . But , considering that the public loved the films and they were all very successful , MGM wasn't about to mess with a tried-and-true formula . This film is a stand-out because Greta is so gosh-darn evil and conniving . She is , up until a stupid and unconvincing change of heart late in the film , a cold and heartless slut . And , this coldness and self-centeredness actually is about the best thing about this movie . She is initially seen as an apparently nice lady when she is ardently pursued by handsome John Gilbert ( Garbo's reported favorite co-star ) . When the totally innocent Gilbert is caught with her by her husband , the story really begins to unfold well . After killing her husband in a duel , Gilbert still loves Garbo and doesn't realize she orchestrated the affair and the death of her husband . Only after this soldier ( Gilbert ) is sent overseas for three years as punishment for his involvement in the killing is the real Garbo revealed - - as she then marries Gilbert's best friend ! ! Then , when Gilbert returns from the service , she wants to STILL take up where the two lovers had left off three years earlier ! ! ! What a horrid woman ! And , as a result of her lies and manipulations , she nearly has Gilbert and his longtime friend kill each other ! This all is great melodrama and for a lurid love story , the movie excels up until the very end . Unfortunately , the writing sags unexpectedly and Greta sees the errors of her ways and repents ! This is 100 % ridiculous and unbelievable - - an evil and manipulative person just doesn't change because their conscience suddenly bothers them ! ! ! After all , the point of the film is that DOESN'T have a conscience ! ! ! Despite this terrible plot twist , we are at least rewarded to a WONDERFUL scene where Greta runs across the ice to stop the duel between the friends - - it is just too cool when she falls through the ice to her death ! The end is both fitting and satisfying and this helps a lot to make up for the dumb " conversion scene " just before it . By the way , on the DVD there is an alternative ending . I saw them both and felt they were both just about equally good .
Very stupid - - and lots of fun !	HUMDRUM was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film in 2000 and lost to THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA . I am in complete agreement with this , as THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA was a truly amazing film to watch , whereas HUMDRUM was just good old fashion silly fun but had none of the visual impact of THE OLD MAN . Now this does NOT mean that I disliked HUMDRUM - - it was wonderful and funny as well as very reminiscent of a past Oscar winner in this same category in 1985 ( CHARADE ) . The film begins with these silhouettes of two strange creatures talking . Nothing terribly exciting happens , but I loved the first third of the film . The dialog was terribly clever and I loved how the one guy acted when he answered the door . Later , when they started playing shadow puppets , I actually think the movie slowed down a bit . It was still funny , but believe it or not , when the film had less plot it was more enjoyable ! ! My advice is to see this film . It's funny , cute and nicely animated . While not the Oscar winner , who cares ? ! It's so well done that frankly this doesn't matter .
Considering the modest budget , this is an excellent thriller	I tend to view this movie a little differently than some other big-name films of the era because unlike films featuring big stars and big budgets , this was a low budget B-movie that achieved a lot with such a modest budget . RKO financed quite a few Val Lewton productions and most of them were supposed to be horror films . However , having low budgets , there really wasn't money for sophisticated makeup and costumes , so the horrors in these movies were much more psychological in nature or featured minimalistic special effects . Because they were very high quality , the films have often taken on a cult-like following ( such as CAT PEOPLE and THE BODY SNATCHER ) , though I must admit this one is not one of his more famous efforts . Much of this is probably due to it having been pulled from circulation shortly after release due to a lawsuit that alleged that Lewton had stolen the script ( by the way , the case was decided against Lewton and RKO , so the film was only seen again in recent years because of this ) . The first half of the movie , while decent , really is setting the stage for the terrifying second half . Up until then , the movie seemed like a pretty routine drama about a young 3rd officer aboard a cargo ship and his relationship with the odd but avuncular captain . However , slowly over time it becomes obvious to the 3rd officer that the captain is insane and dangerous - - though because his mental illness is very subtle , no one aboard believes that the captain is , in fact , unhinged . Later , the 3rd mate suspects that the accidental death of a crew member was NOT an accident but was done deliberately by the captain because this crewman had simply disagreed with him ! So , he reports the captain and refuses to continue the voyage once they reach port . However , the captain orchestrates his kidnapping and the mate awakens to find himself back on the ship and easy prey for the vengeful captain . Yet , no one aboard believes the captain is dangerous and the mate knows it's only time before he , too , has a fatal " accident " ! I've already revealed a lot , but you really should see the film . The sense of impending doom and helplessness of the 3rd mate is extreme and very well done . This is a sleeper that is well worth your time .
Stupid . . . and in a good way !	This is a cute little mockumentary that reminds me of another great independent short , THE ROCHAMBEAU KID . Both take the most mundane of activities and elevate it to epic proportions . In ROCHAMBEAU , it was " rock , paper , scissors " competition and here it's " dance machine " competition ( i . e . , Dance Dance Revolution ) . Tom is serious about Dance Machine . . . so serious , he does Tai Chi and hires a German trainer to teach him everything they know . . . which apparently isn't very much ! This all leads to a final battle - - a fight to the finish with a very funny punchline . The film is made in black and white but is still quite funny and well made . I'd really like to see more from these folks , as it gave me a few good laughs .
a little slow , but excellent nonetheless	This is a non-action-oriented Western about a woman who , for years , masquerades as a man . At the beginning of the film , she is thrown out by her father after she gives birth to an illegitimate child , so she travels west . However , along the way , she is attacked and decides to disguise herself as a guy so she'll be left alone . While this might be seen as a strongly feminist or gay-positive movie ( featuring a very alternative lifestyle , indeed ) , the movie did not seem preachy or agenda-driven . Instead , it is a smart film that takes a very slow and leisurely pace to the ultimate conclusion . I would have preferred the pace and mood to perhaps be a little less somber , but considering how intelligent the film was , I will certainly forgive this . Particular standouts are Suzy Amis as Jo and Bo Hopkins . I always felt that Hopkins was a bit of a light-weight ( particularly considering the parts in the 1970s ) , but he proves himself to be an excellent actor . It's a real shame neither of these actors got much work after the film debuted - - they certainly deserved it .
A lot of fun to watch and a great history lesson	This is a true time capsule of a cartoon in that it gives wonderful insight into what life was like for Americans back in 1943 . There are so many wonderful references to gremlins , Wendell Wilkie and gasoline ration cards that the cartoon could be used as a tool to teach kids about WWII . Fortunately , while it is jam-packed full of such interesting tidbits , it also is pretty funny and well worth watching over 60 years later ! The film does seem a bit strange , though , as for once , Bugs Bunny is NOT the wise-cracking or annoying jerk he was in most films made of him during the war . Instead , he is the unlikely voice of reason that tries to thwart the evil but mischievous intentions of the gremlin ! The short abounds with cute jokes , sight gags and a very original script ( the only similar cartoon I can think about is GREMLINS FROM THE KREMLIN - - another Looney Toons cartoon , but one where a huge swarm of gremlins are working for the allies to destroy the Nazi menace ) .
A very nice , if imperfect , homage to Film Noir	While I know that CHINATOWN has a great reputation and has received many 10s from reviewers , as a fan of Film Noir , I saw a few minor problems that kept the score from being a bit higher - - though it's still an exceptional film . First , as any devoted fan of Noir knows , Noir is always , and I repeat , always filmed in black and white . The great shadows and camera angles are an important trademark of the style . While this Roman Polanski film is beautifully filmed ( with a lot of sepia tones ) and it definitely has the look of a late 1930s Warner Brothers gangster film , it just isn't true Noir because it's in color ! Second , and this is a problem shared by THE BIG SLEEP , is that the plot is very , very complicated - - perhaps a bit too complicated - - making the resolution of mysteries and complications a bit too simple . The end , in particular , just seemed too convoluted a solution and left a lot of loose ends . BUT , getting past these factors , the film is still exceptional . Jack Nicholson was terrific and so was the rest of the cast . And the film was definitely interesting and exciting . It's definitely one of the better films of the 1970s - - but I just can't see this as a better film than many of the earlier Noir films , such as THE KILLERS , KISS OF DEATH or DOA .
sort of like a French language version of WAKING NED DEVIN	This was a cute slice of life comedy that in so many ways reminds me of the earlier film , WAKING NED DEVINE . Both are set in very small villages and both concern all the townspeople trying to " pull one over on the outsider " in order to benefit the beleaguered town . In this case , though , there is no lottery money . Instead , the dying town is trying to lure a doctor into moving there because a plastics factory said they might build a location there IF the town had a doctor and at least 200 residents . This is all necessary because the fishing industry is in the dumps and all the working men are on relief . Well , they have less than 200 , but are able to pretend to have more by way of having residents run between the local restaurant and church when the factory rep comes for a visit . As far as a doctor goes , the going gets a lot tougher . The town is in the middle of nowhere and only one doctor answers their call , so they decide to do EVERYTHING they can to make sure he loves the town . This leads to some very cute moments , as they literally spy on him in order to convince him to stay . They hear that he loves cricket , so they form a fake cricket league even though they don't know the rules and their uniforms are made of long underwear . But they know this isn't enough to convince him , so they bug his phone and listen to his conversations with his girlfriend back in Montreal to find clues as to what he thinks about the town . For instance , shortly after he arrives he tells her he's dying to beef stroganoff and when he later goes to the restaurant for dinner , they are sure that's on the menu . Later they find out by bugging his phone that his long-time girlfriend is breaking up with him . They are THRILLED , as this is his only real tie back to Canada . However , as it looks more and more likely he will stay , the larcenous but basically decent people of the town have second thoughts . They begin to like him too much to enjoy his sorrow and realize maybe it isn't worth continuing the charade . See the movie yourself to see exactly how it turns out in the end . The movie is inventive and cute , though not exactly super original . I really liked how the movie was made up of people who seemed like simple people , not actors . I also admired the film for its quirky sense of humor . It would actually be nice to see a follow-up to this film involving these same town .
For 1910 , it's magical	Okay , it's important to point out that you can't compare this movie at all to the 1939 classic - - and for so many reasons . Film was just in its infancy in 1910 and full-length movies meant about 10-20 minutes . Sets and costumes were simple and often looked like they were taken right off the stage of a high school play . And , writing and acting as we know of them today , just wasn't invented yet . So I cut the early films a lot of slack and praise movies that actually had decent production values and provided some entertainment into the 21st century - - most early films fail on both these counts . The movie isn't really based on the books but on a stage musical and this at times is pretty obvious - - especially when the characters start dancing for no apparent reason at all ! But , aside from this odd way of telling the story , it's an adorable and interesting film - - particularly as it has people in animal costumes throughout ( not just the lion ) . It just seems very cute and makes watching this historical picture a lot easier ! By the way , despite the good production values , this film is not as good as some of the full-length films by the Frenchman , Georges Mlis . His 1902 LE VOYAGE DAN LE LUNE has even better sets and tells a more coherent and watchable story - - hence that is why it is rated as a 10 by me and this one only an 8 .
I'd put this in the top 10 of all the Icelandic movies I've seen , . . .	Actually , the above comment is VERY misleading , as this is perhaps the 3rd movie I have seen from Iceland . In fact , because we get so few Icelandic movies her in the US , I made it a point to give it a try , as I wanted something different . Overall , I liked this movie , as the acting was good and the plot took lots of little twists and turns . This movie is an excellent example of a film that is difficult to predict and has characters who are quirky but not one-dimensional cutouts . Freya is a worldly woman who is returning home to Iceland after the death of her husband . She moves in her extended family and from then on , the movie is seen , at times , from the eyes of her little cousin who resents having to share her home and bedroom with Freya . It's obvious early on that Freya isn't going to just blend in - - as she arrived with 7 trunks clothes - - all in the latest fashions . While she turns the heads of many men , the rich guy who initially shows her the most attention goes from hot to cold . It seems she is from a working class family and he is rich ( at least by Icelandic standards ) , so it appears that he drops her cold . Later , though , it seems that despite his family pressures to ignore her , he returns and marries her . Life with this rich guy at first seems great , though difficult due to his bitchy mother . Then , the relationship begins to sour and Freya moves back with her family . The weak husband begins drinking ( and whoring ) and begs and then threatens the pregnant Freya to return . The final time he approaches her he is particularly violent and the scene is literally MISSING . I like that touch because you aren't sure exactly what happened . What happens next is just something you'll have to find out on your own , as it would definitely spoil the movie to talk further about the plot . Apart from the script and acting , the movie has very catchy mid-50's American music and a few VERY explicit sex scenes that make this movie a bad choice for the kids . PS - - this movie reminds me of the Oscar-winning ANTONIA . Both are strong feminist films , but Mvahltur doesn't seem nearly as preachy and is a better film .
A bit crude , but awfully clever	This is a clever little film that was probably a bit more timely a few years ago - - back when Microsoft included the evil and much hated " Clippy " as a so-called assistant to Word . Clippy was just an annoyance and you notice that subsequent versions of Microsoft Office dropped it ( thankfully ) . Well , imagine that Clippy is not just part of Word but a program designed to help up and coming screen writers . In this film , Bob installs this program and is shocked to see that his " assistant " mostly critiques his life , his lack of talent and knows far more than it should ! It's all very funny and cleverly done , though it's not for younger audiences due to the language - - though I must admit that much of the time the cursing did fit the plot and wasn't really gratuitous . Clever and funny - - give it a look .
A ton of entertainment	The three extremely obese men in this film were billed for years as " Ton of Fun " and the men made quite a few silent comedies ( including several with Larry Semon ) , though few remain today . I've seen one other film they made together and I seriously doubt that there are many more out there , as nitrate stock degraded over the years and most silent films no longer exist . The guys are home builders and their work is even worse than you might expect from Laurel and Hardy or the Three Stooges . While the home looks just awful , the home owner doesn't seem all that alarmed - - that is until a man tells them they built it on the wrong lot ! The film abounds with pratfalls and slapstick . Despite their girth , the trio are very physical in their humor and the film also is quite clever - - with lots of laughs and one of the most elaborate stunts you'll ever see in a silent . And , fortunately , the film ends on a very high note - - making it a must-see for fans of silent comedy .
Sort of like the Movie Channel Bunnies version of " A Christmas Carol "	For a film from 1910 ( or 1907 - - I found 2 different dates for it ) , this is an exceptional film , though by today's standards it's pretty poor . Compared to the average Edison production , this one had much nicer sets and costumes and the short length of the film wouldn't have been seen as a problem - - all films were rather short in this era . Of course , compared to later versions , this one also comes up wanting in many ways - - but for its time it was dandy . As for the problems , you really need to know the story well to follow this version . I assumed audiences of the day must have been well-versed with it but again and again , things happened but because the film was so truncated you only understood it if you knew the story . Also , like most versions of the story , the poverty and responsibility to the poor were aspects of the film that weren't emphasized enough - - and this was THE reason Dickens wrote the story - - not just to give us a nice Christmas story . Still , for , this is a well made and watchable little gem that should make fans of early silents happy . By the way , if you wonder why I mentioned the Movie Channel's Bunnies , they are cartoons where an entire film is condensed into 30 minutes . This condensed format reminded me a lot of this version of A Christmas CAROL since it's so very short .
An excellent Star Trek series that was a victim of bad timing	ENTERPRISE came out at a lousy time . Coming in the wake of four other Trek series shows and all the movies , the public never seemed all that stuck on the show . Plus , while I was a huge fan , I must admit that the series started slowly - - - very , very slowly . As a result , the show was canceled prematurely - - after the show had greatly improved but lost its audience . It's really a shame . The series is supposedly a prequel to all the Star Trek shows and shows the earliest journeys of mankind to the stars . I really liked what the writers did with the Vulcans , as in previous Star Trek shows , this race was super-noble . Here , however , they were less angelic - - doing their best to keep humans on Earth as well as showing a deviousness that you only slowly came to realize . But perhaps the most interesting race on the series were the Andorians ( who were only briefly seen on the original STAR TREK ) . These arch-rivals of the Vulcans seemed hyper-aggressive and unreasonable through part of the series , but after a while you come to see that the Vulcans really were jerks and dishonest in this series . While the Andorians were not the nicest of people , despite initial appearances , they could be reasonable and even allies . This plot element that was woven throughout the series was particularly effective and I loved how these beings were far more complex than you first thought ( much like the Narn were on BABYLON 5 ) . The major plot running through most episodes involved a doomsday weapon that obliterated Florida when first tested and was destined to be used to wipe out the entire planet and this was an excellent and interesting plot idea . The voyage across unknown space to stop this carnage was kept my interest . Additionally , most of the crew members were interesting and well-written , though since it was made in the 21sst century , they tended to be sex perverts compared to earlier and more chaste series ( including one episode where a male crew member got pregnant after making it with another species ) ! Still , there was a lot to recommend here - - too bad it came on the heels of all this other Trek , as it couldn't help but fail due to audience overload . By the way , there are MANY inconsistencies on the show if you compare it to the original Star Trek , such as the Enterprise looking far more high tech in this series ( though it was set in an earlier year ) . Unless you are a major geek with no life whatsoever , this shouldn't be a major problem . If it IS , then you need to join Star Trek Anonymous !
Just plain weird . . . . and I'm cool with that .	This is a truly odd little film from Britain that in spite of a rather low budget still packs an amazing punch . Edward Woodward stars as a police inspector sent to a small island off the Scottish coast to investigate the disappearance of a girl . However , when he arrives he's greeted very coldly and the locals all say they have never even heard of the child . However , as the film progresses , it becomes obvious that the locals are all a bunch of lying weasels , as Woodward is able to prove that the girl DID exist and that there is a massive conspiracy among everyone - - but what , exactly , it is isn't certain . At the same time , the traditional and Christian man , Woodward , is deservedly shocked to find that the locals are all pagans . The community indulges in sex outdoors , naked fertility dances for the children and nature worship - - like a group of modern day Wikkans . Where all this takes Woodward and the extremely wild but disturbing ending are all parts of the plot I really can't mention , as it would ruin the suspense , but believe me , it is REALLY , REALLY weird and haunting . Now parents must understand that this is a very , very adult movie and comes by its R rating honestly . Not only should it receive the rating because it's pretty scary , but there is quite a bit of nudity . Many adults will be amazed at the beauty of Britt Ekland's body double as she dances very seductively , but most sane parents won't want their kids watching this . If the film were only slightly edited , it would be appropriate for teens . Also , while some might find that the movie might have an anti-Christian slant , I would disagree ( though I am sure the copious amounts of nudity make it problematic for some ) . While the town is full of pagans and they seem to have an idyllic life , Woodward's character is not some angry or hypocritical Christian and he doggedly stays with his convictions throughout the film . Once you've seen this movie on DVD , try to watch the " making of " featurette . It has lots of great insights and information that make the movie come alive . However there is one mistake in it , as they say that THE WICKER MAN is totally unique and while it is unusual , it is strongly inspired by Shirley Jackson's story , " The Lottery " and also is quite similar to the American made for TV film THE DARK SECRET OF HARVEST HOME ( 1978 ) . If you like THE WICKER MAN , try to find another great film with similarities that also stars Christopher Lee - - HORROR HOTEL , which is about a modern town of witches bent on evil .
excellent but with one glaring problem	There was so much I liked about this film and it's an interesting glimpse into the German psyche only three decades after WWII . I would have expected more tolerance and less outright bigotry considering the racism that lead to the holocaust . However , seething just beneath the surface was a lot of hostility towards the relationship between eh two main characters . Sure , some of it may have been due to the extreme age difference , but the vast majority of the hate spewed towards them seems like pure racism . I liked Fassbinder's choice of the female lead . She was FAR from the older but still beautiful lead played in the original picture . Briditte Mira is not even close to being as pretty or sophisticated as Jane Wyman . Instead , she kinda looked like my grandmother looked in 1975 . While this in some ways strained the credibility of the relationship ( and was personally kinda creepy for me ) , it was very refreshing to see an ordinary and not especially attractive woman falling in love . However , despite the originality injected into an older script , the movie had one major flaw . While it didn't ruin the film , it did take it from a 10 to an 8 in the rating . The character of Ali ( played by El Hedi ben Salem ) was practically a zombie through much of the film and showed almost no emotional range . His performance was far from just being underplayed . My wife thought perhaps he was portraying someone who was mentally retarded , though I don't think this was the intention . I would love to see a remake of this film - - updating the story and using a male lead who has something MORE than his age to offer . FYI - - a note to parents : there are several nude scenes and you get to see A LOT of Ali . Be aware of this when allowing your teens to view the film . If they were just edited out ( as they were not necessary for the plot ) , this would be a great film for teens as it brings up a lot of interesting topics for discussion .
Top 250 . . . . nah . But it's still very good .	This was a very good film , but like many recent films , its score has been inflated on IMDb thanks to young viewers that have no appreciation for anything made before they were born - - hence older deserving films often are rated lower even though they are excellent films . As a result , lots of mediocre or above average films are given astronomical scores ( a great case in point , the film MEMENTO ) . Now this ISN'T to say that SHAUN OF THE DEAD is a bad film - - it's very good , but it isn't so good that I would rank it in the IMDb Top 250 ! In fact , it's a darn clever film that manages to inject life into a dull genre ( zombie movies - - when you've seen one , you think you've seen them all ) . In particular , it's tongue-in-cheek sense of humor was quite refreshing and the film had one of the best endings I have ever seen - - I was laughing about the shed scene for weeks . Excellent , refreshing and clever - - just NOT Top 250 material .
I loved this silly 40s B-movie	To many , this film will seem pretty silly and insignificant . I admit it . But , for what it was , it was one of the best . This film was meant to be a silly escapist film - - not a " big " movie but a B-movie meant to entertain the kids and adults alike . And , it was a major step up from the average B-western ( which , after seeing a few , looked the same ) . And the audiences loved these silly , yet magical films . This happens to be one of my favorites . Before I even saw it , I saw a publicity photo of the very sultry Maria Montez as the Cobra Woman - - dressed in a turban , evening gown and lounging across a giant cobra statue . Considering I was about 13 or so , I think I fell in love ! I HAD to see this hot lady in the film ! Well , when I finally located a video of it years later , I finally had my chance ( though by then , I had found my own " Cobra Woman " and didn't have quite the same pressing need as when I was a teen ) . It was silly but intensely exciting - - with lots of action , campiness and Jon Hall as the only man virile enough to tame this " she-beast " ! I loved it and wanted to see it again - - it was magical and just plain fun ! See it and enjoy unless you are a super-sophisticated person . I love foreign films and art films but sometimes I just gotta have some mindless B-movie fun !
A case of dj vu !	Wow was I confused when I saw this movie from 1911 . I didn't recall having seen THE LONEDALE OPERATOR when I started the film , but soon after it started it was like a case of dj vu . I KNEW I had seen the film before and even reviewed it on IMDb but I didn't remember it as being called ' THE LONEDALE OPERATOR ' . After a little checking , I found that the film I had seen was THE GIRL AND HER TRUST ( 1912 ) and the films were virtually identical . And , oddly enough , both are 17 minutes long ( though the speed at which the films are cranked may make this slightly longer or shorter ) . This really isn't too surprising , though , as when the film was made back in 1911 , outright plagiarism was common and pretty much condoned and many times the same production company would remake their films only a year or so later ! Often , the same film would be made by two or three or even more production companies - - sometimes even with the same movie title ! So it's very easy to understand the confusion . Now as for the film itself , it's a very good early full-length movie . Believe it or not , 17 minutes make this a very long film for 1911 - - as most films were less than five minutes long ! ! Because of its " great length " , the film has a good plot and is quite entertaining . Compared to other films of the age , it is a standout picture in practically every way .
Just lovely	GOODBYE is a splendidly made short film by Simon Aitken and Ashvin-Kumar Joshi and it displays great skill from such inexperienced film makers . It's about a man whose partner has died and he's having great difficulty letting go , though the need to do this is here since a new woman wants to become a part of his life . While at first it confused me to see the guy with his old love and talking to her , I quickly realized it was his imagination - - he was imagining he was having this dialog with her . This was quite compelling and sad , though it also did not seem cloying or overly sentimental . In addition , some very simple but appropriate music accompanied the film and heightened the sense of turmoil and sadness . Overall a real class act . By the way , one aspect of the film that was interesting was that the man and his first love were played by Indians living in London ( you can clearly see them across from the Tower of London ) but the fact they were ethnic Indians wasn't really important - - they were just people . Nice job .
Charming and witty	I am not sure why this film isn't more famous , as it was a very entertaining romantic-comedy . Considering that it was directed by Vincente Minelli and stars Rex Harrison , it can't help but be good . It's apparently good enough that the film was remade just a few years ago as WHAT A GIRL WANTS . As the film begins , the cream of British society is readying itself for a long string of debutante balls - - just as Rex Harrison's daughter from a previous marriage arrives from America ( Sandra Dee ) . His new wife ( played by his real-life wife , Kay Kendell ) is having a disagreeable conversation with an annoying friend ( Angela Lansbury ) about these society dances when she feels compelled to announce that her step-daughter will be introduced to society at the next ball - - even though the girl and her father have no interest in these stuffy affairs . But to please the step-mom , they go through with it . Unfortunately , Kay is pretty snobby and tries to arrange a marriage with an in-bred idiot and Sandra . At the same time , Kay is horrified that Sandra is falling for a lowly drummer with a lousy reputation ( John Saxon ) . How all this is worked out to everyone's satisfaction is pretty funny and quite romantic . I think most of this is due to good writing and the nice gentle nature of the film . In fact , the longer I watched it , the more I liked it and found myself really being pulled into the story . It's a very good and often overlooked film - - pity , as it really should be more widely seen .
Perhaps my favorite Fellini film	I must point out right away that I am not a huge fan of the films of Fellini and I much prefer his earlier films before he became the surrealistic director . So , you probably will assume I am an idiot - - that may be the case - - the jury is still out on that one ! However , I am not alone on IMDb , as a few others also have stated that they felt may of his films were overrated as well . So why did I like this film ? Well , instead of the disconnnectedness and choppiness of 8 and the utterly depressing nature of La Strada ( which I still liked ) and Nights of Cabiria , this film was more enjoyable . I don't require films to be fun to be worthwhile , but I think all too often , depressing and unappealing films are elevated to greatness by critics simply because of these aspects . In other words , if the film makes you feel suicidal , critics ASSUME it MUST be good ! So why did I enjoy this movie ? Well , I liked looking into the old Italy of Fellini's childhood and observing all the interesting and quirky characters - - I am a sucker for these elements . In fact , that is why I am a particular fan of the films of Marcel Pagnol - - it's as if we are peeking into the private lives of ordinary but likable folks .
really preachy and really silly but amazingly captivating	This is the sort of film that probably makes many religious leaders have strokes , but if you ignore the silly religious message of the movie and just turn off your brain you'll enjoy yourself . It seems that the Gospel According to Warner Brothers tells us that after we die , we go on a long sea voyage that ultimately culminates in a sort of judgement day . During the course of this long voyage , the dead have no idea they are in fact dead and go about acting like the sort of people they were in life - - with John Garfield acting like a hood ( big surprise there ) , an overbearing old bat remaining true to form , a selfish industrialist who thinks he's better than everyone else and complains that his accommodations are inferior , etc . The plot twist that they are all actually dead , though intended as a surprise twist , wasn't all that big a surprise to viewers but the acting and writing were so good that this didn't seem to matter . And that brings me to why this is such a good film - - a silly plot but with writing and acting so good you can't help but like the film ! This movie reminds me of the equally strange film about death from MGM entitled On Borrowed Time . I think this film was better than Between Two Worlds , but both are well worth watching .
This sure left me wanting to see more	I had never heard of " The Twelve Tribes " - - a fundamentalist Christian group that in some ways is reminiscent of the Quakers . Like Quakers , the sect lives very simply off the land and there is a huge difference in how they and the outside world lives . In many ways , there seems to be a lot to admire about them - - their love of the simple , their close connections and their devotion to God . However , there are some that can't take these rigid lives and there have also been some allegations of child abuse . Because there is so much left unanswered , I was intrigued by this documentary but also felt it was way , way too short . I would have loved to hear more about the possible abuse , the actual doctrine of the group as well as learn more about their day to day lives . Fascinating and well made but also woefully incomplete . How about a sequel ? !
Occasionally hard to watch , but boy did this film have originality !	This is a relatively low budget short film from made by Peter Letz and starring Ari Brand . While I am sure that this film is NOT everyone's " cup of tea " , it is highly creative and funny , but in a very dark way . Brand is the sole focus of the film and mourners at his funeral who briefly appear are the only other ones you see . The film begins with a weird giant hair appearing on Brand's chin as he's doing his getting ready for his day . When he notices this bizarre giant hair in the mirror , he tries to remove it - - with very , very bloody and disastrous results . It's really tough to watch , as the film's use of squishing sounds , fake blood and silly putty ( all cheap props ) all work together to make for an amazingly realistic and possibly stomach-turning scene . After accidentally killing himself in his attempt to remove the hair , Ari re-awakens during the funeral - - leading to a weird afterlife , . . . and etcetera ! It's very funny but dark and many surely will be turned off by it - - though it is also wildly imaginative . If you have a relatively strong constitution and love twisted humor , then this film is for you ! After seeing this film , I must acknowledge that with very little money , Letz and Brand have made an amazing film . Imagine what they could do with a real budget ? ! FYI - - The short is currently posted on IMDb , so it shouldn't be hard to find . Give it a watch .
A nice little claymation short	Just a year before SUNDAE IN NEW YORK won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film , another claymation short was nominated ( THE GREAT COGNITO ) . And while I hated THE GREAT COGNITO though respected it artistically , I felt much more satisfied when I watched SUNDAE IN NEW YORK . You see , it isn't that I hate all claymation - - just the horribly fast pace and " in your face manner " of the previous film . So what was better about SUNDAE ? Well , the speed was slower and more leisurely - - encouraging the viewer to take in all the cute backgrounds and characters ( such as Alfred E . Newman standing in a group of New Yorkers ) . The gentleness of this film was pretty infectious and was significantly more interesting that the standard style of animation that dominated in the early 80s ( which was usually very cheap - - with a very low cel count ) . The only negative wasn't even related to the animation and that was the sound of the guy singing " New York , New York " - - his voice wasn't close enough to Ed Koch's ( who he was obviously imitating ) and it was also pretty hard on the ears ! Still , a nice effort and a film that is a standout in quality .
very very original and interesting	This is a very small-time picture . It's star , Richard Boone , though a star on TV wasn't exactly a big movie star and he rarely starred in the movies in which he appeared . However , in this case he is the lead . He is the boss at a cemetery and after a while , he notices when he sticks black pins in the board , the person who owns the plot dies . Similarly , white pins seem to somehow protect the owner from death . He can't understand it , but somehow this IS the case ! Well , once he discovers this , all heck breaks loose and the story becomes a very creepy and effective thriller - - too good to be simply confined to B-movie oblivion ! Give it a watch and see a film that is not just a cheap copy or inspired by other films , but a totally unique film that doesn't insult the audience's intelligence .
Much better than the current IMDb rating	This film is included on a DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume Three " . Oddly , I have seen volume One already and Three is definitely much better - - though both are worth finding for lovers of short films like myself . I have no idea why this short currently is rated so poorly on IMDb , as it's very well made and funny - - though I will admit it is also pretty odd ! Two friends are driving and are discussing the Star Wars movies . While neither would probably admit it , they are both major geeks and are arguing over the stupidest points . I had to laugh because I've met folks like this and the internet abounds with them . However , things get funnier and weirder as their argument gets worse and worse - - leading to the guys fighting like a couple kids and worse ! I don't want to reveal much more , as it might spoil the film . However , the film makers did a good job of creating a cute vignette . While some may balk at how open-ended and ill-defined the film is ( it's more like a snippet than a full narrative ) , I loved the silliness and absurdity of it all . I want to see more from these folks .
Usually wonderful , but also quite uneven	" Animaniacs " was one of the best children's shows on TV in the 1990s due to its exceptionally intelligent writing . It was one of those wonderful kids shows that was so clever than it could actually be enjoyed by children and their parents alike . As my daughters were growing , it's not surprising I got hooked on the show myself . The format of the show was almost like " The Carol Burnett Show " - - the three Animaniacs ( Wakko , Yakko and Dot ) usually introduced the show and then an ensemble cast of characters were shown in a variety of skits . Some of the best of the characters were Pinky and the Brain ( so successful that they had their own spin off series ) , Slappy Squirrel , Katie Kaboom ( rarely seen but memorable ) , Chicken Boo , Mime Time , the kid who talks about Randy Beamon and others . A few of the characters were good but only in small doses , such as the Good Feathers . And , a few were just awful and their inclusion really slowed down the show , such as those dreadful Hippos and the god-awful singing cat and her friend the stupid dog ( ugghh ! ! ) . My kids truly hated this cat and dog and I have no idea who the intended audience was , as the operatic stylings of Burnadette Peters seemed really out of place in the show . Still , despite a few dud characters , the show was funny and fresh . Do yourself a favor and pick up one of the show's DVDs - - unless you have no sense of humor , you'll love it .
good , though Cocteau's later works are even better	This movie was written by Jean Cocteau and it's pretty obvious due to the odd plot twists , romantic tone and mythological roots to the plot . Just a few years later , he was to BOTH write and direct Beauty and the Beast and Orpheus . These two are better films than The Eternal Return , though this movie is still worth watching - - particularly as it shows and evolution of Cocteau's ideas . So , this movie is sort of like and unpolished version of these two later movies in many ways - - particularly Orpheus . Absent from this film are the odd camera tricks but the story elements are all here . The love between the two main characters is best described as a combination of the tragic stories of Orpheus and Eurydice along with Romeo and Juliet , but I have recently been informed that the story is ACTUALLY a reworking of the story of Tristan and Isolde . Thrown in for good measure are a malevolent dwarf , the dwarf's detestable parents and a lot of cool plot twists . However , there were a few things that just didn't work out well in the movie . First , when it was obvious that the crazed dwarf had tried to kill the lovers by offering them what he thought was poison , nothing was done to punish him or place him in an institute for the criminally insane . This is pretty prudent considering what the dwarf does LATER in the story ! Second , I hate movies that feature ladies fainting . Unless there is a blow to the head or they've gone without eating for a very extended period of time , people DON'T just faint . This is such a stupid clich and I'm a little surprised that anyone as innovative and intelligent as Cocteau would resort to this device . Other than that , it's a nice film . FYI - - An IMPORTANT warning : The video I watched was from The International Collection from Nelson Entertainment . If there are any OTHER companies that make this video , try them first ! ! ! ! The captioning was absolutely horrible ! ! Often , much of the dialog was not subtitled or very long statements were boiled down to one or two words ! ! ! They showed very little respect for the integrity of the movie !
very stupid , well-polished fun	Woody Allen's previous efforts , BANANAS and TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN , were exceptionally funny but very uneven films . His being a bit of an amateur in the film business is pretty obvious in these movies . However , by the time he created SLEEPER , he was a lot more polished and consistent film maker . While this is still a very stupid and sophomoric film , it is very funny nevertheless . While there are occasionally bad moments ( such as the giant chicken ) , they are very few and the humor just keeps hitting you again and again . I particularly liked the Orgazmatron and the history lesson he gives the futuristic professors . This film is slapstick and dopey - - exactly the type of film that intellectuals ( the audience for most later Allen films ) will probably hate . This is Allen for the common man - - back when he used to be very funny .
An exceptional first film	Matthew Blaine did just about everything in this film except act in it ! He wrote , produced and directed this excellent little short film . What makes this even more amazing is that it was Blaine's first film ! Not surprisingly , he has more credits since - - I'm sure this film convinced people that he had talent ! A crotchety old man is in the hospital with prostate cancer . He's mean as a hornet and just wants to sulk all alone until he dies . However , he's forced to share a room with an interesting man who you never actually see . Seeing how this old guy mellows is a treat and the ending makes a nice and somewhat unexpected finale . See this film and see what great stuff you can do with practically no budget !
Exceptional first pairing of Newman and Woodward	Husband and wife team Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward made several movies together and this was the granddaddy of them all . Paul Newman plays Ben Quick , an accused ( but never convicted ) " barn burner " - - i . e . , he burned down people's barns out of revenge if they ticked him off ! Ben is also a very , very slick operator and in local big-shot , Will Varner ( played by Orson Welles ) , he finds a kindred spirit . Both are very power hungry and not too concerned about how they get it . Will gets the idea of marrying Ben to his daughter , Clara ( Joanne Woodward ) because he wants to have a rough , tough , he-man for a son-in-law capable of both running his business and producing a whole brood of tough boys ! In a way , it sounds like he is looking less for a future husband for Clara and more a big stud mare ! Well , Ben is crude and aggressive and in many ways a jerk , but something strange occurs when he begins courting Clara . He begins showing that there are some good attributes as well and a genuine interest unexpectedly results in nice-girl Clara ! What happens next as well as how the barn burning comes into play is really something for you to find out yourself . Compared to some other Tennessee Williams plays , this one is a lot less sleazy and the bickering is much more subdued - - sort of like " Tennessee Williams Lite " . But , we are still left with a very interesting plot , magnificent acting and an exceptional movie .
well-acted and very watchable - - though probably NOT for every taste	It seems to me that this movie was made as an attack on the death penalty . While I have no problem with the use of the death penalty , I strongly agree with the major contention of the film . That is , once a person is sentenced , by the time they are put to death a lot of time has passed and they may not be the same person - - and may no longer deserve to die . In the case of the film , the delay was BRIEF compared to our modern penal system , as the delay looked to be about two years . During this interim time , the convicted man did so much to help those around him that there was little will , except among some idiots in the local government , to execute him . The film is very interesting and gives us insight into life on the isolated island of St . Pierre ( a French possession near New Foundland ) and because the story , it seems , is based on a true story ! I liked the film because it dared to be different , had something to say and featured excellent acting and dialog - - and this combination definitely doesn't happen very often .
Exceptionally gritty and realistic - - and hold on tight towards the end !	The first half of this very realistic and gripping crime film is very good . However , this is a case where a film keeps getting better and better - - culminating in an exciting and rather violent conclusion . And , while this film isn't exactly " Film Noir " in every way , it has many Noir sensibilities that will no doubt please fans of the genre . The film stars Eli Wallach , though interestingly enough he doesn't even appear in the film for about the first 15 minutes . Instead , the film begins with a robbery gone bad in which , inexplicably , a tourist's luggage is stolen and the getaway car runs into a truck and kills a cop ! The crime is so violent and senseless - - until the police understand the real reason why they needed the suitcase . It turns out that tourists are unknowingly transporting souvenirs that are actually filled with heroin - - and the mob will stop at nothing to get the drugs back - - and I mean NOTHING ! Wallach's job in the film is to retrieve these drugs and for a rather ordinary looking guy , he was amazingly cold and violent . He has no problem at all killing these tourists and ultimately he takes a mother and daughter hostage because they have inadvertently destroyed the heroin hidden in a doll . Instead of killing them , he takes them prisoner because he wants to prove to his superiors that he is not trying to cheat them . However , despite this , they don't believe him - - leading to one of the more violent and amazing confrontations I have ever seen on film . I made my jaw drop - - as did the very end as well . For a 1950s film , it was super-violent and highly reminiscent of Noir . Speaking of Noir , as I said this film had many of the usual Noir elements . However , its dialog was much more polished and less gritty than Noir and the lighting and camera angles were too normal and polished ( like a TV episode ) to be considered Noir by many fans . Still , despite me being a huge fan of the genre , I really didn't mind as the film was still a thrilling and taut suspense film . A highly underrated and under-appreciated little film that deserves to be seen .
Although a teeny bit " sticky " here and there , still a wonderful drama and time capsule of the war	While it's true that this film isn't nearly the drama that SINCE YOU WENT AWAY was , it is still an exceptional view of the impact of WWII on the families at home . Despite a very minor problem ( which I'll talk about later ) , the film has great emotional impact even today and I dare you to watch it all the way through and keep a dry eye ! The main character of the film is Ginger Rogers and is about her dealing with life without her husband , Robert Ryan , who is at war . While he does appear in the first 15 minutes or so of the film , he is primarily seen through a series of flashbacks interspersed through the movie . These all give background as to the life this couple shared before the war . As for Ryan , he came off very well in these vignettes , though Rogers ' character seemed a bit too petulant to be believable and I was half expecting Ryan to slap her upside the head to shut her up ( folks , I am NOT encouraging spousal abuse - - relax ) ! Later in the film she had mellowed quite a bit and was indeed a very sympathetic and good character . Ginger and her co-workers begin talking after Ryan goes back to the war and they mutually decide to rent a house together and share expenses . At this point , the story involved the the lives of these four other women - - their motivations , back story and character . This is all told in a very effective manner and you really begin to care for the ladies . The purpose of this tearjerker was to solidify the resolve for the war with the people left behind in the States and in this light , this was a super-effective film . Generally excellent writing , direction and acting make this a film that is easy to connect to and like . It also makes the movie a tough one to watch , as you tend to go through an emotional roller-coaster because of all the ladies ' trials and tribulations . A wonderful time capsule of the era and a film well worth seeing . Oddly , in later years , many of those responsible for this film were labeled " Communists " and the film was cited as an example of these left-leaning sympathies . Other than the fact the ladies live together and share their money , I really can't see how any sane person could construe this as Communism - - and what's the matter with sharing a home and expenses anyway ? I did that a while back and I don't THINK I'm a Communist ! !
Somehow , Ford has managed to make a film that is BOTH cynical and sentimental	John Ford's version of the book , THE LAST HURRAH , is a behind the scenes look at one last election campaign for an aging mayor ( Skeffington ) of a town whose name is never mentioned in the film . In many ways , the film is a bit cynical as it showed the way that politicians wheel and deal and manipulate - - but in this case , always for a good cause . While Skeffington is definitely not above using these questionable tactics , at the same time , he is shown as fundamentally decent and very , very sentimental - - with a true love for his constituents . This is a very difficult balancing act for the film - - combining gritty realism with sentimentality , but it manages to do so . In many ways , this is highly reminiscent of the real life Ford , as he was by many accounts a highly manipulative son of a , . . . . . well , you know what I was going to say . Yet , at the same time , sentimentality abounds in his films like no other film maker . You can see it here in his liberal use of old and almost forgotten supporting stars - - such as Eddie Brophy , Frank McHugh and Jane Darwell . Overall , the film is very interesting and manipulative ( in a good way ) , as you find yourself pulling for Skeffington and feeling his pain as well - - even though he is a fictional character AND a politician ! The film is well worth seeing and the film is extremely well-acted and directed .
I hate most musicals but I liked this one	This movie was like an amateur musical review combined with a movie about how the review was being organized . There are two main reasons I really liked the film . First , it didn't take itself too seriously and Eddie Cantor was fantastic . Not only were his songs fun , but his self-deprecation was greatly appreciated . Throughout the movie he played two guys - - himself and a guy who just happens to look like him . As himself , he was shown as a fat-headed and very insecure boob ! He really played this up to the hilt ! The other guy , though interesting , wasn't quite as funny a character . However , at the very end of the film , the " real " Cantor was taken to the Mental Hospital ( presumably for good ) and the " fake " one assumed the other's life ! Second , although some of the song and dance numbers were marred by the fact some of the Warner Brothers celebrities sing like cats in heat ( especially John Garfield , though George Tobias wasn't much better ) , others were fun and made the most of the stars ' limited abilities ( Errol Flynn and especially Bette Davis , who I know sang HORRIBLY since I have a recording of her screeching on Broadway - - oh , the pain ) . Plus , a few even did excellent jobs , such as Alexis Smith and Ann Sheridan . I can't count Dennis Morgan , Eddie Cantor or Dinah Shore because they were well-known for their singing . So , in conclusion , I hate most musicals and I hate most studio review films . However , this one was good because it was light-hearted and fun .
A neat story idea . . . .	I assume that the makers of this short film intended the film to be a proposal for a longer and more hashed out version of the same story . This is often true with independent shorts and I sure hope they eventually get the funding and have the inclination to do so . That's because the story idea is really interesting and I'd love to see it carried to full-length . The film begins with a murder of a priest . The killer is dressed as another priest but gets stabbed in the process . As he's bleeding , a man enters the confession booth where's he's hiding and so he's forced to pretend to be a man of the cloth . To make things interesting , the guy coming to confession is himself a mobster and he has a lot to confess . However , he's really not interested in confession as he's hiding out in the booth . The dialog between the two is really interesting and I really wished the film could have progressed further to its logical conclusion . Well made and a dandy plot - - this film left me wanting to see more .
Very odd but very watchable	This movie stars Johnny Arthur ( a silent screen comedian very few would remember today ) but the real star involved with this picture is the director , Fatty Arbuckle - - though he is credited as " William Goodrich " due to the rape / manslaughter scandal that ruined Fatty's career . This is a cute film about a guy who loves a woman who is hopelessly infatuated with movie stars . He wants to get her attention , but she's always reading about her favorite male stars , getting autographs from them by mail and longs to meet them . So , to get her to notice , he decides to dress up and act like her latest infatuation . The problem is that he goes to a lot of trouble to look like the latest interest , but they change so quickly he invariably arrives dressed like the old infatuation when she's off to a new one . He imitates some Rudolph Valentino-type star ( whose name escapes me right now ) , Douglas Fairbanks as Robin Hood ( complete with AMAZING leaping ability ) and finally , Harold Lloyd ! But , eventually , she tells him that her favorite character he can do is HIMSELF ! And , it all ends happily ever after . A very creative and sweet comedy short .
an absolute must if you also see the movie	Fortunately , this documentary was included on the DVD of the movie , Warriors of Heaven and Earth . That's because , unlike many DVD extras , it greatly enhanced the film and helped to explain some of the historical background behind the plot . A little MORE of this information would have been appreciated , though . In addition , it was really interesting to see the trouble they went to to create the film - - going on location and often filming in the dead of winter ( including the belly dancing scenes and the final battle - - shot at 20 below zero Celcius ) . The care and dedication of the director and cast was exciting to see and gave me a greater appreciation for the movie .
Sort of Like CAPTAIN BLOOD II	Although Brenda Marshall plays the female lead instead of Olivia DeHavilland , the two movies seem very similar as they are both taken VERY LOOSELY from Raphael Sabatini novels and involve piracy . CAPTAIN BLOOD was Flynn's breakout film - - making him a major star and in general it was a better film . Now this isn't knocking THE SEA HAWK - - it was also a very fine film but just not quite as good as the other . In this movie , Flynn plays a man like Francis Drake , as he is a privateer for England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I . " Privateer " is a nice way of saying " legalized pirate " , as he and his crew were given permission to attack ships belonging to England's enemies , though they were not at war . In the film ( as in real life ) , the queen would scold Flynn for his evil deeds then divide up the treasure in private - - a nice arrangement for everyone ( except the Spanish , of course ) . Naturally , the Spanish don't like this treachery and so they conspire with Catholics in England to do naughty things - - only to be thwarted in the end by good ol ' Errol ( huzzah ) . This is a wonderful adventure with plenty of high seas action , a dandy romance and all the usual Warner Brother trappings given to an A-picture . Any serious student of film should see this movie . PS - - I have always found it odd how in these American movies England is always shown very positively but Spain isn't - - making stealing from them and killing their sailors seem okay .
A very good film . . . and made three years before the more famous TABU	This is the tale of a doctor who is disgusted at the greed of the White sailors who plunder and exploit the Polynesian natives . Risking their lives to retrieve huge pearls , the locals are given mere trinkets . And , when a few die , the Whites take no heed . But , when the doctor has had enough and verbally attacks these " businessmen " , his is tied to the wheel of a ship full of plague victims and cast adrift . Fortunately , he finds an unspoiled island full of sweet villagers . Will the wicked White men come and destroy this paradise , too , or will the doctor find the peace he so craves ? The film has amazingly good cinematography and it's nice to see that the crew went to Tahiti to film . Additionally , the film is innovative because it's MGM's first sound film , though like most of these early films , it is NOT all-sound , but uses some synchronized music and sound effects . At the time , audiences were spellbound - - today it just seems like a nice silent film with some added sound and nothing more . The story is very good and compelling , though at times a bit too earnest and preachy about those " White Devils " and their greed . I am a huge fan of F . W . Murnau , the great German director . While he did some wonderful and very advanced films ( such as NOSFERATU , FAUST and THE LAST LAUGH ) , somehow the final film in his career ( TABU , 1931 ) has also been accorded ' classic status ' - - even though it was a silent film made in 1931 . In addition , you can't help but think that Murnau was copying WHITE SHADOWS IN THE SOUTH SEAS - - as the films seem very similar to me . However , WHITE SHADOWS was an innovative film with synchronized sound and music . By 1931 , sound was the standard in many nations and Murnau's making a silent seemed a bit out of date . If I had to watch just one of these films , I'd pick WHITE SHADOWS .
a better than average Zatoichi flick	This Zatiochi movie stands out from most of the others because of his relationship with the adorable , but bratty little boy . This is the same little boy who gives Ichi a hand full of pebbles and tells him it's candy ! Despite his brattiness , a strong bond of friendship develops between them and it is with much hesitation that Ichi leaves the boy at the end of the movie . The boy chases him through the crowd , with Ichi quickly tries to lose him . This was NOT done because the kid was annoying but because a kind monk helped him realize that keeping the boy with him was not good , as the violent lifestyle Ichi leads is NOT a good influence . Once again , Ichi chooses to abandon someone who loves him at the end of the movie - - for their own good , but with a lot of heartbreak for both .
While not a new idea , it sure was handled well	The idea of a world-weary gunslinger from the Old West who is tired of young punks trying to prove something by fighting them is not new . The best film about this was Gregory Peck's THE GUNFIGHTER and there have been several Westerns about this very topic . In addition , there was even a " Twilight Zone " episode about pool sharks ( with Jonathan Winters and Jack Klugman ) that appeared inspired by this " you don't really want what you think you want " theme . Because of this , I don't think the film deserved the 10 that another reviewer gave it . Plus , the types of gunfights you see in many Westerns simply didn't happen in real life - - this is all Hollywood fiction . However , it's very , very important for me to also point out that this is still a truly amazing film . For a first film , Joshua Sikora has really scored a bullseye . Despite a derivative script , the rest of the film worked exceptionally well . The music was simply amazing and worked very well with the film . In addition , the direction and cinematography looked very professional . So , I am expecting great things from Mr . Sikora because for a first effort , it's really outstanding .
excellent " social commentary " picture	This is a very entertaining picture created to expose the plight of some truckers who are overworked and under-appreciated by evil fat cats . Despite this , it really isn't a preachy film or becomes too bogged down with the message that the rest of the film takes a back seat . The action and suspense work really well as does the pairing of George Raft and Humphrey Bogart . This film is typical of the quality product being churned out by Warner Brothers during this ear . By the way , as this film came out before Bogart became a breakout star , Raft gets top billing and the lion's share of screen time and he is essentially the " main hero " .
If you insist on watching a DEAD movie , then make it this one	No pun intended , but the brain-eating zombie genre has been beaten to death . After the seminal film NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD appeared in 1968 , there was a long hiatus until remakes ( of sorts ) and sequels began appearing in the 1980s and beyond . The problem is , just how many cannibal zombie movies do we need ? If you ask some die-hard and rabid fans , they'll insist you can never have enough , though a more discriminating viewer might agree that the genre has been gasping for air for some time . Apart from SHAUN OF THE DEAD , the films are pretty much the same old same old and that is why I feel it's a public service to tell you that you really only need to see one of them and repeated viewing of the genre will probably result in massive death in brain cells . While this could be a positive thing in case of a zombie attack ( after all , who wants an atrophied brain - - even zombies have their standards ) , I would hope people would have a better use for their time than just watching one brain-eating movie after another . So , if you want to try just one zombie film , try watching THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD . That's because like SHAUN OF THE DEAD , it is indeed a comedy ( something this deadly serious genre needs ) but unlike SHAUN , it has a cheesiness and cheapness about it that make it fun . The bottom line is that zombie films should NEVER have big budgets - - it's everything that the original NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD was not ! Cheap , silly fun - - see THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD and then try turning off the TV and reading a book if the urge to watch more zombie films arises .
VERY familiar material , but it still will make you laugh !	This Laurel and Hardy silent short might seem very familiar to Laurel and Hardy fans even if you've never seen the film before . That's because it uses a formula that worked well in many of their shorts . Basically , Stan and Ollie are trying to act tough ( this time spurred on by two cute ladies ) and after a small altercation develops , the two take the " tit for tat " notion to amazing heights . In this case , a tiny fender bender results in car destruction on a massive and hilarious scale . A few Laurel and Hardy films that have used similar plot construction are the great BIG BUSINESS , BATTLE OF THE CENTURY , TIT FOR TAT and the final portion of MEN O'WAR ( which , incidentally ALSO has them playing sailors on shore leave ) . So , if the formula is so familiar , why bother watching TWO TARS ? Well , like the other films listed ( and others ) , TWO TARS is just plain funny . Period . While the first 75 % of the film is mildly funny , seeing the end results of all the destruction . The many , many sight gags are very reminiscent of the Keystone comedies and must have , for the time , cost a lot of money . Now there is a problem with viewing this film , however . There are no DVD sets of the existing prints of all the Laurel and Hardy films . There was a videotape set produced many years ago , but it's out of print . As a result , I know of no place where you can now view this rare Laurel and Hardy film except online . Under Google Video , there's an old Blackhawk films print ( probably taken from an 8 or 16mm home movie ) but there is no incidental music - - just silence . But , even given these limitations , it's still well worth finding and watching . Not the best Laurel and Hardy film , it IS among the better ones this fine team produced . FYI - - This short is currently playing at the Museum of Modern Art in New York with organ accompaniment . I have no idea how much longer this will be , but it's sure worth seeing - - even if much of the art in the museum is too sophisticated for 99 % of the public .
excellent but could have easily been better	This was a very engaging film about a guy who murders his cheating wife and then is released from prison 8 years later . You really find yourself rooting for him - - especially when he meets and saves the life of a lady . You really want them to get together , . . . the problem is , he is SO afraid to open up to people that he distances himself from her and chooses to confide more in his pet eel . It seems that if he does connect to someone on a deeper level , he's afraid he might kill again - - though he is clearly a decent person who snapped one time in his life and only after being pushed . It's a great character study and the acting and direction are marvelous - - with a few lapses here and there . What didn't I like ? Well , it isn't so much the acting that's the problem , but the script . Repeatedly , flashbacks and psychotic-like hallucinations occur . They tend to muddle the basic message and confuse the plot . Without these and without the LARGE amounts of blood in the murder scene , this would have gotten a rating of 9 or even 10 .
Yet another brilliant CG film from Blur Studios	Although not seen as one of " the big boys " like Pixar , Dreamworks or Fox , tiny little Blur Studios is making a big name for itself with some tremendous short films . Not only did they make the Academy Award nominated film GOPHER BROKE , but they made some films which I think are even better , such as A GENTLEMEN'S DUEL . IN THE ROUGH is one of their earlier works , though it is every bit as beautifully rendered as their other films - - as pretty as anything by the big name studios . Unlike the competition , though , the films of Blur have all been shorts . Given the quality and fun I've seen in them , I really hope they one day try a full-length film or at least keep putting out more of these lovely shorts . IN THE ROUGH is about a caveman who is in the midst of an argument with his mate . Their language is gibberish to us , but it's pretty easy to guess what is occurring . After he leaves the cave , our hero comes upon a huge and nasty beast that tries to eat him - - leading to a cute conclusion where he not only defeats the creature but wins back his lady's love . Excellent animation and fun - - give this one a try .
It's amazing how much personality they gave the chair !	This is a very unusual short film about a man and a very strange chair ! When he tries to sit in it , it moves away and eventually the man chases the chair in a vain attempt to catch it . However , after he accepts this and just sits on the floor , the chair returns and begins bothering him - - wanting the man to accept him but STILL not sit on him ! This is all very strange but the film makers manage to milk a lot out of what they've got to work with - - and that is a man , a tiny plain set and a chair . Using stop-motion and their imaginations , they manage to spin a tale that actually kept me watching it - - and you wouldn't think a chair film could do this ! Plus , it sure helped that the film ended so well . Clever , strange and totally unique - - this short from the Canadian National Film Board is well worth seeing .
An odd choice of subjects for a silent film	This is a very odd silent film , as the main theme of this Laurel and Hardy film is music ! They are dim-witted musicians who are ruining a production . The first gag involves the boys standing while everyone is sitting and vice-versa . It isn't funny nor are the subsequent jokes where their instruments fall apart and they ultimately knock over the rest of the band . However , once they are fired , the short kicks into higher gear , as Stan and Ollie are in more familiar territory as they are trying to earn a few bucks playing tunes on the street corners ( such as in BELOW ZERO ) . Plus , in the last few minutes , the film REALLY gets exciting when Stan and Ollie get into a fight . This isn't much like their later characters , but it is very funny , as their fight gets more and more serious and ultimately involves a large group of men hitting and kicking and ripping the pants off each other . This and the final gag make this a very good short - - just try to wade through the dull opening sequence .
A sweet little short film	A rather grim looking old man is alone in his apartment doing what he loves best - - working on a crossword puzzle . However , into his very ordered and isolated life comes a knock on the door . The old woman living next door is looking for a word for her puzzle . Later , she returns again for help , then again and again . Each time , the clue she reads him relate to them becoming friends or spending time together . Despite her overtures , he seemed unshaken . . . at least for a while . This is a sweet little romantic film . You just can't help but smile at how cute the lady is and how hard she tries to make emotional contact with the old grouch . Though a tad predictable , it's handled so deftly that you are left with a smile - - satisfied at a job well done .
A lot better than I assumed it would be . . . . in fact , it's very , very good	For years I avoided watching this film whenever it came on television . This was mostly due to my thinking that because it was the movie about a nun and marine trying to survive on a tropical island together during WWII so I assumed it would be filled with clichs and sappy dialog . I really expected it to be like the merging of THE SINGING NUN with FATHER GOOSE as well as a standard war film ! However , after watching the film , I am very happy to report that the film was very intelligently written - - and not at all what I had expected . It's one of the best films either of the leads ( Robert Mitchum and Deborah Kerr ) made . The film begins with Mitchum being washed up on shore on a tiny Pacific island in 1944 . The island is deserted except for a nun ( Kerr ) and although there is plenty to eat and drink on the island , they are worried that no one will ever find them , so they plan on taking a big risk and sailing 300-odd miles to civilization . However , there plans are changed when the island is bombed and then occupied by the Japanese . Much of the film was spent in hiding until a very exciting and nerve-racking conclusion . The film wasn't the least bit preachy or silly , but dealt with the relationship between Kerr and Mitchum as well as the delicate subject of burgeoning sexual attraction between them . The way this was handled should neither offend anyone's religious sensibilities nor bore them with heavy-handed platitudes - - a tough job for such a film but it managed to handle it very well . This made for a very interesting and realistic film - - one of the better war films because it was so different and because of the excellent performances .
Good but I want to see so much more . . .	The premise for this short film is excellent . The problem is that it is so good that the viewer will no doubt be left wanting more . . . a lot more . And considering that the film is only three minutes long , that is a very serious draw . A lady is having a meeting with a guy and she doesn't want her secret agent boyfriend to find out about it . It appears as if she might be cheating on her when suddenly a tactical strike force ( led by the boyfriend ) springs into action ! Naturally , there's a lot more to it than this ! The film is expertly made and despite its short duration , it's a heck of a good film .
Like a cartoon and real life put together !	RATTUS PISTOFFICUS is a cute idea for a film and the title hearkens to the Roadrunner and Wiley Coyote films where the adversaries are given scientific names at the beginning of many of their pictures . Here , the story is about an angry CGI rendered rat who has an umbrella he's using for a home . However , a human ( live action ) comes along and takes the umbrella and the rest of the film is a very clever fight between the two for control . The film does have two deficits . First , it was a bit short - - even for a short . I would have loved a couple more minutes of gags in the film to make it more like the length of a Looney Toons / MGM style cartoon . Second , the rat isn't rendered all that well , but considering it's a low-budget film by a young film maker , this certainly can be excused . What you are left with is a very cute and funny film with a real nice touch - - making live actors and computer generated ones work seamlessly together . Nice .
just plain old fashioned fun	This movie marked the beginning of a new series of Mummy films from Universal Studios - - seven years after the original Boris Karloff classic , THE MUMMY . This was the one mummy film starring Tom Tyler as the monster , but it is a really good film - - so good that it inspired three followup films . The real star of the film isn't Dick Foran or his pal , Wallace Ford , . . . nor is it Tom Tyler . No , the guy who really steals the show is the ever-campy George Zucco . In traditional films I don't know if Zucco would have succeeded , but in B-horror flicks , he was great - - with his cool accent and crazy eyes . It seems that madman Zucco ( that's not much of a stretch ) is leader of a weird cult and he is trying to revive the mummy , Karhis , using the dreaded Tanna Leaves ! Can he be stopped in time or will this horror be unleashed on the infidels ? ! Tune in and see . I love this film not because it is great art but because it is great entertainment and is a great example of the Saturday morning B-horror films of yesterday . Kids and adults loved them despite their predictability - - because they were just plain escapist fun ! This movie has it all !
A truly amazing curio	This very unique short is included in the four DVD set of THE FORGOTTEN FILMS OF ROSCOE " FATTY " ARBUCKLE . The exact date for this short and why it was made are unknown , but it is odd in that Fatty makes a brief appearance AFTER the famous rape scandal . The commentary on the DVD guesses that perhaps this was a movie made by United Artists ( the studio owned by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks ) to show to their friends at parties and was not ORIGINALLY intended to be shown to general audiences . However , a few years later , the film was released to the public . Carter DeHaven , an actor pretty much forgotten with time , is the star of the short . He is standing on a stage and announces he will be doing some impersonations of celebrities . He has a chest in front of him and he pretends to be taking makeup and props out of it and ducks down - - when , with trick camera-work , he emerges as an exact copy of the original . Actually , the camera relatively seamlessly stops and the ACTUAL celebrity is featured - - i . e . , pretending to be an imitation while it's really the original . This is a cute idea and such very famous stars are featured as Harold Lloyd , Douglas Fairbanks , Fatty Arbuckle , Rudolph Valentino and ultimately a young Jackie Coogan ! Wow - - that Carter DeHaven sure seems versatile ! ! ! The short is an absolute must for lovers of silent cinema .
Clever without being preachy but it ended on a slightly sour note	ELECTION NIGHT is a clever film about racism . The film begins with a man meeting a friend at a bar . When the friend says on off-hand racist remark , the first man confronts him instead of sitting silently . While almost impossible to believe , the first man then realizes that the election is being held and he forgot to vote - - and runs to the polls before they close . On the way , again and again , he gets in cabs where the drivers are total racist pigs and are amazed that he's offended - - as if everyone of " us " is in agreement about " them " . This is an interesting idea and didn't come off as too preachy . When he finally did arrive at the polling station , there was a very ironic little twist that made the film and made me think of the saying " no good deed goes unpunished " . The only sour note to the film was the very last scene in the bar - - it was really impossible to believe that this one incident at the poll could change such a good man so quickly . Still , it was a very clever and interesting film . By the way , this film is part of the CINEMA 16 : European Shorts DVD . On this DVD are 16 shorts . Most aren't great , though because it contains THE MAN WITHOUT A HEAD , COPY SHOP , RABBIT and WASP , it's an amazing DVD for lovers of short films and well worth buying .
Wonderful and cute Tracy and Hepburn farce	This is about the most light-hearted movie the pair did together in their careers . While it has many of the great qualities that make a Tracy-Hepburn film so watchable ( especially the dialog ) , it takes such a leisurely pace and provides so much fun at the same time that this is a must-see film . While other films they did together may have been more profound , this one is the most fun . Tracy is an efficiency expert hired to investigate a corporation . Everyone is worried that he's really a " hatchet man " out to fire people to make the company lean and mean . Because of this fear , Hepburn confronts the problem directly - - by being very blunt with Tracy and by trying to win him over ! This is a well written fun little romp with a terrific ending . A lovely film that won't change the world but will provide lots of fun and entertainment .
Nice followup to a delightful cartoon	This is the second of two cartoons starring the adorable daydreamer , Ralph Phillips . In the first , From A to Z-Z-Z-Z , he spent his school day dreaming of being a hero in a wide variety of situations and in this followup , you've got the exact same formula , except that he's been sent to his room after accidentally breaking a window . While he waits for his dad to come home , his overactive mind creates a lot of funny situations that will delight the audience . The part I liked the best , though , was when the nice dad returned and Ralph left the room - - imagining he was little George Washington out to chop down a cherry tree ! You can imagine what is probably going to happen next and the cartoon fades out . Yes , I know that Washington never chopped down a cherry tree - - but it's still a funny scene .
Pretty clever stuff	This is a very clever little French film that does a good job of setting up a tense situation and providing an unexpected comedic twist . The film begins with a flight attendant on an airliner calling desperately to the control tower begging for help - - it seems something has happened to the crew and he is flying the plane ! The tower assures the frightened man that someone will be talking with them shortly via cell phone in order to talk them down safely . The phone then switches to a guy on a cell phone in a car . Unfortunately , he loses his connection and spends the next several minutes DESPERATELY searching for a way to regain contact - - and no matter what he does , it seems to fail ! ! Tense , exciting and very well made - - - this is a short film worth your time .
I wish my wife could do that !	A guy gets thrown out of his apartment and is forced to move into the garage in which his girlfriend lives . While you'd think this living situation would be miserable , oddly , the lady seems very happy and seems to love her cramped life . I love my wife and have been very happily married for many years . However , there's something very special about the lady in this short film that I wish my wife could do ! It's not just that this lady has wonderful dreams every night and wakes up happy and rested . No , there's a lot more to it than that ! I'd say more , but I'd hate to spoil the fun . This independent short is well written and acted . Most importantly , it's NOT like other films I have seen - - being a rare case of a truly original film .
Awfully simple and difficult to believe , . . . but also exceptionally well done !	This story isn't the most believable silent short I have ever seen , but it is so sweet and likable that I strongly recommend it . A lonely man and a lonely woman live across from each other in an apartment building . You can tell that there MIGHT be a spark between them , but they are just too shy to do anything about it . A very sickly woman also lives upstairs with her adorable little daughter . The sickly woman dies and the kid is so young she doesn't realize it . Instead of grieving , she goes for a stroll around the apartments spreading her sweetness and charm . The lonely lady downstairs and the lonely man BOTH at first tell the kid to go away when she visits them one after the other , but she is so gosh darn sweet , they let her stay a while . Later , they both take her home and find the mother is dead . Then , although the two adults don't really know each other so well , they decide that together they can provide a home for the poor little orphan . The assumption is that they get married and live happily ever after . Wow , . . . it does sound pretty " sticky sweet " , but it actually is very watchable and cute .
Bizarre but highly enjoyable	The 1960s and 70s brought the world several wonderful Christmas specials from Rankin-Bass . A few , such as RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER and SANTA CLAUS IS COMING TO TOWN are true classics and a few are really milking the franchise a bit too much ( such as RUDOLPH'S SHINY NEW YEAR and THE EASTER BUNNY IS COMING TO TOWN ) . THE YEAR WITHOUT A SANTA CLAUS isn't quite as magical as the earlier specials and it is quite bizarre in some ways , but it is still among the studio's better films . The plot involves Santa having Seasonal Affective Disorder - - in other words , he's depressed . Instead of seeking therapy or anti-depressants , he decides to just skip Christmas this time - - after all , he thinks no one really cares about the holiday any more . Mrs . Claus is worried but instead of trying to persuade him to deliver toys , she concocts a stupid plan . She picks two very nice but seriously dumb elves to go on a mission to find out what kids REALLY think about Christmas . To make this choice even worse , she sends them with a young and fragile reindeer and soon they get into trouble - - so much that Santa must come to the rescue . At the same time , Mrs . Claus also comes to help and ends up making visits to the Snow Miser and his brother the Heat Miser - - two totally bizarre creations of R-B Studios who have nothing to do with the holiday but they do dance to a really rocking song . The film is lovely to look at - - with excellent stop-motion animation . The only shortcoming is that occasionally the story does get a bit bizarre ( even for Rankin-Bass ) and the elves are a bit annoying to adults - - though kids probably won't notice or want to kill them . Still , it's a great treat for the family and worth seeing this holiday season .
Not exactly DAS BOOT , but still a very good sub warfare film	I was pretty torn on scoring this film - - if possible , I'd like to have given it a 7 . 5 . The film is one of the better sub warfare films , though now that I think about it , practically every sub film I have seen ( except for CRIMSON SKIES ) was excellent . There's something about this genre that make it easy to make a tense and engaging film . This movie is a tad different than most for two big reasons - - it gives an in-depth portrayal of BOTH the sub and the pursuing destroyer , and the film lacks a clichd " happy ending " like some earlier sub films . Robert Mitchum is the new captain of the sub and his portrayal and that of his crew is a tad superficial - - Mitchum is pretty much all business . Instead , " meatier " roles are given to Curt Jurgens , Theodore Bikel and the rest of the German crew . Jurgens plays a tired older captain who is concerned with doing his duty , while also having grave doubts about his insane government . The movie is basically a cat and mouse type film that ultimately has a very strange and yet interesting conclusion . You will probably NOT guess how it all ends , and for that reason in particular , I liked this film .
good insight into a charming sociopath	While this is far from my favorite French film , I did enjoy it - - particularly as it did a good job of both including the historical aspects of 1933 with an in-depth portrait of a charming sociopath who had a touch of madness . The main character , Stavisky , was ably portrayed by Jean Paul Belmondo and it was very interesting to see the supporting work done by Charles Boyer ( in one of his last films ) . However , I think the best work was done by the writers as they did an accurate job of showing a certain type of sociopath - - the anti-social personality with some evidence of a thought disorder . The main character , though completely amoral and conniving , truly seemed to believe he was special and " moral " and that his illegal schemes would somehow magically work out fine . He stole and lied and cheated but somehow felt that society's laws were not intended for someone like him . In some ways , it makes you wonder if some of our most famous and successful moguls and politicians have a touch of Stavisky inside of them !
About as good as you'll get from The Stooges	This is a very enjoyable Three Stooges effort , thanks to some good writing and to having Curly as the 3rd stooge . The boys are in court on charges of stealing chickens but the nice judge lets them go . However , no sooner did they escape this charge when they were caught fishing in a pet store ! The cop gives chase and the stooges hides out in a plumber's truck . When the truck arrives across town , they are mistaken for the plumbers who are to fix a rich society home . Knowing absolutely nothing about plumbing ( or anything else ) , they pretend to be plumbers with plenty of gusto - - jumping right in and thinking they can fix it . In the process they make a huge mess of the home and there are lots of cute gags involving mixing up the electrical and plumbing systems . In the end , it turns out this is the judge's house ( who else ? ) and they are chased from the home - - leading to a very funny and original concluding scene you probably will enjoy . Overall , this is one of the better stooge films and even non-fans will probably laugh at some of their antics . Good stuff - - really .
Like most of Waters ' films , this one is NOT for everyone ! ! !	Okay , right upfront I must point out that this is not a film for kids , the easily offended , people who like the current state of Hollywood films or people with good taste . The audience for this weird film is definitely a minority - - all others beware ! ! John Waters is back in form after several films that were awfully conventional and " normal " by his twisted standards . Here , finally , is a film as offensive and bizarre as POLYESTER or FEMALE TROUBLbut with better production values . Cecil B . Demented is a self-proclaimed film director and leader of a cult who have sold their souls to him and his twisted vision of film . Instead of the tried and true Hollywood style of film making , he advocates a fusion of terrorism with film that is done live and at the expense of the audience who is thrust into the action ! This all begins after he and his group kidnap a famous movie star ( played by Melanie Griffith ) and force her to star in their movie . Ironically , as Griffith begins to bond with and eventually agree with Demented's philosophy , you see a Waters stock character actress , Patty Hearst , in a normal role - - as a mother who wants her son to abandon the group and come home ! The film is filled with obscenities , crude sexual humor and pretty much every sort of taboo you can think of . . . and yet at the same time , it's tough to stop watching . It's because the film is sort of like a fusion of a train wreck and a good kooky comedy . When my wife suggested turning it off early into the film , some hilarious scenes occurred and she changed her mind . Like her , I advise you to hold on to your seat and try to bear with it - - the final result is excellent and fun - - and has many parallels to Waters ' more conventional picture about cult-adulation , SERIAL MOM . Once again , don't watch this with the kids , those with weak hearts or the easily offended ! ! ! Don't say I didn't warn you !
A tad obvious , but good stuff for its day	This is a short by D . W . Griffith that stars both Mary Pickford and Lionel Barrymore ( though , like other Biograph shorts , there are no credits listed on the film ) . It's worth seeing just for these stars so early in their careers . A lady dies and makes the nice preacher ( Barrymore ) to promise to carry out her wish that he buy something nice for her daughter out of some money she has saved from her no-good husband . The nice daughter sees a really awful and gaudy hat in the window of a shop and wants it ( the hat was actually " tasteful " for 1911 - - it looks AWFUL today and very tacky ) . So , to fulfill his trust , the preacher buys her the hat anonymously . However , some dried up old prunes see it and begin spreading malicious rumors . But , by the end of the film , the old biddies get theirs ! ! By the way , on the wall of the home is the American Biograph logo ( the studio making the film ) . This occasionally appears on some other Biograph shorts and must be some sort of inside joke - - after all , who has this " AB " logo on their walls as part of their decorating scheme ? !
force yourself to ignore how stupid the plot it - - then sit back and enjoy	The main plot of this movie is stupid . There is no other way to say it . Think about it for a moment , . . . A woman who is a career thief is going to be sitting in jail over the Christmas holiday . But the prosecutor feels sorry for her and arranges her bail . This isn't 100 % unbelievable , but pretty tough to say the least . Then , he takes her with him on a cross-country drive to see his family ! Talk about completely unbelievable ! ! However , if you force yourself to ignore the basis for the movie , you will find that the rest of the film is wonderful . The dialog and acting in particular were fine - - with exceptional performances from Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck . But , to me , the real important acting was done by Beulah Bondi and Elizabeth Patterson as his mother and aunt . Their performances were really touching and sweet . In fact , they reminded me of the two nice old ladies from ARSENIC AND OLD LACexcept , of course , the ladies from REMEMBER THE NIGHT weren't serial killers ! This movie is a real fine example of supporting actors or actresses helping to boost a film above the ordinary . The film was written by Preston Sturgis - - a writer with a great reputation but who also , from time to time , had really dopey plot elements in some of his films ( great example is this film and especially THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK ) . I have thought for a long time that Sturgis was fantastic with dialog but often made ridiculous errors with his basic plot . But , considering he is nearly a god to some , what do I know . Hmmm , . . . . no I stand by my statements . This film was so wonderful but why in the heck would Sturgis have Stanwyck be on trial for theft ? This just defies all common sense and prevents the movie from being a true classic . Too bad - - with a minor re-write , this film could have easily scored a 9 . In the end , a near miss .
Nothing particularly new , . . . but it all comes together so nicely	PALE RIDER is a breathtakingly beautiful movie to watch due to its being filmed in the mountains of Idaho . With just a touch of snow now and again , the picture looks almost like a travel brochure ! Interestingly enough , the movie is supposed to be set in Northern California ! While apart from the pretty location , there isn't a whole lot new or innovative about this film , though the sum total of the parts make for a dandy picture . Sure , the film very heavily borrows from SHANE ( particularly with the very end - - I almost expected the girl to yell out " Come back , SHANE ! ! ! " instead of " I love you " ) as well as Clint Eastwood's other Westerns - - particularly FISTFUL OF DOLLARS . But , despite all this and knowing where the picture is going , this movie is an absolute standout film . Particularly noteworthy is the acting by Michael Moriarty . He does a marvelous job of playing an ordinary man who is willing to stand up for himself - - especially with the help of Eastwood . Eastwood's character , not unexpectedly , is an enigma - - sort of like the " man with no name " in his much earlier films . Here , he is just known as " the preacher " , though many times throughout the film it seems pretty unlikely he is a man of the cloth . After all , for a preacher , he does some mighty fine shooting and drinks whiskey ( though not to excess , mind you ) . Perhaps he is supposed to be an ex-gunfighter who has taken the call . The ambiguity of the man actually is a good thing - - as it allows the viewer the chance to think instead of having this spoon-fed to him or her . Richard Dysart , the late Christopher Penn , Richard Kiel and the rest do a fine job of support . About the only part of the film that just didn't ring true was the tiny portion of the film when the young girl went for a ride on the mule . Right in the middle of a MAJOR feud , she just wanders into the camp of the enemy and almost gets raped ! ! This part is just too dumb and inexplicable to understand . Removing it from the film would certainly tighten up and improve the film . Now , a comment about the music . Unlike the " Spaghetti Westerns " Eastwood made in the 60s , this film has a very minimalistic score . The over-the-top and crazy music from these earlier films was exciting and cool in a silly way . This much quieter film score seemed more appropriate for an older and wiser Eastwood . Both were about perfect for each type of film . Finally , although this movie is rated R , I really cannot understand why . Sure there's some gun-play and a couple guys get bullets in the head . BUT , the film really isn't that explicit and could have easily been rated PG-13 or possibly even PG ! The language isn't a problem either and there is no nudity in the film . About the only objectionable content might be when a girl is almost raped , but I would feel comfortable if I let my teens see the film .
An excellent late silent film	Because this film came out in 1929 and studios were hurriedly switching to sound pictures , sound effects and music was added to this otherwise silent film . For this time period , it's a very good film - - featuring excellent footage of naval aircraft and a good , though a tad predictable story about six friends who went to the Naval Academy and wanted to earn their pilot's wings . Little by little , the original group is now whittled down to two pilots who actually are able to complete the program - - Ramon Novarro and Ralph Graves ( who , incidentally , made many military-oriented films in the late 20s and early 1930s set on subs , derigibles and aircraft ) . Unfortunately , while they are best of friends , they also want the same girl ( cute Anita Page ) and the story is a combination of serious drama about the training and life of a navy pilot as well as a contest to see who gets the girl . For the time period this was made , this is a much better than average film with excellent production values and an interesting story - - particularly to nuts like me that love old aircraft . Also , for those aviation and history lovers out there , it's a good opportunity to see the USS Langley in action ( this was America's first aircraft carrier ) . This film , by the way , was created from a story idea from Frank Wead - - a retired navy pilot who , after suffering a serious spinal injury , changed careers and became a Hollywood screenwriter and consultant - - mostly ( but not exclusively ) for aviation films . His life was recreated in the film WINGS OF EAGLES - - giving it all the usual John Ford sentimentality and gloss .
While aimed mostly at kids , it's a pretty sweet little film	This isn't a great film , but it does stand above the crowd of the many computer generated films . The quality of the film from start to finish is excellent and as far as insect films go , it's a lot better than ANTZ because it's much more family friendly and endearing . ANTZ was often rather dark in tone and also featured some very inappropriate voices for a kids ' film . Whose bright idea was it to have Woody Allen do the main voice in a film where you would be creeped out if you actually saw him in the audience ? ! Would you let your kids sit next to him during the show ? I would hope not , unless your kids are teens and looking to replace Soon-Yi . My overall impression of A BUG'S LIFE is that it is squarely marketed to kids and the studio threw in a few bits and pieces here and there for the parents . As a result , if your kids want to watch it with you , you won't be bored . However , if you don't have kids , I really doubt if there's enough here to merit your watching it - - though it still is a lovely and well-made film .
Very short - - very cute	This video was just recently featured on IMDb , though I notice the list of featured short films is constantly changing and may not be available for viewing in all countries due to copyright issues . Of all the many videos I have so far watched on IMDb , this must be the very shortest - - at well under two minutes . However , despite its short duration , it's a very clever and engaging film that has a great point to make about relationships and technology in the 21st century . Two people sitting near each other leave their cell phones open on the bar . At this point , images of both people appear on the phones and start communicating with each other without their owners touching the phones . In other words , the phones fall in love THEN contact their owners to try to get them together . Very cute and well done - - well worth a look - - especially since you are only out 2 minutes of your life if I am wrong !
Despite a slightly weak ending , this is an excellent film	Dirk Bogarde is an actor most American audiences are unfamiliar with , though this is a shame . He made some excellent films but because most of them were " small " English films , they are only rarely seen in this country . A couple of my favorite films he made are THE SERVANT and CAST A DARK SHADOW and they both have a familiar theme of a sociopathic man who uses and abuses anyone to become rich . In CAST A DARK SHADOW , Dirk plays a man who is married to a much older woman . He ultimately plans on killer her to get to her fortune , but when she is killed , he unexpectedly finds he ISN'T rich after all . So , he goes about looking for another wealthy woman to marry and then kill ! His coldness and self-centered thinking make him an excellent example of an Antisocial Personality ( i . e . , a " sociopath " ) . Both the writing and Bogarde's acting make this a must-see film . The only problem , and it is very minor , is that the ending is really exciting but a bit hard to believe . By the way , I wonder if perhaps those who made this film were trying to imply that Bogarde's character was gay ( he was in real life , by the way ) . At one point , he's reading a men's muscle magazine and showed no sexual interest in women during the film . Expanding this somewhat might have made the film a bit more interesting , but in 1955 this wasn't exactly a topic most film makers were willing to tackle .
Very polished and poignant	This is a well made short film about a man who makes bad choices . And , it seems that this film all takes place within a very small period of time as Joseph Henry day dreams about his life , his loves , his childhood and regrets . In many ways , the short reminded me of the Disney film , THE KIbut with a much edgier look and feel . Speaking of look and feel , the biggest star of the film is the music and excellent cinematography . It gave the film a very polished and poignant attitude that really created an effective mood . Now I am not saying that the story or acting are bad ( they certainly were not ) , but to me the mood was the most memorable part . I can see that the film's writer / director ( Phil Allocco ) has done several other films and I am not surprised , as the film shows great skill .
For a low-budget film , it really delivers	This film stars Peter Lorre as an exceptionally nice guy who immigrates to America . Unfortunately , shortly after his arrival , he's in a horrible fire and his face is horribly burned . Because he looks so awful , no one wants to hire him and out of sheer desperation , he resorts to a life of crime in order to earn the money needed to buy a mask to hide his ugliness . Where exactly the film goes from there , you'll just need to see for yourself . I scored this movie an 8 because , for the money spent to make it , it's a heck of a good film with a lot of good twists in the plot to keep it interesting . The film could have degenerated into a simple horror or crime film , but it goes far beyond this an offers some genuine surprises . In addition , the excellent acting by Lorre shows that he was capable of more than just supporting roles . This is an excellent film and delivers more than most " A-pictures " of the day .
a highly underrated " chick flick " that guys will also enjoy	I have never understood why this film wasn't more popular or why it's score on IMDb is so mediocre . There is so much going for this film , it's a wonder ! While I will admit that the plot itself is a bit contrived , in most " chick flicks " you are expected to suspend disbelief , so this isn't a big problem . Just think about SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLit has a GREAT reputation and is at least as contrived and was , to me , a less entertaining film . David Duchovney is very happily married when his wife unexpectedly dies . Her heart is transplanted into the sickly Minnie Driver who now has a new lease on life . Later , Driver and Duchovney meet and fall in love - - and then find out about their odd connection ! While of course the plot is odd , it is carried off so well and the romance is so sweet , it still works . PLUS , the best aspect of the movie that make it so precious and entertaining is the wonderful supporting cast . Carol O'Conner , Robert Logia and other old guys play Minnie's father and his friends and they are just too wonderful ! Their lives and adventures as they spend all that time at Minnie's home is just so much fun to watch - - you can't help but love the old guys and believe that their love for Minnie is deep and true . See it yourself with someone you love - - you won't be disappointed .
Another wonderful Pvt . Snafu cartoon not meant for general consumption !	During WWII , Hollywood made a wide variety of training films meant to be shown only to the troops . Because of this , the jokes were often sexual and the language was distinctly " non-Hollywood " for the era . Some of the films are a bit dull , but the ones I enjoy seeing the most are the clever Pvt . Snafu films . They have a distinctly Warner Brothers flare - - the artwork and voice characterizations are pure Looney Toons . The only obvious differences ( apart from the adult content ) is that they were made in black and white . This time , the idiot , Pvt . Snafu is learning about the danger of booby traps . And , as usual , he gets himself killed as an object lesson to the soldiers ! My favorite gags involved Snafu trying to milk a camel and when he went in to a tent filled with what appeared to be gorgeous women ( all he wanted to do was smoke and play the piano ) . A cute film that is almost as funny as the earlier Snafu film about spies .
Provided you understand the film is NOT based on a true story , it's a very good film	This film is supposedly based on the true account of a prisoner who escaped from Devil's Island in French Guiana . However , the book by Henri Charriere about his experiences apparently has a LOT of inconsistencies and outright fabrications ( a polite way of saying he was a liar ) . So , provided you understand that this isn't quite a true story , this is still an exceptional film . Much of this is due to incredible acting , direction , scripting and makeup . Henri Charriere , played by Steve McQueen , is going to Devil's Island for killing a pimp - - supposedly in self-defense . On the boat , he meets a swindler played by Dustin Hoffman and they become friends . Most of the film documents how harsh and awful life is in the prison came - - either in the work camps or when living in solitary confinement . All take their toll and kill off many of the prisoners , by Charriere is resilient . Despite all these privations , he never loses his resolve to escape , though Hoffman eventually does and accepts his life on the island after one failed escape attempt . In the end , Charriere does escape , though in real-life , this apparently did NOT occur . While there is a lot more to the movie and what I have mentioned ( after all it's a very long and involved film ) , the full impact of the story is not what you read but seeing the awfulness of the prison . So , be prepared for a movie that at times is very difficult to watch but is constructed it's an amazing film .
Absolutely lovely - - a real work of art	This is a strange and fascinating film from Ishu Patel . Instead of the normal Western-style narrative , this animated short is one long piece of art - - obviously inspired by Indian paintings of birds , people and the afterlife . All this gorgeous action unfolds slowly and is accompanied by the ethereal music of Gheorghe Zamfir - - an internationally known ( except in the US ) panpipes legend whose music I have loved for years . Combined , it's an absolutely inspiring and breathtaking piece of art . Because it was such a lovely film , it was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film - - which it lost to CHARADE . I don't know exactly how I feel about this , as I've seen both . CHARADE is funny and very clever but a rather superficial film . PARADISE is more a work of art and less a film for the public at large . Personally , I am happy either way , as they both were delights - - too bad they couldn't give the award to both ! !
Stick with this one . . . it definitely picks up steam as the film progresses	I really wish this film came with a little disclaimer at the beginning that begged viewers to stick with the film and not turn it off after the first 20 or so minutes . That's because although FEUX ROUGES starts off slow and the characters seem unlikable , the film builds and builds to a wonderful crescendo - - making this a film well worth seeking . A middle-aged couple ( Jean-Pierre Darroussin and Carole Bouquet ) are preparing to drive from Paris to the countryside to pick up their two children at summer camp . During this portion of the film , the viewer will probably notice several things - - the couple lacks warmth in their relationship , they are hard to get to know for the audience and perhaps the husband has a drinking problem . Once the trip begins , the couple snipes at each other almost constantly and it's a chore to watch them . It all gets worse when several times the husband stops the car at bars " to go to the bathroom " - - and he takes a couple drinks instead . By this time , the man's driving is impaired and the wife has had enough . She tells him if he goes into one more bar that she'll take the car and continue without him - - so he goes into the bar with the car keys . Well , once he returns , he finds the car empty and a note saying she's taken the train . He responds by quickly driving to the next two stops to try to catch the train but it's all in vain . Now , at this point , the film starts to get interesting . As a type of male protest , Darroussin goes back into a bar and drinks very heavily . He tries to strike up a conversation with a huge and rather scary looking guy . He even offers to buy the guy a drink but the man just wanders off and Darroussin looks to tell someone about his emancipation from a controlling wife . As he leaves the bar , however , he is approached by the same man - - who now asks for a ride . Foolishly , the husband agrees - - - and the film switches into high gear as the man goes for the ride of his life . There's a lot that happens from this point on and in some ways the film seems a bit like the very chilling Dutch film , THE VANISHING ( " SPOORLOOS " ) or a Hitchcock film . But because I don't want to spoil it , I'll say little about this . What I loved , however , about all this is that the drinking has an interesting psychological aspect , as Darroussin seems to drink to make up for his own masculine inadequacies . Through the terror that ensues , he is able in a sick way to claim back his manhood as well as get to the heart of his drinking . The only negative I have at all about the last part of the film is that there is a very , very ironic occurrence - - so tough to believe and coincidental some might be a bit turned off by it . But , really , it's only a minor quibble . Overall , a taut thriller and psychological portrait . The film is Darroussin as he is the main focus and manages to carry it very well with his characterization of a very flawed though seemingly ordinary man . I love how French films often have actors who are so ordinary looking - - such as Daniel Auteiul , Michel Piccoli , Jean Rochefort and Grard Depardieu - - guys who are simply exceptional actors . Had this been made in Hollywood , instead Darroussin and Bouquet , it probably would have starred Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie or Tom Cruise and Julia Roberts - - quelle dommage !
Charming and clever	I first saw this cartoon on Turner Classic Movies . Later , I wanted to see it again so I found it online but noticed that the great opening credits were missing - - try to find a copy that is complete , because the way Felix steps out of the cartoonist's pen onto the screen is very clever and cute . Felix is playing baseball in the street with his friend . Felix hits the ball so hard , it flies away and the cop thinks the boy was responsible for the damage so he gives chase . The chase is VERY surreal and involves the use of photos and cartoon - - very simple but very effective . Eventually , in a VERY bizarre fashion , the boy is caught and jailed - - so he can't play in the big game . His team is being beaten horribly until Felix comes to the rescue . For 1922 , this cartoon abounds with smart and funny scenes - - often by inserting cartoons into real film footage . However , be forewarned that the way the Black characters are drawn is very stereotypical and will no doubt offend many . But , if you accept that this was the norm for the 1920s and can look past it , this is one exciting and well-made short film .
I love this film's ambiguity	This short was one of a collection entitled " Shorts : Volume 4 " . The prior collections have all been terrific and are highly recommended for people who love the genre . The film is set in two places - - in modern day Iraq as well as back in the United States . It seems that an Iraqi-American is in the US military and you see the occupation through his eyes as well as what life is like for his wife and son in the States . What I really love about this film is that it is NOT a diatribe trying to convince the viewer that one side or the other is right or wrong . In fact , it is deliberately ambiguous - - with the viewer left to guess about the internal dialog of this man as well as the rightness or wrongness of the mission . I honestly could see people from the Right or Left embracing this film and taking from it what they'd like . This is a very unusual balancing act and I love how the film makers get you to think - - something that just doesn't happen often enough . Good acting , sets , direction and script - - this one has it all .
A brave little film about the effects of schizophrenia on the entire family	This is a small little film that slipped in under the radar - - the sort of film that probably never made it to your local theater and you've probably never heard of it . That's a real shame , as it's a wonderful film about a real and very serious problem - - schizophrenia . Despite the seriousness of the problem ( affecting about 1 % of the public and indirectly affecting many others ) , very few films seriously deal with it . Well , here there is an amazingly realistic portrayal of a mother decompensating , but the real focus on the film is her family and their relationships with each other . In particular , her elementary-aged son , as he struggles to understand what's happening with Mom as well as eventually coming to terms with the reality that she's probably never going to be " normal " again . It was a brave decision not to give this film a clear or happy ending - - as life with this illness rarely is like a movie . Very insightful , heart-felt and real - - this is a film I would like to use when I teach my psychology classes about the illness . If schizophrenia has affected someone you love , then this is a must-see . For others , I still recommend it , as you'll learn a lot and despite the tears , you'll also see some amazing acting and writing . FYI - - Joe Pantoliano not only starred in this film but he produced the film as well . Joseph Greco both wrote and directed it . Great job .
A very different sort of Samurai movie	TWILIGHT SAMURAI is a film that will no doubt disappoint some viewers . For people wanting lots of sword fighting and action , it has just two brief fight scenes . For people who like a fast-paced film , it will also be a let down because the film is over two hours long and has a very slow and deliberate pace . Nonetheless , I strongly enjoyed it and thought it one of the better Japanese films I've seen in quite some time . The reason I particularly enjoyed it is that it had a very realistic plot . While films such as THE SEVEN SAMURAI and the ZATOICHI series are fun and abound with great action , the real life of Samurai during the era just before the Meiji dynasty ( about 1850 ) were not like Samurai you'd see in other movies . The fact that Seibei Iguchi is a Samurai AND a glorified accountant is more true to the mundane nature of most of these swordsmens ' lives . Additionally , you find a depth in this humble lower-level Samurai than you'd find in most other films of the genre . Despite the stereotype , he'd much rather avoid a fight and takes his greatest pleasure in life being with his family . He is not involved in intrigues and macho posing but is instead a man very content with his simple lot in life . Because of this , you'll very likely find yourself really caring about the guy and hurting for him when his life is in turmoil . You also feel horribly for him because he cannot have the woman he loves . Exceptional acting , great direction , a lovely script and amazing fight scenes ( though brief - - the first one really is amazing ) - - this is a wonderful film that justifiably was nominated for the Best Foreign Film Oscar . Unfortunately , the winning film that year , BARBARIAN INVASIONS , was even better - - I know , I've seen both films . Still , losing to this wonderful French-Canadian film is nothing to be ashamed of in the least !
okay plot but among the most amazing stunt work you'll ever see !	Okay , this isn't the funniest silent comedy short I've ever seen , but I still think it's a " must see " . While the plot is awfully simplistic , once the film gets going it has about the fastest and most incredible stunt work I have ever seen . It's like an action picture on CRACK ! ! Daddy is trying to split up the romance between his daughter and her boyfriend ( Monty Banks ) . When that doesn't work , the thugs daddy hired kidnap the girl and Monty begins the most amazing train chase . In fact , while I love THE GENERAL and think it's a better overall film , the stunts look VERY tame and dull compared to those in CHASING CHOO-CHOOS ! Again and again and again , the fastest and most dangerous scenes in silent film history take place - - ranging from walking along the top of a moving train , climbing from one moving train car on one track to another on a different track , falling down hills at high speed , etc . ! ! ! It's so crazy and high-spirited , it's a great film . See it and be amazed .
One of many weird " head " movies from Mlis	The very early French film director Mlis was super-famous for his trick cinematography . He deserved this fame for such standout films as Le Voyage Dans le Lune and I personally think he was the greatest movie maker of his age . Compared to Edison and Lumiere's films , his movies were always superior - - featuring great sets , stories and camera-work . And , compared to later luminaries such as D . W . Griffith , I think Mlis ' films are much more watchable today . This film features the director's disembodied head as the star . Believe it or not , this was not very unusual for Mlis , as I have seen several films where his disembodied head performs ! This is very clever and funny and it differs in this case because the head it enlarged again and again using a pump until it ultimately explodes ! And , for the year it was made , it looked amazingly real ! Funny stuff indeed . If you want to see this film online , go to Google and type in " Mlis " and then click the video button for a long list of his films that are viewable without special software .
By the standards of 1902 , this is a wonderful film , . . . though it really doesn't age all that well	One reviewer referred to this film as " pathetic " but I am not sure that this is really fair . Sure , by the standards of 2006 , this is a pretty bad film . However , given when it was made , it's a truly exceptional film and should be compared to its contemporaries - - not today's films with our great special effects and film techniques . In 1902 , almost every film was less than five minutes long . Plus , sets were often pretty non-existent and the same could be said about writing . Often , actors just got up and gesticulated madly or seemed to have no idea what to do until the director yelled out instructions - - and it was pretty obvious at times . Films where everything was planned and scripted and told a good complex story were a real rarity . Because of all this , I am very charitable towards JACK AND THE BEANSTALK . Sure , the backgrounds look like painted backdrops ( which they were ) and some of the props were less than stellar , but for 1902 it was a real marvel ! The film told the story very well and was even better than such films as THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ or FRANKENSTEIN ( both from 1910 ) - - films which also had props , sets and were well-planned but were also made almost a decade later ! So , this wonderful curio is a great piece of history that might just make many of you laugh at its production values , but I still thought the film was quite charming and we owe a lot to such monumental films - - after all , the care and quality that went in to this film really encouraged other film makers to try harder .
Surprisingly sensitive and interesting	I actually had very low hopes for this movie when I picked it up - - it looked like a dull silent documentary about a dull group of Siamese ( Thai ) villagers living in the jungle . I was either expecting a dull documentary or a fake film filled with White folks dressed like Asians and stock footage instead of real action . However , I was very pleasantly surprised when the film turned out not to exactly be a documentary but had a surprisingly interesting story behind it as well as excellent writing - - making this a far from dull story indeed . In addition , the film was not filmed on some back lot or crammed full of stock images , but Paramount Studios went to a lot of trouble - - going to Siam and using real Siamese ( not conjoined ) people . And , these Asians were NOT White people acting like dumb lackeys like Charlie Chan or those in THE GOOD EARTH but real people that you cared about . So , thanks to a good story , decent characters and action as well as a sensitive portrayal in the jungle , this is an excellent film and it occasionally had a nice sense of humor . It also helped that real elephants , tigers , leopards and other animals were used - - not props or stuffed animals . However , of all the animal stars , I think I liked the gibbon best - - you'd have to see it to understand what I mean . For 1927 , this is truly an amazing and modern film , though modern sensitivities might be aroused . PETA members will no doubt cringe when much of the plot involves hunting and killing tigers and leopards and elephants ! All these scenes are amazingly realistic and given that the villagers were being killed by these critters , I could certainly understand the film - - but in the 21st century , some people are bound to be shocked with the savagery of the action .
Grab a Kleenex . . .	Wow . I was surprised that I liked this short film as much as I did - - it was well worth seeing and is a great example of how good and profound a short can be . While it appears to be a documentary , I think that it is in fact a fictionalized story . The film is narrated by the main character - - a Haitian woman who has come to the United States and is desperately trying to fit in with American culture while also denying her own Creole roots . The problem , however , is that she can't do this - - no matter how hard she tries . Part of this is due to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder , as things she sees in everyday life remind her of the pain and violence of life in Haiti . Part of this is also the eventual realization that not everything from her native culture is bad - - and much of it should be celebrated . The reason I scored this film so high is that it really packed a big emotional wallop . At one point , I was tearing up because the film really pulled me in and wouldn't let me go . A wonderful example of direction , writing and acting all coming together perfectly .
Groundbreaking piece of history	THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY is one of the first " modern " movies because there is a definite plot as well as scenery , a coherent story and suspense . While this is also true of the even better French film , Le Voyage dans la lune that was shot a year earlier ( 1902 ) , other than that , " movies " were almost exclusively plot less ( they just turned on the camera and recorded mundane activities ) , or had no beginning , middle AND end - - they were just snippets of action . At a whopping ten plus minutes , this movie was significantly longer than the average film as well ( which often lasted less than one minute ) . On the plus side , it was and is still pretty watchable , with decent indoor sets and outdoor scenes , lots of action and some inventive camera-work . On the negative side , some of the action scenes were really , really lame - - even for 1903 ! For instance , when the two men are fighting on the train , it's very obvious that the man is switched with a dummy and the dummy is tossed over the side - - it really could have been done a lot better . BUT , because it is such an early attempt , I can forgive this !
so much fun you'll overlook its minor flaws	This movie is NOT high art . Nope . It's a " guy picture " that will doubtless be looked down upon by SERIOUS cinephiles . However , despite all the silly stuff thrown into it ( and this movie has Everything ) , you find yourself really enjoying the movie . Sometimes mindless adventure is what everyone needs . The music , though repetitive , is very haunting and will probably become stuck in your brain . The cinematography is great , too , as the director and producer chose to film on location in Norway . Now the plot - - it has so much it's almost overwhelming : 1 . An opening scene of murder , pillaging and , . . . yes , rape ( though nothing is shown here ) . 2 . Drinking and more drinking and wenching with a giant Viking toga party . 3 . A trained hawk being thrown into Kirk Douglas ' face . Subsequently , his face appears torn apart and is blinded in one eye . 4 . For this crime , Tony Curtis is thrown into a pool where he is to be drowned and eaten by crabs . 5 . A traitor helps the Vikings plan an abduction of a sexy princess ( Janet Leigh ) . Once she is stolen , Douglas decides to keep her for himself . 6 . Tony Curtis ( not eaten by crabs , miraculously ) steals Leigh and takes here back to Britain . In chasing them , Ernest Borgnine ( the Chief ) falls into the water and is taken prisoner by fleeing Curtis . 7 . Curtis gives Borgnine to the evil English king . The king will throw Borgnine into a pit of wolves . Borgnine objects , as a REAL VIKING MUST die with a sword in hand . The king declines to assist him , but Curtis takes pity and gives him a sword . Borgnine then willingly jumps into the pit and is mauled . 8 . For helping Borgnine , Curtis has his hand cut off by the jerk of a king . 9 . Somehow Curtis makes it back to Norway to get the Vikings ' help to exact revenge ( and help him get into Leigh's skirt ) . 10 . The Vikings storm the castle and all the English are killed . 11 . This sets the stage for a final showdown between Douglas and Curtis . They have a rousing fight on the castle parapets . 12 . Curtis ' sword breaks but Douglas pauses before killing him - - as he has learned that Curtis is actually his HALF-BROTHER ! ! ! 13 . Due to the hesitation , Curtis plunges the broken sword into Douglas ' gut . Before dying , he lets out a cool yell . 14 . Douglas ' body is placed on a Viking ship and set ablaze ( I'd like to go that way ) . Somehow , in the confusion , the other Vikings forget to murder Curtis for all his treachery . Fade out . Wow - - that's enough stuff for 2 movies ! Give it a try and be ready for a fast-paced roller-coaster adventure . FYI - - Despite all the salacious qualities of the film , it actually is exceptional from a historical point of view . No where in the film do Vikings wear horned helmets and their life is typical of many Vikings in the Middle Ages . Heck , it's decent enough that's I've used clips of it in my history classes .
An incredibly cool short from Mlis	You've just got to see the films of Mlis , as they are the cleverest and best made films of his era - - period . Unlike the relatively plot less , setless and pointless films of Edison and Lumiere , Mlis ' films were pure genius and inspired - - with a strong dose of fantasy . His Le Voyage Dans le Lune is a landmark film due to its amazing special effects , camera tricks and watchability . This film carries on in this same tradition - - with the absolutely wildest and strangest trickery I've seen from the era . The film begins with a conductor explaining to his musicians how to write music . So , the conductor begins throwing notes up into the air where they magically stick . And , the notes ? ! Yep , they are his head - - he pulls off his head and throws it upwards - - and a new one appears in its place ! You just gotta see it to believe it ! If you want to see this film online , go to Google and type in " Mlis " and then click the video button for a long list of his films that are viewable without special software .
a hidden little gem	Veronica Lake and Cecil Kellaway are witches who have been sealed up in a tree for about 300 years . They are NOT nice witches and are thrilled when a bolt of lightning shatters the tree and releases them to do evil ! The first thing they want to do is destroy the descendants of the man who persecuted them during the witch trials . His most direct descendant is Frederick March and he is about to marry the woman he loves . So , Veronica plans on meeting him and placing a love potion in his drink so he becomes attracted to her instead - - with the intention of then dumping him and leaving him miserable . Of course , being a comedy , she accidentally drinks the potion and falls head over heels for March ! The acting is excellent ( particularly Kellaway who is uncharacteristically EVIL in this movie ) and the writing superb in the short little picture .
A terrific little B-picture	This is a wonderful little picture from MGM as it delivers on all levels . Unlike many " B-pictures " , this film features better production values , better characters and a much better written script than usual . While MOST B-movies have plot holes and logical errors , this one is very tight and interesting and seems superior to the usual detective films . Van Heflin plays a brilliant forensic scientist who works for the police . In many ways , he seems like a 1940s version of the TV show CSI - - but his assumptions and equipment seem rather realistic and less fantastic than the shows we see on television today . For example , when Van finds what MIGHT be evidence , he is very hesitant to make huge logical leaps and is very cautious and thorough . In addition , he uses standard equipment of the day to investigate the crimes ( whereas , CSI often features procedures that are NOT really used today ) . Van is ably assisted by the pretty Marsha Hunt - - who Van seldom seems to recognize for her many talents . Finally , after seeing no reaction from him , she begins to date the District Attorney and they become quite serious . There's a lot more to the story than this , but I don't want to spoil it . Just be prepared to be impressed by an intelligently written and acted film - - and much of the credit should go to the great director , Fred Zinneman , who is able to get the absolute most from the material . It's not surprising to find that Fred went on to better and more prestigious projects - - probably thanks to his success with little films . FYI - - Although the forensics are pretty good , at one point Van picks up what's left of a pipe bomb with his bare hands . What about fingerprints ? !
Strongly inspired by his earlier film LE VOYAGE DANS LE LUNE , but still very much worth watching	Director Georges Mlis was an absolutely brilliant early filmmaker and innovator . His camera tricks , use of a complex plot and sets , and fun-loving fantasy elements in his films made him the greatest film maker of his day . While I recently read that THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY ( from Edison Inc . ) was the " first full-length film " , this simply isn't true , as Mlis ' LE VOYAGE DANS LE LUNE ( 1902 ) preceded it and was a much more complex film - - featuring amazing sets and lots of laughs as a group of scientists take a trip to the moon and meet the evil moon men ! Only a year later , in an attempt to outdo his previous success , Mlis made this film about another group of wacky scientists who take a trip to the Sun as well as under the sea ! ! And , while the original film was a very long 14 minutes ( that WAS full-length in its day ) , this one is 20 - - making it probably the longest film of its day . While the new film is obviously strongly derived from the previous Mlis epic , compared to all other films of the day it is still brilliant and not even close to being matched . BUT , my score of 9 is more a way to indicate that it isn't quite as good as his film about the Moon . But , it is still very , very watchable and cute even today ( something that can't be said of most other films of the age ) . If you want to see this film online , go to Google and type in " Mlis " and then click the video button for a long list of his films that are viewable without special software .
Very melodramatic but effective - - this movie will pull at your heart !	Margaret O'Brien did a lot of movies as a child actress and in several of them , there was such as high level of " schmaltziness " ( i . e . , way over the top sentimentality ) that for a while , I avoided her films . I later realized this was just due to an occasionally bad script and she WAS generally a very good young actress - - as I later saw in MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS , OUR VINES HAVE TENDER GRAPES as well as this film . Now , although this is a wonderful movie , it will definitely tug at your heart - - but not in a phony or manipulative way . So , when you watch it's best to have a box of tissues handy - - even if you are a guy ! Robert Young and Laraine Day are a young couple who just lost their only child . Later , when Young is in England during the war , he goes to a local orphanage - - wondering if maybe he and Day should consider adopting . However , what he didn't anticipate was charming little Ms . O'Brien and how ultimately SHE picked HIM out to be her new father ! Plus , she had befriended a little boy at the orphanage and wanted to bring him along as part of the deal . While Young's heart is definitely captivated , there are so many complications - - - not the least of which is whether or not his wife even wants to adopt - - let along TWO kids at the same time ! The movie is a nice blending of sentiment and positive wartime propaganda . Your emotions are stirred AND the film really does a lot to advance the war effort - - giving us a lot to fight for when we think about the kids ! A great wartime movie with a wonderful script , excellent acting and a deftness in direction that keeps your interest throughout .
I rather sad but insightful little film	This is a truly odd little short film but it really makes you think . After all , in a world of the internet and a seeming decreasing need for human contact , such a crazy world as is shown in this short film seems possibly prophetic . The film begins sometime in the future . A man is alone in his apartment and is awaiting a visitor . Soon , a woman arrives but it's obvious quickly into the film that she must be a robot - - or , rather , a robot prostitute . All she seems to be programmed for is sex and the man wants something more - - emotional comfort and contact . However much he try , however , she simply isn't programmed for anything more and his needs are left unfulfilled by the end of the film . Despite the nature of the film being sexual and a brief scene where you see just s bit of skin , this isn't a dirty film and is one that's probably okay for teens to see . I liked not only the message of desperation and isolation but was also impressed that for a second film by two new directors that the production values were so high . The music , in particular , was great and it looked as if a lot of money went into the film - - though I assume like almost all other short films it was done on a shoestring budget . Based on what I saw here , I sure can't wait to see more of their work ! Nice job and I can see why this film was named " Best Drama " with the Campus Movie Fest .
This looks like an absolutely amazing proposal for a full-length movie - - I sure hope so .	This is a short film that features a great story idea . Not only that , but it's handled so very well that I sure hope that this film was made to convince investors to consider putting up money for a feature-length version . If so , I can guarantee I'll go see it as the story really caught my attention . In fact , the whole thing looked absolutely perfect , though I didn't give it a 10 because I rarely do and the whole thing is a tad incomplete - - though still exceptional . A young family man finds out that he's terminally ill . So he calls someone who you assume must be his brother . The ill one is well-groomed but the other is scruffy , as he's a drifter and a drinker . In an odd twist , the ill brother proposes that the other brother takes his place - - you assume this is spare his family the loss . In a montage where you see the drifter shave off his beard , get a haircut and dons glasses , he's now the exact image of his IDENTICAL twin . What a great idea - - I just wanted to see more and see how it would all work out , though you assume by the ending that it did . Haunting and amazingly well done - - I wanna see more , please !
marvelous little French film	This film really is a fine example of good creative screen writing . Considering how marvelous most of Henri-Georges Clouzot's other film's have been ( such as LES DIABOLIQUES and THE WAGES OF FEAR ) , this film didn't come as a complete surprise to me . I expected high quality and I sure got it . The beauty of Clouzot's script is the originality . The idea of an evil person who sends hundreds of " poison pen " letters anonymously in a small town is very intriguing - - especially when it eventually results in false accusations , fights and even death . Throughout , the film does a wonderful job of exploring the darkest aspects of human nature . In other words , while the letters are vile , they only have the power that the mindless masses give them . Additionally , throughout the film , again and again , I found myself thinking I had figured out WHO was sending these letters . While the actual villain wasn't super-hard to figure out , I was guessing and changing my mind about who it was up until the very end . Great job . PS - - a minor character in the film , Roger Blin as Franois was an uncanny double for Paul Muni - - he almost looked like a long-lost twin ! PPS - - If you like this film , try the American film PARTY WIRE . While not as subtle or well written , it's a dandy film about gossip .
By today's standards it's crudely made , but for 1905 , it's a gem	Okay , all of you that CAN'T or WON'T look at an early silent film without immediately dismissing or laughing at it can stop reading this review . The likelihood you would even try watching this film or stick with it is absurdly low , so this review is more for lovers of historically important cinema . For 1905 , this is an incredible picture in so many ways . The sets for the time were extremely expensive and complex . The special effects , though surely out of date , also took a lot of imagination and planning . So for a 1905 production , this film screams ' quality ' from start to finish . The movie is the poem THE NIGHT BEFORE Christmas and as the lines are written out on inter-title cards , the action takes place on the screen . Because of this , the film is short and relatively simple , but compared to the other films of the era , the movie is still very engaging today and worth seeing from an historical and curiosity standpoint . About the only negative , and you can't blame the film's producers , is that the version I watched online had a soundtrack from a much later sound cartoon in the public domain . It just didn't match the film and I had to turn the volume down since it was so annoying .
Exceptional , but perhaps not so much for the casual viewer	I have seen many international films over the years and quite a few of these were Japanese . In addition , unlike many parents , I have seen a lot of anime that my kids have watched so at least I have some familiarity with the medium . Yet , with my background I still felt pretty confused and baffled by the strangeness of this movie . Now this isn't to say I didn't like it , but so many times I just couldn't understand exactly what was happening . Interestingly , when I saw the film again , I understood it much better and appreciated it much more . And this may be exactly how you might want to approach the film unless you already are a die-hard anime fan . See it , but be willing to see it without trying to think out the odd plot too much or even try seeing it several times . I know that each time I did , the film became more and more enjoyable and I began to notice so many cultural references . Now , several years after I first saw it in the theater , I have seen a lot more Japanese anime and films and it's practically second-nature to follow the film . So , for adults and those unfamiliar with the medium , this movie might take a bit of effort to fully enjoy , though with more and more children being familiar with and loving anime , it's very likely your kids will love it and will then be able to explain it to you ! ! As for the film , the animation is the best I have seen in any Miyazaki film , the story deep and fascinating and it's full of cute and endearing little touches that make the movie magical . See this with an open mind , please .
How exactly did IMDb come up with a weighted average of 3 . 7 for this superb short film ?	I was surprised when I looked at the weighted average for COLLAPSED on IMDb . It is listed at 3 . 7 but when I looked at the voting history , twelve people scored it a 10 and only two scored it a 1 and there were not votes in between . How this balances out to 3 . 7 ( when it seem like it should be close to 9 ) is beyond me . The problem isn't just the bizarre scoring but that such an incredibly low score will give people the impression that this is a bad film - - which it certainly isn't ! The film is done with very little dialog . You are forced to guess , to a degree , what is occurring and why . A man is trying to go about his office job but he looks like an emotional wreck - - almost like he's on the verge of a breakdown . At the same time , he takes out some old pictures and glances through them and you realize that he's upset , at least in part , because of a failed relationship , as he keeps staring at the picture of a lady . However , why this is and the entire back story is uncertain until the final very emotionally stirring moments of the film . The film is expertly crafted , engaging and quite moving . Give this film a try and ignore the low rating .
Majorly cool - - and one of the few early films that is well worth seeing today	Aside from LE VOYAGE DANS LE LUNE and a few other films by Georges Mlis , this is about the most entertaining and funny films I have seen from the very early days of cinema . In fact , I think it's a lot funnier than most of Chaplin's early shorts - - it's that good . A jerk pours sneezing powder all over an unsuspecting old guys things while he's sleeping . The old guy later wakes up and pretty soon he starts to sneeze uncontrollably . The sight gags , for 1907 , are great - - as beds and walls and EVERYTHING get blown about by his sneezes . He even later causes earthquakes with the sneezes . This builds and builds until ultimately he just explodes ! ! ! This is such a cool movie - - one kids should especially enjoy !
an exceptional western	Although I don't generally like Westerns , I have reviewed quite a few on IMDb . That's because although this is a tired and unoriginal genre in general , when it is original and offers something worth seeing , I take notice ! This is not my favorite Western , but it's in my list of top 10 . However , I would not put Kirk Douglas ' and Anthony Quinn's other Western movie Gunfight at the OK Corral on this list , as this famous fight has been beaten like a dead horse ! Too many movies glamorizing an insignificant event in US history until the true story is completely lost ! No , this movie differs because it somehow takes a familiar formula but makes it seem new and unique . Not the same old stuff , that's for sure ! The movie starts with a rape and murder or Marshall Kirk Douglas ' wife . He finds out that one of the men responsible is the son of an old friend . The old friend , Quinn , is a big shot in a nearby town and seemingly he is above the law . It's obvious that bringing Junior to account for his sins will not be easy ! See the rest of the film to see how this is resolved , and to see brilliant writing and acting . A few other exceptional Westerns I recommend because of excellent writing and because they have something original to say : The Big Country , The Gunfighter , Yellow Sky , Hondo , The Ox-bow Incident and The Fastest Gun Alive .
an exceptional film	This movie is about a poor English man who wants to claw his way to the top in the business world . To do this , he insinuates himself to the boss ' daughter , while at the same time having an affair with a married woman who is 10 years his senior ! Despite his being a sleazebag , of sorts , he has genuine feelings for this older lady and wants to marry her . However , at the same time events around him conspire to prevent this - - ultimately leading to tragedy . The reason I liked this film so much is that despite Lawrence Harvey's character being a scheming jerk , he is not 100 % despicable and you can understand a lot of his anger and desire to move up the social scale . Several times during the movie , he meets people who think they are better than him simply by virtue of their family background or position at the company . All these work together to produce a gritty , somewhat sleazy drama that seems plausible and definitely holds your attention .
Wow , is this a weird one !	When this short film begins , you are immediately struck by the set design and props . Aside from the main character , all the other " people " are white mannequins with what looks almost like television screens for heads . What also is very arresting is the " assembly line " quality of the film . The guy doesn't walk but is whisked along on a conveyor belt for much of the film . Given that short films these days invariably have very low budgets , it's a testament to this film that they managed such a flashy looking and futuristic look with what must have only been a few thousand dollars . As for the story , it's very weird as well and is , for a while , very slow and repetitive . This is intentional , as the story appears to be about alienation and detachment . Just bear with it - - the film manages to end very well and make quite a profound statement about life or perhaps society or perhaps our modern world or perhaps it's just intended to make our heads hurt ! All I know is that the film hooked me and really had an impact by the time it was complete . Give this one a look .
This got much better with repeated viewings , so I've just re-reviewed the film	This is a sweet story about a long chain of seemingly random events that eventually led to the birth of the person who wrote the story ( though it was read by Liv Ullman ) . Not surprisingly , there are some touches that seem very Scandinavian - - such as the introduction , the way that death is talked about as well as the veneration of the story " Kristin Lavransdatter " ( the movie version was coincidentally directed by Liv Ullman and I have reviewed it - - but this isn't the place to get into that ) . The first time I saw this film , I was underwhelmed and gave it only a mildly favorable review despite it being an Oscar winner . However , I saw it again a few weeks later and was surprised how much more I enjoyed the film the second time . I really think most of the reason I wasn't impressed at first is because at least visually speaking , it's not as pretty a film as the rest of the other nominees . THE LITTLE MATCHGIRL was one of the prettier Disney films I have seen using traditional animation , LIFTED is as good a product as you'll see from Pixar , NO TIME FOR NUTS was another excellent CG film packaged with the ICE AGE films and Maestro , though made by a small studio , was nearly as pretty as more commercial CG films . In contrast , THE DANISH POET looked very old fashioned - - much like a " Madeline " cartoon . The second time I saw it , though , I noticed more of the cute little artistic touches - - like all the cows falling down the ramps and other odd embellishments . However , what really stood out most the second time was the really sweet nature of the film and how it caused an emotional reaction in me at the end . Charming and sweet - - this is something the other films lacked . I still think LIFTED might have been the most enjoyable and best made of the shorts , but THE DANISH POET was a real labor of love and had a lot of depth to it .
One of the very best wartime propaganda films	The term " propaganda " has taken on a very negative connotation , though propaganda can also be a very positive thing - - encouraging the masses through logical and / or emotional appeals to get on the bandwagon on a certain topic . In this case , the effort was noble - - encouraging people to understand why we were fighting the Axis powers as well as drumming up their support . Now these types of films were made in the hundreds in the USA during the war and many of them are pretty forgettable . However , this might just be one of the very best due to its magnificent writing and acting . Plus , in many ways it's similar to the British wartime film IN WHICH WE SERVE ( 1942 ) - - but I think that ACTION IN THE NORTH Atlantic is actually a bit better film . Much of this is because the acting is at least equal to the British film ( Humphrey Bogart and Raymond Massey versus Noel Coward and John Mills in the 1942 film ) and the story is a bit more exciting in ACTION IN THE NORTH Atlantic . Plus , I admired how the often forgotten men of the merchant marine were shown to be heroes - - after all , a lot of them died transporting supplies to Britain during the war . Both films excelled because unlike some jingoistic wartime films , the Allies were NOT shown as super-humans who could do ridiculous things ( like in the movie AIRFORCE where a B-17 shoots down fighter plane after fighter plane - - something that just could never have happened ) . In fact , both films feature ships being sunk right out from under the stars in the first half hour of the film ! But here's where the films really succeeded , as they showed the indomitable human spirit that despite losses , continues to bravely and without too much complaint do their job . Balancing this need with the families back at home make these both stellar films . In fact , now that I think about it , I STRONGLY recommend you see both . Yes , they are similar , but also different enough to provide a lot of entertainment and wonderful insight into our history .
Sure , the story has MANY silly plot elements , but for the genre it is Superb !	This film is the best of all the Bruce Lee films - - period . No other film he did came even close to it in production values , plot , music , supporting characters or action . It is the " Rolls Royce " of kung-fu movies - - even though the story is at times very silly ! My advice is that instead of turning the film off because of its many bizarre and Austin Powers-like plot devices , just turn your brain to the neutral position and take it all in without thinking ! ! Otherwise , if you think too much about what's going on , your head just might explode ! Don't believe me ? Well read on , . . . . The film begins at a Shaolin temple where Bruce Lee is a kung-fu teacher . His master comes to him to ask him to embark on a secret mission to stop a renegade member of their school - - the evil Han . It seems that Han has forgotten the good teachings of the school and is now sort of like a kung-fu version of Dr . No or Blowfeld ! ! In so many , many ways , this film is like a morphing of these James Bond films with a traditional martial arts film . So , in this case , Lee is a spy sent to infiltrate Han's tournament - - where the greatest martial artists and John Saxon are invited to his island fortress to compete . Once on the island , everything seems relatively normal at first . Later , you learn that Han has really bizarre detachable hands - - ranging from claws to iron fists to knives . In addition , he is ruthless in his dealings with his underlings - - - actually having several killed in front of his guests who are there for the tournament ! From this point on , it's pretty obvious Han is basically Dr . No with cooler fake hands ! Who is killed and what exactly occurs is something you'll just have to find out for yourself - - I just don't want to reveal too many secrets . However , the film has great action and Han's real purpose for this island fortress is eventually revealed . All you really need to know is that the film is totally cool and most guys will probably love it . Women , on the other hand , may not go for all this machismo and action and they might actually complain that the film has got an incredibly silly plot ( which , of course , it has ) ! If you want to see a funny parody of this movie , try watching KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE . The last third or so of this AIRPLANE-style film is a knockoff of ENTER THE DRAGON and is very , very funny and insightful . I particularly liked the names given to some of the marital artists in the parody as well as voice they used for the Lee-wannabe . Like the real life Lee , he spoke with a bit of an Elmer Fudd accent .
the best of the Doris Day / Rock Hudson films	This film is a pure delight from start to finish - - with a very witty script and great repartee between Day and Hudson . Rock plays a playboy who is pretty nasty to his annoyed neighbor , Day . He seems to spend all his time chasing women and talking on their party line - - such that she can't get much sleep or make a phone call . Although they don't actually meet , they have a very tense relationship over the phone . Later , Rock decides to play a trick on her and poses as another person . She quickly falls for him - - not realizing he is the womanizing schmuck ! Well , during this time , Rock is often seen in the halls or on the street by the same two guys who think he is an amazing stud - - and they marvel at his prowess . Later , they see him dressed as a woman ( due to a misunderstanding ) and their response is priceless . I'm actually VERY surprised this sort of humor is involved , since Hudson was trying to hide his being gay . But it's still funny and he mustn't have minded . Anyway , it's a fun film - - good for the family or as a date film . Almost as good is the follow up , LOVER COME BACK .
extremely interesting whether or not you are Catholic	I kind of stumbled onto this movie one night . I think I was just too lazy to get up and change the channel , as I'm not a huge fan of Audrey Hepburn and I had no interest in seeing a movie about nuns ( probably a reflex reaction after having seen The Flying Nun and The Singing Nun - - cringe , cringe ) . However , despite having very low expectations , I found the movie to be extremely fascinating . I am sure some may find the film drags a little but I was interested in seeing the ceremonies required in the process of becoming a nun . Then , the movie became even more interesting when she was sent to the Belgian Congo ( the same country where the Joseph Conrad book HEART OF DARKNESS is set ) . The acting and direction were simply wonderful . What I really liked was how he nuns were not portrayed in ridiculously idealized ways and because , for a change , we actually see Audrey Hepburn play a Belgian ( her true nationality ) .
one of the best Noir pictures - - not to be missed	This film appeared a little later than the average Film Noir flick , coming out in 1959 . However , being just a few years newer isn't a bad thing . In fact , as American sensibilities were changing and racial awareness was now fair game in Hollywood , they combine to produce a terrific film . The real standout star in the film is Robert Ryan . His character is highly reminiscent of the bigoted bully from his earlier film , CROSSFIRE . But , in this case he also has a lot of prison time and a wasted life behind him because he has an enormous chip on his shoulder and is just chock full of rage . This character was very well-written , as the writers really understood the antisocial personality and combined it with a slimy coating of prejudice . This film could most likely not be made the same way today in this era of political correctness and this is a shame as bigotry is best served directly and unflinchingly . Ryan's nemesis throughout much of the film is Harry Belafonte . Although they are both crooks working the same heist , Ryan's hatred of anything black can't help but set the men against each other - - especially since Belefonte is both proud and very confrontational . This relationship really results in some amazing chemistry . Other very notable performances come from Shelley Winters as the long-suffering girl who keeps waiting for Ryan to make good and Ed Begley as the mastermind behind the bank job . Combining all this exceptional acting and writing with top-notch direction from Robert Wise , and you've got a real winner ! ! About the only Noir film that I like more that immediately comes to mind is THE KILLER ( 1946 ) . Also , this film is highly reminiscent of THE KILLING - - another terrific Noir classic .
Wow . . . is this film draining !	Such a simple film , and yet THE PRIESTS really impressed me with its excellent acting , writing and direction . Relative newcomer to the film industry , James Napoli , wrote and directed this surprising little film . Garrett Brown was the star of the film and did an amazing job playing a dying criminal . Unlike Napoli , Brown has quite a few screen credits - - though most of them have been relatively small . With his ability to pull off the difficult scenes in this film , I hope he gets a chance to try even more challenging roles . The film begins with Brown struggling to find a priest as he's profusely bleeding . Because he's lost so much blood and isn't exactly rational , he mistakenly goes to the wrong apartment . He thinks it's the home of a priest and he wants to make a last confession , however , it's just some guy and his wife ! However , since the man has a gun and seems ready to kill them if they don't receive the confession , they have no choice . These moments are very , very poignant ( even if there was a cute joke just before this ) and the film is one of the more emotionally daring and draining films I have seen in some time . Despite the absurdity of the situation , everything rang true - - making it a tough to watch but highly satisfying film .
wonderful homage to horror films	It's amazing that Disney , who paid for this project , initially shelved this short film because they deemed it " inappropriate for children " ! This is only a slightly dark and very funny family film that is a homage to the horror pictures of the 1930s and 40s - - complete with glorious black and white cinematography ! And , I think that children of just about all ages would enjoy this without being traumatized . More importantly , there's enough fun to this story that adults won't watching it either - - and that's important for parents that are tired of the usual drivel that was foisted upon families during the 70s and 80s . The acting is way overdone , but deliberately so - - as everyone who initially sees this re-animated dog becomes deathly afraid and overreacts , since the pooch is a sweet dog underneath its ugly exterior . So , believe it or not , this is a great film about accepting others and not prejudging them - - and you probably did NOT expect this film to have such excellent family values !
a film not just about the Holocaust but about REAL people	I admire this movie quite a bit because it refused to give in to an over-idealized version of events in order to portray the families as somehow noble or transcendent . While this IS true of some of them , some others are truly annoying and difficult to like - - in particular , the lady played by Shelley Winters . She was so annoying and realistic ( as many of us are far from being angels ) , that Miss Winters won the Oscar for her performance . The movie COULD have chosen the easier way out by portraying everyone hiding in the movie as saint-like , but its deliberate choice for realism provides a much more believable and universal story . Excellent performances all around and an incredibly heart-wrenching conclusion . A must-see film .
Once again , proof that De Sica was a great and under-appreciated director	I have never understood why Vittorio De Sica is not thought of as one of our greatest directors . I have heard and read gobs of praise for Hitchcock , Kurosawa , Bergman , Fellini , Godard and many others but have rarely noticed similar accolades for De Sica - - yet he was responsible for many of the greatest films I have seen . Aside from his super-famous film , THE BICYCLE THIEF , few have seen or discussed his masterpieces such as MIRACLE IN MILAN , UMBERTO D . or THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US ( my personal favorite ) - - yet these and many more of his films are among the greatest ever made . He was one of the directors responsible for creating a style of film ( " Neo-realism " ) but here in the States , you'd never know this unless you are a crazed film fan ( like myself ) . The trademark of these Neo-realist films are non-actors performing in very ordinary situations that usually are ignored in big-budget films . Despite what you may think , these films are definitely NOT dull and grab the viewer emotionally because he truly learn to love and care about the characters in the films . Generally , these small-budget films are super-true to life and the acting and writing are phenomenal . I made this little rant to set the stage for A BRIEF VACATION , as it is a late Neo-realistic film by De Sica . Once again , the characters are very simple Italian folk - - the sort you'd almost never see featured in a film . In addition , the actors are not easily recognizable to the audience . As a result , you truly grow to care about the central character and root for her . But , also because it's a Neo-realistic film , the ending is true to the character instead of having a Hollywood-style ending where everything works out fine ! The plot of the film involves a very over-worked and completely unappreciated working mother . She is the sole provider for a home with three small children , a lazy and obnoxious brother-in-law , a meddlesome mother-in-law and a temporarily disabled husband . When she has trouble keeping up at work , she goes to the local clinic and find out she has TB and needs to go on an extended rest - - paid for by the state health care system . However , her selfish family insist she's fine and want her to stay on the job because they are just awful people who want her to stay and take care of their needs . Unfortunately , this nice lady is so nice , she has a hard time standing up for herself . But , when the problem is too much , she does finally go to the sanitarium despite their petty protests . At the sanitarium , her life changes . Instead of being so quiet and shy , she slowly comes out of her shell and makes many friends . She even attracts the attentions of a handsome younger man who desperately wants to marry her and take her away from her rotten home life . Seeing the lady blossom is amazing but true to the spirit of Neo-realism , the film ends on a less than fairy tale-like fashion but one very true to the characters . This is an excellent film with exceptional acting and direction . Some might find the subject matter a tad mundane , but believe me , it's worth some patience .
Excellent propaganda comedy	During and just before WWII , there were a lot of propaganda films created by Hollywood to drum up morale in our fight against Fascism . Nearly all of them were deadly serious war films . And , while many of them were great , after a while they all tended to blend together . Because of this , TO BE OR NOT TO BE is a real standout picture . The movie is a comedy and yet is every bit as effective in inspiring the war effort . Now it's not surprising that the film is so well-made as its director is Ernst Lubitsch and he is ably supported by lots of wonderful character actors such as Felix Bressart and Sig Rumand ( among others ) . However , the nice surprise about the movie was the acting of Jack Benny in the starring role ( along with the wonderful Carole Lombard ) . For years , Benny made fun of his acting and the movies he made , but he was great and the film was great . Aside from the rather dopey HORN BLOWS AT MIDNIGHT , in fact , I really like the few films he made . All-in-all , a fine and fun film - - chock full of quality .
some parts are very good , some parts are great = = overall an exceptional flick	This movie is made up of many vignettes featuring many capable stars - - all centering on the same second-hand tuxedo as it is passed on from one owner to the next . I won't try to elaborate on all the segments , as one of the previous reviewers did a very thorough job of describing them . However , they are all extremely well-crafted and engaging . I would also agree that stylistically , this film is reminiscent of IF I HAD A MILLION , though the stories in Tales of Manhattan are generally less funny but more polished . The one portion of the movie that really stood out for me was the one featuring the down-and-out Edward G . Robinson attending his college class reunion ( from Harvard , I think ) . He goes in a tattered old hand-me-down tux hoping to fool his old chums into thinking he's made it in life . You really feel for the guy in his plight - - especially when a mean-spirited member of the class seeks to expose the ruse ! So give it a try , why don't ya ?
It makes you laugh . . . ' nuff said !	When this animated short begins , you aren't particularly bowled over by the quality of the animation . It looks about as good as the artwork in SCHOOLHOUSE ROCK - - simple and not especially memorable . However , like the best animation , this film succeeds because it is so well written and will almost certainly make you laugh . No wonder it won the Oscar for the Best Animated Short Film . The movie is all about a game of movie charades . When the first guy takes a turn , he gives great clues yet the idiots can't guess it . The second guy gets up and hardly gives a clue at all - - and his teammates immediately know it ! This happens again and again and you start to feel sorry for the first guy - - he all but writes the name of the films for his idiot partners yet they never even come close . Some of their answers , are so stupid they are rather funny . Now at this point , I might have scored the film a 7 , but the way it ended was so funny and so fitting that it elevated the film to a 9 - - as it was hilarious !
A wonderful movie - - try to get past all the ugliness and you've got a great film	For years I was turned off from watching this movie . I tried once , but found that the movie looked like an episode of MOMMA'S FAMILY where they finally gave everyone meat cleavers and told them to mix it up good ! ! It was that ugly and tough to watch in only the first 10 or 15 minutes , so I just turned it off and assumed it was not my type of movie . Thankfully , I tried it again and realized it was an exceptional film in every way . The movie is essentially a film about how everyone in the family is dealing with the imminent death of the family patriarch , Big Daddy . For some odd and annoying reason , everyone has nicknames like " Big Momma " , " Big Sister " , etc . but considering this is my only complaint , it's no big deal really . The problem is that the family is at heart really screwed up . The oldest son , played by Jack Carson , is the " good " son who became a lawyer and is superficially dutiful , though down deep he does everything to try to maneuver himself and his evil brood into the best position when the loot is divvied up when Big Daddy dies . It's totally sick the way he and his obnoxious brood fawn over Big Daddy so unconvincingly in order to ingratiate themselves . His wife , Mae , played by Madeleine Sherwood , is probably the most detestable of all the adults in the film . Just how awful she is is revealed more and more as the film progresses , as she has both the mouth and heart of a viper AND she choreographs the kids to do some major sucking up to Big Daddy . This sucking up is so saccharine and annoying that Big Daddy obviously detested the kids ! The children are basically evil spawns of Satan , as their parents allow them to do ANYTHING so long as they suck up to Big Daddy and Big Mamma . When the film starts , one of the brats is reaching her hands into a big bowl of ice cream - - ruining it for everyone . When she sees her Aunt Maggie ( Liz Taylor ) she throws a huge handful on her . Another of these darlings later laughs at Aunt Maggie and taunts her because she doesn't have any kids ! They did a great job of playing horrid kids , as I found myself wanting to strangle them . Aunt Maggie is also pretty mercenary , though is much more subtle and likable than her brother-in-law and sister-in-law and the little demons . But she and her husband , Brick , played by Paul Newman , have a stormy marriage at best . Of all the kids and in-laws , the only one without designs on the fortune is Brick , who is so full of self-pity and self-loathing that all he really is interested in is staying drunk . Big Mamma , played by Judith Anderson , is pretty ineffectual and lives in a constant state of denial . Otherwise , she would have to admit to herself that her kids are creeps and her husband doesn't care at all about her . Big Daddy , played by Burl Ives , is a loud and obnoxious man who as insensitive and blunt . His way of showing love is through money and success . He appears to realize the score on everyone and where they stand - - except for himself . Here he's got a huge blind spot - - thinking he's done a fine job when the problems he sees are in many ways his own doing . Initially , Big Daddy thinks that the stomach pains he's been having are not very serious - - after all , that's what the doctor has told him . However , he's dying of cancer and his time left is very short . Once he learns this is so , he actually stops yelling and the most poignant part of the film begins . His conversation with Brick about the illness and the future is one of the finest moments in movie history . In particular , Paul Newman's performance nearly brought me to tears . It was only then that real raw feelings and pain began to emerge and the movie began to feel so real and wonderful . Where all this goes from there you just need to see for yourself . I had a hard time choosing whether or not to give the movie a 9 or a 10 , but I tend to be more conservative than some and reserve 10s for only a very select group of films - - and this one nearly made it . See it and be amazed . PS - - A final interesting note is that one of the kids playing the brats was Rusty Stevens - - " Larry Mondello " from the old LEAVE IT TO BEAVER show . Look quickly at the kid running around with the sparkler - - it's him . He's not listed in the credits , but is on IMDb and I'm sure it's him .
Exceptional . . . and a film that definitely leaves the viewers with many unanswered questions !	In recent months , I've really grown to love documentaries - - having seen some truly exceptional ones . As a psychology teacher , these sort of films make great fodder for discussions with my students . I haven't shown them MR . DEATH , but might consider doing so in the future since the main character is so bizarre and difficult to comprehend . The film is unusual in that the first third of the film is amazingly different than the rest of the film . It seemed as if the man who was the focus of the film ( Fred Leuchter ) was an entirely different person in the final of the movie . This was very clever film making - - throwing the audience a curve-ball , so to speak . As a result , the audience which initially probably felt somewhat sympathetic towards this very odd man , are now transformed into charter members of the " I hate Fred Club " ! As the film begins , you'll notice that there is no traditional voice-over narration - - instead , Fred and a variety of others talk on camera as narration . It seems that Fred has become a bit of an authority on how to humanely execute criminals ( an interesting oxymoron ) . Oddly , while he has some advanced training and is obviously very bright , he seems way overconfident in himself and his abilities . He also seemed quite ghoulish in his excitement about his trade ( building and remodeling all types of death equipment ) , but on the other he also seems pretty decent as he talks about how its wrong to make people feel pain or make the executions too grisly . He felt his job was a positive thing in order to make the execution as easy on the recipient as possible . While this may or may not have been the purpose of the film , the overall message did a lot to make me think twice about the death penalty - - especially when he talked about how messy and disgusting the process actually was . Television and movie portrayals are WAY too sanitized and hearing Fred talk about the process is very disturbing . Then , almost completely out of the blue , the film discusses Fred's involvement in a court battle in Canada concerning " hate speech " . A holocaust denier was going on trial for publishing booklets saying that there wasn't any widespread killing of Jews by the Nazis . Fred was hired as an " expert witness " to testify for the defense even though he really didn't have formal training in executions or mass exterminations ( it was more a hobby or he was a semi-pro in the field ) . The film then follows him to Auschwitz as he illegally takes samples to prove that no gassings occurred there . While Fred seems very confident of his methodology , the film makers later reveal that in many ways he had no idea what he was talking about nor did he know how to take proper samples . The sad part about the film is not just how he was used by the neo-Nazis but how Fred was so dogmatic and narcissistic that he could not allow himself to question his methodology or objectivity . As a result , Fred's life was destroyed and at the same time , he became a celebrity , of sorts , on the neo-Nazi talk circuit . So on one hand , he's lost his job , wife and home , he's hated by practically everyone - - - and on the other , he's the darling of pinheads all over the world ! By the end of the film , Fred is as dogmatic as ever - - even as his life goes down in flames ! As far as how the film was constructed , it was excellent . Fortunately for the film maker ( Errol Morris ) , there was film of a young Fred cavorting about prisons with his father ( who worked there ) and when sampling the death camp for evidence of cyanide , there was also a film crew of his own documenting the process . Morris was able to integrate these into present day video to produce an intriguing but highly confusing and disturbing film . While this film is definitely not for everyone , those who have a high tolerance for the weird and a desire to learn about odd personalities are strongly encouraged to give this one a try . Just be prepared to feel that Fred is quite the enigma and answers won't be very easy to find . Also be prepared to both hate the man and yet feel a tad sorry for him at the same time - - a truly odd and jarring experience for me . For more information about Fred , try the following link ( http en wikipedia org wiki Fred A Leuchter ) Unlike some Wikipedia articles , this one seems rather sound - - with decent documentation . I particularly was surprised to see that Fred was not even an engineer but had a BA in history and he was definitely practicing as a trained engineer ! ! Even the Errol Morris documentary didn't catch that !
The best thing Griffith ever did ! ! ! He should have stuck to 3-minute movies !	While I have enjoyed some of D . W . Griffith's full-length films , he did have a tendency to drag some of these movies out way too long as well as over-dramatize them from time to time . It's because of this that this short film is so unique ! At only three minutes , it's a short and tidy little tale constructed in order to combat the growing size and complexity of women's hats in 1909 . While the print from Kino Films was a bit poor in places , the movie was still worth seeing and quite entertaining . Many ladies crowd the tiny theater and the men are beside themselves trying to see the movie with all the huge hats . And , since the ladies WON'T take them off , someone at the theater has created a VERY unique way to combat the problem ! See this film - - it's funny and only takes up three minutes in your busy lifestyle !
What's that saying about " best intentions " ? !	This is a very simply animated film that really struck a chord with me . Instead of the usual lousy animation that the 1970s were known for , this one was very different - - mostly because of exceptional writing and narration . It is the ultimate story about irony and the importance of just minding your own business ! The story is something like this : There was a simple family that lived on a small island in New England and they were very happy . Although they didn't have much , they were well-fed and content . Then , out of the blue , the idiots on the mainland got the idea that this family needed help - - after which , every possible problem occurred and left the viewer with the impression that the expression about " the road to Hell is paved with good intentions " is 100 % true - - at least in this case ! Filled with irony and sarcasm , this short sponsored by The Film Board of Canada is a winner and deserved its nomination for the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film . My only question , then , is - - is this a true story ? I sure hope not ! !
In the correct context , this is a wonderful little film	This film must be understood in the context for which it was made . While this is a film made by talent from Warner Brothers ( with voice work by Mel Blanc and production by the folks at Looney Toons ) , it was NOT intended for general release - - but was meant to be shown to soldiers to illustrate the importance of keeping troop activities secret . You can tell this is the case for several reasons - - the cartoon is black and white ( when Looney Toons had just recently switched to color ) , the guy at the newspaper stand is reading a magazine entitled " SEX " and the female Nazi spy has a radio hidden in her boobs . This was certainly NOT intended to be seen by the kids ! So , with it's more adult humor designed to appeal to those in combat , the movie did a wonderful job of conveying its central message in a cute way - - using great animation and a crazy rhyming style that is very , very catchy . Even today , this film is worth seeing - - not just by history teachers but by anyone wanting a good laugh or wanting to see what life was like during the war .
Exceptional	An average sort of guy ( played by Seth Fisher ) goes into a snooty wine bar and he's completely out of place - - especially when he tries to order a beer . Not only that , but he wants the beer that just yells working man - - Pabst Blue Ribbon . The bartender gives him a look that could just kill and informs him they only have wines - - at which point the man reluctantly orders " red " . You find yourself feeling sorry for the shmoe because of this and your sense of embarrassment for him increases when he strikes up a conversation with a lady who at first seems completely indifferent to his attention to her . There is much , much more to the film than this , but it's best you see it yourself to keep some suspense . Suffice to say that this " ordinary guy " turns out to be pretty exceptional - - leading to an excellent ending . Overall , thanks to exceptional writing , directing and acting , this romantic short really shines - - so much so that I really hope some big-shots with lots of money approach these people with a bigger project . I'd really love to see what they could do with 90 minutes instead of just a little over 11 ! Exceptional throughout - - this one is a real winner .
Inspiring	This is a very simple documentary about an extraordinary group of people . The film follows a group of inner city kids as they work at an after school program called " Rock the Boat " . Apparently this organization gives the kids a sense of purpose as they learn carpentry as they work on building sailboats . At the end of the film , you see the boat as it's being launched and taken out for a spin by the teens . It's all very inspiring , as you can't help but get caught up in the emotion of the moment . As for the film making style , it's pretty good - - with a roving camera and no narration - - just letting the kids talk and work as if there is no film crew there recording it all . However , the biggest star is the program and you tend to feel that no matter who made this documentary , it was bound to work because the subject was so interesting and inspiring .
considering when it was made , a very moving film that was ahead of its time	Okay , it is very possible to quibble with this film if you are too wrapped up in political correctness . Sure , it's a real shame that the film starred the white actor , Richard Dix , in dark paint as the Indian lead in the film . However , having White actors play Indians was pretty much the rule up to the 1960s , so I could easily overlook this . And , the beginning of the film can seem a tad preachy and irrelevant ( though I liked it , Leonard Maltin's Guide knocked this section of the film ) . However , given that the film was made in the rather racist 1920s ( when the KKK was on the rise and one of the strongest political forces in America ) , it is a truly amazing and transcendent film that definitely deserves to be seen and appreciated . Unlike the typical cowboy movie of the day , the Indians in the film are neither blood-thirsty savages nor are they simple-minded . Instead , the are uniformly shown as decent Americans who want a fair shake and a part of the American Dream . In fact , their desire to become TRUE Americans and their love of their country make this a great patriotic film . While based on all the horrible injustices they received in the film , their fundamental decency seems amazing . In addition to excellent acting , writing and direction , special attention must be focused on the spectacular and breathtaking cinematography - - especially towards the beginning of the film . The scenes of the Grand Canyon are among the most beautiful ever filmed during the silent era and are in many ways reminiscent of moving versions of Ansel Adams photos . The film is a true work of art .
starts off slow but builds to a wonderful conclusion	If you watch this film , do not be put off by the relative slow pace in the first portion of the movie . All this is necessary to help create the characters as they are slowly introduced . However , through the course of the movie , they are imbued with amazing depth and real-life problems and triumphs . It is amazing to see this unfold and by the film's conclusion , I was a great fan of this film . If I were to try to describe it , I would agree with my daughter who saw it as a movie much like My Big Fat Greek Wedding , but with some much more serious aspects . And it is true , because through the course of the film you come to really care about the people and it can't help but touch your heart . FYI - - due to some language and adult themes , this movie would not be appropriate for young children , though should be fine for teens . My own 15 year-old daughter watched it with me and enjoyed it as much as I did .
I think someone made a mistake here . . .	Occasionally I like to browse Google using the search term " banned cartoons " as many of these suppressed films are interesting - - especially from a historical point of view . With most of these cartoons I can understand why Disney and Warner Brothers have decided to withdraw them from general distribution , as they have some horribly insensitive and hurtful portrayals of minorities . However , SOME of them are excellent entertainment and aren't the least bit offensive to anyone other than a humorless corporate executive . Now why THIS PARTICULAR one was removed from circulation is beyond me and I wonder if it has NOT been pulled by Warner - - especially since it features the ever-popular Marvin the Martian . Was , perhaps , someone offended because it made fun of aliens ? I doubt it and seriously think this film was never repressed and someone labeled it " banned " incorrectly . Now as for this cartoon , this is one of the most famous Warner toons and has been very popular with audiences over the years . Bugs accidentally gets shot into space where he meets Marvin - - who is about to blow up the Earth since it obstructs his view of Venus ! ! Very funny stuff and featuring the best Chuck Jones-inspired artwork .
This one's for all the frustrated Invader Zim fans !	I am a strange person in that I am post-40 and still enjoy cartoons as much as when I was a kid . One of the more recent cartoons I have particularly enjoyed is the totally bizarre and seemingly pointless INVADER ZIM . Unfortunately , the show was just too weird and edgy for Nickelodeon and it was quickly canceled , though it has a very strong cult following . Apart from one season of shows , though , there just isn't much ZIM out there . And in light of this , I am strongly recommending Keroro guns ( Sgt . Frog ) . The show is very , very similar in so many ways . BOTH star a totally inept short little guy who comes to Earth to dominate and conquer us for their empires and both are so hopelessly inept that they haven't a prayer ! The only major difference is that Sgt . Frog isn't quite as bizarre or high energy . Instead of insanely over-the-top action like ZIM , Sgt . Frog is a slower paced and sweeter character - - a lot more cuddly and cute than ZIM . Plus , for all you GIR lovers ( he's ZIM'S robot helper ) , there isn't a corresponding character in Keroro guns . For this reason , I like this series a little less , but still recommend you give it a try .
Thought provoking and well made	This short independent film is exceptional and would be great to show a psychology class or to Al-A-Non attendees ( this is a support organization for people who have alcoholics in the family ) . It's the sad tale of a family that is being torn apart by a mother's alcoholism - - though her husband won't admit the problem is as serious as it is . While their child is not safe with her ( necessitating a nanny ) and the wife actually ends up stabbing her husband ( not seriously - - but serious enough ) , the man STILL won't acknowledge that it's time for him and his child to make the break or do something to force the wife into treatment . As a result of this denial , eventually tragedy strikes . The film gets very high marks for not telegraphing what will happen next and for not giving us the answers . So much of the film is left unsaid - - making it a great film to use to generate discussions with the viewers . In fact , the film ends with several plot points unanswered - - and for a film like this , that is a very good thing . Overall , an exceptional film . While the acting and technical merits aren't perfect , considering that it's an independent short featuring many inexperienced people , it actually is very , very good . In fact , the future for everyone concerned looks bright if they can produce a film this good with only limited resources . A must-see for anyone struggling with addiction in the family or with friends .
One of Charlie's best	I think most of the reason I liked the movie so much was the pairing of Chase with Buddy the Dog ( in this movie , called " Duke " ) . Buddy had previously starred with him in the film WHAT PRICE GOOFY ? and it was nice to see them together again . In all , they did five movies together and their pairing , believe it or not , reminds me of W . C . Fields and Baby Leroy - - together they are just funny . Charlie is a nice guy who comes to a woman's aid . Her parents are trying to force her to marry a rich member or the royalty , but the woman just doesn't know him . So , Charlie poses as a butler and infiltrates the home where she lives . Unfortunately , they own a dog and Charlie is afraid of them . However , his desire to help over-rules his fear and much of the short film is spent caring for the family dog . These scenes are cute - - especially when he is told to " give Duke a bath - - and DON'T take NO for an answer " . Well , Charlie thinks the prospective husband ( the guy who is descended from royalty ) is what the lady of the house is talking about and so he forces this guy to strip and get in the shower ! It's a funny mistake as the suitor is apparently a duke and the dog's name is Duke ! Well , once the mistake is corrected , it's time to wash the DOG and a simple thing does awry - - with funny complications . In the end , thanks to the comedy formula of the day , everything is wrapped up just fine and Charlie not only gets the girl but wins his future in-laws undying gratitude . This movie is silly . And don't we need a little of that from time to time ? NOTE : gr8dane's posting is correct . There is no way that Buddy the Dog is a Great Dane . While big by today's standards , he appears to be mostly Boston Terrier - - this breed was a lot bigger in the 1920s and Buddy looks to be about 30 pounds . How could anyone have thought this was a Great Dane ?
Sleep safely world . . . . thanks to Singapore Management University ! !	This is a very clever and silly idea for a short film . Instead of the typical sci-fi film where aliens invade Washington , DC , here they attack the tiny nation of Singapore . However , with a can-do attitude and aliens who never seem to be able to hit their targets , you can rest safely tonight - - knowing that the students of Singapore Management University have taken it upon themselves to save us ! ! Yes , tiny SMU ( not the one in Texas ) doesn't just sit back and watch it happen - - students and faculty declare an all-out war against the alien scum ! In some amazingly funny ( and cheesy ) scenes , you see lots of physical education students attacking the ships with bow and arrow , ken-do swords and even bowling balls ! My favorite part of all this , though , was how the aliens first attacked Singapore's weakest spot - - their hatred of littering ( yes , it is actually a serious crime to litter or not pick up others ' litter in Singapore ) ! Now all this is in very good fun and because it was a school supported project , I was not expecting a Hollywood production - - which it clearly wasn't . However , it's low budget technology worked pretty well and gave the entire project a sort of cheesy fun . In fact , you can't help but laughing at all the silly jokes . A few fall flat , but because they come so quickly and are done in such fun , it hardly matters . Overall , an exceptional student film and one not to be missed if you'd like a good laugh . My only reservation is minor . While English is widely spoken in this nation and unifies the many diverse ethnic groups , non-Singaporans may have a hard time understanding a bit of the dialect . Subtitles would have helped - - especially for world-wide viewing - - and we all SHOULD see it throughout the world . We owe it to SMU for saving us all ! !
Wow . . . this was so weird !	This is one of the stranger cartoons I've seen in a very long time . As far as the style and animation goes , this looks more like an underground animation made back in the 1970s and is truly strange . In many ways it reminds me also of the wonderful ( in other words " soon canceled " ) Might Mouse series from the 1980s . Weird stuff indeed . The film has a plot but frankly it just seems not terribly important . A bizarre looking moron decides to take his pet chicken to the Admiral Chicken plant down the road to trade it in for a pot pie . While the idea for this came from a TV commercial , they did NOT say to take the chickens to the plant and the hapless chicken is accidentally injected with bizarre chemicals and ultimately becomes a floating live chicken head who falls in love with a lobster . See , I told you the plot wasn't terribly important ! ! ! As for the cartoon , there are lots of cool jokes ( such as when Admiral Chicken makes fun of Ronald MacDonald or when you briefly see Sebastian from LITTLE MERMAID ) . I really liked its anarchistic style but I could see " normal " people just shaking their heads in confusion as the bizarreness of it all . See it for yourself . Even if you don't like it , you're bound to at least admit it's different ! !
Wow - - talk about making your adrenalin rush ! !	This is a dandy short film from the UK about a real-life carjacking . The film begins with a mother going in to pay for gas at the station . Her son and the keys are in the car when one carjacker steals the car while his partner distracts the mother . When the car goes , the mom panics and makes the partner ( who she doesn't realize is in on it ) chase the other vehicle . After a while , it's obvious that the guy in the chase vehicle isn't trying to catch the car and the mother bails out and runs after the stolen car on foot - - leading to one of the tensest moments I've seen in a very long time ! Exceptionally realistic acting , great direction and a wonderful sense of suspense make this a dynamic film . The only negative is that when the film ended , I was left with a lot of questions about the real robbery this was based upon and wish I could talk to the director about this - - but how ? Brilliant !
about as good a pirate movie as you can make without sound	This was an excellent pirate movie and was better than many sound pirate films . However , it's really hard to rate the movie - - - compared to other silent pirate films , it might just be the best . But , compared to THE SEA HAWK , CAPTAIN BLOOD or THE BLACK SWAN ( all wonderful sound pirate films from the 30s and 40s ) , it isn't as good a film . So what does the movie do that worked so well for me ? First , being a Douglas Fairbanks film , it had wonderful stunts and impeccable production values - - something he was known for in his silent films . Second , this film had excellent sets and was the best film money could buy in its day . In fact , it was such a lavish production that it was supposedly the first full-length film made in 2-color Technicolor - - an early and somewhat crude way of producing a color movie . Because the film was dyed with green-blue and orange-red dyes , the film mostly looks reddish-green - - definitely NOT true color . But , it doesn't look that bad - - certainly much better than the horrid colorized films destroyed in the 1980s . Plus , if it hadn't been for films like this , the infinitely better 3-color system might never have been developed by Technicolor . And , finally , the plot is pretty good for a silent film - - not the most complex when compared to later films , it's not nearly as simplistic as most other silents . This video was produced by KINO FILMS . Some of their silent films in the past were less than wonderful ( especially some of their Buster Keaton videotapes ) , but this videotape is top quality and has nice extras at the end of the tape . Some cheaper prints apparently are only black and white , not color . Nice job for the restoration , KINO ! However , despite what the video box said , it was apparently NOT the first full-length two-color Technicolor film . I recently saw a restored print from TOLL OF THE SEA ( 1922 ) and it was in fact made using this process four years earlier than THE BLACK PIRATE .
Pretty weird . . . but also pretty amazing	Believe it or not , at 12 minutes , this film ( for 1912 ) is a full-length film . Very , very few films were longer than that back then , but that is definitely NOT what sets this odd little film apart from the rest ! No , what's different is that all the actors ( with the exception of one frog ) are bugs . . . yes , bugs ! This simple little domestic comedy could have looked much like productions starring the likes of Chaplin , Laurel and Hardy or Max Linder but instead this Russian production uses bugs ( or , I think , models that looked just like bugs ) . Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy were yet to be discovered and I assume Linder was busy , so perhaps that's why they used bugs ! Using stop-motion , the bugs moved and danced and fought amazingly well - - and a heck of a lot more realistically than King Kong 21 years later ! The film starts with Mr . Beetle sneaking off for a good time . He goes to a bawdy club while his wife supposedly waits at home . But , unfortunately for Mr . Beetle , he is caught on camera by a local film buff . Plus , he doesn't know it but Mrs . Beetle is also carrying on with a bohemian grasshopper painter . Of course , there's a lot more to this domestic comedy than this , but the plot is age-old and very entertaining for adults and kids alike . Weird but also very amazing and watchable .
an excellent film , though a little far-fetched film	I'll admit that this film's plot is a little hard to believe . However , in some cases , such as this film , I think it's okay to suspend disbelief and enjoy the picture . How all the chain of events conspire together to create the plot is actually fascinating to watch and I found myself really pulled into the film . The movie is sort of like film noir , though without the usual tough main characters . Yes , the two main male leads do commit murders , but they seem much less sure of themselves and smooth as the typical noir leads . In a way , the film was sort of like a noir and Hitchcock film combined . I'd say more , but it would give away the plot . Give it a try - - you're bound to enjoy it .
exceptionally funny and exceptionally silly	Leonard Maltin hated this movie and instead he recommended watching the movie SMILE ( 1975 ) . Well , I would say the exact opposite - - DROP DEAD GORGEOUS is hilarious ( though not exactly subtle ) and SMILE is a not particularly good comedy ( though it was original ) . As I said above , the movie wasn't subtle but a very silly and completely over-the-top look at Junior Miss-type pageants . Ellen Barkin does a great job of playing " trailer trash " and Kirstie Alley plays the rich broad who feels she IS the pageant . Both actresses were not particular favorites of mine , but this movie helped changed my opinion as they did great jobs and really stayed in character . Kirsten Dunst and Denise Richards headlined the small cast of girls competing for the local Minnesota pageant - - the winner of which will go to the state championship . What happens along the way has got to be seen to be believed ! If I told you in this review , it would reveal too much . This movie is strongly recommended if you just want a good laugh . If you want cerebral comedy , this is not it ! The only negative is the very strong language , so parents are recommended to consider this before showing it to younger kids .
Despite this being a pilot , it already has excellent chemistry and excitement	I have long time been a fan of Babylon 5 , so you should keep this in mind - - I'm sure this must color my review of this TV movie pilot for the show . Fans of the series might notice some odd changes in cast - - this happens a lot in pilot episodes , as the show often is slightly re-tooled before the shows begin in production . For example , the doctor , the second in command were different actors than in the series and the prosthetics on Mira Furlan made her look much more " alien " in this movie . It's a shame about the doctor , as I really liked the African man who played him with a bit of sarcasm and flair . As for the rest of the cast , they were amazing to watch for a pilot . Normally , on most pilots , the camaraderie isn't really there and the relationships just seem a bit underdeveloped . However , here , Garibaldi , Sinclair and the rest seem to work well together and the made for TV movie is very watchable and similar to the resulting series despite the cast changes . For the early 1990s , the production values are excellent , though in 2006 , the computer graphics appear , at times , a bit dated - - as this was the first sci-fi series that got rid of modeling and used computer generated images for all its space scenes . All in all , it's an exciting and riveting show - - made even more so by the always brilliant writing of J . Michael Straczynski .
far from " politically correct " but brilliant	I have to say that I have never particularly liked Charles Bronson movies - - in particular , his follow-up movies to Death Wish . What was an exceptional film , has been marginalized by two factors - - the utter stupidity of DEATH WISH 2 , 3 , 4 , etc . as well as the loud wailing of the ultra-left about how horrible and offensive this film is . One of the later DEATH WISH films shows that Bronson has given up using his trusty . 357 Magnum and replaced it with a shoulder-launched rocket ! Talk about making a film to appeal to the idiots out there ! And as far as the ultra-left goes , I doubt that in many cases these people actually saw DEATH WISH before condemning it in a " knee-jerk " way just because it DID have guns and vigilantism . The film is an excellent portrait of an ordinary successful guy living with his family in the big city . One day , all this is interrupted when his wife is murdered and his daughter brutalized by a gang of scum . He's miserable and his life has been totally uprooted . Only later , when a business associate gives him a gun , does he consider looking for vengeance . And , I like how this was handled . He was NOT a jerk or crazy man - - especially at first . Instead , he just carried the gun for protection . Trouble came to him - - he wasn't initially seeking it . When he is mugged , he shoots back and is later horrified by his actions . But , as the movie continues , you see he then begins to deliberately walk the streets late at night in the hope that the thugs would attack . He never , by the way , solicited these attacks - - they just occurred because he had the unmitigated gall to walk the streets after dark . So , he is technically a vigilante of sorts , but he was never a crazed killer and , quite frankly , I didn't shed too many tears when he shot these predators . The film exposed our breakdown in society in the 1970s without explicitly recommending we pack heat and blast away at the bad guys and in the process it really made me think .
What a marvelous little film	I have a hard time understanding why the overall IMDb rating for this film is so low . Perhaps it's because the film is a small independent film without the usual Hollywood budget and trappings - - I know a lot of people have a prejudice towards these style films . Regardless , it's very unfortunate because it was a great film - - with amazing writing , direction and acting . It just goes to prove that you don't need a big budget in order to make a marvelous film . The story itself is very quirky . Janice's mother is a depressed agoraphobic who hasn't left her home since just after Janice was born . As a result , as a child Janice learned to create a fantasy world and told her mother amazing but untrue stories about life outside their home . Unfortunately , now that she is in her 20s , she continues to live in a fantasy world - - almost like Walter Mitty ( but her fantasies are not nearly THAT grand ) . When Janice leaves Scotland for a job in England , she is a total failure and loses job after job . However , she sent her mother glowing reports of success and even went so far as to fake videos to convince mom she was doing well ! The bottom line is that Janice is indeed a flake - - a very BIG flake . Now she was a nice person , mind you and you wanted her to succeed but her strangeness just prevented her from fitting in anywhere . . . that is , until she came to work for a small auto manufacturer . Here , despite her past , Janice somehow manages to slowly create a niche for herself . Unfortunately , at the same time she has no idea that an evil corporate spy is stealing from the company and has set her up to take the fall ! Now along with this unusual plot , there are lots of funny moments and the character of Janice is so cute you are really pulling for her to , despite it all , succeed . Amazingly , the writers are able to interweave some wonderful comedic moments into the plot AND make it all seem so plausible when things turn out brilliantly for Janice as the film progresses . In many ways , this film is reminiscent of the great little film American DREAMER - - when an ordinary person suddenly is caught up in adventure and it all works out much like a fairy tale in the end . An exceptional and highly engaging film for someone looking for something both usual and well-written .
Yet another exceptional Gregory Peck Western	It's very odd that Gregory Peck is not often associated with Westerns - - even though many of his best movies stand among the finest examples of the genre . Considering the number of Westerns he made , most of them were highly successful and entertaining . Remember , this is the same man who starred in THE BIG COUNTRY , THE GUNFIGHTER and YELLOW SKY - - yet he is more commonly seen as an actor in contemporary dramas . THE BRAVADOS is yet another in a long string of hits , as it somehow manages to transcend a genre that often seems derivative . In this film , Peck plays a complex character - - neither a villain nor a hero . He has been on a relentless pursuit to kill the men who he is convinced killed his wife - - and like Captain Ahab , he won't give up or consider and options other than their deaths . Along the way , he stumbles up a young and very beautiful Joan Collins - - in one of her better screen roles . I really don't want to tell you more , as it would spoil the plot , but rest assured it is masterfully made like other Peck Westerns and one not to be missed .
Better than many of his later and more " polished " films !	This movie was a major surprise . As it's a very early Hitchcock film , I had very low expectations for it , but was pleasantly surprised to find that the suspense and especially the mystery elements are much better than many of his later films . If the film hadn't been silent and if many ( if not all ) of the existing prints hadn't been in such poor shape , this would undoubtedly be a more widely known film . By the way , the DVD box says it was THE first film by Hitchcock , I noticed when consulting IMDb that it is NOT . Also , towards the end of the film , for all you people who love to spot the director in his cameos , it MIGHT be Hitchcock in front and center in the crowd scene only if he put on muttonchops and hair . It DOES look like him , but in later films he always looked like himself - - bald and ordinary . As for the movie , it's about a Jack the Ripper-type assassin that is targeting fair-haired ladies . When a mysterious lodger arrives at a boarding house , slowly people begin to suspect him of the killings . How the writers and director manipulated this to move the audience is brilliant and the film's conclusion is not telegraphed but exciting and fulfilling . A wonderful but overlooked film .
Super but certainly not for all tastes	This is a super-cynical film that is incredibly entertaining , insightful and oh , so jaded ! The problem is that although it's got a brilliant script , the film will only appeal to a small select audience . Die-hard Clinton lovers will NOT appreciate the film as it's a thinly veiled criticism of the Clinton presidency - - particularly since the film is about some completely amoral spin-doctors doing ANYTHING to save the butt of an amoral politician . Clinton lovers probably can't admit the truth of this aspect of his personality . Die-hard Clinton haters will no doubt love the film . Frankly , I'm rather Libertarian in view and think the nonsense in this film could apply to ANY politician , so those jaded viewers ( like myself ) will probably appreciate the edgy and dark humor .
Did it deserve the Best Picture Oscar ? ! Probably not - - but it still is a very dandy picture !	I really liked this film but can't see exactly why it won the Oscar for Best Picture , though I gotta admit that none of the nominated films really stand out in my mind . In a way , it would have been interesting if they'd given out no award in that category , though that will never happen . Now I am not saying I disliked the film . It was exceptional - - just not exactly " great " - - especially when there were other Clint Eastwood Westerns before this that were about as good or better . Maybe this is a lot like the film TRUE GRIT . Not a super Western , but John Wayne got the Best Actor Oscar more because of his amazing body of work BEFORE this film than the film itself . What the movie does excel at is creating an aura of an " anti-hero " style Western . Not one where you exactly hated all the characters , but one that calls their motivations and actions to question and asks a lot of questions about what makes a hero . And , in this light , several of the characters really stand out in my mind . The most intriguing is Gene Hackman as the sheriff , Little Bill . He is not the typical sheriff-type character . He is neither the consummate hero or an inept jerk that looks the other way when trouble comes - - the two most common types of sheriffs in film . Instead , he is a very pragmatic sadist . Pragmatic because he NEVER faces his enemies alone , but always has a well-trained gang to support him - - like most bullies . And , with this gang giving him the upper hand , he show that down deep he is a sick and twisted man who takes pleasure in torment . I also liked the young punk gunman ( Jaimz Woolvett ) . At first , he was very annoying and brash , but that really helped in the development of his character . He reminded me a lot of the guy Richard Jaekel played in THE GUNMAN - - a young punk trying to prove his masculinity with a gun ( wow , Freud would have LOVED that symbolism ) . But , unlike Jaekel , he eventually showed a very likable and believable bit of humanity . Clint Eastwood was also not the same typical character he usually played . Not " the man with no name " like so many Spaghetti-Westerns , but a complex and cold man who used to be a drunken # @ $ % ! & but had reformed when he met the right woman . Then , years later , when he strapped his guns on again , it was pretty unusual and refreshing to see what a bad shot he initially was and how much trouble this old man had getting on the horse . This old and somewhat broken-down tough-guy was also reminiscent of John Wayne's last film , THE SHOOTIST , in that although the body is achy and tired , there is still a lot of man hidden underneath . Morgan Freeman's role was very ordinary and he shows once again that he is a supremely capable actor . The best part about the role was that not once did anyone mention that he was a black man - - a bold move in many ways . Instead , he and his quiet dignity was what was front and center . Richard Harris and the rest of the cast did fine jobs and I have no complaints about the acting . In fact , I have no real complaints at all about the film . The movie deserves its R-rating for graphic language and a lot of extreme violence , though it is not as graphic or offensive as many similarly rated films . With a parent , this might be appropriate for some teens , though you should think twice before letting them watch .
you just can't find snappier dialog	Wow - - this movie had the absolute snappiest dialog of any Film Noir movie in Hollywood history . For dialog alone and Fred MacMurray's voice-overs , this must rank as one of the best Noir films of all time . The words they say are all so carefully chosen and magnificent - - the writers really did their work well . And , the acting and direction are excellent as well . About the only reason I don't score it a 10 ( and it sure came very close ) was that , for Film Noir , there wasn't a whole lot of action or even suspense in the movie - - considering you KNOW that MacMurray is making a confession so he isn't going to get away with the murder plot . Still , these are VERY minor complaints - - the film is simply great . I suggest after seeing this film you watch an episode of MY THREE SONS and see the two extremes in Fred's work - - the absolute apex and the absolute nadir ( if you don't know what those words mean , look ' em up yourself , ya mug ) .
I couldn't help but love this film ! !	While FOR THE BIRDS copped the Oscar in 2002 for Best Animated Short Film and definitely deserved the award , nominee STRANGE INVADERS really captured my heart . While FOR THE BIRDS had top-notch graphics and an amazingly likable and cute story , there was a certain bizarreness about STRANGE INVADERS that made me laugh even harder than I did with FOR THE BIRDS . To begin with , the animation looked as if you took the animators from the BOB & MARGARET television series and got them seriously drunk . While the style is similar , the quality of the animation isn't great . However , this is actually a bit of it's charm , as the styling and colors used all really made the most of this ultra-simplistic hand drawn approach . However , the big star of this animation is the writing - - with some of the most surreal and just plain strange plot elements I've ever seen on film . Suffice to say , it's a lot like the old classic film VILLAGE OF THE DAMNEbut funny ! ! For normal folks , you must see FOR THE BIRDS . For weirdos and lovers of the fringe , you must see STRANGE INVADERS - - a delightfully wacky alternative to all the polish of FOR THE BIRDS .
aside from Das Boot , one of the very best submarine flicks	There's really nothing to knock about this excellent submarine film . The acting was stellar - - with Clark Gable giving a generally restrained performance and Burt Lancaster doing a fine job as his second in command . The writing and directing were also very good and are meant to appeal to the intelligent and discerning viewers . Although not exactly upbeat , I like the way the movie ends - - it may be a bit of a downer for some , but represents the sacrifices that are often made in war . As a result of all these pluses , it is an even better film than the exceptional Destination Tokyo . However , considering the absolute care and devotion to detail in the German film , Das Boot , it must rank as perhaps the second-best submarine film of all-time .
Thank goodness John Pinette is back !	Although IMDb doesn't list it , John Pinette did a wonderful stand-up performance on television many years ago . In it , he did some memorable routines on dieting and Girl Scouts as well as a visit to a local Chinese buffet . Sadly , after achieving this fame in the late 80s-early 90s , he disappeared , somewhat , and only recently returned for a new stand-up routine entitled " I'M STARVIN ' " . In the intervening years , he appeared on a few sit-coms and apparently also worked on Broadway ( playing Mrs . Turnblad in " Hairspray " ) . It was great to see him back and it was also great to see that this rotund comedian still was funny . Some acts disappear and when they reappear , they have lost their edge and just aren't funny . With Pinette , my entire family watched it and laughed throughout . Very funny and a very welcome return to the stage .
A very good premise for a full-length film	WARNING : This film deals with very adult themes ( date rape ) and has strong language . While it is all appropriate for the film , it's not for children . Adults should use common sense before having the young folk see this ! ! Duh . This film is about a couple sleaze-bags who operate an internet porn site . Despite the fact that one of the guys probably raped a woman a few years ago , his partner seems content - - that is , until photos are posted on the site of the rape . What happens next is truly surprising and exciting . Most independent shorts these days seem to be made with the intention of attracting backers so that they can perhaps make full-length versions of these shorts or impress the financial people that they have what it takes to go on to bigger things . Well , if that's what the folks who made ATTACHMENT have in mind , I am sure if the right people see this dandy film then they can't help but get the funding . That's because the film is a great idea for a full-length film - - with all its twists and turns and great plot ideas . Heck , there are more surprises in this 15 minute short than you often find in a 90 minute film ! A terrific short film that left me wanting more .
Not quite as funny as the first one , but still it was a lotta fun !	In the mid-1960s , Jim Henson and the Muppets were famous in the Washington , DC area and were finally getting noticed nationally ( such as on The Jimmy Dean Show , among other venues ) . Despite this success , their " bread and butter " was still making commercials as well as this short film for Wilson's Meats . I assume it was shown at either a stockholder meeting or a company-wide meeting as a sort of pep talk . However , instead of being dry and forgettable , thanks to good writing this is clever and funny - - so funny that you should go to Google Video to find it . Even if you are a vegetarian and don't like meat - - find it ! The combination of puppets , behind the scenes shots , hilarious self-parody and in-jokes are simply a hoot to watch and any serious fan of the Muppets needs to watch this as soon as possible !
Brilliant ! ! ! This movie actually made me LOVE Shakespeare !	I never liked Shakespeare when I was a student . I found it boring and long-winded . However , after seeing this movie I realize that the Bard was a genius , as this movie is ( believe it or not ) a modern re-working of HAMLET ! In fact , the first time I saw the movie , I didn't even realize this . It was only the second time , I began putting things together ( the name " Elsinore " for the brewery as well as the basic plot when you subtract Doug and Bob from the equation ) . In fact , I would say this is far BETTER than Shakepeare . Who wants to hear " alas , poor Yorik I knew him , . . . . " or see a crazed Ophelia when instead you can see a flying dog and maniacal hockey players ? Brilliant ! I only wish Doug and Bob had taken on other dull literary favorites and converted them to modern Canadian classics ! A must see for all weird movie buffs .
Exciting stuff , but just how true is this story ?	This is an extremely violent and well made martial arts movie - - the final in the trilogy based on the life of Masutatsu Oyama - - actor Sonny Chiba's instructor in Kyokushinkai Karate . I enjoyed the first two films and at first thought they were totally fictional ( after all , who would stage a fight with a bear or a bull ) , but was shocked to find that for the most part the details of the story were more or less true . However , in this final movie , there is so much killing and extraordinary action that I again wonder what is true and what is exaggerated in the movie . Web sites about Oyama's life weren't all that helpful and I enjoyed the movies enough I might just try to find a biography of this incredible man . What made the real life Oyama amazing was that like Bruce Lee , his brand of martial arts was made up of whatever techniques worked and this style emphasized winning the fight as quickly as possible . So when you see Sonny Chiba portraying Oyama , it was realistic that he dispatched many opponents with one blow or used lethal-style attacks . However , if you add up all the people he killed in the trilogy , Oyama would have probably killed a hundred or more people and I seriously doubt that Japan would have allowed him to run free ! ! But , for a film , showing this style of brutal fighting is great because all the silly frills and silly crap that often accompanied SOME martial arts films is gone . Instead , it's stripped down to the bone - - just raw and brutal fighting . Chiba is amazing in this film ( as well as other films such as the STREET FIGHTER series ) because his style is intense and forceful - - it's easy to imagine him really being such a dangerous fighting machine . So , for raw fighting power , these films are very similar to the Bruce Lee films . In fact , towards the end , there's an obvious homage to ENTER THE DRAGON where Oyama fights the leader of the baddies in a mirrored room . For fans of martial arts films , it doesn't get much better than this . While not a perfect film , it is among the very best and highest rated I have seen - - earning a 9 through sheer brute strength and technique .
despite a crappy sounding title , this IS an exceptional film	Okay , for you to also think this is an exceptional film , you've gotta like 1950s Monster / Sci-Fi movies . If they bore you or you think they are dumb , this movie may not change your mind all by itself . However , I greatly admire the well-written and interesting ones such as THIS ISLAND EARTH , THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL or this film , as they really are well-written and interesting provided you can suspend your sense of disbelief . For the 1950s , this film has excellent production values . The special effect are pretty good and the story of horny aliens coming to find unsuspecting brides is really well done and not cheesy like the terrible MARS NEEDS WOMEN ( yawn ) . So , despite seeming like a stupid plot , the film pulls you in and scores a bullseye .
a movie that improved after a second time	Although most Americans have little knowledge of his work other than Star Wars , Alec Guinness produced an amazing body of work - - particularly in the 1940s-1950s - - ranging from dramas to quirky comedies . I particularly love his comedies , as they are so well-done and seem so natural and real on the screen - - far different from the usual fare from Hollywood . I first saw this movie when I was about 13 or so , and didn't appreciate it very much . Years later , when I became fascinated with Guinness ' Ealing comedies , I decided to give it another chance . And boy am I glad I did ! ! The movie concerns the life of an extremely edgy and rather nasty artist . Guinness really plays this up and creates one of the quirkiest and funniest characters I have ever seen . In essence , the man is a rascal that is driven to create his art regardless of what it takes to get it done ! What I missed the first time I saw the film were the extremely catchy music and the amazing art created for this movie . I am not the biggest fan of modern art , but the second time i saw the movie I really liked most of the works done for the movie - - it just was a darn shame that much of it was destroyed in the course of the movie ! In addition to music and art , the performances throughout of all the actors was nearly perfect . Finally , the version of the movie I saw last was from the Criterion Collection . Get this version ! ! ! ! It had so much wonderful background information about the actual art , the making of the movie , and interesting background information - - such as how they got the musical score WITHOUT having to pay royalties and the incredibly sad tale of a magnificent performance by a young supporting actor that did not live to see the finished product .
one of the best sci-fi series , . . . . period	Although I know that the Trekkies out there and lovers of SG-1 will no doubt blow a gasket , I consider this the best sci-fi series ever . And I DO like these other shows ( even the ever so mediocre Deep Space 9 ) . My love for the show is based on it having the creative genius of J . Michael Straczynski creating and controlling the series . Unlike other shows , he was a single mastermind who envisioned a series with a greater sense of purpose and plot than others ( and wrote almost all the episodes ) . His plots did not last a few episodes or even a single season , but persisted throughout . And , because of this , his characters were able to grow and evolve unlike any others in the history of sci-fi . It was ingenious how G'Kar and Molari , for example , changed throughout the series . It was also genius to have humans be both the BEST and WORST characters in the show - - from the evil Bester ( played by EVIL CHEKOV from the " Mirror Mirror " episode of Star Trek ) to the strong and competent Commanders Sinclair and Sheridan . I will warn you , though , that the first season starts slowly , as it takes a while for all the characters to be introduced and for all the man , many plots and schemes to start coming together . In fact , in season one , there are even a few poor episodes that show that the series hadn't yet gotten its legs . My advice is HOLD ON AND KEEP WATCHING - - later the true brilliance of the intricate plot become very apparent . Seasons two , three and four are amazing , though unfortunately season five is also a bit of a dud because the show was originally scheduled to end after four and the fifth season was sort of slapped together - - and it looks it . If you disagree with me , I challenge you to watch every episode from start to finish and then tell me I am wrong . I guess I am a true GEEK , as I have seen them all as they originally aired and no other series ( except NOWHERE MAN , STARGATE SG-1 and THE PRISONER ) ever got me to commit myself to seeing every episode .
A dandy little film that is just too cute for words	Wallace & Gromit have been around for some time , but this was their first foray onto the silver screen . Fans of the British TV series , like myself , were eager to see them and the film did quite well in the theaters . Much of the reason is that the film is fun and quite original . In a world of CG movies like SHREK and TOY STORY , this stop-motion film is a nice alternative to the trend in children's movies as well as being totally unlike a cartoon . Plus , compared to much earlier stop-motion films ( such as KING KONG and the Ray Harryhausen films such as SINBAD ) , the quality and movement of the characters are light years better - - looking very fluid , natural and more alive . Apart from the quality of the animation , this movie also deserves kudos on every other level . First , the voice actors do a great job . Second , the script is very simple but also very cute and enjoyable - - with a few double-entendres that should probably go way over the kids ' heads . Third , they manage to make this not only a movie for kids but people of all ages as the film is neither saccharine nor aimed solely at the younger crowd . In particular , I was captivated by incredibly cute the film was - - and especially the adorable bunnies . I especially liked them in the closing credits - - which made me very happy I stayed to watch the entire film . The bottom line is that unless you are a real stick-in-the-mud , you will enjoy this film . It's fresh , funny and amazingly clever . I hope we see a sequel - - and this is saying something , as I usually hate sequels .
Far deeper and intelligent than what first meets the eye	This is a brilliant sci-fi movie that is very strange in how men and women both view the same film . I have talked to many people about the film and almost every guy loved it and said it was brilliant - - while most women thought it was just disgusting and stupid ! This is the only movie I know of that has such polarized views based on gender . Perhaps many women just have a lower tolerance for disgusting or depressing plots - - but whatever the cause , I have always found this difference fascinating . The film begins with a murder and a subsequent investigation headed by Charlton Heston . This is set in the near future and the head of the huge international Soylent Corporation has been assassinated . As the film unfolds , you quickly realize this is a terrible and highly inequitable future American society . The rich live in gorgeous apartments with security and all the pleasures money can buy ( including " furniture " - - a euphemism for paid mistresses that come along with the apartment ) . At the same time , the masses are dirt poor , unemployed and in many cases living in abandoned cars or apartment hallways . Overpopulation and smog have taken a severe toll and the future looks awful indeed ! Why the rich man died and the awful truth he could not live with I really should NOT discuss - - it could ruin the film for you . However , the film has a great plot and acting and is super-exciting to watch . Plus , it features Edward G . Robinson in his final screen performance as the crusty sidekick to Heston . Though not for the easily depressed or squeamish , this is a great sci-fi film that is allegorical and profound .
Totally unique and a visual treat	Given that the director , Dreyer , was an obsessive-compulsive , it's not very surprising that the movie was filmed magnificently . It is one of the more visually striking and amazing black and white films I have seen - - somewhat reminiscent of German Expressionism as well as the Bergman film THE SEVENTH SEAL . It was simply beautiful to watch . And , to heighten the visual impact , the characters ( especially the supporting ones ) look much like they were lifted from 17th century paintings by Rembrandt and Holbein . As for the film itself , it was very well-crafted . At times it was very hard to watch ( such as the torture scene and the scene where the old woman was burned alive ) , and at other times it did seem a tiny bit tedious ( but not so much that it spoiled the film ) and other times the film was quite odd - - especially since the direction the film went really surprised me . In the end , you find that Dreyer's film wasn't necessarily an indictment on the stupidity of the witch trials and it left many questions unanswered . I really liked this vagueness - - as too often films try to spoon feed and convince the viewer - - this one didn't seem to care and just wanted to , at times , confuse and surprise the audience . If you like this film , a couple other Danish films I also loved and strongly recommend ( though they bear no similarity to this film ) are BABETTE'S FEAST and THE CELEBRATION . Movies like these really encourage me to seek out more Danish films .
Another great picture from Michael Gluzman and Brad Tucker !	Michael Gluzman and Brad Tucker both co-directed this film as well as a terrific follow-up picture in 2008 , ALL THAT IS HUMAN . While both are very young and inexperienced in film making , I am blown away at the quality of both these productions . For student films , they are unbelievable ! FANYA KAPLAN is an interesting little film about a little-known figure from history who tried to assassinate Lenin after the Communist revolution " went sour " and the party began limiting free speech and basic human rights . Although I teach history , my knowledge of the event was at best sketchy , so I enjoyed finding out more about this abortive attempt on Lenin's life . Ironically , considering how many of Kaplan's friends were executed and how Lenin's successor , Stalin , was so blood-thirsty and demented , the incident probably did much more harm than good . What I loved about the film is how the film makers made the movie in Russian and the trouble they went to in oder to get that right . Also , for the money spent , it was a very professional and I am amazed that these young people have done a great job both times they worked together . Great stuff .
The end really makes this a great short	This is an exceptionally clever little short film from France . Now at first , I was very turned off by the violent aspects of the film , but I am exceptionally glad I stuck with it , as it has one of the more clever and satisfying endings I have seen in a short . A young lady tries to get her boyfriend ( or husband ? ) to stop playing on his computer and join her . However , he's totally addicted to gaming and has the insatiable urge to play more - - even when she begs him . Oddly , when he chooses to play " Virtual Killer II " , the character comes to life - - chasing the lady through the house and trying to kill her . Again and again , she manages to escape - - at which point her boyfriend ( who is totally oblivious ) comments about how great the A . I . is of the game - - the enemies are REALLY smart and hard to beat ! There is , of course , much more to it than that . Rest assured that this one is well worth a look due to a wonderful script and great social commentary .
A wonderful film , . . . one of the better war films	While this isn't my favorite soviet WWII film ( that would be the simple and super-effective BALLAD OF A SOLDIER ) , it is exceptional and well worth seeing . Veronika and Boris are young and in love . Unfortunately , just before they marry , WWII comes along and despite their plans , Boris responds to the call of duty and volunteers to fight . They are both heartbroken , but duty is duty . Shortly after this , Veronika's parents are killed in an air raid , so she moves in with Boris ' family . At this point , the movie becomes a bit confusing and this is one case where I really wish the film had been more explicit . Boris ' no-good cousin is living at the apartment along with the family and during an air raid , he attacks Veronika and begins kissing her despite her protests . Then , inexplicably , in the next scene they announce they are getting married ! Either he won her over with passion or he raped her and she oddly felt that since he violated her she should marry him ( that's twisted logic ) . It makes a big difference - - if she just lost interest in Boris that easily , it really doesn't make sense since they were so in love and after marrying , she acts like she loves him as much as ever . But , if she was raped , she is a far more sympathetic and tragic figure . Now apart from that , the movie is marvelous . The camera-work ( especially when Boris is shot and he is imagining the wedding that never was ) , acting and production was amazing . So much so , by the end I really had to fight back the tears ( after all , I'm a guy and guys NEVER let themselves cry , . . . except when Jim Brown gets killed in THE DIRTY DOZEN ) . A very loving and beautiful film that greatly humanizes the face and cost of war .
I bet you haven't seen a film as weird as this before !	Sam and Gus are a strongman and his promoter with the sideshow . However , they begin to hear that there is a stronger strongman named " Crooked Mick " and they are determined to find out if it's true . Sam ( the strongman ) is particularly eager to see if there's anyone stronger than him - - and based on what you've seen of his abilities so far , this doesn't seem possible ! ! As they go off in search of Crooked Mick , you'll notice that there's a lot of excellent CGI work and the countryside looks a little more like Oz than Australia ! In fact , the story goes from weird to weirder as it progresses - - so weird that you just can't stop watching ! ! The movie has a very professional quality about it and there's little not to love , though the film's ending wasn't quite as big a laugh as I might have hoped . There still is an awful lot to like about this very silly film .
Utterly charming - - they certainly don't make them like this any more !	This is a very charming romance from director Billy Wilder . Much of its charm is due to the excellent acting of its leads - - Audrey Hepburn , Gary Cooper and Maurice Chevalier . Much of the charm was due to the lovely script . And the whole thing was tied together nicely by exceptional direction and music . They just don't make them like this anymore . Gary Cooper plays an aging playboy and from what I have read about his personal life , this wasn't any sort of a stretch . Oddly , Maurice Chavalier plays a French private detective who investigates unfaithful spouses - - a serious departure from his role in GIGI ! And Audrey Hepburn , who is certainly luminous and the star of this film , plays Chavalier's young daughter . Audrey is fascinated by her father's business and ultimately comes to meet playboy Cooper as a result of this odd obsession . However , she knows he cannot love her or care about her - - as he is afraid of commitment and loves the carefree life . But , at the same time , given her sheltered life , he is most fascinating , so Audrey creates a false persona and convinces Cooper that she's been with lots and lots of men - - and is sort of a younger female equivalent of him ! Eventually , however , he is smitten and their romance becomes more serious - - causing complications for both - - he IS a playboy and she IS a naive young lady who certainly deserves better . How this is all wrapped up is where the movie really , really excels - - and the ending is one that is sure to bring a tear to almost anyone's eye . A marvelous romance that is greatly underrated and practically forgotten . You've got to see this movie ! PS - - Although the people from PETA would definitely not think it was funny , the scenes where the owner of the Yorkie keeps smacking it are hilarious . You've gotta see it to believe it ! PPS - - John McGiver is terrific in a small supporting role - - he's so gosh darn cute and contributed a lot of color to this film .
Wow . . . Western society really has become a giant group of morons ! !	This is one of about 100 short films that are currently posted on IMDb . I am trying to see all of them before they decide this beta program isn't worth it ! Hopefully , you , too , will try out some of these free films . CONVERSATIONALLY CHALLENGED is a wonderfully insightful film as it shows what self-possessed jerks we're becoming in the Western world . Instead of talking , communicating and living , people are becoming glued to their cell phones . In this film , not only this , but the people are incredibly narcissistic and indifferent to those around them , as they are completely wrapped up in themselves . This reminds me of bloggers and film reviewers that needlessly prattle on about their stupid opinions in order to feel better about themselves . . . . . wait . . . . . maybe I don't REALLY mean every bit of this . . . . . . Wow , this sure hits close to home ! Still , I loved this funny film and highly recommend it because it is so well made and has terrific insights .
Sick twisted and bad - - - and I loved it !	This was a great show that unfortunately many people didn't get a chance to see as it played on pay cable . I really miss it and wish that it were available on DVD . Be forewarned , however , that despite this being a cartoon , it certainly isn't a show for kids - - with sexual humor , violence , animal cruelty and all-around bad behavior . The show is a long series of very short cartoons that are strung together by a tenuous plot about a guy named " Mr . Hell " who looks like a stereotypical devil . The jokes are very hit-miss - - but they mostly hit and are hilarious . Because it's so wicked and in such bad taste , I advise you to watch it but only alone so your friends and loved ones won't know your secret .
BRILLIANT and overlooked	Although this movie is not quite as funny as What About Bob , I think this is probably Bill Murray's second funniest film , though I strongly doubt if it will be enjoyed as much by the average viewer . That is because , I hate to say , the " average viewer " often is a teenager or adult who likes their comedy very broad and simple . No , this will not appeal to fans of Porky's or Little Nicky because it requires the viewer to have a reasonable attention-span and the ability to enjoy a comedy that doesn't telegraph what will happen next ( just how many movies these days are hard to predict anyways ? ) . The movie is a screwy , difficult to describe spy adventure where everyone knows just how deadly the stakes are - - - except for Bill Murray's character . He mistakenly thinks everything that is happening around him is a type of performance art ( sort of a Theatre of the Absurd ) . You MUST watch it .
Amazing animation considering the source . . .	Blur Studio is definitely not one of " the big boys " of computer generated animation , such as Dreamworks or Pixar . Despite mostly doing work for computer games , they've produced a few short films such as GOPHER BROKE ( which was nominated for an Oscar ) and this one ( which probably should have been nominated ) . So far , the animations I've seen them produce are top-rate - - of exceptional quality and artistry . A GENTLEMEN'S DUEL is no exception to this artistry - - being a product that can compete with any other studio . The film begins with two gentlemen arguing over a voluptuous lady . Considering the title , it's no surprise when this degenerates into a duel , though how they did it was a shock ! Though it appears set in the 19th century , they get into giant mecha-robots that are steam-driven and proceed to have a battle reminiscent of TRANSFORMERS ! ! In the process , they destroy much of the lady's mansion and nearly kill her again and again . A funny and cute film , the only reservations I have about the film at all are its occasional adult content . There are numerous references to the lady's huge breasts and the ending is a bit sexually suggestive - - so I don't recommend this for young kids . This film is one of the bonus shorts included with the wonderful DVD " A Collection of 2006 Academy Award Nominated Short Films " - - a must have for fans of the genre .
Sick and twisted . . . and I really enjoyed it !	Some who watch this film might think that they've seen some of the ideas in ROOM TO BREATHE before . Sure , there are aspects of the film that are reminiscent of Poe's " Cask of Amontillado " and I could also see parallels with such films as Charles Laughton's THE SUSPECT . However , how these somewhat familiar themes were combined was brilliant - - creating a truly original and rather horrifying film that actually might make you laugh . The film begins with mild-mannered Richard working around the house as his shrewish wife screams and screams for him . Very quickly you grow to hate Marilyn and hope and pray that something happens to shut her up . . . permanently ! At the same time , Richard starts getting phone calls from his brother warning him not to mix his medicine with his wife's - - it could be fatal ! However , where the film goes and how Richard finally gets some peace and quiet is something you really can't anticipate . Overall , a very entertaining and sick film - - but not one so sick or twisted that I can't recommend it . In fact , by the time all is said and done , you'll be rooting for poor Richard ! ! Well done all around - - with terrific acting by the two leads as well as kudos for first-time film maker Steven Leslie Johnson for making this short film .
An absolute necessity if you watch TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER	It's rare that a DVD extra is worth watching . All too often , they are too brief and have nothing particularly interesting to say . However , this one is an absolute must for anyone who watches TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER . This is because the original film started off well but became a rather incomprehensible mess towards the end . My wife and I watched the film and felt cheated and baffled by the muddled conclusion . Well , why the ending was so bad as well as all the background for the film are clearly explained in the documentary . Plus , it was reassuring to hear Christopher Lee and several of the film makers talking about how bad they , too , thought the film turned out in the end . Additionally , there were several interesting comments on the film . One was a discussion of the final days of the Hammer Film Studio and another was about what a boorish jerk Richard Widmark was during filming ! Overall , a must if you see TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER and even worth seeing if you don't . Well constructed ( unlike the original film ) and filled with plenty of interviews with surviving cast members and crew - - most of which were alive when the documentary was completed .
One of the better silent films - - nearly perfect and quite a feast for the eyes	As far as cinematography and acting go , this is one of the very best silent films you can watch today . The scenes of the windswept plain and the lovingly filmed segments featuring Lillian Gish make this a great work of art - - almost like an Ansel Adams photograph put to motion at times . And for a silent , the acting is also reasonably subdued and convincing . Unfortunately , the film does not quite earn a 10 because it has a few small flaws . First , perhaps aside from the top of Mt . Washington , I really doubt there is any place in the United States that gets nearly as much wind as the place where Lillian moves to in this movie - - it just isn't possible ! Second , and more important , the ending just doesn't work out perfectly . While I loved her killing the evil rapist and burying him as well as her mind playing tricks on her afterwards , I just couldn't believe the very end where she pledges her undying love to a man she barely knows and who she was so ambivalent towards during the rest of the film . It just seemed too much like a tacked on " Hollywoodized " ending . Sure to please those who demanded no ambiguity in their films as well as a happy ending , but a disappointment to those who are looking for something transcendent - - which MOST of this film indeed is !
Possibly the darkest comedy in film history . . . . but it's good .	I can pretty much guarantee that many people will hate this independent short if they ever get to see it . The bottom line is that it is very , very dark in tone - - sort of like the black hole of comedy ! ! Now if you don't mind , then you will no doubt love this film . . . just don't say I didn't warn you ! ! The film is a mock TV sports program - - a professional Russian Roulette match ! ! Like you'd expect , several highly disturbed men take turns pulling the trigger on the gun until they declare a winner . While admittedly not everyone's cup of tea , the film manages to work well because the whole thing is done in a very tongue in cheek manner . Plus , the announcers are great - - one is like the typical idiot announcer and the other is a past competitor whose brain has definitely seen better days ! ! Very funny and original , yet also considering the subject matter , it's bound to offend many out there .
Aside from a bizarre ending , this film is great and sticks pretty close to the book	I liked the old WILLY WONKA film and when I heard they were going to do a remake , I was very skeptical - - especially when knuckleheads on the internet kept started circulating rumors that Marilyn Manson was going to play the lead ! ! Fortunately , this was only a dopey rumor and I am pleased to say that I am glad they remade this film , since it sticks much closer to the book by Roald Dahl and because I liked the dark Tim Burton style . Unlike the original , this isn't as much of a musical and it has a wicked sense of humor . However , oddly , while being very dark , unlike WILLY WONKA , the film showed that the bad children were alright by the end of the film . If you never read the books , when you watch the original movie you might just think the brats died ! Most of the reason the film is better is the clever script , though it didn't hurt that they were able to use modern special effects that were light-years ahead of the 1971 film . Additionally , while I liked Gene Wilder as Willy , the dark and twisted and possibly crazy Willy played by Johnny Depp was a hoot to watch . I also loved the new version of Oompa-loompas - - so creepy and cool compared to the annoying orange freaks from the older film . I liked just about everything about the new film . The only part I wasn't thrilled with was the tacked on epilogue which starred Christopher Lee . While I love seeing Lee in films ( except when he was in the Star Wars movies - - this is best forgotten ) , none of this was in the book and just seemed out of place - - though also a bit fun . Purists ( like myself ) may not like this , but most out there probably won't mind at all with this addition . Finally , I should point out that this is definitely a more adult version of the story . Young children probably should NOT watch the film - - especially if they are impressionable of really , really young . However , for older kids , teen and adults , this remake is the better bet because it's funnier and quite clever and NEVER cloying or schmaltzy .
Only a 6 . 7 ? !	Gee , . . . considering this is probably Bill Murray's funniest comedy and it is rated so poorly , no wonder he's recently taken to making odd and very unfunny movies . After all , with WHAT ABOUT BOB ? , GROUNDHOG DAY and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE , he was responsible for probably three of the top comedies of the 1990s . . . yet all are rated relatively low on IMDb . I just don't get it . Bob is one of the most annoying and compulsive patients any psychiatrist can have . He's needy , histrionic and sneaky , so when his brand-new therapist goes on vacation , Bob connives to find Dr . Monroe and vacation with him and the family ! Now this stalking behavior isn't particularly funny , but what makes this such a great comedy is that Dr . Monroe is a sanctimonious and pompous jerk and it's fun to watch Bob make Monroe's life miserable ! ! Plus , unlike some comedies that let up , in this film every time you think things can't get worse for Dr . Monroe - - they do ! ! This makes for a funny and deliciously black film - - one that can't help much make you chuckle . By the way , I was a psychotherapist and now teach psychology instead of work with patients . When the film came out , many of my colleagues were scared to death by the film because it did hit close to home , while others thought it hilarious . Having never had a patient like Bob , I guess it was pretty easy for me to laugh at the whole thing ! I have to go now - - I'm about to teach my class about " death therapy " .
a very strange and episodic film with charm	The story begins with two boys living with their mentally and terminally ill mother . She is unable to care for them and they are both taken to live with separate relatives . The story follows the youngest as he moves in with an uncle and his wife . They have no kids of their own , but they are genuinely decent people who try their best . This movie follows the boy during the first year or two of his life with them and you get to see his first love , him playing on a soccer team , etc . While this may sound mundane , it is amazing how well the movie holds your attention - - the writing , acting and directing are superb . Although I liked this movie a lot , I was a little surprised that it received the Golden Globe when Jean de Florette was just nominated . Jean de Florette and its sequel , Manon of the Spring were a little better .
excellent historical piece	This is one of Robert Young's best films and having Spencer Tracy and Walter Brennan ( both who have won something like a zillion Oscars among them ) along for support doesn't seem to hurt . The film is about the French-Indian War and in particular a group of Colonial volunteers who fight just like Indians . For some odd reason , this group chose not to wear bright red uniforms and march in straight columns while beating on drums to encourage the Indians to massacre them ( like the Brits ) . And , based on what we see in this film , it looks as if this group of tough guys nearly won the war for the British ! Well , while this isn't exactly true ( for further information , Google the phrase " battle of Quebec " ) , this is a rousing and well-made flick that is sure to please .
Not Mel Brooks ' best film , but pretty close	The career of Mel Brooks is much like that of Woody Allen in that both of them did their best stuff in their earlier years when their films were just plain funny . After a few films , Allen's got too introspective and artsy and Brooks ' became so juvenile and cheap that both " geniuses " became intolerable to watch to many past fans . Young Frankenstein is one of Brooks ' earliest films and like THE PRODUCERS ( his first and best ) , it is so hilariously funny that I don't mind seeing them again and again . So why did I like YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN , exactly ? Well , the acting was superb . I particularly loved Gene Wilder ( particularly during his speech while holding a scalpel ) and his sidekick , Marty Feldman , . . . though Cloris Leachman was also terrific as Frau Blcher . And while the film lacked the subtlety and grace of THE PRODUCERS , it was silly and dopey but still restrained compared to later Brooks films . Plus , it had a lovely black & white look that really was a wonderful homage to the Universal monsters of the 1930s . I know this will ruffle a lot of feathers , but his equally famous BLAZING SADDLES was , for me , the beginning of the end of Brooks ' genius . While SADDLES had many wonderful moments , there was absolutely no restraint and the end degenerated into a horrific and stupid mess . Like Jerry Lewis , after a while his films were practically unwatchable , as there was no one on-hand to say " enough " or " perhaps you might want to make this scene a little more subtle " or " doing a comedy about homeless people just can't work " .
I really liked this Disney flick that seemed to slip between the cracks	In the 1990s , I felt that Disney made quite a few undistinguished cartoons following Aladdin . Unlike most of the world , I wasn't all that enamored with THE LION KING and subsequent offerings such as the wretched HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME and POCAHONTAS were huge disappointments . Sure , POCAHONTAS is a lovely film to watch , but it's so wrong historically and it's so politically correct and hokey . And as for HUNCHBACK , the story was so dark and unappealing , I have no idea WHO the intended audience was . So it was in this context that I expected to hate or at least be underwhelmed by MULAN . Instead , it seemed fresh , well-made , humorous and fun - - something distinctly missing from these other films . While the anachronistic aspect of having a lady warrior is problematic , for once Disney had another strong and likable female lead following Belle in BEAUTY AND THE BEAST . This was a definite home-run for Disney and well worth your time whether you are a child or an adult .
wonderful overview of the types of shorts made by Chaplin	Most of Chaplin's most famous films are his full-length features . And , I assume most people have at most seen only a few clips of him from his pre-feature days when he starred in dozens and dozens of comedy shorts . This is really a shame , as some wonderful shorts are pretty much waiting to be discovered by the world in the 21st century . If someone watches this film they have an excellent chance to see some of Chaplin's better shorts because Chaplin himself chose these three shorts and strung them together with a bit of narration to make this 1959 feature film . This is great for several reasons . First , in Chaplin's earliest films from 1914-1915 , his character of the Little Tramp is still in its earliest incarnations or is absent altogether . Plus , even when he is there , he was often mean-spirited and self-centered - - something very alien from the Little Tramp we have grown to love . Second , because the shorts that were chosen were in great condition , if you watch this film you won't need to worry about watching scratchy film with gaps and lousy musical accompaniment that doesn't fit the action ( a common problem ) . So , for a great look at Chaplin's shorts at their finest , give this film a chance . It's sure to provide you some excellent laughs .
Super !	Wow . For a short film made by young film makers , this one really delivers ! Excellent directing , acting and writing are combined with jaw-dropping special effects to make a very tense and rewarding film . The film begins with a young man taking his girlfriend home . Through some excellent camera work and direction , you know that the guy wants to ask her to marry him but he just doesn't have the nerve . Only moments after leaving her home , a HUGE tornado strikes and the man's only thoughts are to save himself and his girlfriend . Risking his life , he speeds back to her home to get her and her parents to safety . I loved this film . The sweet romance was a great backdrop for the ultra-tense story of a killer storm . With JUST the storm , the story would have just been okay - - giving it depth with the young couple was an exceptional decision . Plus , the ending was quite touching . For a film that must have been made on a shoestring budget , this film really delivers . Even if an established team of film makers had done this with a larger budget , I am not sure if they could have done any better . Kudos all around for the folks who made WITHOUT WARNING .
strange and worth seeing	This is one of the strangest films I have recently seen and it's not much of a surprise considering it's brought to us by the Coen Brothers - - famous for some of the quirkiest plots in history . Like Raising Arizona , The Hudsucker Proxy and O Brother , Where Art Thou ? , this is a weird but ultimately enjoyable film with lots of crazy twists and turns . While I appreciate this type of film , I should point out that some Coen Brother films take turns that are just too weird or fall flat - - the prime example being Barton Fink . I should also say that MANY viewers simply won't like or appreciate the strange twists , so I would think reviews for any of these movies would be extreme ( either you hate the films or you love ' em ) . Billy Bob Thornton plays the lead like he is a bit of a zombie , but I assume that is how he was supposed to play it . He's a barber married to a wife who is cheating on him with her boss . Billy Bob hears about a scheme to make money but needs startup money , so he decides to blackmail his wife's lover by sending an anonymous threatening note - - pay $10 , 000 or we'll expose your affair . All this happens in the just the first of the film . Where the plot goes next and the MANY odd little diversions I'll leave for you the viewer to find out BUT I will say that there are many plot twists , quirky performances and a subplot involving aliens - - all placed in a black and white photographed world that looks like it's from an old Film Noir flick . Perhaps , at times , there are a few too many twists and the movie could have easily eliminated a few of these subplots , but this is a minor quibble . A final note : If you watch the Coen Brothers ' film INTOLERABLE CRUELTY , you'll see Billy Bob do a character who is almost 180 degrees opposite the one he plays here . I really think this was a great inside joke and is worth a look !
exceptionally powerful drama - - but not for the kids	I really appreciated how those associated with this excellent film refused to pull any punches in showing the life of a young skin-head so ably portrayed by Edward Norton . Instead of creating a caricature of a racist , all the vile language and violence is shown . This DEFINITELY makes this a movie NOT for KIDS , but for adults it makes a strong impact - - like a right cross into the jaw ! Now I know some adults will also be completely turned off by this as well , but considering how slimy and awful racism is , how can you talk about it other than by exposing it as it really is ? ! I applaud the efforts , though I must also admit it can VERY hard to watch - - particularly the shooting scene and the intensely graphic language .
an exceptional war film with only one minor flaw	I saw this film as a kid and wasn't particularly impressed . Considering just how long it had been , I decided to give it another chance . And , fortunately , I was rewarded by finding the film far better than I remembered . The movie is apparently based on real-life characters , though exactly how close to the real ones I am real uncertain . And this brings me to a problem with the film . Sessue Hayakawa played an incredibly reasonable Japanese prison commandant . Apparently the real Colonel he played was indeed an atypical man - - most Japanese officers in a similar situation would have most likely just killed Alec Guinness and the other officers who refused his orders . I could , begrudgingly , accept this . But , when this tough Japanese soldier is seen CRYING in his hut , this just seemed ridiculous and almost impossible to believe . Okay , now apart from that , the movie was great . William Holden was essentially the same character he played in Stalag 17 - - almost like a close in fact of the same opportunistic " hero " . I liked this as a counter-point to the usual tough-guy hero in movies . As for Guinness , he plays an excellent , but very odd British officer who is a great example of an Obsessive-Compulsive nut ! He is so bent on maintaining self-control and a " stiff upper lip " that he completely loses sight of the war and the fact that the Japanese are the enemy ! He and Holden both are amazing psychological portraits . Other than the acting , the cinematography and music were excellent . A very odd and atypical war film that is worth your time .
Yet another great Ralph Phillips cartoon !	I love the three Ralph Phillips cartoons that Looney Toons made . The first two ( FROM A to Z-Z-Z-Z and BOYHOOD DAZE ) are roughly the same format while the final film consists of Ralph and a friend watching Wiley Coyote and the Roadrunner and making commentary about the film . The character is quite charming and likable and seeing this little boy's daydreams come to life is really a pleasure . In A to Z-Z-Z-Z , these dreams all occur when Ralph is supposed to be listening in class . In BOYHOOD DAZE , Ralph is sent to his room after breaking a window and imagines all kinds of crazy consequences . In the end , however , the confrontation with Dad isn't so bad after all and we see that Ralph has learned his lesson . . . . or has he ? ! Highly imaginative and fun , these cartoons represent some of the best Looney Toons had to offer even if they are rather obscure films today . FYI - - George Washington NEVER cut down a cherry tree - - that's a silly myth . If you don't believe me , ask an American History teacher !
Absolutely amazing that this film is practically unknown today	It's funny that until recently I hadn't heard of this film even though I am a huge fan of silent films and talkies . This is even more surprising because the film was so good - - being one of the very best early sci-fi films . In fact , aside from director Lang's more famous METROPOLIS , it is probably the best full-length silent sci-fi film you can find . And in so many ways it is very unlike METROPOLIS because the film seems rather plausible ! It seemed that those who made WOMAN IN THE MOON really wanted to make a film that looked like a realistic film about the first moon landing . Considering that the film came out in 1929 , I think it did a really good job of trying to get it right . Of course , the details weren't exactly right , but you could sure tell that Lang consulted with astrophysicists and other scientists to get it as close as they could to reality . The actual take-off , for example , was simply breath-taking - - looking pretty realistic and using models that looked amazingly real even today ! ! Seeing the enormous-looking rocket being ferried to the launchpad was spectacular and just plain cool . While this attention to details COULD have made the film very dull and documentary-like , the addition of the subplots really lifted it in mood and made it very engaging . The hero of the story and his mentor are actually threatened by a cartel of five evil robber barons who want to take over this private space program ! So , out of a desire not to be killed , they are forced to take along an agent of this cartel - - who turns out to be destined to wipe out all those on the ship and take back gobs of gold to his evil masters ! As a result , the film was infused with some excellent action and suspense . So my final verdict is that this silent film is simply amazing and worth seeing by anyone who is patient enough to watch a silent film without whining . Plus , historically speaking , this film is a true treasure - - see it an be amazed .
Not exactly " formulaic " - - this is a nice and far from sappy inspirational film	Akeelah is a very bright girl living in South Los Angeles . When the film begins , she has little to motivate her and her great mind is going to waste . When the school spelling bee approaches , she is reticent to participate because there is a climate in the school that encourages " not buying into the system " - - in other words , accepting failure as the only alternative . Not surprisingly , Akeelah eventually enters the bee and does well , though she isn't exactly motivated to go further - - especially because most of the people around her don't recognize her wonderful gift . Again , not surprisingly , she eventually goes forward and gains instant fame for going as far as she has . Will she make it to the nationals and if so , will she win ? You'll just have to see . However , I will say that although some of the film is formulaic ( after all , they wouldn't make a film with this title if she didn't win at some level ! ) , it does offer some nice twists and ends very well . The movie features wonderful performances all around , a very good script and it is truly inspiring . I am sure than there are some reviews out there that talk about this movie using terms like " formulaic " or " sappy " , but I truly found this film inspirational AND different . I especially liked the movie because I am a school teacher and it's nice to have a film that minority students can be inspired by that's NOT a sports film ! In many ways , I see this movie as a public service since it encourages kids from the less privileged neighborhoods to aspire to intellectual heights . This film is a must-see for kids and families , but ANYONE will enjoy this film if they give it a chance - - it's not just some feel good movie with no substance .
Absolutely lovely . . . .	Had I never seen the films of Aleksandr Petrov ( such as his OLD MAN AND THE SEA and MY LOVE ) , I probably would have scored BLACK SOUL with a 10 . Petrov and Martine Chartrand both use a similar paint on glass style of animation and Petrov's is just slightly prettier - - and has resulted in Oscars and Oscar nominations for his work . This is not to say that Chartrand's work is bad - - certainly not . It just isn't quite as amazing as Petrov's . Both consist of images that are painted and they shift and change before your very eyes - - like a living painting . When you first see this , you are blown away that anyone can make anything so beautiful and artistic - - so much so that you really can't compare it to other types of animation . It's more like an art gallery come to life that constantly morphs ! BLACK SOUL is the entire Black experience from the earliest days to the present - - with the major events of the last several thousand years shown in this lovely tapestry . Although there is no dialog , the film definitely keeps your interest because the art and accompanying music are so terrific . For fans of animation as art , this is a must-see . Kids , on the other hand , may or may not appreciate this .
Great for 1992	People who see this short film today might be a little harsh towards it because the CGI is clearly a generation behind current computer animation . However , back in 1992 GAS PLANET was practically state of the art - - especially because practically no one other than Pixar and a few others were doing computer animation - - it was still in its infancy . Remember that TOY STORY didn't come out until three years after GAS PLANET . The film features three bizarre looking bird-like creatures that look hilarious and you can't help but laugh as they bounce about and eat gas balls . It's all very cute and will probably appeal most to kids who will love watching these birds fart . Frankly , as a supposedly mature adult , I still laughed at their goofy antics . Well done and exceptional for 1992 .
Heart-breaking	This is an incredibly sad and gut-wrenching documentary about refugees who have fled North Korea into China seeking eventual entry into South Korea or even to live in the less repressive dictatorship of China . The reason , by the way , that they don't go directly from North Korea to the South is that the Demilitarized Zone separates them and is bristling with mines and soldiers waiting to kill anyone who attempts . The film interviews several who run an underground railroad of sorts that tries to smuggle these refugees into friendlier Mongolia or into the Japanese consulate . You also get to meet several of the families and your hearts go out to them . Sadly , almost every one of the ones you see are eventually caught and many are probably dead today since the Chinese policy is to repatriate them even if it means death - - and even if this violates UN mandates that the Chinese government have agreed to follow ! The callousness and indifference of the Chinese is shocking , though not surprising in light of Darfur and Tibet . This is an exceptional but tough to watch film . It will very likely have you in tears watching these sad people who only want to be treated like valued human beings . By the way , I also recommend " National Geographic Explorer : Inside North Korea " as it actually goes into the gulag-like North Korea and allows one of the only chances the West has to see what it's like to live within this nation . Both films are must-sees for any civilized and caring person .
It's amazing , but how can you exactly rate this or compare it to ?	I only happened upon this IMDb citation by mistake , as I assumed that it was not listed on IMDb . This is because this direct to DVD production isn't really a movie or TV show and it's almost impossible to describe it adequately - - you just need to see it for yourself . This film was a project of some amazing computer programmers and musicians . Wonderful acoustic music with a modern ethereal quality was written and recorded - - then set to the most amazing computer visuals . It was so well done that the first time I saw one of the segments ( PBS here in Florida periodically show them as time filler ) , I thought perhaps the machine in the video was real . I kept staring and staring - - trying to figure out what was and wasn't real ! It was amazing and breathtaking . I teach at an arts school and have used this as time filler on occasion as well . And in so many cases , these young people who watch it respond by saying that they would LOVE to one day work for the Animusic people . It truly inspired them . By the way , if you like this , there is a second DVAnimusic 2 . It's not quite as good as the first , though a few of the segments are absolutely amazing . I'd give this second DVD a 9 ( I particularly loved the Robots ) and recommend you see and buy both !
Great , but I'd really love to see this updated	This is a very poignant documentary that was narrated by Bill Cosby back in 1968 . The film is about Black identity and pride and how they have been compromised due to omissions in history books as well as Hollywood's depiction of Black America . Both of these problems essentially boil down to a disdain for Black culture and identity . This film came out in the 1960s when Black Americans were no longer accepting that they were second best - - a very positive step in our society . I first saw this film when I was in middle school back in the late 1970s . Sadly , our teacher tried showing it to us because the film had many wonderful lessons but what I remembered most about the film is how the White students laughed at the images of Blacks in films , such as from BIRTH OF A NATION or the antics of Steppin Fetchit . Now , thirty years later I was able to get my own copy of this documentary - - no small feat considering how obscure it now is . I was very impressed by this film and liked the overall message . Bill Cosby is a reasonable man but it's also nice to see that at times , he's angry as he talks about the de-humanization of Black men and women in films - - with " Aunt Jemima " images , the myth of the " happy slave " as well as the " slow-witted Negro " . All this is very poignant and can't help but make his point . If anything , this documentary actually was somewhat gentle in its condemnation of these films - - and made no mention of the worst offenders , cartoons ( such as the horrible COAL BLACK AND DE SEBBEN Dwarfs ) . Also seen in the film is some of the counter-reaction to these images in the Black community - - such as a school intended to " brain-wash Black kids " ( Cosby's words ) so they won't buy into the lies that make a Black man any less of a man . Sadly , however , this film was made in 1968 and there is so much to the Black Power movement and the 1970s that couldn't have been covered . In fact , there's so much from the 80s and 90s and today that couldn't be covered . This film is aching to be remade by Cosby , as racism is seen in different forms today and there are still unnecessary divisions in our country that need to be identified and addressed . He's a very , very smart and talented man and I would love to see his take today on what's going on right and wrong between Black and White America .
Brilliant - - one of the better and more heart-wrenching war pictures	This is a wonderful movie from the Soviet Union that follows one simple soldier for the course of less than a week . Pvt . Alyosha Skvortsov is on the battlefield running from an oncoming German tank . He is scared half to death but manages , in his panic , to jump into a fox hole where he finds a bazooka-like gun and destroys the tank . Moments later , another German tank appears and he dispatches that one as well ! The German tanks not hit are in a panic and make a hasty retreat . Later , the private is brought to the general where he is congratulated and told he would get a medal for his bravery . Skvortsov instead asks if perhaps he could have a pass to see his mother - - and the general agrees . However , the pass is only for a few days and despite Skvortsov insisting he could make it home in a day or so , there is a war on and it takes so much longer to get home than he anticipated . In fact , he is taken from touching vignette to touching vignette - - all told marvelously and with such heart . One soldier who sees him heading away from the front begs him to stop on the way home and bring some soap to his wife and tell her he is okay . How this all works itself out was amazingly honest and touching . Even more touching was the one-legged veteran he meets who is also on the way home . The guy doesn't believe that his wife would like him back - - particularly with the injury . But , Skvortsov is such a decent guy that he takes time out of his leave to force the guy to go home and not run away . This leads to one of the most touching reunions you'll ever see . Additionally , the young soldier also happens to meet a pretty young lady on a train and falls in love with her ( reminiscent of the film THE CLOCK ) . Ultimately , he does arrive home for an all-too-brief moment where you'll likely shed a tear or two . The film is marvelous and honest . Instead of the jingoistic propaganda film this would have been had it been made during the war , a few years had passed and the film has a more realistic focus . The extreme bravery , fear , decency and bad in people are all explored and as a result the film seems so real . Also , the whole look of the war was achieved so well . The German tanks are actually German tanks ( thanks to countless tanks abandoned by fleeing Germans during the war ) - - something you just don't see in American films because they aren't available . The battlefields look stark and vivid . And , in a good nod to realism , one soldier eats canned meat that clearly has an American label on it ( something Stalin NEVER would have allowed in a film - - since he ALONE is why the Russians prevailed , or so it would have been portrayed if the film had been made before his death in 1953 ) . I can compare this film favorably to many of the great war films that explore real human beings - - such as THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES or the recent film ENEMY AT THE GATES . A masterpiece of honesty and humanity .
Brilliant	Before I start into the film , I should point out that there are two versions of this Finnish documentary about cinema addicts living in New York City . The first I saw was a little less than a hour long and there is a longer version that was for theatrical release . Having now seen both , I actually prefer the shorter TV version because the interviews work so much better because of the editing - - with less " dead time " and a tighter focus . Still , both are well worth seeking . My love for this documentary is for two main reasons . First , I teach psychology and have used this film to illustrate Obsessive-Compulsive behavior , various personality disorders and the recently identified phenomenon of " collectors " - - people who hoard items of practically no intrinsic value in a reaction against the shallowness of their lives . Second , with the third largest number of reviews on IMDb as of , I myself am a bit of a cinemaniac - - but not nearly to the degree of those featured on the films . While I do watch a huge number of films ( almost exclusively on VHS , DVD and cable TV ) , I also have a good job , healthy family life and don't think I'm THAT screwed up yet - - and the documentary is a great way to warn me against the dangers of compulsively watching films . This was especially brought to my attention when I noticed that almost all the odd art films they mention in the movie are ones I have seen and often loved . In particular , the one man who adores THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG said a lot of brilliant things about this masterpiece . Scary , huh ? ! I have a bit of a kindred spirit out there ! However , in the case of these rather sad individuals , enjoying the films in a traditional sense isn't possible . They are so obsessed with the details that often they don't stop to enjoy the film itself ! One man has memorized the running times of practically every film ( like a Savant ) and it tears him apart if the film is shortened by even a minute ! Another so obsessively saves every film ticket that she becomes violent if the ticket taker actually rips the ticket in half . And , even more sad , most have no lives or jobs because of this disability or mania . Some of this is because some of these people are indeed mentally ill , but most are not in a legal sense " crazy " - - just possessing very disturbed personalities ( meaning therapy or medication would probably do nothing to change their odd behaviors ) . This film opens up so many discussions for psychology students and sociologists . Much of it is because these people are all a bit different - - with different styles of their obsessions , different mental illnesses or personality disturbances . In a way , a psychology student taking a class on diagnosis could almost make a game of spotting the pathology . As for how this documentary was made , it was made by Finns but is completely in English . Plus , oddly , there is no narration - - the subjects and those who know them are just encouraged to speak for themselves . This was a wonderful choice since it was edited so well - - and narration often ruins a good documentary as it isn't always helpful or needed . Brilliant , shocking and a bit disturbing , this is not for everyone's tastes , but a wonderful film nonetheless . By the way , many who did NOT like this documentary had valid reasons but many did not - - not liking the subjects personality is NOT a valid reason nor that it wasn't a comedy nor was the knucklehead who was angry because the films the obsessed people liked ( mostly art films , foreign films and classics ) were not the same films they themselves liked ! ! ! Hello . . . . anyone out there . . . . . this was NOT the purpose of the documentary . Liking the people or their choices of films was certainly NOT the reason for this great film - - but the pathology and detrimental effects on their lives was ( as most of them did NOT work but were on the public dole due to someone considering this a true disability ) .
If you're going to watch one Biblical epic , this is the one	It's odd , but during the 1950s , Hollywood made a huge number of Biblical epics - - most of which were pretty wretched films . SAMSON AND DELILAH and David AND BATHSHEBA quickly come to mind , but even the more respected TEN COMMANDMENTS was , despite all the hype , a pretty lousy film - - with cardboard characters and silly writing . Even QUO VADIS was a pretty uninspired film , despite the violent nature of the film . So , in light of this , I am so happy to say that a Biblical epic CAN be exceptional and worth seeing ! What makes BEN-HUR so worth while ? Well , of course the film does contain some of the very greatest ( if not the greatest ) action scenes of all-time . You just can't do better than the unbelievable chariot race sequence for excitement and spectacle . Even the naval battle scene is great despite it being filmed with large models - - it's state of the art for the time it was made . In addition to the spectacle , it also handles the religious aspects of the film in a less heavy-handed manner than most of its contemporaries . You do see Jesus from behind throughout the film and you do not hear him speak - - instead , the film focuses on Jesus ' teachings on others . And , while they do not show the resurrection , you are not left with the impression that he stayed dead like the 1925 version - - a definite No-No for a Biblical film ! Now as for the acting , it was generally exceptional - - especially from Steven Boyd , Jack Hawkins and Hugh Griffith . I also liked Charlton Heston in the title role , but I could see how some might see this performance as a bit more wooden . Also , there are times ( especially at the very beginning and end ) where the pacing is just too slow . However , given the exceptional nature of the film on every other level , this can easily be forgiven and the film is a truly magnificent work - - not to be missed by any true fan of film .
a wonderful little comedy	This might be my favorite Edward G . Robinson picture . It concerns 3 rather dimwitted criminals who come up with a plan to rob a bank by tunneling in through the basement of the luggage shop next door . Robinson is the boss and he is supported by even more dimwitted Eddie Brophy and Broderick Crawford . Once they buy the luggage store , one of them must man the store while the others work on the tunnel . The funny thing is since they could care less IF they sell any luggage , the customers start frequenting the store in droves . After a while , they realize that despite their larcenous plan , they would become much richer if they just continued running the business . At about that time , the smarter and more nasty Anthony Quinn happens upon them and discovers their original plan - - where upon he forces them to break into the bank against their wills ! The film is cute and slickly paced throughout - - an overlooked gem .
one of the finest films I have ever watched - - a must-see	When I repeatedly passed this film at the local library , I completely ignored it because it looked rather dull and I must admit I had a prejudice against Iranian films . I incorrectly assumed that the movie would somehow be anti-Western or full of Islamic anger . Boy , I am VERY glad I was wrong . In addition to watching this film , I watched a prior film by the same marvelous director ( Children of Heaven ) and found them both to be absolute joys . PART of the reason I think I enjoyed the film so much could be the subject matter since it hits so close to home . The lead is a very lovable child named Muhammad who has been dumped into a school for blind children and his very selfish father wants to leave him there - - even during the summer break . I have a deaf daughter and know of MANY kids in deaf residential programs with similar families , so it REALLY hit close to home . So , about the film . What did I like ? Pretty much EVERYTHING - - the writing , the wonderful acting by REAL people ( like the Italian Neo-Realistic films of DeSica ) , the exquisite cinematography and the sense of growth and change within the characters WITHOUT being unrealistic or over-the-top . This film will almost certainly make you cry as there are some incredibly sad and heart-rending moments BUT bear with it - - you will be amply rewarded if you watch it to the very end . A fantastic , marvelous and wonderful film from a reviewer who is usually a bit of a cynic and RARELY rates anything this high !
One of Pixar's best	This film is exactly what Pixar needed to steal the thunder from Dreamworks ' latest release , SHREK III . In many ways , this is very ironic , as one of Pixar's best films , MONSTERS INC . , was overwhelmed when it was released due to the first SHREK's success . I honestly think if SHREK hadn't been such a wonderful movie , people would have noticed that MONSTERS INC . was an exceptional film . Now , Pixar gets some payback with one of their best , RATATOUILLE . Actually , RATATOUILLE is probably Pixar's best film , though I did enjoy TOY STORY II and THE INCREDIBLES . The reason I was so overwhelmed by this story was that it was so highly original and creative - - I simply cannot compare the plot to any other film ( something you can do with THE INCREDIBLES and TOY STORY II ) . Plus , after years of making CG movies , the look is taken to a whole new level in this film - - it just looks breathtaking . Now I need to point out that RATATOUILLE is not as much a kid's movie as its predecessors . Sure , it can be enjoyed by the kids , but the story line is a tad darker and covers an adult concept ( illegitimate birth ) and includes a swear word ( though not one the really " bad " ones , you can be sure ) . Also , while the rats are kind of cute ( and a marketer's dream ) , most of the rest of the story isn't and there are no catchy kid's tunes . No , instead this film is aimed more at teens and adults in its sensibilities - - something that really helped make SHREK a financial gold mine and cursed MONSTERS INC . to be seen ( incorrectly ) as " just a kid's movie " . Amazing animation , excellent writing and , the rarest of rare , a completely original and captivating plot make this a winner and film that will be long remembered . I can't wait to see it again .
An amazingly well done film	Wow , I really liked this film . Despite being about cancer , the film managed to keep a relatively upbeat and funny mood - - something I really appreciated . The entire film is narrated as a long series of film and picture clips appear on the screen . While this style may sound very dull , it certainly wasn't - - as the narrator's dialog was amazingly good - - clever , funny and brilliant . Amazingly enough , IMDb says that ALL this wonderful dialog was written in only one day - - and that's very hard to believe . I loved the rapid fire pace and there were so many great touches I was left with great respect for Matthew A . Steinhart - - talk about talent ( note - - this is NOT his mother and I have never met the man ) . In addition , I adored the funny touches , such as the long list of people that he thanks at the end for , so far , not having sued him ! It takes a very serious subject and manages to make it very , very palatable .
utterly charming and strange - - - and a GIANT step forward for cinema .	This is a VERY early film and unlike other " films " of the day , this one is very advanced in that it tells a whole story and has incredibly complex sets and special effects for its day . Most movies of the day lasted a minute or two and were really just snippets of film . At fourteen minutes , this is , for its time , a full-length picture ! And , even though by today's standards the film is VERY dated and clumsy , it still retains much of its original watchability because of its light spirit and silly script . The story begins in what appears to be a classroom at a university - - however , this isn't certain , as the film lacks title cards to tell you what is occurring ( something few movies of the day had ) . However , when the group of scientists are led out to what appears to be a giant bullet , the action heats up and the story gets interesting . The " bullet " is opened and it seems it's a space capsule . The capsule is shoved into an enormous gun and is shot to the moon . At this point , the film is really cute - - having an actual man's face in the moon . The face is quite upset , mind you , when the capsule becomes lodged in the eye ! Surprisingly , the air on the moon is fine and the men walk about the weird moonscape ( full of cool stars and planets you just have to see to appreciate ) . Later , they discover an underground cave . . . and moon men ! The moon men are hostile , but considering that they explode when you hit them , they aren't too much trouble for our intrepid travelers . They make a hasty escape and fall from the moon back home . The film is so full of wacky special effects and cute over-the-top gimmicks that it is just a lot of fun to watch . Give it a try yourself by going to a film archive at http www archive org details LevoyagedanslaluneAlso if you want to see it on DVD , it's included in a great compilation for avid cinephiles and historians ( " The Great Train Robbery and Other Primary Works " ) . It features early films by Edison , Lumire and others . While the average viewer will probably NOT be very impressed by these early films , I found them fascinating - - particularly this film and THE SERPENTINE DANCES .
a wonderful and well-crafted film	In some ways it's a shame that Harold Lloyd is so associated with the film Safety Last . This is not because it is a bad film ( in fact it's one of his better ones ) but because it represents a style of film that is based almost completely on physical humor , whereas his best films also included significantly more plot , exceptional cinematography and a lot of heart . Among my favorites is The Kid Brother . It is very funny at times , but all the humor takes a back seat to the plot involving Lloyd falling for Jobina Ralston ( as he had in many previous films ) . The camera work is just unbelievable and just goes to show that just because this is a silent film doesn't mean it wasn't a very artistic film . A funny , beautiful and memorable film ! And , because of it's gorgeous and beautifully crafted scenes , it's highly reminiscent of the best of Chaplin's full-length films , such as CITY LIGHTS . So is THE KID BROTHER or THE FRESHMAN Lloyd's best film - - it's hard to say . The FRESHMAN is more enjoyable and funny , but there is an elegance to THE KID BROTHER that help it transcend the genre - - making it truly a work of art . As for me , I love them both and recommend you see them soon !
thoroughly unpleasant - - just like war really is !	This is one of the most anti-traditional war movies about was I have seen . Instead of the typical films that stress glory and perhaps super-human characters ( like John Wayne ) , this film is the exact opposite - - stressing the de-humanization that ALSO happens in war . The story concerns the Japanese who are stranded in the Phillipines after the US returned in late 1944-early 1945 . By the time the movie begins , the Japanese have clearly been beaten but because of the insane logic of Bushido , they cannot allow themselves to consider surrender . At one of many poignant moments , the lead character is told at the beginning of the film to report to the hospital since he isn't capable of fighting due to his TB . The problem is that the hospital won't accept him , so his commander tells him to once again go to the hospital - - and if they won't accept him he should blow himself up with a grenade ! Well , this happens just in the first five minutes of the movie - - a lot worse things befall this soldier and the few stragglers because they won't surrender . Plus , there is a case in the movie where a soldier DOES try to surrender but is gunned down . This happened a lot later in the war because so often the surrendering Japanese soldiers booby-trapped themselves to blow up when they came near . In addition , the film shows the most vivid depiction of starvation and the accompanying madness of any film I have seen . In addition , cannibalism , cowardice and betrayal all accompany this very gritty , realistic and depressingly realistic film . You simply couldn't have made a better film of this type . Horrible but great .
Keaton is in top form	I just wrote a review for STEAMBOAT BILL , JR . and that makes this review VERY difficult , because I really can't decide which of these two films is better . To me , they are both nearly perfect and represent the best full-length material Keaton performed - - at least when it comes to stunts and laughs . It's sad really , as just after these two triumphs came the sound era - - and a seriously negative down-turn in Keaton's career , as MGM repeatedly gave him terrible material - - pairing him with the brash and inappropriate humor of Jimmy Durante . This film is probably the best of his films when it comes to concept and consistency of the humor and plot . It really never lags and is both exciting and funny throughout . And , for once , I have nothing critical to say about the film . No matter how many times I see it , it just seems perfect . This might just be my favorite silent comedy - - period . It's that good . By the way , while all is practically perfect in every way about this film , this is NOT my favorite Keaton full-length film . While not as funny or filled with amazing stunts , OUR HOSPITALITY is an amazing film for its artistry . In addition to being the prettiest of his films , it also features among the best characterization for Keaton - - with a full and rich plot . My advice is to see THE GENERAL and OUR HOSPITALITY and see two very different and probably equally great films from a master .
The film gets better and better each time I watch it	Despite me giving this film a 10 , it is NOT my favorite Coen Brothers film ( that honor would go to the even more bizarre and quirky HUDSUCKER PROXY ) . However , it still is an amazingly good film . The first time I saw it , I might have scored it an 8 , but now after seeing it again , I find myself laughing even harder and enjoying it even more . Plus , while the film is a hilarious retelling of Homer's " ODYSSEY " , I find myself spotting more and more story elements from this great book . The cleverness in doing this was truly a work of genius . On top of that , the music is so infectiously fun that you can't help but tap your feet and even sing along - - it's THAT good . The film begins with the escape of three idiots from a chain gang . The normally handsome George Clooney is rather greasy and stubbly looking but he always manages to look far more attractive than his incredibly ugly and occasionally dim-witted sidekicks . I liked John Turturro quite a bit , but especially fun was Tim Blake Nelson as the dumbest and ugliest of the lot ! He was incredibly funny throughout - - especially when he was convinced that Turturro had been turned into a frog ( much like when Odysseus ' men had been turned into pigs in THE ODYSSEY ) . However , these three guys were not the whole show , as like most of the best Coen films , they are surrounded by the best supporting performances you can find in film . Charles Durning ( who was great in THE HUDSUCKER PROXY ) was delightful as the wily old governor and Holly Hunter was wonderfully awful , but so many wonderful actors and actresses adorned this lovely film . So many odd faces ( much like a Fellini film ) and quirky personalities made this film truly memorable . The look and sound of the film was also terrific - - with a real nice early 1930s look about it and great sepia-toned cinematography and the best toe-tappinest soundtrack I've heard in years . I usually hate old time country music , but the songs they chose were amazing ! And the actors did a great job in pretending to be singing the songs . See this film . In fact , after you see this film , see ANYTHING the Coens made - - THE HUDSICKER PROXY , RAISING ARIZONA , THE MAN WHO NEVER WAS , INTELLERABLE CRUELTY , MILLERS CROSSING and pretty much most of their other wonderful films . Oddly , while it won so much fame , one of their worst and most disappointing films was FARGO - - a one joke film . Plus , I gotta admit that BARTON FINK really fell apart towards the end .
Not a cartoon , but a work of art	This is the sort of animation that would be best seen by artists and art history majors - - though anyone can easily enjoy it . The creators of this Academy award winning short ( Best Animated Short - - 1993 ) were able to recreate many great works of art and make them morph into other paintings again and again before morphing programs were available for computers . According to IMDb , believe it or not , this effect was achieved with clay and must have taken almost forever to complete ! While not a funny or cartoony short , this is a great work of art that can be appreciated by anyone with a little patience and an appreciation for art . Lovely and one of a kind . It deserved to win - - it was terrific .
the best version of this timeless classic	I have seen many different versions of this story and I think that after the 1984 version with George C . Scott they should have stopped making remakes . I am not saying subsequent versions are bad ( the Patrick Stewart version is excellent ) , but that the Scott version is so perfect and well-crafted that there is simply no need to try again ! Scot is the best Scrooge - - with malevolence and selfishness in spades ! In addition , despite this , there is a deeper humanity about his character and the writers were brilliant to focus so much on the societal aspects of the story as well . The hungry masses were only alluded to or shown in a cleaned up way in other versions , but here starvation and desolation are ugly and important to the plot and are just as Dickens had intended . Other stories have tended to focus too much on Scrooge while sometimes ignoring the important allegorical aspects of the tale . Dickens felt it was not so much a Christmas story but a story of the responsibility the rich have to their fellow man .
Absolutely marvelous and so full of charm , . . . not to be missed !	Wow , what a wonderful little film ! While I have a VERY hard time giving movies a rating of 10 , this one sure came close . No , on second thought , it is about the best example of the genre in silent form , so it merits a 10 . For its day , it's an absolutely great romantic comedy that is sure to even get the curmudgeons out there to smile ! And , the best part about it is that film is not overly sentimental or sappy - - it just exudes quality and craftsmanship . Mary Pickford stars as a sweet and simple girl who works as a stock girl for a 5 and 10 cent store . A new employee ( Buddy Rogers - - the future husband of Ms . Pickford in real life ) is hired and it's her job to train him . Unknown to her and the other employees , the young man is actually the son of the owner of this large chain of stores - - in other words , he's loaded ! But , his father is a practical man and wants him to try to work his way up the company ladder and find out about it from the inside . At the same time , the boy is already engaged to a rich society girl that the boy's mom has picked out for him . However , over time , Mary's sweetness wins him over - - all during which she has no idea who he really is . Instead of telling you more ( and thus spoiling the film ) , I want to point out just why the film excels . While very romantic and even a tad melodramatic at times , the film keeps a pretty light mood as well - - striking a wonderful balance . The production values are absolutely top-notch - - excellent direction , acting and cinematography - - with the exception of one small scene in the end as the car races to the ship - - it did look pretty cheesy . But this can certainly be forgiven because the film is also written so well and really draws you in to caring about the young couple . This film is about as good as it gets for a Mary Pickford film , though I also greatly enjoyed her films DADDY LONG LEGS and SUDS . PS - - The video by Milestone was great . The print was nearly perfect , the music excellent and after the movie was over , they included home movies of Mary's real-life marriage to Buddy Rogers in 1937 - - a wonderful addition to this great film .
Sexy . . . if a cartoon can be that way !	This is a wonderfully kooky and sexy film from MGM and director Tex Avery . Like his followup film , SWINGSHIFT Cinderella , this film features a very sexy red-headed female lead that looks like a combination of Betty Grable and Jessica Rabbit ! Because of the overt sexuality of the cartoon , it isn't surprising that in 1943 , this cartoon was banned or edited in several locales ! Never before had such a hot cartoon leading lady been released by a major film studio and audiences of the day were both incensed and excited at the prospect ! The cartoon begins with the traditional Red Riding Hood story . However , in rather typical Avery style , the characters step out of the tale and demand that this dull story be updated . So , moments later , Red Riding Hood is a living pin-up girl and the wolf is a sex-crazed " wolf " on the prowl for such a tasty dish ! Like SWINGSHIFT Cinderella , however , the old lady ( grandma in this case ) is dead set on catching the wolf herself and does everything she can do to thwart the wolf from capturing Red . Most of the action is very high-paced and goofy - - just like you'd hope in a Tex Avery cartoon . Overall , this is a great cartoon . While it isn't quite as funny as SWINGSHIFT , it is the first of its kind and because of that it still is one of the best of the era . My advice ? See them both - - though similar , you just can't get enough of these crazy cartoons and they abound with great humor and animation throughout . A true classic .
a brief and brilliant gem	This is simply one of the finest westerns ever made and at only 75 minutes , it gets right to the heart of the story without a lot of lolly-gagging ( nice western-talk , eh ? ) . The heroes of the story are Henry Fonda and Harry Morgan who are two strangers that happen into town just as a posse is being formed to locate some killers who rustled some cattle . The town is 100 % gungho about hanging the first people they meet instead of waiting to verify the peoples ' story . Standing up against this crazed mob is Fonda , and to a little lesser extent Morgan . I won't really get into what happens next , as it might spoil the movie for you . However , the performances and object lessons in the movie are timeless . PS - - Note that " Juan " was played by Anthony Quinn - - not Caesar Romero like one reviewer stated .
Amazing in its proper context	I gotta admit that if you watch this film today and don't understand the context for it , then you will most likely not be particularly impressed . It's such a very simple animated short and one that seems amazingly ordinary - - something you could easily make today given the right rendering software and a home computer . However , think back to 1984 . People rarely had home computers and those who did had systems that had major compatibility issues - - with not much more power than a modern calculator ( less in some cases ) . There were no hard drives - - those that did exist were minuscule . Macintosh computers were yet to come and IBM compatible computers used primitive versions of DOS and many were using Commodore and other simple computers . And , most importantly , most games were either text only or had very , very rudimentary graphics . In this context , ANDRE AND WALLY B is absolutely amazing and breathtaking . The Pixar folks were not yet a big company but just a few individuals doing work on huge computers and they had to design all the software themselves ! ! And , in spite of all this , the graphics were lovely and the story of a cute bee quite watchable - - even though it was really more an experimental film than anything else . Oddly , while this film is not terribly exciting today , I still prefer it to a couple of the later Pixar films ( such as RED'S DREAM ) . A great start .
You simply cannot make these shows any better	I have reviewed a ton of Sherlock Holmes films over the years since I am a huge fan of the original Conan Doyle stories . However , despite enjoying these films , I must admit that the many movies up until " The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes " have really done a disservice to the stories . Part of this is because they so often strayed from the original stories ( which were gems ) and partly because they portrayed Holmes in ways that were totally different from the stories . The Sherlock Holmes the public assumes is from the Conan Doyle stories is actually mostly the product of the actor William Gillette . On stage and in silent films , he popularized the image of the deerstalker cap ( which Holmes only really wore when traveling in the country - - if even then ) , the curved pipe and the phrase " elementary , my dear Watson " . Instead , in the books the Conan Doyle character would have dressed and acted exactly the way Jeremy Brett did in these TV mini-movies . It's obvious that the makers of these films really cared . Holmes was like Holmes and the plots were almost always exactly like the stories with only the smallest of changes to fit the time frame and tell a cohesive story . See these films . They are literate , intelligent and trust the original source material . I congratulate all those involved in these beautiful shows . Unfortunately , however , Jeremy Brett passed away a few years back and we won't see any more of these Holmes shows , though it is fortunate that before his death they brought so many of them to the screen . Too bad one of my favorites ( " The Four Orange Pips " ) wasn't one of them . However , my very favorite ( " A Scandal in Bohemia " ) was !
Dynamite courtroom drama	This is one of the absolute best courtroom movies ever made , along with ANATOMY OF A MURDER and THE VERDICT . All deserve a score of 10 and each is great in it own way . This film is great , but not for the realism of ANATOMY OF A MURDER . Instead , it's got such a wonderful script full of wonderful twists and turns . Plus , having top actors on the top of their game ( such as Charles Laughton , Tyrone Power and Marlena Dietrich ) made this such a great film . Plus , it has one of the best all-time endings on film . So is it realistic ? Hardly , but given the magnificent script , this can easily be forgiven and just be enjoyed for the massive entertainment value it brings . If you don't enjoy this film , you must be dead !
It just doesn't get much better than this	This was a made for TV movie based on the Jane Pittman novels . Despite playing as if Miss Jane was a real person who lived to be 110 , I can assure you that it is indeed fiction . However , like Forrest Gump , Miss Jane was a fictional character who was woven into the real American events that defined the Black-American experience for the first hundred years after emancipation . Unlike Gump , this movie has much more significance and poignancy - - making it an exceptional film to illustrate history and social change to subsequent generations . The film begins with a White reporter coming to see Miss Jane and learn about her long and interesting life . This is set against the backdrop of the coming of the Freedom Marchers into the rural South - - as several around Miss Jane have been jailed or worse for demanding equality . Miss Jane's recollections begin shortly before the end of the Civil War and demonstrate how this struggle and yearning for rights is not new , but part of a long and gut-wrenching process that has taken her entire life . The film deserves great praise on so many levels . The novels and script are simply superb writing . Cicely Tyson did an incredibly job playing both a younger Miss Jane and a hundred year-plus character as well . To make all this possible , makeup and prosthetics were used that even today would be admirable . And the direction , music , supporting acting all come together to make a beautiful and very touching film . About the only negatives I can think of are that the film was too short and I would have preferred to see it as a mini-series - - it was THAT good ! Also , the problems and race relations talked about in the film are rather superficial due to these time constraints . Many characters aren't well hashed out because there is only so much you can say in 150 minutes about a time period spanning 100 years . Despite these minor problems , see this film - - it's a must for anyone wanting to see great film making as well as learn how far we have traveled . Plus , it does pack a mighty powerful punch .
The best Western EVER	Although there are some exceptional Westerns ( such as The Oxbow Incident , The Gunfighter and The Fastest Gun Alive ) , this is my favorite . I must first point out that Westerns are NOT among my favorite movies . I like them in small doses or when they rise above the crowd . This movie is GREAT in so many ways . First , the soundtrack is tops . It's magnificent in scope and fits the movie so well . Second , the acting is great . Particular standouts are Gregory Peck ( as the strong , confident yet humble newcomer ) , Charlton Heston , Charles Bickford and Burl Ives . Overall , this movie seemed to best showcase Ives and Peck , as their characters were so solidly written and mesmerizing . Third , as alluded to in the last sentence , the writing was incredible and it was in many ways an " anti-Western " that deliberately avoided clichs and debunked some of the macho excessiveness of some Westerns . Fourth , the brilliantly paced and masterful direction of William Wyler ( perhaps the greatest Director who ever lived ) . This is the plot in a nutshell : Gregory Peck is an Easterner who had been a ship's captain who met a girl ( Carol Baker ) and agreed to marry her and move back west with her . It turns out her father ( Bickford ) owns most of the county and is way too adamant on proving his machismo - - particularly when it came to altercations with another big-shot landowner ( Ives ) who is his rival . The problems all begin when Ives ' son ( Chuck Conners ) and his buddies give Peck a nasty hazing . Peck laughs it off but Bickford is bound and determined to " teach that trashy clan a lesson " . It becomes painfully obvious through the course of the movie that BOTH patriarchs are pig-headed bullies who won't back down until their rival is pushing up daisies ! Peck realizes this rather quickly but is disheartened that his fiance is all for a countrywide bloodbath . Her lust for revenge and mayhem drives poor Gregory Peck away - - into the arms of the luscious schoolmarm ( Jean Simmons - - not THE Gene Simmons from KISS , but the actress ) . As a compromise , Peck offers to buy a piece of land under dispute by the two patriarchs and give them BOTH equal access to the land . Neither one really wants this solution , as it will preclude them from killing each other . I won't tell more about the basic plot or the conclusion , as it would spoil the experience , though there are a few WONDERFUL moments I want to highlight . First , the cowboys try to get Peck on an evil ( and seemingly unbreakable ) horse , but he declines . They think he's " yellow " but he just doesn't think he has to prove himself to others . Instead , when no one other than Raoul ( the servant - - who is exceptionally well-played ) , he tries again and again to ride the horse until he ultimately succeeds into saddle-breaking it . Second , for much of the movie , Charlton Heston ( Bickford's foreman ) is itching for a fight with Peck . Again and again , Peck backs off - - not because of perceived cowardice but because he has neither an argument with him nor did he feel I needed to fight . Now remember , Peck was introduced as an ex-sea captain - - this was certainly NOT a wimpy profession , but he was so self-confident in his own masculinity that he just felt no need to prove anything to himself or his fiance . Finally , after repeated provocations , Peck agrees to fight but not publicly . Instead , they fight all alone in an open field . The fight lasts for what seems like hours , as they exchange blow after blow . All this is shown NOT with the typical closeup , but with a DISTANT shot in order to avoid glamorized the fight . Finally , after they both are spent , Peck asks Heston if this REALLY accomplished ANYTHING ! This was a beautiful moment . Overall , I think this movie's theme is REAL masculinity versus FAKE put-on masculinity and it does a masterful job .
Fantastic	First , I need to point out that I generally don't like Woody Allen movies . This is not just due to his weird off-screen antics but the fact that over the years his movies just stopped being funny . Instead , introspection and artsy-fartsiness have replaced genuine humor . Take the Money and Run , Bananas , Sleeper and Play It Again Sam were good ( though not great ) films . However , starting in the late 1970s , he tried too hard to " say something " and forgot humor . Despite this , in the midst of his unfunny phase , he created a gem . In my opinion this is his best film and no others come even close . However , I will freely admit that this movie is not for everyone . To understand and appreciate Zelig , you really need to understand and care about our history . Since I am a history teacher and LOVE history , it was not hard to follow the historical references . I knew who nearly all the people were who were shown in the documentary films that were spliced into the film . But , for the average viewer , this could be a real sticking point . They may know who Hitler was , but haven't the foggiest notion who William Randolph Hearst , Marion Davies , Charlie Chaplin , Al Smith or any of the other people were who show up in the movie . To make matters even worse , the first time I saw this movie , someone I know said " gee - - I never even knew this Leonard Zelig guy existed " . In other words , despite the movie's preposterous elements , this dunderhead believed it was ALL true ! This is an extreme case , but feel that in general this movie is " too smart " for the average viewer and as the years pass , this problem will become greater . This is a real shame because they also will not , in many cases , understand the context in which this movie was made . The amazing computer enhancements we come to expect today were not available in the early 80s when this film was made . Instead , painstaking blue screen shots were made and superimposed flawlessly into archival film and some scenes had to be created using modern actors who doubled for the real historical figures . The amazing detail and time needed make this a great film and an important one as well .
Hard to find but well worth looking for , . . .	This was a fascinating mini-series based on the Leon Uris novel of the same name , and it helped to launch the mini-series genre . It is VERY fortunate that the producers were able to get such gifted stars as Ben Gazzara and Anthony Hopkins for the leads . Writing , acting , music and exotic locales make this a must-see . The plot is based on a real-life lawsuit against Uris following the publication of his novel EXODUS . Dr . Adam Kelno is a very well-respected medical doctor who was knighted for his humanitarian work . However , the writer Abe Cady writes a novel that names Kelno , among others , as having committed was crimes while working for the Nazis many years earlier . The central questions of the series are DID Kelno work for the Nazis and IF he did , was he the benevolent man he claims to have been or a monster who was NOT forced to commit atrocities .
Don't just see this one - - see them all !	This is the first of eight films in a life and death struggle involving Darth Vader's lesser-known brother , Chad . While there really is no life or death struggle , practically everything seems that way to the dim-witted Chad . While looking like Darth Vader ( complete with the full costume ) , he is a bit of a loser and works at a grocery store as a night manager . His wanting to once again become day manager takes on epic proportions and is so utterly silly and overdone , it's a laugh riot . I love watching him try ( not very successfully ) to use the Force on others as well as all his silly and pointless machinations - - all with the typical Darth Vader flair . Well made despite its low budget ( after all , it's a small independent production ) . For what it is , it has decent props , acting and direction , and its an amateur film that manages to rise above the heap . However , to enjoy it to the max , don't just see this episode but the entire series .
Possibly the greatest silent film - - if not , at least one of the very best	I am so happy that I saw this film again recently on Turner Classic Movies . I first saw it many years ago on a cheap public domain videotape and I was not that impressed by the film . The print was of dubious quality and the story itself not overly impressive . BUT , when TCM released a newly restored version , the print was nearly pristine , the new orchestra music was fantastic and actually fit the film and , more importantly , the film was significantly longer - - by about 20 minutes ! It seems that over the years , so much of this film was cut here and there and the film degraded so much , that anyone watching these inferior versions is strongly recommended to see it again in its better form . Now this better form isn't 100 % perfect , as there were a few tiny places where they had to insert stills to complete the scenes ( a practice becoming more and more common with restored silent films and even some sound ones like LOST HORIZON ) . The story , now that I see it in its original form , isn't really just a sci-fi movie per se - - and that is what elevates it to greatness . Instead , it's a wonderful allegory about alienation and modern society . It's talk of unions and revolution was very potent stuff in its day and considering what was going on in Germany at the time , the over-blown sci-fi aspect of the film ignores the struggle between Communism and a Fascism . Superb direction , sets and a grandeur few films of the day can come close to equaling . An absolute must-see .
Find this film and watch it ! ! !	Thanks to the modern miracle of Google Video , this film and its follow-up are now available to view - - if you even know they are out there . Considering that no one has yet reviewed either one , it's very likely no one is reading what I am writing . . . . hmmm . . . . well , just in case anyone ever reads this , here is my review for the first film Henson and his company did for Wilson's Meats . I assume this was not made for the general public , but for a Wilson's company meeting . The film is an amazing time capsule that anyone who likes the Muppets ought to see . You'll get to see nice behind the scenes shots of the early muppeteers - - including Frank Oz with a full head of hair ! While this could have just been a dry and boring pep talk , it was amazingly clever , sarcastic and funny throughout . Plus , to make low-brows like me happy , a bit of violence as well ! ! This is actually one of the funniest Muppet productions I have ever seen - - including from among their Muppet Show episodes - - it's that funny . See this film !
Simply marvelous - - a must for fans of early animation and cinema	This is a very early cartoon , but it starts off in a most peculiar manner . The cartoon's creator , Winsor McCay , is shown talking to a group of friends about his creations - - explaining a little about the process . Then , the camera goes to his studio and he shows some of the steps needed to produce an animated cartoon . Then in the final portion of the film , his cartoon comes to life and there are some amazing ( for their time ) animations that are also hand-colored . While none of this stuff will make you forget Looney Tunes or Disney , it is an amazing insight into the process and as such it's an item of extreme historical importance . Cute and watchable - - even today . By the way , when I saw the film again , I noticed that the very famous John Bunny was one of the people in the beginning of the film . While practically no one today would recognize him ( other than cinema nuts like myself ) , this rotund man was perhaps the first comedian in film . Sadly , most of his movies have been lost over the years and he died rather young in 1915 . I've seen just a few of his remaining films , but his round face is hard to miss in this film .
The best screwball comedy of the Golden Age of Hollywood	This has to be the absolutely weirdest and screwiest comedy starring a big name leading man during the Golden Age of Hollywood . Cary Grant very ably plays Mortimer Brewster and he , and the entire movie , are so weird that they make the films HARVEY and BRINGING UP BABY seem normal ! ! And , for Cary Grant , it's hard to believe but true that he is even better in this film than he was in HIS GIRL Friday or BRINGING UP BABY . No other leading man of his time had that same wonderful touch for light comedy . Mortimer , once a confirmed bachelor , is marrying perky and beautiful Priscilla Lane and they are they plan on Honeymooning at Niagra Falls . But before the trip , Mortimer goes home to get his things and tell his sweet old aunts that he's married . And then , . . . everything gets VERY , VERY crazy to say the least ! Mortimer accidentally stumbles on a dead body when he opens up the window seat ! When Mortimer confronts them with the body he just found in the window seat , they don't seem the least bit concerned and tell him to forget about it and go to Niagra Falls ! He finally convinces them to stop what they are doing and explain WHY there's a corpse in the house . They explain that some time ago , one of their aging male borders had a heart attack and died in the house and for the first time his face appeared genuinely happy ! So , they reasoned that if they " assist " other lonely old men to an early grave they were actually doing a great kindness ! ! It seems they have spiked the Elderberry wine with a very toxic cocktail and once the victims die , crazy old " Uncle Teddy " ( who thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt ) just buries them in the basement - - where he's already digging the Panama Canal ! ! ! Now all this zaniness happens in just the first few minutes of the film ! From there , it just gets stranger and funnier - - and produces many of the funniest moments I have ever seen - - particularly in the performances of Cary Grant , his aunts and the dreaded Jonathan Brewster , the " black sheep " of the family who stops by for an uninvited " visit " . The movie , by the way , was based on a successful Broadway play . In fact , the movie actually was completed several years before it was released , as the play's writer got the studio to agree to hold off on the film's release until the play's run ended . Instead of the anticipated few months , the play ran for several years . In addition , one of the funniest lines from the movie was actually funnier on stage . When someone sees the ugly Jonathan Brewster , they comment that he looks like Boris Karloff . In the play , this IS who played Jonathan and it must have provided a heck of a laugh !
WONDERFUL and very creative	Wow , this was sure a creative little silent comedy ! The film starts with a meeting of the Liars Club . Each member is trying to outdo each other with their fanciful tales , but they really aren't that good , so one of them stomps off in disgust . He meets an odd little man ( Charley Bowers ) with his head stuffed in the end of a cannon ( why , they never really seemed to adequately explain ) . Charley is so weird and tells the strangest stories , so the guy takes him back to the Liars Club to show him off ! Charley's story concerns a wonderful scientific potion he's created . Just a few drops can do almost ANYTHING ! And , using the best visual tricks of the day I have ever seen , he does the most astounding and unbelievable things ! ! For example , when he meets a lady in a house infested with mice , he uses the formula to make a plant that grows cats ! It looks pretty real as the cats begin rapidly sprouting one after the other ! Even today , such a scene would be very difficult to replicate without computers . It took immense patience and skill to do all the amazing camera tricks in the film . You really MUST see them to believe it ! In the end , not surprisingly , he wins the admiration of the liars but he's very upset when they announce he is the champion liar . The problem is that everything he told them is TRUE !
A must-see for Chaplin fans and movie historians	I picked up a DVD of this British series from the National Gallery of Art in Washington , DC and it's fitting that a filmmaker be featured prominently in an art gallery - - especially since this film isn't a biography of Chaplin , but a step-by-step analysis of his working style . They did this by collecting outtakes that had been saved by Mutual Studios as well as through photos and even home movies . At first , I thought this all sounded very dry but as the film continued I realized what a great treasure this is . What I liked in particular was how they took two of his earlier non-Keystone comedies and analyzed the many , many changes the film underwent thanks to Chaplin's obsessive-compulsive film style . Considering what a gift he had for making films , this lengthy style of constructing films is forgivable and even understandable . In addition to analyzing his shorts , the documentary also chooses to analyze CITY LIGHTS as well as THE GOLD RUSH and provides many behind the scenes insights . I really liked this , since GOLD RUSH might just be my very favorite silent film ( though it's hard to say for sure , considering some of the great films of Lloyd and Keaton ) . All-in-all , this is an absolute must for serious film students , historians and lovers of silent comedy . Considering all the pain and trouble they went to in making this film , it's no surprise that it earns a 10 of 10 . FYI - - Fortunately , while this is a nearly perfect film about Chaplin , there are also two wonderful similar documentaries about Harold Lloyd ( " American Masters " , Harold Lloyd : The Third Genius ) and Buster Keaton ( Buster Keaton : A Hard Act to Follow ) - - both written by the same two writers who made this wonderful film . See them all if you get a chance ! ! Also FYI - - On the DVD is a 12 minute segment on how they assembled all the footage for the documentaries . It's worth a look to give you insight into this very laborious process .
Macbeth is better in Japanese !	I must first point out that I must be a total Neanderthal , as I don't particularly like Shakepeare plays or movies . The language is a pain and could use updating . I'm sure literature majors out there are having an apoplexy now that I said that . It's just that in using such stilted language , the plays often become ponderous . This is definitely NOT the case with Akira Kuraswawa's version of Macbeth . Because you really don't translate 17th century English into 17th century Japanese , the more modern language used in the movie makes this Japanese version MORE ACCESSIBLE to the average English-speaking person ! Plus , the Japanese imagery ( such as the witches now appearing as bleached out demons ) is spectacular and exciting to watch . I think Shakespeare himself would have enjoyed the effort , though considering he is currently dead ( and it appears this will not change in the near future ) , it is only a guess on my part . As it is , this is one of Kurosawa's best films and a must-see for film fans .
hilarious early Laurel and Hardy short	This is the granddaddy of all Laurel and Hardy fight with the neighbor shorts . A small disagreement escalates to a near-world war and destruction and mayhem result . This formula worked great here and was reprised in such Laurel and Hardy films as TIT FOR TAT , TWO TARS and THE BULLFIGHTERS . All these fights are excellent , but I have to give a higher score to this film because it was the first and most outrageous . Laurel and Hardy are door-to-door Christmas tree salesmen ! Naturally , their business is terrible ( since it is Stan and Ollie ) and some of their prospective customers , namely James Finlayson , are irritated by their bothering them . Well , this mild irritation quickly escalates to breaking the boys car and the boys destroying the man's home . All this is very funny and well-paced and I especially liked the ending - - it might just catch you by surprise . This silent short is about as good as you can find from this duo . By the way , this film appears in an abbreviated form at the end of Robert Youngson's compilation film WHEN COMEDY WAS KING ( 1960 ) .
a brave and insightful film	There is no way that I think this movie could have been done just a year or two before , as Hollywood had very mixed opinions about the Nazi menace . Many moguls just hoped the war in Europe would just blow over and few films really addressed the true Nazi menace until the US actually entered the war . However , one of the brave films to address it honestly and pre-December 1941 was Moral Storm . I commend it for both being willing to take a stand against repression AND for giving a fairly propaganda-free message . In other words , although the Nazis are portrayed as bad , they are not nearly as comical and over-the-top as they were often portrayed in later films . On top of the message , the acting is as good as it gets . Stewart , Sullavan , Morgan and the rest at their best . In particular , I find myself about to cry when Ms . Sullavan cried - - she was THAT good . Also , in a bit of unusual casting , Robert Young ( you probably know his from FATHER KNOWS BEST or MARCUS WELBY ) played a Nazi . This was actually a great choice , as in most of his prior movies he'd cultivated a " nice guy " image - - what better way to show the insidiousness of evil by having seemingly good people join them . For Frank Morgan , this was probably his best performance of his career . Perfect acting all around . While not one of the very greatest films ever made , it certainly stands out as perhaps the best of 1940 . This is also very , very sad as the apparently cowardly ( what other explanation could there be ? ) Academy didn't nominate the film for a single award ! ! !
Wonderful and sweet	I have watched and reviewed a ton of Academy Award nominated animated shorts and this is a rare situation where I saw two films in this category in the same year that I think earned a 10 - - one of which was this wonderful film from Disney . The other , CLOSED MONDAYS , I loved because of its amazingly cranky main character and the uniqueness ( at the time ) of Claymation . Both are great and worth seeing , though I can't help but prefer WINNIE THE POOH AND TIGGER TOO ! - - it just had a timeless magical quality about it . However , I can certainly understand the Oscar people not giving this Pooh film an Oscar - - after all , in 1969 , WINNIE THE POOH AND THE BLUSTERY DAY earned the award in this category , so it wasn't like this Tigger film was super-unique - - which CLOSED MONDAYS certainly was . As for this film , it is available now in a DVD with several other early Pooh shorts and is a must-have for fans of Pooh . It is simply perfect - - charming and expertly crafted - - with some of the best Disney animation you'll ever see .
Freakin ' crazy ! These folks are simply freakin ' crazy ! !	This is a very , very bizarre documentary about a very , very sick couple . In addition to this film , the story of their relationship was also chronicled in the book " A Very Different Love Story " . In the late 1950s , Burt Pugach was a shyster lawyer who was married with a kid . However , Linda Riss did not know he was married and dated Burt for some time . When she realized he was already married , she broke off the relationship . During this time , Burt harassed and threatened her repeatedly . On the day she was to marry another man , some guys threw acid in Linda's face and disfigured and blinded her . It turned out Burt had paid the man to do this . So far , the story is sad and a bit shocking - - but that's NOT the end of the story . While in prison for 14 years , Burt harassed Linda by writing to her no matter how often she moved . Despite this , he was paroled - - even though they knew he was harassing her . Now here's the punchline - - when he was released , the two freaks married each other ! ! ! So , . . . the guy has lye thrown in her face and goes to prison for it . . . and THEN she married the guy ? ! ? Believe it or not , the story gets even weirder , as Burt was a horrible man . Years later , Burt began threatening another lady with blinding while still married to Linda - - at which point Linda came to Burt's defense ! ! ! ! I know all this sounds pretty much like an episode of " The Jerry Springer Show " and it is very compelling - - in a sick and twisted way ! Okay , now that the outline of this sick story has been given , let's talk about Burt and Linda . Burt's easy to figure out - - he's a sociopathic scum without a conscience and quick to portray himself as a victim ! His behavior while he's in jail awaiting his trial and in prison and in recent years proves he's the lowest of the low - - the very worst stereotype of the sleaziest lawyer . Plus throughout the whole documentary he seemed unrepentant and actually enjoyed the attention . However , Linda is the real enigma . She sounds normal and said how much she hated him for the attack . . . . but how does this explain what she later did ? ! ? It was absolutely surreal how she rose to his defense in the second case and proclaimed his innocence . A Hollywood movie couldn't have been any more dramatic and weird . The film is very well made - - with excellent direction and composition . I have no complaints about how they made this film - - my only complaints are about this crazy couple ! ! ! But it sure makes for an excellent film that you just can't stop watching ! ! By the way , near the very end , I just couldn't believe Burt saying " I just can't believe what the courts have done with me " - - gee what a putz ! Also , this relationship would be described most likely as a " shared psychotic disorder " according to the DSM-IV - - they're both very , very disturbed and feed on each other .
Never watch this film without a box of tissues !	This is one of the best films of the 1940s but I've gotta warn you that it might take quite an emotional toll on you to see it ! That's because the film is about a family of Welsh coal miners who experience many , many tragedies . And , because the acting , direction and writing are so superb and they must have had a genuine love for the material . As a result , you feel a very strong connection to the characters and it is truly painful at times to watch . But , given that the film seems so real and the film was so lovingly made , you will also most likely find yourself glued to the screen . It truly is an amazing and must-see film . The film is told my Roddy McDowell's character after he is grown and is reminiscing about life in his small Welsh town when he was just a boy . For his first acting job , McDowell did an amazing job . The only problem at all is that several years were to have passed in the film , but poor old Roddy always looks the same age ! But this is such a minor problem that it can be overlooked . At first , the valley where he grew up in seems very idyllic . It's still beautiful despite the coal mine and the family enjoys a certain level of comfort . But , as the years pass , the wages begin to drop and the once lovely locals show that down deep they aren't so lovely - - though all the while , the focal family in the film maintains its dignity and decency . I actually liked this aspect of the film , as in the beginning things just seemed too perfect - - slowly exposing this undercurrent was marvelous and seemed awfully real . In addition to all the sad moments , there were some wonderful and happy moments as well ( though in general , there seemed to be more sad ones ) . I particularly enjoyed the scene where the two local men went to Roddy's school and beat the man up in front of the class . He really , really deserved it and the scene was handled very well . The most amazing thing about this movie is when and how it was made . The film originally was to be made in Wales and in color , but WWII came and spoiled all that ! So , the movie was actually made in a set constructed in Malibu - - but it looks just like Wales ! I know , because I have visited Wales and it was spot on ! But , given that Malibu isn't the same lush green color but more of a yellow-green , this forced the film to be made in black and white - - which I think actually works better in this film anyways . To learn more inside information , try watching the AMC short film " AMC BACKSTORY - - HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY " - - included on the DVD of this film . By the way , I feel compelled to throw in my two cents worth concerning the controversy over this film beating out CITIZEN KANE for Best Picture . A lot of people love KANE and it's a great film , but I have read some knuckleheaded comments online about " how bad HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY was " . Perhaps the wrong decision was made ( though I would have voted for HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY ) , but you can't rationally say that this isn't a great film - - and probably John Ford's best - - it's THAT good ! ! ! It IS possible to love both films !
A marvelous film about the STUPIDIST war in history with a dynamic performance by Douglas	This is a wonderful film and for those who are looking to see a Stanley Kubrick film that the average person can relate to , this is a great initiation to the director's work . Some of his films are a bit hard to understand or frankly make my head hurt ( 2001 is a great example ) , but this one is much more straight-forward and conventional than most of his other films while still being a great film . The movie is based on a real incident in WWI . When a squad of French soldiers were ordered " over the top " ( i . e . , to crawl out of the trenches and charge across the battlefield while being shot down like dogs - - the standard way of fighting on the Western Front ) , the men were so sick of the pointless fighting that they refused . As a result , the officers ( who are shown sitting many miles behind the lines sipping sherry and living a life of opulence ) order that some soldiers randomly be taken out of the group to be executed as an example to the others ! The complete unfairness of the punishment , the futility of the war and the fact that the leaders were a group of soul-less fiends were the focus of this intensely interesting film . The lead was played by Kirk Douglas . His job was to defend these poor men , but it soon becomes obvious that the trial is a show trial - - the men are doomed from the outset . In some films , Douglas ' style of acting is not very appropriate , but his bigger than life acting style and the way he ultimately explodes at his superiors is a wonderful addition to the film . He single-handedly acts like the conscience of the nation - - something that was clearly lacking . A wonderful and intense performance on his part - - perhaps only surpassed by his lead in the film LUST FOR LIFE . This is a wonderful film about this war - - a wonderful film to be seen along with ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT . Any true fan of film should see this movie .
a very important and well-made film	Unfortunately , few people outside of Argentina remember the bad old days of the late 1970s and early 80s and Argentina's military junta . During its reign , literally thousands of people just " disappeared " - - never to be seen again . Any possible dissent was wiped out through torture , intimidation and murder . It was this climate of repression and ultra-nationalistic rhetoric that the fatal invasion of the Falklands was staged - - ultimately leading to the ruin and collapse of the Argentinian government . Now that I've spouted out all that stuff about the historical context for the movie , let's get to the film itself . The story begins with a rich and well-connected family ( just how well-connected you find out much later in the story ) . They are about to celebrate the 5th birthday of their adopted daughter . However , unconfirmed stories about where many of these adopted babies came from begin to fall on the ears of our heroine . Alicia ( Norma Aleandro ) is horrified to hear that many adopted babies are probably those taken from these political prisoners that vanished while in police custody . When she brings these concerns to her husband , he ignores her and changes the subject - - something he did repeatedly throughout the movie . However , she can't live a lie and MUST find out from where they adopted their daughter . The acting is superb throughout the film as is the pacing - - as she goes from a strict conformist to ultimately demanding to know more . The progression is NOT abrupt and it makes sense how it evolves thanks to excellent writing . Also , Ms . Aleandro's acting ( as well as that of the supporting actors and actresses ) is wonderful - - so much that you feel yourself feeling what they are trying to portray . As a result , this movie will definitely get the tears flowing . Also , the final confrontation with her husband , though important , is a bit tough to watch ( be forewarned ) . FYI - - this movie is rated R because of the intensity of the subject matter and some pretty horrible domestic violence towards the end of the movie . The movie should be okay for most teenagers to view .
brilliant insight into humanity - - don't sell this film short !	This is one of the best sci-fi films . What makes it so great is that , like the best sci-fi , it is a metaphor as well as a warning for today . Unlike the stupid and pointless remake of Rollerball that was all action and NO message , this original is far smarter . The writer obviously felt that within us all is the inclination to be turned on by mindless violence and thus able to be controlled as a people . In this movie , the opiate for the ignorant masses is a mindless game that does NOTHING to improve mankind . Because , it turns out , the corporations that now rule the Earth WANT the public to be stupid and easily controlled through this sick and violent sport . This sounds a lot like pro sports ( or Jerry Springer ) TODAY ! There were several scenes I particularly enjoyed . One was the party in which guests had fun burning down trees with a flame throwing pistol . Although destructive and pointless , it was a " wonderful time had by all " . Another was the deliberate juxtaposition ( GREAT WORI wish this was SCRABBLE ) of some of the most moving and beautiful pieces of classical music with violent images . In fact , the soundtrack alone makes this movie a must-see .
This is an amazing film - - why haven't we heard more about it ? !	This film is about a true hero . A seemingly ordinary man that chose to do the right thing even at the risk of his own life . Like Oskar Schindler and John Rabe , Sempo Sugiwara actively worked to save as many lives as he could during mass genocide . While not the safe or expedient thing to do , these men did what they did because they had to act - - to do anything to save the few innocents that they could during the 1930s and 40s . Schindler , you've most likely heard about as it was chronicled in the great Steven Spielberg film SCHINDLER'S LIST . Rabe and Sugiwara's stories are a bit different . Today they are still largely forgotten - - especially in their home countries . Rabe was a Nazi official in Nanking , China who risked his own life in 1937 to save countless thousands of Chinese peasants from massacre by a rampaging Japanese army . Sempo Sugiwara was a minor Japanese diplomat in Lithuania who risked his life and career writing 2000 exit visas for Jews fleeing the German invasion - - even after his own government warned him not to . This almost thirty minute film tells the extremely touching story of Sugiwara's crusade to save as many as he could before he was ultimately relocated to another post . While the embassy reportedly averaged 300 visas a month , Sugiwara wrote that many each day until eventually 6000 unwanted Jews were allowed to escape annihilation . The story is told very simply and with great deftness . Considering that the film was made by two men with very limited experience in the field ( Chris Tashima and Tom Donaldson ) , it's a truly amazing film that had me in tears . Considering that this film is brilliantly executed , it's no surprise that this film ended up winning an Academy Award . A truly exceptional film - - - so why is it rated so poorly on IMDb ? ! ? ! ?
Painstakingly perfect	I have always liked this movie - - despite not being a great fan of Van Gogh's work . However , I recently came to absolutely love this film and can really appreciate the artistry of the producers and director - - they OBVIOUSLY really cared about the story and did so much to replicate the life of Van Gogh . Let me explain . I teach a psychology class and part of the class involves discussing famous people with mental illnesses . Considering I teach at an arts school , it seemed natural to show and discuss Lust for Life . In addition , I picked up perhaps the definitive book on the paintings of Van Gogh . As we watched the film , I flipped through the massive book and was shocked how accurately everything was portrayed in the film . The locations , scenery and characters were absolutely dead on in every respect . In particular , all the little bit characters in the film looked almost like clones of the paintings of these actual people Van Gogh knew . For example , the sailor friend , his doctor in the mental hospital , the artist Pisarro and MANY others were just about carbon copies . In addition , the myth of Van Gogh was avoided in the film . Unlike the common story , Van Gogh did NOT cut off his ear and give it to a prostitute . The exact nature of the event is a little confusing , but no reputable historian would tell the often repeated story about the prostitute ! It was likely a suicide attempt and only a portion of the ear was torn off as he was slicing his throat - - or , he did it as a histrionic reaction to a fight with his crazed friend , Gaughin . The only MINOR short-coming is that in a couple places , Kirk Douglas ' acting seems a little overboard . But , considering how his performance was OVERALL , this can easily be overlooked . Also , although Van Gogh cut off most of his ear as a result of a suicide attempt , the movie accidentally SWITCHES which ear was removed - - look carefully and you'll see .
A wonderful film	Before I discuss this exceptional film , I need to point out that there is a lot of truth to this film if you are looking for what it was like in psychiatric hospitals in the 1950s and into the 60s . The hellish practices and dehumanization was definitely true of many facilities during this era . However , today , many of the horrific abuses are no longer relevant . So , while some will point to this film as proof that psychiatry in general is evil personified ( such as the Scientologists ) , for the most part , this isn't the case today . Shock treatment is rarely done today and when it is , it's nothing like it is portrayed in the film and it actually has therapeutic value when all else fails . Lobotomies are also thankfully a thing of the past . So , while debating the pros and cons of hospitalization and medications is reasonable today , don't assume the film is in any way like psychiatric institutions today - - many of which have been closed or severely reduced in size as well as the length of stay of the average patient . The film begins with a cocky sociopathic criminal , McMurphy ( Jack Nicholson ) , being sent to a psychiatric hospital from prison . It seems McMurphy thinks that by " playing crazy " he'll have an easier time and shorter stay in a hospital instead of prison . However , over time , he comes to see that a mental hospital is a pretty sick place - - particularly when it comes to the crazy staff who run the place . McMurphy responds to this system by constantly fighting it and trying to subvert their needless rules and control . Some of this is very funny ( such as the fishing trip ) and you can understand why he would fight the oppressive ways of the hospital . In the end , however , the system ultimately crushes him like so many others . The conclusion is certainly something you won't forget ! Although Jack Nicholson was great in the film as were the rest of the ensemble cast , the star in the film was Louise Fletcher . She played the coldest and most awful nurse in the history of film . Her tough performance truly made the film . Otherwise , if she hadn't been so utterly devoid of humanity , the film just wouldn't have worked . Oddly , the film's producers had a hard time accepting her for the job - - and she was the last one cast in the film . Exceptional in every way - - the writing , acting and direction . The only reservation I have regards the misuse of the film by anti-psychiatry groups . However , I am glad the film was made as the abuses of the industry need to be understood and not forgotten .
A truly lovely film	This film is included on a DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume Three " . Oddly , I have seen volume One already and Three is definitely much better - - though both are worth finding for lovers of short films like myself . This film shows a boy named Daniel going about his daily life . He seemed like he's depressed , as he doesn't join the other kids in sports and his emotions are very flat . The next day , he pretends to be sick so he can stay home from school . However , after his mother leaves , he sneaks off on a cross-country adventure . This film really sneaks up on you , as it starts off very slowly and quietly - - plus , you really aren't sure what's happening because the context for what you are seeing isn't revealed . However , the film makers did a great job in establishing a mood - - with an excellent but stark piano score and excellent film work . Instead of worrying about what's happening , just sit back and watch - - the film ultimately packs a very emotional wallop . Exceptional in every way .
a wonderful follow-up to The House Without a Christmas Tree	The same cast that had previously appeared in the made for TV movie THE HOUSE WITHOUT A Christmas TREE was reunited for this Thanksgiving movie . They seemed to have picked up without a hitch . This one focuses on the feud between two incredibly stubborn old farts - - Jason Robards and Barnard Hughes . Apparently , Robards had dug a pond for Hughes and had never been paid and they'd been arguing back and forth about it for some time . Robards ' daughter , Addie , has her curiosity peaked by all this and bicycles by Hughes farm after school one day . There , she discovers he has a horse in need of care . Despite the NO TRESPASSING signs and his repeated threats , she approaches him and offers to take care of the horse if he lets her ride it . All this is done WITHOUT telling her father . Later , she feels sorry for Hughes as he is all alone and the holidays are approaching . When she asks her father if Hughes can come for Thanksgiving , she is told a loud and firm NO ! So , she has her dinner and sneaks a plate to her new friend . What happens next is best for you to see for yourself . The movie is so real and poignant , you can't help but fall under its spell .
