Tell Ya ' Bout Them Wongo Women	I think that if Ed Wood were alive today or could make his complaints felt from beyond this mortal coil , he'd be haunting the Medved Brothers who dared not include The Wild Women Of Wongo in their list of the 50 Worst Films . Next to this Plan Nine From Outer Space plays like Citizen Kane . This story is set on the mythical islands of Wongo and Guna and it seems as though the gene pool has played one dirty trick . The men of Wongo look like the inbreds from Deliverance and the women like playboy bunnies . On the other hand in Guna land , the men are these gorgeous beach boy surfer hunks and the women look like someone left the pound door open one night . Both islands worship the crocodile god and the croc demands some sacrifices every so often . When one of the Wongo women actually subdues and kills the crocodile god , the theological implications are cataclysmic . There are some hairy ape men like creatures who invade both the islands and it takes a while for them to come to a common plan of alliance . That's about the sum and substance of this awful film which was shot in the Everglades on location . This film must have been a great after midnight third feature in the drive-ins when folks could look at the Guna men and Wongo women if they needed a little extra inspiration for the night's fun . There's a parrot who serves as a kind of Greek chorus to all the silly goings on and when the parrot gives the best acting performance in the film , you KNOW how bad this is going to be .
There was a mutiny at the drive-in when this was shown	On it's own Space Mutiny is bad enough , but I unfortunately saw it immediately after viewing the latest Star Wars endeavor from George Lucas so I got to compare it to a really good science fiction film . Poor Cameron Mitchell and John Philip Law respected actors that they are handled things differently . Mitchell just looked like he was about to throw up , I think that's why they gave him that obviously fake Santa Claus beard , to try to hide his discomfort . Now Law , just overacts outrageously as Kalgan , the leader of a mutiny aboard a futuristic Babylon Five . His dastardly plan is to take over and sell the people on board into slavery with some space pirates he deals with . During the course of the movie he borrows from Sir Laurence Olivier torturing Dustin Hoffman in Marathon Man . The hero and heroine Reb Brown and Cassandra Cissie will never be confused with Lord Oliver and Vivien Leigh . In fact old Reb ain't as good an actor as the Governator of Calleefornia . But he does look attractive enough in his sleeveless undershirt which he wears throughout most of the film . One scene that totally cracked me up was Brown and Law battling it out with those futuristic bumper carts . But it ain't enough reason to see this film or buy the video .
For Keeping A Straight Face	I've always thought that there should be awards given out to players who manage to trundle through an impossibly bad film while keeping a straight face through all the hokey dialog and situations . I propose a group award be given to the cast of Jesse James Meets Frankenstein's Daughter . The title alone should tell you how bad it is . In fact Jesse as played by John Lupton doesn't even meet the Baron's daughter , he meets in fact a pair of grandchildren , Narda Onyx and Stefan Schnabel . Now how did all this occur you ask ? It seems as though Lupton is fleeing from the disastrous Northfield , Minnesota raid in which his gang was pretty well decimated . Jesse managed to make it all the way to the Arizona desert with another of his gang , 6'5 " Cal Bolder . I read a little of Bolder's biography . In addition to his height , he sported a 52 " chest and a set of biceps to make Hercules drool . Bolder gets wounded when another outlaw betrays them and that sends Jesse in search of a doctor . So who do they find , but the Frankensteins who've fled Europe because the family name is somewhat tarnished and have set up experimenting in the Arizona desert in a village inhabited mostly with Mexican people . The Frankensteins start experimenting on the populace and the place becomes deserted which is how Lupton and Bolder find it . Well I have to tell you that she takes one look at the wounded Bolder and decides he'll make a perfect subject . The way she eyes him , not only will he do her killing for her , but she's thinking great big man toy in the off hours . A whole lot of people die in this one , either at Jesse's hands or at the monster's hands before the film ends . But this unbelievably bad horror film is so deliciously campy it has an honored place as a classic of its kind . And the cast not only kept a straight face , but served the audience with the biggest slice of ham in 1966 .
The Late Teddy Bear	According to a recent biography of Sal Mineo he was going through a lot of professional and personal angst at the time he was making Who Killed Teddy Bear . Professional because he was no longer the teen idol of the Fifties and roles were getting scarce . He was in the early Sixties discovering the fact he was indeed gay . Maybe the role of the sexually confused busboy might do something or maybe it was the best he could get . Whatever it was Teddy Bear might have been the low point of his career and a few others in the cast . No one comes out of this with any glory . Juliet Prowse is a disc jockey at a disco and of course she takes her turn on the floor as well . She's picked up a stalker and when she turns to the police for help she gets a cop with issues . That would be Jan Murray , late of the borscht belt and of the television game show Treasure Hunt which I first remember him seeing . His wife was brutally killed in a sex crime homicide and he now quite obsesses on the subject of sexual predators . He's also feeling a little lustful towards Juliet . And he's not the only one . The owner of disco Elaine Stritch would like to make a little time with her . Normally I might applaud the fact that lesbianism even got a hint on the screen , but in such a crass and a exploitive film as Who Killed Teddy Bear . It's one weird film , shot totally on location in New York with what looks like someone's Bell & Howell home movie camera . Production values are near zero . Skip this trash by .
Golden Boots I'm A Gonna Wear , Cuz They Look So Neat	If Offbeat Cinema hasn't grabbed Girl In Gold Boots for one of their late evenings roasts than they are not doing their job in finding some of the worst cinema put on celluloid . This must have been a great second feature in the drive-ins in 1968 when people were getting down to something else . On That Seventies Show one of the funniest lines I ever heard was from pretty and vapid Mila Kunis who said that nothing was ever going to get in the way of her ambition to becoming a Dallas Cowboy Cheerleader . That same sense of purpose exists with our leading lady Leslie McRae who dreams of going out to Los Angeles and becoming a go-go dancer . It certainly beat slinging hash in that New Mexico diner with her drunken father . When Tom Pace comes into her life saying he's going to LA where his sister does just that , McRae hears enough and jumps in the car with him . Along the way they pickup another wandering stranger Jody Daniels and the three of them are off to Tinseltown after Pace robs a filling station . They find Pace's sister , a drugged out dancer working for club owner Mark Herron who's got his fingers in a lot enterprises , mostly illegal . Pace doesn't really care about his sister , he just sees opportunity for himself and McRae gets hired as a new dancer and Daniels becomes a club janitor . Herron indicates that Daniels could do better for himself with him and you can take that any number of ways . The film is one sorry mess , lousy sound recording , inane plot , totally bogus climax to this piece of drama . If you recognize the name of Mark Herron it will be because you remember who was Judy Garland's fourth husband . Mark wasn't doing that great before he married Judy , and when she cut him loose this was the best his meager talent could get . Oh and the music is bad Sixties music and the acting on the level of some of my grade school plays . When will Offbeat Cinema be showing Girl In Gold Boots ? who we learn later is a draft dodger .
No Satirist Could Have Done Better	The only thing I can say positive about Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space is that he apparently had a vivid imagination . And to think this was conceived without the reported aid of any hallucinogen . He had to have an imagination just to have made a feature film after the death of his star . What you saw in Tim Burton's Ed Wood is quite true . Wood filmed some scenes with Bela Lugosi , recently discharged from a sanitarium only days before Bela died . Did that stop Wood ? Not a bit , though I wonder what the original film might have been if Bela had lived and done the whole thing . Instead Bela had a stand in with a cape over his face and the dead Mr . Lugosi along with Vampira and Tor Johnson became the walking dead of Plan 9 From Outer Space . Now what were these zombies walking around for . Merely to get our attention , the governments of the people of Earth particularly the American government . Why the aliens who are controlling the zombies want our attention . Because we're a people who likes to blow things up and we're about to discover something that will blow it all up and I do mean the universe . Of course Plan 9 From Outer Space is so laughable that no science fiction satirist could have done any better . Yet in all the horrible special effects and laughable dialog , poor Ed Wood combat soldier from the Pacific theater in World War II was actually trying to say something about disarmament . The man just didn't have the talent to pull it off . But he did create purportedly the worst film ever made . I guess that's an achievement of a lifetime .
Audie Goes to Europe	Call me chauvinistic , but I really don't think Europeans ought to be doing westerns . Clint Eastwood being the exception , spaghetti westerns are the place where all good western stars go to end their careers . The western is the American original film genre and it ought to stay here . I think that's what Audie Murphy probably felt after doing this one . Audie did so much better work over here in the states . The Texican has Audie as a fugitive down in Mexico who hears that his straight arrow brother has been killed in a gunfight . The brother was a newspaper editor who never even carried a gun , but was doing some journalistic exposes of town boss , Broderick Crawford . Of course Audie's out for blood and I don't think I have to say any more , I'm sure you know how this one will go . Broderick Crawford was the only other name player in this film from the USA and purportedly he was drunk most of the time making The Texican . Not that Crawford needed much excuse to drink , he was one of Hollywood's legendary tipplers . The story goes that Murphy watered down Crawford's liquor so that he could get through the day's shooting . Sounds like a W . C . Fields routine , but I'm not sure Fields could have done much with The Texican .
This Has To Be Seen To Be Believed	If you were looking to take out a contract on Hitler , would you hire the trio of Ward Bond , Paul Fix , and Warren Hymer ? I'm glad this film is preserved if only for the fact it is the best example of World War II propaganda film run totally amuck . I can't believe it was taken seriously even back in 1943 . The plot simply is that an unknown , but wealthy American businessman hires these three gangsters to kill Hitler and shorten the war . Clever guy that Hitler is , he makes frequent use of doubles to prevent assassination attempts . But the intrepid trio reaches someone in the underground who knows that Hitler has a scar on his upper lip from the aborted Beer Hall Putsch . They eventually get the real Hitler and identify him by shaving off the mustache he's grown to hide it . And the S . S . coming to rescue him , shoot him as he is trying to escape because nobody recognizes Hitler without the mustache . Two things of note . Warren Hymer made a career of playing dumb henchmen and I can't believe anyone would give him so vital a mission . And Ward Bond has the distinction of being in seven of the hundred greatest films voted on by the American Film Institute , most of any thespian . Hard to believe his career survived this . By all means get this if you want to see where Mel Brooks got the idea for The Producers .
It's Not Easy Dealing With An Invisible Agent	When a bunch of Nazis come calling on Jon Hall at his print shop in New York City , they seem to know all about him and the background he has tried to hide . Seems as though an ancestor of his was none other than Claude Rains who as John Griffin invented that invisibility formula that had the entire United Kingdom on edge . Hall barely escapes from the agents who include Cedric Hardwicke for the Nazis and Peter Lorre as a visiting ally from Japan . Right after Pearl Harbor like Wonder Woman , Hall decides his talents are best put to use in the Allied Cause . His condition is that he alone will be given the invisibility drug , mindful of the bad side effects it has including causing the madness that killed Claude Rains back in the day . Hall finds out some vital information , like the day the Axis is going to invade the USA and who their agents are in America . He has the help of the beautiful Ilona Massey , but he's not quite sure what side of the fence she's playing . The Nazis are stupid , even more stupid than usual in these films , but they've also got a lot of intrigues going among each other , between Cedric Hardwicke and J . Edward Bromberg to see who will be top dog under Himmler in the S . S . And Peter Lorre does not think terribly much of German efficiency and with these two around who could blame him . Maybe the Japanese ought to gain the secret of invisibility and they might be calling the tune in the Axis . It all makes for one horrific wartime propaganda flick that would be hooted off the screen by some and would offend others . Peter Lorre who was Jewish Hungarian , gets to do his Mr . Moto act with malevolence saying such things as you occidentals have this really big fetish about your white women and Hall coming back that he can't tell any of you monkeys apart . To be fare to Hardwicke , Lorre , and Bromberg , it's not easy dealing with an invisible man . Too bad they were at war with the British or they could find out how Claude Rains ultimately met his end .
Vince McMahon Has No Shame	After the first 10 minutes or so of The Marine when John Cena after singlehandedly rescuing three fellow Marines from Al-Queda execution in the best Sly Stallone / Arnold Schwarzenegger fashion and then got himself a discharge for his trouble for disobeying an order , I knew this one was going to be a Thanksgiving treat . As we learned from Clint Eastwood in Heartbreak Ridge , the Marines do value initiative . Anyway the rest of the film has him unable to adjust to civilian life and then his and wife Kelly Carlson's path cross that of a gang of murderous crooks at a filling station who take Carlson hostage . Bad mistake guys . If you are a fan of the Schwarzenegger / Stallone school of action flicks , you know exactly what the rest of the film is all about . One bright spot in this film is chief villain Robert Patrick's performance . He is well aware of what a clinker this film is and he may cop the award for the most over the top , outrageously overacted performance of 2006 . And of course all the explosive pyrotechnics are nicely done as well . Vince McMahon of the World Wrestling Federation and a man who has no sense of embarrassment as he proves time and again produced The Marine . John Cena of course had to lose the WWE title to get several weeks off to film this thing . It may lead to a career in action films . Cena's got the body of a young Governator and no German accent either .
A priesthole in the wild west	Watching this film today I got the feeling this thing was missing about 10 to 15 minutes or so from the beginning of the story . John Wayne rides up on this trading post / saloon out in the middle of nowhere to meet with the owner about some robberies . All he sees is the signs of a massacre , some dead bodies , signs of a fight and no one alive in sight . That's because the owner's daughter is hidden in a secret room , the kind you find in old English murder mysteries . The reason you find those hidden rooms in those kind of stories is that they were formerly priestholes . Catholic families clinging to the old faith in 16th century England built these things to hide those on the run from royal authorities because of their faith . Not something you see in westerns , but a good gimmick . Unfortunately because of bad editing or writing or both we never know exactly what brought Wayne to this place exactly . But this was a B western and not even a good one at that . Gabby Hayes is in this and he's clean shaven and playing a mute part of the time . An unusual circumstance for the garrulous Gabby . If you want to bother and find out what happens and see a whiskerless Gabby Hayes then see this film .
How Do You Say Gobble Gobble Gobble In Korean ?	I'm sure that Operations Dames was a favorite at the drive-ins back in the day . There's absolutely nothing in the way of a plot that you might miss if you were otherwise preoccupied . And if you needed to get in the mood for other activities you did have some curvaceous cuties on screen to get you in the mood . Otherwise there ain't a whole lot that Operations Dames has going for it . It's set in the Korean War where a platoon of GIs together with a British tommy gets a little too far forward and has to get back to the UN lines . Bad enough already , but these guys also come across a stranded bunch of USO girls and their choreographer in the same predicament . You know what's sad about this film is that it took women generations to finally get accepted in the Army and in combat situations . These bimbos from the USO set women's liberation back light years . In fact not even the hard bitten professional soldier who is the sergeant in charge of these men can keep it in his pants . But that was probably the better to remind some what they were at the drive-in for . This no name cast is better off with me not recognizing any of them for any individual effort . Operations Dames is definitely a team flop .
A Couple Of Stoners Turn Rambo	Don't look for anything to terribly sophisticated in Pineapple Express . In fact the nuggets of humor to be mined here are few and far between . Maybe I'm old fashioned , but the notion of a minor league drug dealer and his number one customer as heroes is just a bit bizarre for my taste . But that's what happens when Seth Rogen after making a purchase of some really primo grass called Pineapple Express , just fresh on the market , he sees a murder committed by a big drug lord , Gary Cole and his girlfriend , policewoman Rosie Perez . That telltale roach he left behind leads Cole and Perez to dealer James Franco and they spend the rest of the film running for their lives . Until the very end when they turn Rambo and all the drug traffickers in two gangs get dealt with severely . And I certainly don't see anything remotely humorous in these two lugnuts looking for traveling money , selling some of this really good marijuana to school kids . But what do I know and I reached maturity in the Sixties .
It Can't Get Too Much Dumber Than This	This film may very well have been Brian Donlevy's worst film . Had it been done at Warner Brothers , Jack Warner would have punished Humphrey Bogart by casting him in Donlevy's unbelievable role . The problem is that this film can't make its mind up . Donlevy is a stone killer like he was in the film that launched him , Barbary Coast and then he acts like the lovable mug he was in The Great McGinty . If RKO was going to play it for laughs they should have stuck to it being a satire . Brian Donlevy , notorious gangster from New York , gets a facelift and goes to Hollywood after murdering the physician and nurse who did the job and ratting out a colleague who the police do in . Unfortunately there's another nurse on the premises he doesn't know about who witnesses the double homicide . So with his new found freedom , what does our fugitive on the run do ? Why he decides to live out a dream and he goes to Hollywood saying he's a rich playboy who wants to get in the movies . vDonlevy's naturalness with gangster roles intrigues studio boss Alan Hale and publicity man Wallace Ford . For the rest of this film you have to see it to believe it . This has some of the same plot situations as James Cagney's far better film at Warner Brothers , Lady Killer . But Lady Killer was light years better than this . Brian Donlevy must have shuddered when somebody mentioned this one to him later on .
Classical Camp From Carradine	We don't see too much of John Carradine , but we sure hear a lot from him as the disembodied voice of the Invisible Invaders coming to a planet near you . Carradine's a scientist who is killed in a lab explosion . His cadaver is then used by a group of aliens who are invisible to communicate with fellow scientist Phillip Tonge . Tonge's a Linus Pauling type , wanting the world to disarm before Armeggeddon . Of course one encounter with the invisible crowd and he's seen the error of his ways . The aliens attack , opening the cemeteries and letting loose a gang of zombies on the world . Humans retreat to the underground and in one such bunker is Tonge , his daughter Jean Byron , fellow scientist Robert Hutton and John Agar to lend some military muscle to the project of finding the weapon that will destroy the invisible fiends . Though it's not quite as campy as Attack of the Killer Tomatoes , Invisible Invaders is right up there . If I had to make a guess as to which player appeared in more garbage in his career , the answer would be John Carradine . His film career lasted over 50 years and a voice that gave life to Shakespeare was used for science fiction at it's worst . I think Carradine just liked the paycheck and he also probably just loved hamming it up in parts like these . He made a lot of these awful films somewhat endurable . Robert Hutton and John Agar were a couple of once promising players who had seen their best days and now were scratching out a living in science fiction . Jean Byron though would shortly see her career part as Patty Duke's mother in the Patty Duke Show . But I'll bet she never saw sights in Brooklyn Heights like these invisible ones .
It's a gay story folks	Jane Russell and her bosoms got most of the publicity from this film and fortunately for her she got into other better pictures and had a career . The same could not be said for Mr . Beutel . But Jane and her cleavage is superfluous to the story . This is about two middle-aged gay men , Walter Huston and Thomas Mitchell , jealous over the young hunk . It's the only way the plot makes any sense . In Jane Russell's memoirs she recounts the difference in attitude of Thomas Mitchell and Walter Huston . Mitchell was moaning and groaning about how horrible the film was , why did he ever sign for it , the film would be his ruin , etc . etc . In contrast Walter Huston's attitude was I've taken Howard Hughes's money I'll say whatever kind of drivel he wants before the camera and laugh about it later . Also , I love Tchaikovsky themes , but I really think Howard Hughes should have hired Dimitri Tiomkin whose music really added something to a lot of great westerns to do an original score . Tchaikovsky was frighteningly out of place here . The Outlaw has to be seen to be believed .
An Extra Vacancy In The Graveyard	John Carradine , John Ireland , and Faith Domergue who as players all saw better days in better films got together for this Grade G horror film about life imitating art in a mysterious mansion . For Carradine it was in those last two decades of his career that he appeared in anything on the theory it was better to keep working no matter what you did and get those paychecks coming in . With that magnificent sonorous voice of his , Carradine was always in great demand for horror pictures and the man did not discriminate in the least in what he appeared in . He plays the caretaker of an old Gothic mansion who movie director John Ireland has rented for his latest low budget slasher film . It's even got a graveyard , but with a missing occupant . Faith Domergue is Ireland's aging star and Carole Wells is the young ingenue . In the last twenty minutes or so most of the cast winds up dead that aren't dead already . The script is so incoherent I'm still trying to figure out the point . I won't waste any more gray matter on it .
Rats Becoming Ravenous	Kaw is a film that is ripped off outrageously from Alfred Hitchcock's classic , The Birds and from the Lou Diamond Phillips science fiction theatrical release Bats from about 10 years ago . Whereas Hitchcock set his classic film on the Northern California coast and had all kinds of the avian creatures suddenly becoming hostile , here we have ravens becoming ravenous . The scavenger birds feed on Mennonite cattle who have mad cow disease and now we've got a bunch of loony ravens flying about . This whole cast including veteran Rod Taylor who if you'll remember was the star of The Birds look pretty embarrassed by the whole thing . The only question I have is will the Hitchcock estate sue ? Quoth this viewer , Nevermore .
Chains , My Baby's Locked Up In Chains	Arline Judge and Roger Clark head a no name cast in this Grade B flick about a woman's prison . This one ought to be seen back to back with Caged to note the difference between what an A film and a B film treatment of the same subject . I'm not sure I should dignify Girls in Chains by calling it a B film . By the way , I didn't see one chain during this entire turgid drama . Ms . Judge is a psychologist and sister-in-law of the town's leading racketeer who gets a job despite that at a woman's prison . Roger Clark is a cop now working the juvenile beat . Together they bring down the political machine that controls the town and the women's prison which is just a patronage trough . The film is badly edited and the story makes absolutely no sense whatsoever . Clark and Judge offered no competition to Tracy and Hepburn as a screen team . Best performance in the film is that of Emmett Lynn who played old codgers in westerns mostly . Here he does a great drunk act and actually plays the key role in bringing the villains to justice . Probably the best known player in this is Sid Melton , later on better known as Ichabod Mudd with two ' d's , sidekick to Captain Midnight . He's the sidekick to the racketeer here . Captain Midnight was Shakespeare next to Girls in Chains .
The Borg From Deep In Planet Earth	Were it not for the presence of two men who scored great success later on television , Ed Nelson on Peyton Place and Leonard Nimoy on Star Trek , The Brain Eaters would have no reason to be remembered . Then again with your half eaten cerebrum it would be impossible to remember this film anyway . It's not monsters from Outer Space , but a collective of Borg like parasites , speaking of Star Trek , from the Earth's core who've come to the surface in rural Illinois and start invading the populace of Riverdale . When they take over the police authority and cut communications from the outside , our intrepid heroes led by a US Senator of all things have to deal with them on their own . Ed Nelson and Leonard Nimoy play two of the scientists . But the saving grace of the film if it has any is the performance of Cornelius Keefe as the blustering United States Senator who is most aware of the prerogatives of his office and ain't gonna let no aliens , parasites , whatever stand in his way . Leonard Nimoy's name is misspelled in the credits and for reasons of posterity he probably considers it a blessing .
They Don't Cotton To Strangers In That Neighborhood	What starts out as a night where Scott Speedman is expecting some nookie and kanoodling with Liv Tyler in a nice little rural hideaway turns into a desperate fight for their lives as some folks with masks start raising all kinds of trouble . Some people just don't like strangers in their neighborhood . There certainly is a market for these slasher flicks and some folks actually liked this one by the reviews I see . These are people who just like to be frightened , but these kind of films have always left me cold . Our three villains include two women and one man . The women where Halloween masks while the man makes do with a burlap sack over his face . Maybe it's the Unknown Comic in a new outfit or burlap is in for psychopaths this season . Anyway that's money and time I certainly will never get back .
Finding Meaning In The Obscure	Well maybe I'm just a Philistine but I certainly have to dissent from all the rave reviews this film has gotten . It happens I like my westerns traditional , John Ford , Howard Hawks , Delmar Daves , Burt Kennedy , those guys make westerns . Jim Jarmusch makes weird . So does Johnny Depp who I salute for having the artistic courage to play an incredible variety of roles . I love what he did in Edward Scissorhands , Nick of Time , and in the Pirates of the Caribbean series . But he came up short in playing William Blake , the guy who is not the famous English poet . This William Blake travels west spending every dime he has on a promise of a job keeping books for a metal works company owned by Robert Mitchum . When he arrives late , he's told the job is filled . He casually drifts into a relationship with a woman and wouldn't you know it , she's the gal pal of Gabriel Byrne , Mitchum's son . Byrne comes in guns blazing and catches Depp and his woman en flagrato . He shoots the woman and Depp shoots him in self defense . No matter , Mitchum's the big he bull of the area and a bounty goes on Depp's head . In the words of that immortal 20th Century philosopher Joe Louis , he can run but he can't hide . Not even with the help of a new found Indian friend in Gary Farmer . A lot of reviewers extracted meaning from obscure things in this film which wanders rather aimlessly with Depp's fugitive status . I extracted nothing , but boredom . But Dead Man might be your cup of tea , it certainly isn't mine .
What Was The Point Of All This ?	Scorpio was a film Burt Lancaster didn't think too much of according to a recent biography and after viewing it I can certainly see why . On the plus side Lancaster got to work with former co-stars Alain Delon from The Leopard and with Paul Scofield from The Train , both films considerably better than Scorpio . Too bad he wasn't given something better than a warmed over espionage story . Lancaster is a CIA agent suspected of being a double agent . Word has come from on high to terminate his existence . Not an easy task by any means . Lancaster hasn't survived in the spy business by being a dummy for thirty years . From French intelligence the CIA borrows hit-man Alain Delon who has worked and trained with Lancaster . He's got the title role as one nicknamed Scorpio because of the way he strikes . Lancaster has an ace or two up his sleeve also . An old friend with the KGB , Paul Scofield , is willing to help up to a point . Here's where there is a real problem . Both Lancaster and Scofield are identified by the script as having served in Loyalist Spain with ' volunteer ' groups . Of course in the Soviet case I'm sure volunteering was strongly urged . In America however that would have been the Abraham Lincoln Brigade . And during the post World War II McCarthy era that was one of a group of organizations past and present that was considered a Communist front . I'm sorry , but there ain't NO WAY that Lancaster with that in his background would have ever gotten a job with the Central Intelligence Agency . And if he did , he would have been found out and dismissed back then and there . The whole story falls apart knowing this . There are some nice location shots of Vienna and of Washington , DC in Scorpio and acting honors if any go to Paul Scofield . But the film is one colossal waste of time .
A Really Secret Mission	Submarine Seahawk is one of those films that you or I could put together with some stock footage and a knowledge of all the clichés involved in making a submarine motion picture . The U . S . S . Seahawk has a mission and it looks like a suicide one . Under new skipper John Bentley , they're to go into a secret Japanese base and report when the task force is being refitted . Then the Americans are to pull their own Pearl Harbor . For reasons only the writers know , the purpose of the mission is kept secret from the crew . Why , God only knows , because where's everybody going to go and tell once they're at sea . So the crew is grumbling why they're going out of the way to avoid engaging the enemy . John Bentley , Brett Halsey and the rest of the no name cast deserve some kind of medal for wading through this tripe and delivering some kind of decent performances . All the clichés involving submarine films are alive and thriving in Submarine Seahawk . Will they come home from the mission ? Watch the film if you dare and care .
There's something about a Jewish Indian	One of the classic episodes of the Beverly Hillbillies involved a group of movie Indians over at the Clampetts for vittles . They brought some native American cuisine over to the Clampetts and when Granny asked what kind of Indian fish dish it was , chief extra Benny Rubin said gefilte fish . Jewish Indian , good for a few laughs on the Beverly Hillbillies , but a whole movie with Joey Bishop in an Indian suit ? It wears a little thin after a while . Alain Delon who may have been France's leading cinema star at the time sought to broaden his international appeal . I think once he got on the set of Texas Across the River he realized this was not the vehicle to get him an Oscar . But he does what actors do in a situation like this , chew the scenery . Not to say Alain Delon isn't a fine player , but you'd never know it from this film . And the gags are a bit old . I mean when Dean Martin gets shot with an arrow in the hindquarters is someone's idea of humor , you know this film isn't getting any awards . The plot is also stolen from John Wayne's The Commancheros with Martin and Delon in the roles Wayne and Stuart Whitman had . Duke's film is sooooooo much better . But if you're easy to please with your comedy , Texas Across the River should be your speed .
Another Rebel Who Doesn't Believe In Surrenders	Like Ethan Edwards in that much better western The Searchers , Joseph Cotten's Temple Cordeen doesn't believe in surrendering . He's taken no notice of the surrender at Appomattox and in fact when we first meet him , he's hanging a Yankee journalist who had the temerity to tell the black people on Cotten's Texas ranch they weren't slaves any more . At the same time his oldest son Gordon Scott comes home just in time to see the lynching and he's appalled by what dear old dad has done . This is how The Tramplers begins . Joseph Cotten before the Civil War was the local Ben Cartwright in his corner of Texas with five sons , two daughters and a host of other relatives . But by the end of the war , he and most of his family are acting more like the Clantons . Scott and youngest brother James Mitchum are against the father along with their two sisters . The three middle boys , three really putrid specimens of humanity stick with Cotten . Elements of The Searchers , The Texans , Saddle The Wind , and The Westerner are to be found in The Tramplers . I'm sure that Scott , one of the people who played Tarzan , Cotten , and Jim Mitchum , took their European vacation and their paychecks and said their lines and made sure the checks cleared the bank before saying them . I'm not a fan of European westerns and The Tramplers is not a film to convince me to be one .
Jeff Chandler wins the Maureen O'Hara handicap	Back in the 1940s Universal studios big star was Maria Montez who hit a gold mine in those Arabian sand and sandal epics with Jon Hall and Sabu . A whole set was built for her and her films . Now boss Carl Laemmle at Universal was always practical and why waste those sets . So Universal made a whole lot of those films for its post war pin up boys , Tony Curtis , Rock Hudson , and Jeff Chandler . But this was one of the worst of them . Of course the obvious flaw is Maureen O'Hara as the Red-headed Arab princess . Ms . O'Hara was great when she was cast right , but here , she looks ridiculous and she knows it . The plot such as it is involves Jeff Chandler as a Bedouin chief who has one aim , to capture the Black Stallion , Shozada . Along the way he develops a yen for Maureen . Well who wouldn't , redheads being such a premium out there in the Tunisian desert . Maureen wants the horse too . She wants it so she can win the annual horse race and not have to marry one of the two Corsair Brothers , Lon Chaney , Jr . and Buddy Baer . Yoikes , what a choice . So hero and heroine find a commonality of interest in the horse and each other . I've often wondered what Jeff Chandler , who's real name was Ira Grossel , and who took being Jewish very seriously thought about playing an Arab . Remember this is post the Israeli war of independence and Chandler was a noted Zionist . He didn't look thrilled to be in this picture either . Was it politics or was it because it was such a stinkeroo .
Small Town School Marm	May Robson , two years after her Academy Award nominated performance in Lady for a Day , got roped into doing this film about a school principal in small town USA . The premise is actually an interesting one and you can follow the concept from a film like Grand Old Girl right up to a television series like Boston Public . She's a school principal 24 hours a day and takes an interest in all that goes on in her small town . The problem was that the script just had so many saccharine characters in it who in the end don't really turn out to be as bad as they first seem that it gets ridiculous . Alan Hale who runs a malt shop , but who has a back room where gambling and liquor are available to the kids , is one of her foes . In the end however he feels sorry for the old gal and turns out to be her rescuer . This is after she attempted to run him out of business . Mary Carlisle in the next generation would be labeled a high school hellcat . At first she is one spoiled rich kid tramp and then she breaks down and cry when the town fathers led by her father put Robson out to pasture . Among Robson's former pupils is a man who became an unnamed mythical President of the United States who makes a dramatic appearance in his home town . It can't be FDR since the president's face is never shown . Sort of like how Jesus was portrayed in films like The Big Fisherman or Ben-Hur later . Also the president is walking unaided which FDR could not do . But Gavin Gordon who plays the president has an FDR like mellifluous voice . Fred MacMurray here is wasted , none of his gifts of comedy are utilized and that's a shame . He's a delivery man who Carlisle has a yen for . Cecil B . DeMille made a controversial film two years earlier called This Day and Age about high school kids fighting corruption in their small town . Some of the same elements are here in Grand Old Girl , but the scriptwriters I believe were trapped by the persistent mythology of small town America and the good people in it . So the film got watered down to nothingness . Sad to say , but there's nothing of any real interest in Grand Old Girl .
Muffle Those Drums	Barbara Payton is who keeps those drums a beating in the Deep South . She's the mistress of a southern plantation which is a cut down version of that other Georgia plantation , Tara . In the film's prologue she and husband Craig Stevens are entertaining two old friends from West Point , Yankee boy Guy Madison and Barbara's secret paramour James Craig . Babs is planning to run away with Jim that night , but news of the firing on Fort Sumter brings everybody's plans to a halt as the men go off to war on their respective sides . Flash forward to four years later and Stevens is in prison , but circumstance has brought Madison and Craig back to the neighborhood . Craig is given a rough assignment , bring a pair of cannons to the top of a hollow ridge called Devil's Mountain and rain fire and destruction down on Sherman's supply train on the railroad tracks below . Guy has the unenviable duty of blasting him off the mountain . Of course neither knows the other is in command on the other side . If the sets look familiar , particularly the plantation sequences it's because they come from Mourning Becomes Electra . That was RKO's prestige picture a few years earlier . The famous Eugene O'Neill drama cost RKO a mint and flopped at the box office . If you were Howard Hughes running RKO and looking to recoup some money , you'd find use for those expensive sets also . I'm sure that's why Drums in the Deep South was made as well as to showcase Barbara Payton . I'm sure she was on the lot because Howard had a personal interest in her as well . Drums in the Deep South is a cut rate Gone With the Wind with heavy overtones of Eugene O'Neill . Maybe being around that Mourning Becomes Electra set might have given the writers the idea , but what emerges is a turgid melodrama and by the end of the film you don't really care who survives the film and who doesn't . Barbara Payton is no Vivien Leigh and James Craig is one pale imitation of Clark Gable .
Not A Great Film To Go Out On	During the making of Avalanche Express , Robert Shaw died and I'm sure the producers must have been in a quandary . They decided to salvage as much footage as they could with longshots and rears . Shaw's voice was weak so whole scenes were dubbed . The result was an 85 minute action adventure story with a lot of holes in the story about a Russian general , Shaw , defecting to the west . Lee Marvin , Linda Evans , Michael Connors and would you believe Joe Namath are the CIA agents bringing him out and for some reason decide train travel is best . This is an obvious homage to Alfred Hitchcock's The Lady Vanishes , but I'm sure Hitchcock would not have been flattered with the comparison had the master of suspense saw this film before he died . The rest of the players try their best and Maximilian Schell as the KGB guy assigned to kill Shaw before he makes it out of Europe is quite good . As an actor however Joe Namath is a great quarterback , in his few scenes he's painful to watch dealing with the dialog , limited though it was in his case . I do feel sorry for Robert Shaw because of the many fine performances he did give us on the big and small screen . My first memory of him was in a short lived British syndicated television series The Buccaneers and that had far more going for it than Avalanche Express . Had Shaw lived and the movie going public got to see what would have been the story they wanted to bring us , would we have liked it ? Hard to speculate , but I'd stay clear of this unless you want to see a nice big avalanche nearly engulf a train with nearly all the cast on it .
Actors Boredom Transferred To The Audience	If Ashanti had been a serious attempt at a film about the institution of slavery , still prevalent in third world countries the film might have been better received . Instead it turns into a star studded disaster of a movie where the stars came in , said their lines , and picked up their paychecks without much conviction . Michael Caine and his wife Beverly Johnson work for the United Nations World Health Organization and are busy doing their humanitarian thing in East Africa . Along comes Peter Ustinov who can barely summon enough ham in him to make a go of the part as a Moslem slave dealer . As Johnson is black he grabs her anyway along with a lot of children and a few adults as well . Of course Caine doesn't take kindly to the kidnapping and the rest of the film is spent in a rescue attempt . The rest of the cast has such folks as William Holden , Rex Harrison , Omar Sharif and Indian film star Kebir Bedi in parts and looking so incredibly bored with the whole thing . Usually in something like this talented people like those mentioned above will just overact outrageously and feast on a diet of scenery . But Ashanti doesn't even have that going for it . What an incredible waste of time . The aroma of tax write off is permeating the air .
Maybe the creators were on some of the product	Poppies Are Also Flowers is an all star amalgamation of two previous films on the narcotics trade . Sharp eyed fans of the cinema will spot plot elements from those two Forties era films , To The Ends Of The Earth and Port of New York . Of course both those films were infinitely better . Still a whole bunch of international stars lent their names and got a fat paycheck for this muddled episodic film which tries to make E . G . Marshall an action star . Talk about ridiculous . Best in the film by far are Yul Brynner as an Iranian general and Rita Hayworth as the dope addicted wife of Gilbert Roland who is one of the villains . Roland plays it rather straight and that ever present twinkle that I love in him is missing . The filming was done on actual locations including some of the harder to reach regions of Iran . Of course that was back in the day of the Shah's pro-western government and you can see photographs of the Shah in some of the shots . I also liked Hugh Griffith as I always do with those wild eyes of his , the wildest this side of Jack Elam . Griffith just dusts off his Sheik Ilderim portrayal from Ben-Hur and hams it up to beat the band . There wasn't much else the man could do , he knew he was in a Thanksgiving special .
Oh Captain , My Captain	Adventures of Captain Fabian has the distinct aroma of tax write-off about it . Errol Flynn and friend William Marshall who was married to Ginger Rogers at one time , filmed this in France and released it through Herbert J . Yates's Republic films . In this case Yates might have been wise to put wife Vera Hruba Ralston in it because she couldn't have possibly made the film any worse . For a man who led an adventurous and made so many action films , it's amazing that Errol Flynn when writing a screenplay could make it so deadly dull . Flynn , if in fact he wrote it , borrowed a bit from Saratoga Trunk and a bit from Mourning Becomes Electra and a touch of Tennessee Williams . All of which are beyond his reach as thespian . It's only in the last ten minutes of the film when Flynn who is framed for the murder of Victor Francen is being freed from jail . How it's done by the way is a bit bizarre . In fact Flynn is barely in the film at all except for the last 40 minutes . He and Michelline Presle have both been done dirty by the family of which Vincent Price is the wastrel heir . In Michelline's case , Price has had his fling with her , but now he's dumping her to make a proper marriage , New Orleans style . She ain't taking it lying down and her machinations get her , Price and Flynn in a whole lot of trouble . The film was shot over in France , the interiors done in Paris and New Orleans of 1853 is represented by the French city of Villefrance . Flynn and Marshall were supposed to do a French language version simultaneously as per French law , but skipped the country before the authorities caught on . They also stiffed Vincent Price on his salary and Price had to sue both of them and he collected a few years later . In fact Price is the one good thing about Adventures of Captain Fabian . He essentially takes his Shelby Carpenter character from Laura back to the previous century . Agnes Moorehead plays Michelline Presle's aunt , but she's got a terrible makeup job , she looks and acts like Flora Robson from Saratoga Trunk . Knowing what Errol Flynn fans like , they are going to be terribly disappointed with Adventures of Captain Fabian .
If Not For The Courage Of The Fearless Crew , The Concorde Would Be Lost	The real star of the last of the Airport films is that big supersonic carrier the French created called The Concorde . If you bear in mind that the whole film is dedicated to showing what that needle nosed plane could do in the sky , than the whole film kind of makes sense . But if you're expecting some serious drama here , than by all means take some of the evasive action the Concorde shows here when some nasty folks try to shoot her down . Susan Blakely plays a television news reporter who also happens to be the mistress of military industrial tycoon Robert Wagner . One of Wagner's aides just happens to bring her information on some of Wagner's dirty business dealings , selling arms to folks not friendly to the USA . When the source , Macon McCalman , is killed in front of her and she's nearly done in by a hit-man whom she escapes from of course she confronts Wagner with the information . And of course he denies it . But right before Blakely boards The Concorde , McCalman's widow Kathleen Maguire hands her the necessary documents . But on the way to Moscow with a stop in Paris , Wagner and his minions try to put the big bird down . But the fearless crew of Alain Delon , David Warner , and George Kennedy is up to all their tricks . It's quite a bag full as you'll see if you want to watch the film . If you're an aviation enthusiast , you absolutely won't care about the plot . It's like the film Le Mans with Steve McQueen which has a legion of auto racing fans who have made it a cult item . Maybe Le Mans is better at that because they just didn't bother with any kind of story . Among the passengers is a pot smoking saxophonist played by Jimmie Walker , a distraught mother accompanying a new heart for her child , played by Cicely Tyson and Martha Raye a woman with a weak bladder who spends the entire trip from Washington to Paris in the loo . She's actually the best one here . Robert Wagner must have been psychic though because I'm sure on the strength of this film he got the part of Doctor Evil's number two in the Austin Powers series . I'm sure all concerned got a big pay day out of this film , but it seems to have killed the Airport saga of movies .
Two Directors Or Maybe Two Cooks For This Thanksgiving Feast	Steve McQueen has certainly a lot of loyal fans out there . He certainly was a charismatic fellow , one of the most charismatic the big screen ever knew . But even McQueen can't save this turkey of a film , shot with what looks like a brownie camera in the actual locations in St . Louis . McQueen's a new kid with no criminal record brought into the planning of a bank heist by one of the other gang . There's more than a broad hint that there's a gay relationship going on between young Steve and David Clarke . He's not liked at all by the other heist members , mainly because of his lack of criminal resume . Steve also has a girl friend in Molly McCarthy and she suspects something afoot , especially when he starts hanging around with Crahan Denton and James Dukas as well as Clarke , all pretty rough characters . That would certainly get my suspicions aroused . The Great St . Louis Bank Robbery had two directors Charles Guggenheim and John Stix . Guggenheim did mostly documentaries and Stix didn't do much of anything . One of those two jokers decided Steve's performance was best served by doing a bad Marlon Brando imitation . This film may go down as the worst ever done by Steve McQueen . I'm willing to bet that Dick Powell and Four Star Productions had already signed him for Wanted Dead or Alive because I can't believe they would have if they saw this . Or they would have seen something the public would have overlooked except for the dressing for this turkey .
Houston , We've Got A Problem	The Swarm was one of Irwin Allen's later disaster films where he was forever trying to top what he did in The Towering Inferno . In fact he creates something of an inferno in this film . African killer bees have arrived in the USA and are proving to be most hardy creatures . Their calling card to the United States is to invade a top secret missile silo in Texas and kill nearly all the personnel stationed there . That's how the film opens up with General Richard Widmark arriving to investigate and coincidentally finding Michael Caine , renowned entomologist there as well . To make up for the lousy script , both Widmark and Caine take turns shouting at each other throughout the film . Maybe Widmark is jealous because Caine's got lovely Katherine Ross at his side . Anyway they are three of a whole bunch of film names that signed on for this disaster film , took their paychecks and ran . I remember on the old Dobie Gillis television series , Bob Denver's character Maynard G . Krebs was forever talking about going back to see his favorite film , The Monster That Devoured Cleveland . In this film Richard Widmark is the monster who set fire to Houston after the bees decide to make Houston their home . Actually he was partially on track in how to ultimately fight them . The Swarm marked the farewell performance of Fred MacMurray . He , Ben Johnson and Olivia DeHavilland have a senior citizen romance thing going as citizens of the small town of Marysville Texas . The bees come there because they are having their annual flower festival . Couldn't resist that if you're a bee . For fans of disaster films and stargazers only . By the way , does anyone else think Michael Caine sounds an awful lot like the Geico Gecko ?
What Did Helen Mirren Learn	Certainly one of the most respected players in English speaking world is Helen Mirren . Previous to the Best Actress Oscar she got for last year playing Queen Elizabeth II she was probably best known for being Scotland Yard police inspector Jane Tennyson in Prime Suspect when those episodes reached the American side of the pond . But somewhere somehow , someone persuaded this woman to sign up for a role in American teen comedy Teaching Mrs . Tingle in the title role . Meryl Streep might have seen Helen Mirren in this part before she signed up for The Devil Wears Prada . Mirren is certainly the teacher from hell . I met a few like them , time serving drudges who were hardly inspirational figures for impressionable kids . Katie Holmes is one of those impressionable kids who's a grade grubber to put it mildly . We're to believe here that Mirren's less than A grade will ruin her entire future because she won't get a scholarship that will go to Liz Stauber her rival who's rich and doesn't need it anyway . A visit by Holmes and her two friends Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan results in Mirren being kidnapped and tied to her bed . And then she plays the kids all off against each other . Yes , believe it or not this is a comedy . Jeffrey Tambor plays the physical education teacher with whom she's got a thing going and calls Spanky . Michael McKean and Vivica Fox and Molly Ringwald play the principal , guidance counselor , and school secretary all of whom have as low an opinion of Mirren as the kids do , but are afraid of her . I know this made a lot of money because of Watson and Holmes being on current television series 7th Heaven and Dawson's Creek at the time . Still you got to wonder whether they look back in horror at this one . Especially Holmes before she was half of TomKat .
To Get The Richest Man	Sophia Loren is out for revenge and the FBI wants to get one of the world's richest men who is a Howard Hughes like recluse . This guy put out a hit on her husband who was blown up in a laboratory with a mail bomb . What to do , but call in the FBI in the person of Vincent Gardenia . But getting the Hughes like gazillionaire ain't easy so the FBI calls in a consultation with the Mafia as represented by Eli Wallach . Lots of Firepower will be needed , but even more brains . The best guy for the job is independent contractor James Coburn who sets out to storm the rich guy's fortress on Antigua . The nice Caribbean location and the chance to see a few movie names are the only reason to see this ridiculous action thriller . Both Clint Eastwood and Charles Bronson turned this one down and poor James Coburn was left holding the bag . Bronson , who worked with director Michael Winner on any number of projects , left this cold , so you know he was hearing the faint sounds of Thanksgiving . Even Anthony Franciosa , one of the most underrated players ever , looks ridiculous in this as the doctor feel good to the rich and reclusive . Add to that Billy Barty as a midget mob boss and you get the idea how ridiculous this one is . Unless you like all the stars like I do and want to see O . J . Simpson get what's coming to him , stay away from Firepower .
It Took a Long Time to get that Gold from the French	Mutiny has to be down at the bottom of the list of the films of Edward Dmytryk . It's a story that takes place during the War of 1812 where U . S . Navy Captain Mark Stevens is given a mission to get a big shipment of French bullion to build a fleet . Stevens gets a cashiered former British naval captain Patric Knowles to help , but Knowles and a few of his former crew like Gene Evans and Rhys Williams have their own agenda . The script here is almost laughable in its ignorance . The film actually starts out with a scene of British impressment of American seamen and we hear word of war being declared . During the course of the film it's mentioned that we got to get that bullion back from Knowles and his confederates who stole it because word has just been received that the Washington , DC was burned to the ground . Now I granted travel wasn't what it is today . But the burning of Washington took place in 1814 and even with all the detours Stevens and the shipment took , it didn't take two years . Angela Lansbury considered this the nadir of her film career and it probably was . But she plays Knowles's wife and the reason Knowles got drummed out of the British Navy was for embezzlement of his ship's payroll to pay for her extravagance . She's a piece of work Angela and she overacts the part with relish . Everybody in the cast has done better work , pass this one by if you can .
Did Jack Warner Get Stuck ?	Forgetting that this film version of From The Earth To The Moon is nowhere near the spirit of the original tale Jules Verne was trying to tell , usually his work requires a big budget and a ton of good special effects . This film got neither . Looking at the credits tonight I noted it was an RKO production released by Warner Brothers . My guess is that the film was finished and in the can when RKO went under and was sold to Warner Brothers to distribute . Also the fact that it was produced by Benedict Bogeaus who was a producer of B films of varying quality tells me why it did not get the budget for decent special effects . Bogeaus was not the guy for this kind of film . Take a look at his list of credits . He did several westerns with John Payne , noir films with George Raft and some of them pretty good . He was out of his element doing science fiction . Verne's original novel had a bit of humor in it . But someone at RKO drained every bit of it . They even added a stowaway love interest in Debra Paget who does not make the trip in the book . She's paired opposite Don Dubbins who is scientist Joseph Cotten's assistant in creating the rocket . So instead of humor we get a lot of high falutin ' claptrap coming from the mouths of Joseph Cotten and George Sanders the armaments manufacturer who is jealous of Cotten . Sanders especially looked ill at some of the dialog he was required to speak . He came across as a pouty kid and George knew it . I do wonder if Jack Warner looked at this thing before he bought it for Warner Brothers .
Saving The Revolution	The only reason that North Star gets as high as three stars is because of the awesome amount of talent invested in this film both in front of and behind the camera . Otherwise The North Star would be down there with such efforts from World War II as Joan of Ozark and Hitler , Dead or Alive . The North Star may be the only war film in history that has a choreographer in its credits . The first half of the film would qualify it as a musical with a score by Aaron Copland and Ira Gershwin . No hit songs came out of this film , the music is serviceable to underscore the mood of the happy peasants of the Soviet Union secure in the blessings of their revolution , but ready to fight the fascist invader who dare take their sacred revolution away . Written by a hardcore Marxist like Lillian Hellman , how could you expect it to come out any other way ? Even MGM's Song of Russia or RKO's Days of Glory kept the glorification of Stalin's Soviet Union to a minimum and concentrated on the invaders and how to repulse them . Seeing Walter Brennan as a Russian peasant is laughable enough , but that dialog about how wonderful the Russian Revolution was in bringing prosperity and peace to the land must have made the very right wing Mr . Brennan hurl after each take . Somehow Brennan was far more acceptable as a peasant farmer from West Virginia than one from the Ukraine . Though he talks just about the same . I'm guessing he felt it would even look more ridiculous attempting an accent . Walter Huston got double whammied during World War II for Soviet apologia . He played Ambassador Joseph E . Davies in the film adaption of Davies's book Mission to Moscow for Warner Brothers . That was the other great Soviet apologetic film from this era . But if Huston could keep a straight face doing The Outlaw , doing these two would have been no problem . Dana Andrews and Farley Granger play a couple of peasant sons of Morris Carnovsky , Andrews is on leave from the Soviet Air Force . At his country's call to arms , Andrews responds , Granger of course becomes a guerrilla fighter . This was Farley Granger's first film , he had been discovered in high school in southern California where his dad worked as an unemployment clerk . Granger in his memoirs recalls his father meeting many of Hollywood's greats between engagements when they were as eligible as the rest of America for unemployment insurance . Granger recalls with some fondness for the film as it was his first movie role , but he does realize it hasn't aged well . After this and The Purple Heart , Granger went into military service and resumed his career after World War II . Anne Baxter , Jane Withers , Ann Harding play some of the peasant women who fight right along with their men folk . Erich Von Stroheim and Martin Kosleck play a pair of fiendish Nazi doctors , a couple of guys you just love to hate . Von Stroheim's scenes with Huston are priceless in their sincerity and their laughability today . Lewis Milestone who directed and won an Oscar for All Quiet on the Western Front was in charge of putting this whole thing together . He had to have known that The North Star would not stand the test of time or history . For those interested several years ago PBS ran a good documentary , narrated by Burt Lancaster about the Russian campaign of World War II . I'd recommend it rather than The North Star .
The Foreign Service In Peace And War	Some nasty Thuggees have some plans for the Last Train From Bombay , it's going to be blown up because a prominent Indian nawab is on the train and the terrorists are hoping to get a nice civil war going . If you're expecting Bhowani Junction from this Grade C foreign adventure film that never got closer to India than the studio back lot , you will be gravely disappointed . After having seen Gunga Din and other such films about the British Raj , I thought the strangling cult of the Thuggees had been dealt with . Silly me . Jon Hall is an American Foreign Service officer going to report for assignment in India to be a consul when he gets taken off the train after meeting up with Christine Larsen . She's the daughter of a British brigadier traveling with dear old dad in the places where he once ran things and now they're just tourists . She doesn't make the slightest attempt at a British accent . After he leaves the train he goes to a hotel to meet up with an old OSS buddy from the late war , Douglas Kennedy who's now a mercenary for hire . Kennedy fakes his own death a la Harry Lime in The Third Man and meets up with Hall . The old demolition man from the OSS has been hired to blow up a train and he had to get his old buddy off the train when he heard he would be on it . But then Kennedy is really killed and Hall becomes a suspect and he's on the run from the Indian police and the terrorists as he tries to stop the Last Train From Bombay before it reaches the place where the track is mined . It's interesting , but not even remotely historically accurate because the various Indian princes in both India and what later became Pakistan were bought off one by one by Lord Mountbatten as part of the eventual British departure from India . With one exception , the guy running Kashmir and that's been a sore subject between both countries for decades now . In 1952 no one would care if some rich nawab got blown up in a train accident , he's just another rich guy and Hindu , Moslem , Parsee , Sikh , and Christian really couldn't have cared . Not to mention that the Thuggees are as relevant on the scene as our Ku Klux Klan . But American ignorance about places that we had little or no dealing with in our past like India is what producers counted on in putting out films like Last Train From Bombay . Poor Jon Hall though , he went on from this to Ramar of the Jungle and even acted with James Fairfax who played his South African guide in several episodes in this film . Fairfax has a brief role as a club bartender . I've only one question , is this what our Secretary of State at the time who was Dean Acheson expect from our diplomatic and consular service ?
Friends in High places .	Midnight was a film shot in New York by a whole bunch of Broadway players who had nothing else to do during afternoons when there were no matinees . By coincidence nearly the whole cast went on to Hollywood and appeared in productions better than this . O . P . Heggie plays the foreman of a jury that convicted a woman of first degree murder , thereby advancing the career of the District Attorney . On the night that the convicted woman is to die , in fact at the stroke of midnight , Heggie's daughter , Sidney Fox , kills her gangster boyfriend Humphrey Bogart who's running out on her . It's a crime of passion , just like the one that Heggie and the jury he led convicted that other woman for . I don't want to spoil the ending of this film if you're interested in seeing it . Let us just say that a District Attorney is a good friend to have . Fans of Humphrey Bogart will of course want to see this . Right after this Bogey appeared in The Petrified Forest on Broadway and came to Hollywood to do the film version . The rest is history , but if Bogey hadn't scored such a hit in The Petrified Forest , Midnight might well have been his screen epitaph . What a horrible thought .
DeForest Kelley Has Issues Here	I've a real affection for the A . C . Lyles westerns which gave employment to a lot of old time players who were finding work increasingly hard to get because of the decline of the studio system and in some cases a refusal to work in television . But Apache Uprising took elements from Stagecoach , Rawhide , Broken Arrow , Coroner Creek , with a little bit of English Gothic thrown in the mix and it didn't come out well . The English Gothic gets into it when the passengers of a stagecoach get held hostage in a relay station by three outlaws , with thunder and lightning flashing outside together with Apaches on the warpath . It comes right out of innumerable old English murder mysteries . Funny thing that with all the old stars like Rory Calhoun , Corinne Calvet , John Russell , Lon Chaney , Jr . , Johnny Mack Brown , the one you will remember from this film is DeForest Kelley . The original Star Trek was debuting this year and I'm willing to bet this was Kelley's final work prior to becoming wise old Dr . Leonard McCoy . Toby Jack Saunders is as far from McCoy as you can get . He's reminiscent of the outlaw that Kelley played in The Law and Jake Wade . He's one hateful punk with some serious self esteem issues . I've seen every member of this cast do better work , even better work for A . C . Lyles and it's too bad the film was beneath the talents of all of them .
All Those Homicides , All That Claim Jumping , And Nobody Can Figure It Out ?	The Duel at Silver Creek refers to the place where the final confrontation between the good guys led by Stephen McNally and Audie Murphy and the bad guys headed by Gerald Mohr . Mohr heads a nasty group of bad guys who go around shooting hard working prospectors after they've signed over their claims . One of them is the father of gunfighter Audie Murphy . Marshal Stephen McNally is also on their trail , but he's slowed up by a gunshot wound that's left his trigger finger a might unsteady . He turns to Murphy as an ally of convenience . There's a lot of action in The Duel at Silver Creek even more than the usual Audie Murphy western . Unfortunately it's to cover up some really serious problems with the story . I don't know about how you would feel , but even to the kid crowd for which this western was clearly intended , when someone shows up with title to those claims it's going to be rather obvious who was behind all the homicides . My guess is that Don Siegel's film got butchered in the editing . In fact you know there's a piece out of it because McNally just all of a sudden shows up in an army hospital being treated for a gunshot wound you never see take place . Susan Cabot plays the good girl with first a yen for McNally and then for Murphy . Faith Domergue is the bad girl , bad as they come in westerns . She's in cahoots with the bad guys and shamelessly flirts with McNally and young gun Eugene Iglesias while all the time she acts as Mohr's moll in a more modern gangster film style . Domergue has the best role in the film , too bad the film itself is so weak . Look for Lee Marvin in a small role as one of the outlaw gang , if you're looking at all at The Duel at Silver Creek . Definitely for die-hard Audie Murphy fans .
It Had Potential	John Ford's last feature film 7 Women marks an abrupt departure for the male misogynist director to direct a cast of primarily women . It had the makings of a classic , but it was in the hands of the wrong director . Maybe George Cukor should have directed it . Or maybe this story should have been done a few years later when the production code was finally lifted . A lot of things could have been made more explicit . Anne Bancroft , inner American city female doctor , gets assigned to a Christian mission in China in the early Thirties . This was when the Kuomintang government of Chiang Kai-Shek was trying to put down the Communist insurgents and various warlords and having mixed results to say the least . One real bad warlord is Tunga Khan played by Mike Mazurki and during the course of the film he's having a lot of military success forcing the Kuomintang garrison to flee , leaving the mission helpless . The mission is run by Margaret Leighton who's a walking rule book and a repressed lesbian to boot . She's crushing out big time on young Sue Lyons who's also a fairly new missionary assigned there . Others assigned are Mildred Dunnock and married couple Eddie Albert and Betty Field . Fleeing Mike Mazurki and his army and staying there temporarily are Flora Robson and Anna Lee of a nearby British mission . Anne Bancroft is upsetting everything in Margaret Leighton's little satrapy . She smokes , she swears , she drinks and engages in all kinds of improper behavior for a missionary . She's not a believer though , in fact she's fled the USA after a bad love affair with a married man . She's lived in other words , not like most in the mission . Of course Mike Mazurki and his troops take the mission and the lives of the 7 Women are hanging in the balance . What's to happen ? Anne Bancroft is the best one in the film and Margaret Leighton runs a close second . They have to be or the film would be unwatchable from the gitgo . It's their rivalry that drives the film . But they're good actresses . That couldn't be said for Sue Lyon . Now maybe it was just Sue Lyon's part to look wide eyed and innocent , but she read her lines like she was in a high school play . Maybe she was the reason Ford quit after this film . Eddie Albert and Betty Field are an interesting couple . They got married late in life and are now having a baby . Albert wanted to be a minister , but for financial reasons couldn't get married to Field and couldn't go to a seminary . So he's taken his wife out to China and they've conceived a child in her menopausal period of life . And the baby is born while the women are captive of Mazurki . The warlord and his troops come off like Indians in a John Ford western . And I mean the Indians in The Searchers as opposed to those in Fort Apache . At least in that other famous flop film about missionaries in China , Satan Never Sleeps , Leo McCarey at least cast oriental players in the principal oriental parts . You'd never get away with casting Mike Mazurki as the warlord . It's sad because there were a lot of interesting themes in 7 Women about the role of missionaries , repressed homosexuality , the politics of Kuomintang China in the film and none were really developed . Maybe John Ford wanted to show the critics he could direct a picture with a majority of women in the principal parts . He didn't make it . Do our intrepid missionaries escape the clutches of the rampaging Tunga Khan . Well if you're interested , all I can say is think about A Tale of Two Cities .
Wayne Versus the Frito Bandito	The most die-hard worshippers of John Wayne will cringe when they watch The Lawless Frontier . Even for a poverty row studio , this one is one stinkeroo . Unusual for a western we have a criminal who is a sex crime perpetrator . Earl Dwire plays a halfbreed white and Indian who for reasons that are not explained , pretends he's a Mexican , hokey accent and all . Dwire sounds like the Frito Bandito of advertising fame back in the day . He and his gang happen upon Gabby Hayes and his daughter Sheila Terry . They really don't have anything worth robbing , but Dwire just wants an excuse to kidnap Terry and have his way with her . She hears the dastardly fate she has in store and she and Hayes flee the ranch . Where they happen to meet John Wayne who's on the trail of the bandits . They also run into one very stupid sheriff who believes Wayne is one of the bandits . Again for reasons I can't quite fathom . It was a tough way to earn a living grinding out horse operas like these for the Duke . Fortunately better things were on the way .
Big Jim McLame	Big Jim McLain is a 1950s museum piece of a film . What previous reviewers have not mentioned is that John Wayne was a friendly witness at the House Un-American Activities Committee and he and his best friend Ward Bond were founders of a pro-blacklist group in Hollywood , the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals . He saw HUAC as a positive force , keeping the country safe from Communist subversion . Most people today know HUAC because of the investigations into Hollywood and that's not by accident . The members of that Committee went to investigated motion pictures because that's where the celebrities were . Lots of headlines back home when John Wayne , Ward Bond , Gary Cooper , Adolphe Menjou testified there . Good photo ops we would now say . No publicity value in investigating plumbers . One previous reviewer said that their probably could be a good movie written about the Communist Party efforts to take over labor unions . They certainly were active on that front in the 1930s and 1940s . But this ain't that movie . What saves the film from being a total waste of time is the presence of Veda Ann Borg . She plays her usual brassy broad with real flair in this one . Wayne , strictly in the line of duty , has to date her to get some vital information and then has to explain this to Nancy Olson who he's really romancing . Wayne's first lead takes him to a doctor who's secretary is Nancy Olson and Wayne takes time to romance her . What's fascinating here is that Ms . Olson plays a doctor's secretary , personal confidante and all that . But she has no problem in informing on her employer to HUAC investigator Wayne . And Wayne who if he really did get involved romantically with the secretary of a Commie would be completely compromised as an investigator . One little known fact about this film is that Wayne gave a last pay day to character actor Paul Hurst . Hurst , who was terminally ill with cancer at the time that this film was made , played the father of a rising labor leader in Hawaii that HUAC was looking into . You can see how ill he was in the one scene he played with Wayne . Hurst committed suicide after the film was completed . Whatever you think of John Wayne's politics , the Duke was a man capable of a lot of personal kindness . This was not the first or the last time he helped out colleagues down on their luck . Big Jim McLain is one of the lamest movies John Wayne ever did . He saw the world in simple terms , black and white , good and evil , etc . I recommend a movie called Trial that Glenn Ford made in 1955 . It presents a far more balanced view of the period in that it reserves condemnation for both right and left wing extremism . But if you want to see Veda Ann Borg play the brassiest of broads , well this is your flick .
Hit The Road Drac , And Don't You Come Back , No More No More No More . . . . . . . . . . . . .	In a better film such as the kind Universal put out in the Thirties and Forties , Francis Lederer might have made an interesting Count Dracula . He certainly had the old world manners of the no account count from Transylvania . But in The Return of Dracula where the world's most famous vampire has gone to seek the blood of the new world , Lederer looks extremely uncomfortable trying to make sense of the crummy dialog he has to mouth . Lederer also has police inspector John Weingraf from Interpol on his trail . The old count's got a taste for young teenage girls as he goes after blind Virginia Vincent and tries to put the bite on Christina Eberhardt , to the chagrin of boyfriend Ray Stricklyn . He's in southern California , he must like them there wishing they all could be California girls . I'd go out and hang 10 rather than sit home and watch Dracula return .
Where All Good Teen Idols Go	Village of the Giants based very loosely on H . G . Wells Food of the Gods is one of those classic cult films that gets worse and more enjoyable on repeated viewings . Later on Bert Gordon actually did make a straight version of the science fiction classic that was quite a bit better . But I'm sure a pile of money was made on this one at many drive-ins across the country . Sad to say that films like these are what happens to a lot of teen idols . Of the cast in this film only Beau Bridges and Ron Howard went on to careers of real substance . I'm willing to bet that both look back on this film and cringe . I think what Walt Disney did to Tommy Kirk was a disgrace , but typical of Hollywood in the pre-Stonewall days . Tommy might have had a substantial career had the gay ' scandal ' never happened , who knows . Or this might have been where he would have wound up any way , maybe later on . There are too many variables to consider . I would point out that Johnny Crawford didn't fare any better than Tommy in his post Rifleman career and he had no scandal attached to him at this point . What this is about is six out of town teenagers , drunk and stupid , wind up in a small town where they take some ' goo ' that child scientist Ronny Howard invents and grow to be some 15 to 20 feet tall . Led by Beau Bridges , they start running things until the town kids headed by Tommy Kirk and Johnny Crawford fight back and Ron Howard finds an antidote . Best shot of the film , Johnny Crawford hanging on for dear life to giant Joy Harmon's cleavage . Must have sent them rolling in the aisles back in the day .
Any Resemblance	In retrospect it would have been impossible to do a real life story of Rudolph Valentino only 25 years after his demise . Too many interested parties were still alive at that point , including a couple of former spouses . It would have been well to wait however than to have inflicted this film on the public . Other than the names of his films , I can't think of too much that was at all true here . Any resemblance between this film and the real story of Valentino is purely coincidental . The film was to have launched the career of Anthony Dexter , but Mr . Dexter went slowly down into obscurity after this film failed to launch him as a new Hollywood hunk . The story we get here is how Italian immigrant Valentino rose from tango dancer , to dishwasher , to gigolo , to movie star . Along the way he used his considerable charms on several women such as Eleanor Parker , Patricia Medina , and Dona Drake . Richard Carlson and Otto Kruger play director and producer sponsors of Valentino respectively . Joseph Calleia is always good and may have the best performance in the film as Valentino's friend and confidante . Valentino's story would have to wait another fifty years in a film that starred Russian ballet dancer Rudolph Nuryev . See that one , as opposed to this film .
Unsympathetic Characters	The Money Trap for me has the distinction of being one of the last B features I ever saw on the big screen as part of a double bill . It is a film way past its prime as a noir picture . Noir as a genre essentially died little by little as more televisions were in American homes . The kind of stories that noir does best were now being shown on television every night . Movies were getting bigger and splashier to compete with TV and films like the Money Trap were just not being made for theaters any more . Watching it yesterday on TCM , I was struck by the ludicrousness of a letter box version for a black and white noir . By the way , in 1965 television was about to go full color and black and white feature films were getting rarer each year . But even as a noir film , The Money Trap has no people you really care about . Glenn Ford is married to a wealthy woman and lives in a lifestyle beyond his cop's salary . But then wife Elke Sommer gets a letter saying her late Daddy's stock won't be paying any dividends . Well golly gee , we should all have such problems . It never occurs to Glenn Ford to tell Elke to tone down her extravagant ways , maybe even move out of that luxurious home they have to something more modest . Ford's kind of into the good life also . During a homicide investigation involving a wealthy doctor played by Joseph Cotten who allegedly surprised a burglar in his home , Ford and partner Ricardo Montalban suspect something dicey . Before expiring in the ambulance , the burglar gives Ford the safe combination . Now knowing something is amiss here . Ford and Montalban decide on a robbery . Of course the doctor is smarter than the both of them put together . The whole thing ends in one bloody mess and the viewer doesn't really care . A few years later The Money Trap would have been strictly a made for TV feature if it got made at all . Probably MGM was busy trying to get rid of long time contractual obligations to Ford and Montalban . Both of them have sure done better work . But the saddest thing of all is that this is the last feature film partnership of Glenn Ford and Rita Hayworth . Rita's the best thing in this film , playing a very worn out forty something ex-girlfriend of Ford's and widow of the burglar Cotten shot . A great acting job and not anything a former reigning sex goddess ever did before . But it ain't enough to save The Money Trap .
Recruiting A Singing Cowboy	Slaughter Trail is a B western with some grand pretensions . But it's come down in Hollywood history for a most ignominious reason . Watching this film with it's musical score which can only be described as overbearing , I have a feeling what Howard Hughes was trying to do is recruit a singing cowboy for RKO films . They already had Tim Holt who was as reliable a B picture cowboy hero there ever was , but he was not a singer . I guess Hughes saw what money Herbert J . Yates was raking in with Roy Rogers over at Republic and decided he'd get one as well . So Terry Gilkyson who was a very good performer and much better song writer got recruited and sang some of his material which was not his best and worse , looked like they were shoehorned into the picture . But worse than that , there's this annoying chorus which sang a lot of the story and frankly overwhelmed the actors , extras , even the horses . Needless to say Terry never got to be a singing cowboy . But he did write such classics as The Bare Necessities and Dean Martin's great hit , Memories are Made of This . The plot concerns an inside woman on a stagecoach jewel robbery . That's right , the outlaws who are Gig Young , Myron Healey , and Ken Koutnik plant Virginia Grey in the coach as a passenger which they receive word is carrying some valuable jewels . It's a great act Grey and Young pull off . Young takes her away from the coach to presumably a fate worse than death and they do properly act out the scene within earshot of the passengers , but what he does is slip her the swag . Last place the authorities might look , if she doesn't run off with it . But when they flee the robbery it's on tired horses so they stop at a cabin to take some replacement mounts and shoot three Navajos who object . That puts the Navajos back on the warpath , didn't help that one of the casualties was Chief Ric Roman's brother . That's the situation that Captain Brian Donlevy at the fort has to deal with when the coach and the outlaws arrive there for protection . How it all works out is predictable , but in a gaudy sort of overproduced way . In fact that's the problem with Slaughter Trail . It's a simple no frills B western that got souped up into something almost grotesque . But the real reason Slaughter Trail entered into history is that this film apparently marks the official beginning of the blacklist . Originally Howard DaSilva was to play Donlevy's part and may have in fact completed his scenes , when Howard Hughes officially fired him for Communist sympathies . His scenes were completely re-shot with Brian Donlevy in the lead . Considering what a fiasco this film turned into , I'm not sure whether Donlevy or DaSilva ought to have thanked Hughes or kicked him in his private preserve .
Wartime Musical	Private Buckaroo is one of those wartime musicals set in the army where the plot is barely noticeable among the musical numbers . In fact I'm not sure of what the plot was . In fact this one was another of those films to incorporate a top big band into the Hollywood studio system . In this it was Harry James and his Orchestra . Harry's gets one of those letters from FDR that a lot of men between 18 and 45 were getting back in 1942 . But his orchestra apparently thinking they'd have to go out hustle other jobs decides the one that Harry's getting is good enough for them so the whole band enlists . Including Helen Forrest and Dick Foran who are his vocalists . Unlike the patriotic Foran who was a CPO in In The Navy , this Foran has an attitude similar to that of Lee Bowman in Buck Privates . Of course when you're drill sergeant is Shemp Howard it's kind of hard to take the army seriously . Foran's also pursuing Jennifer Holt who is Tim's sister . Also in the film are the Andrews Sisters and Donald O'Connor and Peggy Ryan and that about covers the musical portion of the film . For a 69 minute film they had at least a dozen numbers so you can see the plot barely got in the way . Not to mention there was a triangle involving Shemp with Mary Wickes and Joe E . Lewis . The film that Frank Sinatra made about Joe E . Lewis , The Joker Is Wild is infinitely better than Private Buckaroo . But this certainly is an opportunity to see the real Lewis perform . So if you're a fan of any or all of these folks you might spend some time watching Private Buckaroo . All this Universal classic needed was Abbott & Costello .
Crashing The Wedding	A really nasty tempered drunken individual in Beau Starr crashes the wedding of his nephew and confronts the father of the bride over some ancient grudges . He gets cold cocked and put to rest on a coach . But later on Starr is found with a knife in his chest and the would be bride , Heather McAdam standing over him . Heather's a reigning pop star like Jessica Simpson and she's marrying her own Nick Lachey in Adam Storke . But there's a whole host of suspects . However she's got one thing in her corner an ' uncle ' who's a well known attorney and who never loses a case . This is one of the few times where we get a hint of a relationship with Perry Mason and someone else . This never happened in the hour television series back in the day . Of course he's not a biological uncle , but you can draw your own conclusion as to what happened way back when with Raymond Burr and McAdam's parents , Ronny Cox and Diane Baker . I found this film , one of the weaker Perry Mason stories . Had it not been for the bride and her fame and the fact that she was found with the body , the real motive of the crime would have been apparent from the start and the police in the person of James McEachin would have focused their attention in the right direction . Still I do love my Perry Mason stories so .
The Lion Hearted Oaf	Whatever else you can say about Richard I , the Lion Hearted he was a mighty warrior in battle . In fact he loved wars and battles so much he spent very little time ruling his own kingdom . Remembering that his kingdom was not just England , but a good deal of what is now France , it is estimated that he may have spent at most , six months on the British Isles . Not that his brother John was any bargain . But Richard and his wars cost his people a great deal in taxation . England was in medieval chapter 11 after he was done . Yet his legend as a warrior lives on , perpetuated greatly by Cecil B . DeMille and this film . It's a typical DeMille product characterized by topflight spectacle and action scenes and some arcane dialog , the kind that was used when DeMille was learning his trade from David Belasco in the early 20th century . DeMille sent out for his leading lady , over to Fox for Loretta Young . I'm sure Ms . Young was more than happy to star in The Crusades as she , Irene Dunne , and Rosalind Russell were THE three Catholic stars of the screen . Young plays Berengaria of Navarre who has the dubious distinction of being the only Queen of England never to set foot on English soil . Berengaria , here and in real life , was a political pawn in an arranged marriage . Richard was supposed to marry Princess Alice of France , played here by Katharine DeMille . But for the real story of who Richard would have married in a love match , check out The Lion In Winter . Berengaria survived her husband by about 30 years . I'm sure in real life she was one lonely person . DeMille tried hard to make his good friend Henry Wilcoxon a star , both here and in Cleopatra . Wilcoxon as an actor did far better away from C . B . than with him . He's probably best known for playing the Vicar in Mrs . Miniver . It's hard to sympathize with Richard . Even in this favorable treatment of him , he comes across like a blundering fool . He goes to The Crusades in the first place to get out of marrying Alice because any promises would be absolved if he went on Crusade to reclaim Jerusalem for Christendom . And after that it's one blunder after another . Remember in Patton George C . Scott remarks how much he enjoys all the combat and how Karl Malden chides him for just that . The plain truth is that was what got Richard going in the morning . Sex with whomever didn't measure up to a good battle . Ian Keith as Saladin comes off far better . He was a genuine warrior hero defending his kingdom , as chivalrous a person as the Christian knights claim to be . And politically he spins rings around Richard . So does the wily Conrad of Montferrat as played by Joseph Schildkraut . Another reviewer described him as unctuous . That's the word that fits him best . In fact in a later role in The Shop Around the Corner , Schildkraut practically patented unctuous for the screen . The spectacle is grand , the Battle of Acre was one of the most ambitious screen undertakings up to that point . But a Victorian script and a fool for a hero defeats this film . I'd recommend the recent Kingdom of Heaven for a more accurate depiction of The Cruades . I'd even recommend King Richard and the Crusaders with George Sanders as Richard and Rex Harrison as Saladin as being better .
Vic Phoned This One In	Victor Mature was always fond of telling people how bored he was in the acting profession and pretty soon he'd be out of it for the most part . He was at his most bored making The Bandit Of Zhobe an Indian Northwestern set on the real Indian frontier . He sleepwalks through this part , probably worried his paycheck wouldn't clear . Back in the day tales of the British army defending those outer reaches of the Empire on which the sun never set were as popular with British kids as the dime novels written about the exploits of our frontier characters out west . The Bandit Of Zhobe plays like one of those westerns . The evil Walter Gotell wants to get the frontier ablaze and what better way to do it than get the British army fighting with a neighboring native leader . Gotell has his guys attacking the British army and also has his guys in British army Sepoy uniforms go into Mature's town and massacre the place , killing his wife and child . I've seen this plot premise in many of our own westerns . Taking on the task of bringing everyone together is Anne Aubrey , daughter of British Colonel Norman Wooland . A little bit of Rudolph Valentino's The Sheik is thrown in here with Aubrey's obvious attraction for Mature even though he's been doing terrible things to her people after he's been set on the warpath . Best in the film without a doubt is Anthony Newley as the corporal and bodyguard of Aubrey . He proves to be quite resourceful and has the best lines the script . The final battle between Gotell's people and the British army is also well staged . But we've seen all of it before in many an American western .
Tim Settling Down ?	Pistol Harvest , one of the later Tim Holt westerns for RKO , has Tim maybe finally looking to settle down and marry the lovely Joan Dixon and quit riding the range with Richard Martin . Her adopted father Edward Hearn is real pleased to have Tim Holt as a son-in-law and agrees to help finance the young to be marrieds with the purchase of a new ranch . The problem is that the $30 , 000 . 00 that Tim withdraws will leave the town banker without any funds to cover some shady dealings . After that it's a cat and mouse game that gets real deadly . There were some aspects to this story that did not really ring true and a plot line that involved Joan Dixon being adopted and one of the outlaw henchmen being her long lost brother . Personally I don't think it added anything to the story . And in the end some of the playful wolfishness of Richard Martin's character Chito took an out of place turn . Still there's a lot of action to cover up the rough spots and Tim Holt is one of the best cowboy heroes Hollywood ever had .
Angst Ridden Identity Crisis	I would bet that of all the films young River Phoenix did in his short and sweet life , Little Nikita is probably the one where he played the most normal of kids . But it's that very normality that is the basis for the shock unfolding before him . A rogue agent played by Richard Lynch who has specialized in playing really evil and loathsome types on the big and small screens is going around killing various sleeper agents that the Russians have planted over the years in America . Lynch is blackmailing the Soviets for big bucks to stop bumping off the deep cover spies . One of their top guys , Richard Bradford , is going to America to deal with the problem . As this is the time of Glasnost with Reagan and Gorbachev in some serious and far reaching negotiations , we don't want this to get public and blow up the summit . At the same time while Sidney Poitier as an FBI agent is running routine background checks for armed service academy admissions , something really doesn't compute in young River Phoenix's background . It turns out that his parents are deep cover agents who've never been activated to do anything . And by an incredible coincidence I just really couldn't buy , Lynch is a guy who killed Poitier's partner many years ago and he wants him to . You'd think that with this kind of problem a little below summit Glasnost would have been in order for the KGB and FBI . But no , they're both working at cross purposes for the same goal . What Little Nikita does have going for it to give it as many stars as it does have is River Phoenix's angst ridden performance of an All American kid whose whole world comes crashing around about him . River's screen characters were usually quirky , but he could play a normal kid and well . Phoenix's performance and the nice location shooting in and around the San Diego area are the only reason to watch this well meaning , but ultimately rather silly film .
Derek Avenges His Dad	It's mid 19th century Italy and Anthony Quinn pulls something of a palace coup by framing provincial governor Wilton Graff of the very treason that Quinn is perpetrating . He kills Graff in the process and sets up shop in his palace . And for some very weak plot reasons when Quinn has a chance to let the mob dispose of the ' traitor's ' son John Derek he chooses to save him and keep him in the palace . Derek pretends to be more seriously wounded than he is and soon learns of Quinn's double dealing . At that point Derek dons the Mask Of The Avenger and starts to right some wrongs in the style of that other Dumas hero Edmund Dantes whose statue is in the town square . Phil Karlson who was two years from directing one of the great noir films of all time , Kansas City Confidential , seemed to lose his muse doing this one . Though the film is based on a Dumas novel and mentions his famous hero The Count Of Monte Cristo , it bares more resemblance to a weak remake of The Mark Of Zorro . Somehow I'm willing to bet that some obvious plot flaws that are in this film aren't present in the Dumas novel . Derek looks good with sword in hand , Anthony Quinn hams it up good as the villain . Jody Laurence is fetching as the dueling countess who Derek and Quinn both want to make some time with . Still Mask Of The Avenger is ultimately unsatisfying , Dumas has been better served cinematically speaking elsewhere .
Circus Of Murders	Joan Crawford's next to last feature film Berserk finds her as boss lady of a circus where a string of murders is being committed . I will say the best thing about Berserk is the circus acts from the Billy Smart Circus where the film was shot in the United Kingdom . As for the film it's your usual slasher flick that could have , but didn't come from Hammer Studios . The whole cast with the exception of Crawford and Ty Hardin playing the hunky high wire artist were from Great Britain and the continent . Hardin's one daring dude , his high wire act not only consists of no net , but he walks underneath a row of very sharp spikes . There's no surviving if he falls . And there's a rapid rate of homicide at Crawford's show unless Scotland Yard in the person of Inspector Robert Hardy can figure out who is killing off the circus , a bit at a time . Maybe Berserk might have been better had Hammer Films actually had done this production . This was the kind of thing they were good at , even if the villain isn't a supernatural one . I will say that the death of Michael Gough is a shocking and original one . You might want to catch Berserk for that alone . As it is there are more red herrings thrown up as potential suspects in Berserk than at feeding time at Marineland . You'll go Berserk just trying to figure it all out .
Make A Joyful Noise Unto The Lord	If the real Jeanne Deckers had never made that recording in 1963 she probably would have been a much happier person , probably still in blessed obscurity in a convent somewhere on the globe . Only probably though because she was in conflict with the church she gave her life to . At the time the film The Singing Nun came out I well remember the critical roasting it got . Like Going My Way this is how the Roman Catholic Church likes to see itself portrayed . This film was such a ode to the faith , I'm wondering how the most famous Catholic lay person in the world , Bing Crosby , didn't get involved in it . Young Sister Anna , in real life known as Sister Sourire enters a convent in Belgium presided over by Mother Prioress Greer Garson and is part of the parish where Father Ricardo Montalban presides . The young nun with her guitar is played by Debbie Reynolds and her combination of music and faith wins over just about everyone around her . Including young recording executive Chad Everett who has her cut and album that becomes a worldwide phenomenon . I still remember her record of Dominique played right around the same time the Fab Four from Liverpool were bursting on the American consciousness . But as soon as she arrived , The Singing Nun went back into the convent , in the film she and fellow sister Juanita Moore go off to Africa as missionaries . By the way Moore has the best performance in the film . Debbie Reynolds performs the songs of The Singing Nun well and the musical numbers are well staged . Would that The Singing Nun did have a happily ever after life after fame . She didn't in fact . During the film Reynolds of course takes a strong anti-abortion position as per the Church teachings . In real life she did leave the convent and became an activist for birth control . She also had tax problems from our government , hardly the last celebrity to deal with that . She and a woman who had been her life companion for 10 years committed a double suicide together in 1985 . She seems to have gone against her faith in any number of ways . Read the Wikipedia article on The Singing Nun , it will be quite an eye opener . It's a story that definitely needs telling and maybe one day someone will tell it .
College Of Sexual Knowledge	One of the trashier novels of the early Sixties did not reach the big screen until the middle seventies . By then the Code had broken down and a lot of subjects could have been dealt with . The Harrad Experiment by Robert Rimmer came out in the early Sixties in the beatnik era and dealt with a pair of husband and wife educators , James Whitmore and Tippi Hedren who've got some radical education notions . They're starting a controlled experimental college with some selected students who are to room coeducationally and be otherwise encouraged to explore their sexual selves . The film focuses on four students Don Johnson and Bruno Kirby and Laurie Walters and Victoria Thompson . All four are different types and all four follow through with the intent of the founders . How they deal with it is the basis for the film . There are a few anachronisms in the movie . One of the most glaring was that for entertainment the kids go to a beatnik style underground nightclub in the current Seventies fashions . In updating the film to the Seventies a whole lot of care was not taken . My problem with the film is that monogamy as a concept does serve a useful function in society . Some people are more capable of it than others . Different strokes for different folks and all of life is a situation . My guess is that Harrad College laid a Vermont volleyball style egg and Whitmore and Hedren were defunded and maybe defrocked . Still the film has a warm place in my heart because of Don Johnson and the way he stirred my youthful gay soul back in the day . I thought he was the sexiest man on the planet in this film . So much so that when I decided to act on my gay impulses once and for all , I chose someone who reminded me of Don Johnson in The Harrad Experiment . And as luck would have it , it was also someone named Don , Don Buchecker . So I feel I've gotten to know Don Johnson in the biblical way by proxy . Good enough reason for me to watch The Harrad Experiment again .
If You Can't Figure Out Who The Villain Is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	I'm not sure how John Wayne got to be working for Republic in this one shot deal . He was with Monogram at the time this was made and it even has some of the cast that was associated with his B westerns from Mongram like Yakima Canutt and Earl Dwire . Nevertheless this is a Republic production and I guess the Duke really did like the sound of that word because he soon did sign with that studio long term . In Lawless Range John Wayne is the son of a friend of someone having some real outlaw problems on his ranch . Wayne goes to investigate and along the way picks up a Deputy Marshal's badge and an undercover identity of a wanted outlaw . This is a particularly vicious group of outlaws . There not into just rustling a few steers , they've put up a blockade and want to starve all the ranchers out of the valley . If however you can't figure out that it's the town banker Frank McGlyn , Jr . who's the villain of the piece than you haven't seen too many B westerns from the Thirties . John Wayne in fact says it , he had McGlyn pegged from the gitgo and any aficionado of the B western will agree . This is also one of those few westerns where Wayne was given a singing cowboy role . In an obviously dubbed voice Wayne warbles a few forgettable cowboy ditties . Now granted I'm seeing the film 71 years after it was made and John Wayne's voice and mannerism are universally known . But back in 1935 when he wasn't a national icon , yet I can't believe anybody thought that was his real singing voice . I guess since this was his first film for Republic pictures Lawless Range has a historic significance of some note , but only dedicated fans of the Duke should bother with it .
The Ultimate Codebreaker	A college prank where one got caught and sent to prison and the other didn't forms the basis for Sneakers , a stylish , but ultimately unsatisfying thriller . Sad because it's a waste of a really talented cast . Gary Hershberger and Jo Marr area a couple of college age computer geeks from the seventies who if they had stayed on the straight and narrow might have wound up being Bill Gates and Bill Jobs . Marr got caught and Hershberger was not by dint of going out for pizza during a break-in . Marr got some serious jail time , but Hershberger became a fugitive . Fast forward to the nineties and Hershberger has now grown up to be Robert Redford and heading a security firm under an alias . Redford employs the diverse talents of David Strathairn , Sidney Poitier , Dan Ackroyd , River Phoenix and on occasion Mary McDonnell . They break into unbreakable places and tell you what you're doing wrong . Redford and his crew get hired or possibly a better word is drafted into working for a couple of slippery agents played by Timothy Busfield and Eddie Jones . Object is to steal a code box with a formula designed by super mathematical genius Donal Logue . In it Logue's designed a gizmo that can break ANY code . Before long Redford and his crew are in conflict with his former college prankster now all grownup and played by Ben Kingsley . Who wouldn't want the Ultimate Codebreaker ? Even I'd like to have that . Sneakers is done with a lot of flash and style , but in the end it's all rather silly . A real waste of a good cast . You've got to catch at the very end where on a news broadcast it's said that Republican National Committee has gone broke overnight and Greenpeace is overflowing with money for its good work . Now maybe that's Robert Redford's secret fantasy , but this isn't Never-Never Land .
Inspiration for Bewitched ?	If Bill Holden had to choose a typical part that he was trying to avoid being cast as before Sunset Boulevard , chances are he would pick his role in Meet the Stewarts as exhibit A . Holden used to call these his ' smiling jim ' roles , the decent young married or newlywed that his dual studio masters , Paramount and Columbia would insist on casting him in . The film is based on a series of short stories by Elizabeth Dunn based on the trials of a young married couple , Candy and Mike Stewart . What we have in this film is an episode of a half hour TV situation comedy stretched out to fill up a B feature film . In fact Meet the Stewarts might very well have been the inspiration for Bewitched . Mike Stewart is a sober industrious young man who happens to fall in love with an air headed débutante , Candy . Remember the way Darren Stevens insisted that Samantha live on his salary without using any nose twitching magic ? Holden is the same way about Dee , insisting that they live without any assistance from his in-laws . Meet the Stewarts is not a horribly bad film , but you can see how desperate William Holden was to get away from these kind of parts .
Getting By With Charm	I don't think any player in Hollywood history lasted as long as David Niven did given most of the weak films he had to carry by dint of his incredible charm . He could act , got an Oscar for it , but most of the material he did was as light as one ply of two ply tissue paper . Happy Go Lovely is a case in point . It's a musical and for the most part you'll remember Vera-Ellen's dancing . You'll remember that they are in Scot's costume as the film is set in Edinburgh during their festival . But if you can recall a single song from it you must have a photographic memory . The plot is light . Vera-Ellen is the American lead in a musical that apparently is getting its out of town tryout in Edinburgh . She starts in the chorus and runs late one day . She gets a lift from the chauffeur of a millionaire greeting card king . Everybody now assumes she's the main squeeze of the millionaire . Doors open up as they've never opened before . The millionaire is David Niven and he goes along with it and the various situations that are engendered by the mistake . Cesar Romero has some good moments here as the frantic producer of this musical . In the end though Happy Go Lovely is light and harmless fluff which David Niven did so much of and got so tired of .
Ringo's Seven Shooter	This rather average western rode into the sunset after one season . As another reviewer said this was the height of the television western era and the airwaves were filled with them . Dick Powell's Four Star Production Company gave us Johnny Ringo . What I remember best was Don Durant as Johnny Ringo having a pistol that fired seven shots , a shotgun shell came from a barrel beneath the one where the six bullets in the revolving chamber came from . That was one handy gimmick especially to those who were counting Ringo's shots before facing him down . When I saw the first Dirty Harry movie where Clint Eastwood dares the punk to try his luck , I immediately thought back to the short lived Johnny Ringo series . I still do whenever I see Clint as Harry Callahan . Ringo got far better than he deserved in this series , in real life he was something of a punk himself in the outlaw trade . He was found shot to death at the age of 32 , probably done in by Wyatt Earp and / or Doc Holiday . Don Durant went nowhere after this series , but Mark Goddard played a young trick shot artist who became Ringo's deputy . He of course went on to Lost in Space if you consider that a step up . Still Johnny's seven shooter was quite something to see .
Cannibalized For Other Series	The Warner Brothers detective clone factory came out with a model that didn't sell . Perhaps had Jack Warner actually shot the thing in New Orleans , taking advantage of the many sights and wonders the Big Easy has to offer Bourbon Street Beat would have had a longer run . This show featured three detectives Richard Long , Andrew Duggan , and Van Williams with a curvaceous secretary named Melody played by beauty queen Arlene Howell . As with the other shows 77 Sunset Strip , Hawaiian Eye , and Surfside Six detectives in a hands across the studio policy helped each other out on cases . Certainly did save Jack Warner on spending money for pricey guest stars . Bourbon Street Beat only lasted one year , the shortest of any of the clones . But the resourceful folks at Warner Brothers had Van Williams move to Miami Beach and open a detective agency on a houseboat there , long before Frank Sinatra and Don Johnson would operate from same . Williams took his Ken Madison character and over to Surfside 6 and co-starred with Lee Patterson and Troy Donahue . In the meantime Richard Long as Rex Randolph moved to the other coast and joined the guys at 77 Sunset Strip . . As for Andrew Duggan , a few years after Bourbon Street Beat was canceled he popped up on a 77 Sunset Strip episode assisting Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . when a case took him to New Orleans . Duggan's Cal Calhoun character had gone back to the New Orleans PD from whence he came . It was like they cannibalized parts from one model fix up their other cars . It maybe what makes Bourbon Street Beat unique among forgotten television series .
Who Wants All These Criminals To Escape	I suppose if I could figure out just who wanted all these criminals to escape and for what purpose I probably could have appreciated The Mackintosh Man a whole lot better . It's just left to the viewer that this is once again a plot by those devilish Communists to bring down capitalism . Paul Newman , with as phony an Australian accent as you could find , plays a British secret agent who is sent on a mission by Mr . MacKintosh of British Intelligence . MacKintosh is Harry Andrews and hence Newman is a MacKintosh Man . His mission and he accepted it was to get himself arrested for a daring jewel heist and then hope that those who are looking to spring prisoners contact him . They do and he's sprung along with Ian Bannen . The guy behind all this is James Mason , a Tory M . P . who spouts an American style law and order platform . A Commie , who'd have thunk it ? The idea isn't even original at that , it was much better done in The Manchurian Candidate with Angela Lansbury and James Gregory as the evil fifth columnists . John Huston didn't think too much of this film . He and Paul Newman had one more film owed to Warner Brothers and they worked it out together . Newman and Huston had worked well on the vastly superior Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean the year before . And who am I to argue with Huston .
Lynch Law In The ' Burbs	Alan Ladd gives up the city life and rat race for himself and also for dipsomaniac and nymphomaniac wife Carolyn Jones . They move out to quiet and peaceful Connecticut . Where Ladd paints out in the woods with his only true friends the town children . Jones on the other hand gets an affair going with one of the town movers and shakers . Jones winds up very dead when Ladd makes an overnight trip to New York . Local cop Charles McGraw thinks Ladd did it as does most of the town , his only friends are the children and Diane Brewster , one of the suburban wives . Alfred Hitchcock might have made the rest of this film seem plausible . In fact Man in the Net plays like an expanded version of one of his half hour TV stories . There are some plot similarities to The Blue Dahlia made back during Ladd's Paramount hey day . In that one he's also a husband on the run after his wife has been killed . Back then though Ladd put a lot of passion into his role of John Morrison , returning war veteran . As John Hamilton though he seems just tired and bored . One thing that doesn't ring true is the lynch law mentality that takes over this suburban town . That plays more like a western than a modern story . Again , maybe Alfred Hitchcock could have made it more believable . It's kind of cute and fun to see the kids outsmart the grownups including the local law for a good deal of the film . But it only goes so far for Man in the Net .
The Unmasked Lone Ranger	Sad to say this is one of the sillier of John Wayne's series of poverty row westerns for Lone Star Productions . Here he is a United States Marshal on the trail of a bandit known only , I kid you not , as the Shadow . No it's not Lamont Cranston , it's some dude who gives his orders through an open wall safe so his men don't see who he is . But the voice is unmistakable , you'll know within 10 minutes of the film . And another reviewer here is quite wrong , no squeals or groans from the audience would have occurred because Gabby Hayes was still playing a variety of roles and he's clean shaven here . He had not yet found his niche as the lovable oldtimer sidekick of various movie cowboy heroes like the Duke . Later on he does lead his men quite openly in the climax so I'm not sure what the point of the original gimmick with the wall safe was . I don't think those that wrote this one knew either . Wayne gets Yakima Canutt as an Indian sidekick here and the relationship is just about the same as an unmasked Lone Ranger and Tonto . It's all pretty silly if you ask me .
For Art's Sake	A film thought lost turned up a few months ago on TCM and I finally did get to see it . Stingaree is one curious and horribly miscast film which not even the presence of favorites of mine like Henry Stephenson and Mary Boland can save . Set in Australia in the 1870s , specifically in Victoria we don't see as much as one kangaroo in Stingaree . The presence of a lot of sheep being herded is supposed to make us think we're in Australia . When I finally saw The Sundowners which was actually filmed in Australia , I certainly saw the weakness of things like Stingaree made on the RKO back lot . But no Americans companies were location shooting that far in 1934 so I can be charitable there . But stolid Richard Dix is cast in a role that someone like Errol Flynn might have made believable . Or Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , or Tyrone Power or Louis Hayward anyone with that swashbuckling élan . Dix just looks silly up there spouting those romantic nothings . Irene Dunne is the lonely ward of Henry Stephenson and Mary Boland who accompanies Boland because Boland fancies she can sing . And she's going to sing come hell or high water for visiting British composer Geoffrey Tearle . Dunne is told not to emote as much as low A from her range when Tearle's around . But when she mistakes the notorious bandit Stingaree for the composer , they're taken with each other . He kidnaps Dunne and later forces a gunpoint addition for the real composer and it costs him his freedom . The rest of the film is too unbelievable to describe you have to see it to confirm , but not to be entertained . Even Mary Boland who usually can save anything with her flighty portrayals doesn't go over well . It's not in her character to throw Dunne out of the house because she was upstaged . Boland is irresponsible and flighty , but never a mean person on the screen . A lot of forgettable songs are included here and the whole film is best forgotten . Good thing none of the cast is still around to be embarrassed .
Many A Heart Will Be Asleep In The Seats	When Tony Curtis did a film tribute to Cary Grant for TCM he mentioned the fact that in World War II while he was Seaman Bernie Schwartz for the U . S . Navy he saw this film and never dreamed that 18 years later he would be co-starring with Cary Grant in a submarine picture . That one , Operation Petticoat , comedy that it is has more integrity than this piece of flag waving nonsense . According to this when General Doolittle was conducting his Tokyo Raid , he had help from a party of three that included John Garfield who landed in Tokyo Bay and radioed in all the proper landmarks as targets . The submarine sent on this deadly mission was captained by Cary Grant who should have done something better for the war effort . Every submarine film eventually comes back with the same clichés and Destination Tokyo is no different . But give me a break folks , Cary just sails is submarine into the middle of Tokyo Bay and no one notices ? And topping it all off , young Robert Hutton comes down with appendicitis and ship's pharmacist's mate William Prince operates on him with the Japanese fleet on top . The only I wonder is did the Japanese make a war propaganda film for their side about how a daring submarine sailed into Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 and choreograph that whole attack ?
Hate Me Glow	If anyone follows my reviews one will note that I always use the expression hero / heel when talking about Tyrone Power . He could be a full blooded hero or he was a hero / heel , a likable sort of guy , but one who was ruthless in getting what he wanted . You need someone of Power's ability and charm to play such a part . And sad to say that was something Stephen Boyd just doesn't bring to The Oscar . Even when one is an anti-hero there has to be certain qualities brought out that make you root for the guy . Two minutes into watching The Oscar and I wanted to punch out Stephen Boyd . This guy is all heel with no charm and uses people like toilet paper . Joseph E . Levine assembled quite a cast to support Boyd and I don't think I've ever seen so much talent squandered on such a mediocre picture . Try counting the number of Oscar winners in it . Just Edith Head's Oscars and she plays herself in the film must bring the total to over 20 . She got a nomination here for costume design , one of two The Oscar got , the second was for Art & Set design . Tony Bennett is the hero's best friend who is similarly used and abused doesn't give a half bad performance and this was to be a breakthrough for him as a dramatic actor like Bing Crosby or Frank Sinatra . I also liked Milton Berle as his agent . Some of the women in Boyd's life in this film are Eleanor Parker , Elke Sommer , and Jill St . John . The one I liked best was Jean Hale as a star who the up and coming Boyd is sent on a publicity date with . She's a female version of him so there is one great moment where she gets dumped on literally . One woman who was in Stephen Boyd's life and who always tried to promote his career in her column appears her as herself in one of her last appearances . Rumor has it that Boyd made old Hedda Hopper's life particularly memorable in her golden years . In the old My Favorite Martian series there was an episode where Ray Walston uses a special light bulb in the room and it gives off a benevolence bulb . You just become inexplicably likable to all around . Bill Bixby sees this as a great way to score with women and he uses it . But Walston tells him that on earthlings it gives you a hate me glow and the two spend the rest of the episode trying to find the antidote . That's what Boyd projected here , a two hour hate me glow . And in fact this review is dedicated to an attorney I knew back in Brooklyn , a man who had ambitions for a great political career , but had a hate me glow that made Boyd look like Albert Schweitzer . No names of course , but Ronald J . D'Angelo this film is for you . The Oscar is a campy all star look at an ambitious actor and if you can stand the hate me glow that Boyd projects , you'll like looking at the stars .
Not Going My Way	I'm sure that during his career in his later years Bing Crosby was offered the chance to repeat playing Father O'Malley as an older priest and at one point that would have been a natural fit for him . Unfortunately after this film , Bing was done with the clergy . He tries his best with Father Conroy and his best moments are musical ones especially with Debbie Reynolds , but the story is not convincing . Try as I might , I just can't believe that Robert Wagner turns from opportunistic heel to good guy just to win Debbie Reynolds . In fact the main problem with the movie is Robert Wagner . A good actor he just doesn't have any talent musically . His big number in the movie was You Can't Love Them All was recorded by Dean Martin and had a modest success . Now if Dino had played his part , he might have overcome the script . Bing's best number is The Secret of Christmas . In addition to recording it for the cast album of this film , six years later he recorded it for Frank Sinatra's Reprise label in a joint Christmas album with Old Blue Eyes and Fred Waring's Pennsylvanians . That is the superior version to the one he did in Say One For Me .
Routine B War Picture	In the short running time of 71 minutes Paratroop Command follows a small group of soldiers participating in landing in North Africa , Sicily , and Salerno which in actual time was about a year and a half . One of them , Richard Bakalyn accidentally kills one of his comrades in friendly fire and can't quite win the trust of the other men , including his lieutenant Ken Lynch . Not that the incident was his fault , it wasn't . In fact it was a rather stupid way for the other guy to get killed if you watch the movie . Still Bakalyn just can't get the others to trust him . Directing Paratroop Command is William Witney who was one of Herbert J . Yates's best B western directors . He directed films with all of Republic's western stars . His grind them out style honed with years working for Yates shows in Paratroop Command . Nothing terribly special here , just some veteran movie makers doing their thing .
Parisian Decadence	In 1931 Al Jolson went back to Broadway to star in a new show Wonder Bar . It got good reviews , but as it was the middle of the Great Depression the costs proved too much and it closed after two months . Not like any great hit songs came out of it for Jolson , but Warner Brothers decided to buy it for him as a film property . The plot line was changed somewhat and a whole new score was written for the film by Warner Brothers contract composers Harry Warren and Al Dubin . Jolson got as one of his co-stars Dick Powell who was the screen partner of Mrs . Jolson , Ruby Keeler . Although Powell was fifth in the billing , he was number one in the song department . His songs included Don't Say Goodnight , Why Do I Dream Those Dreams and the title song . Powell plays the orchestra leader at the Wonder Bar and helps Jolson in the vocal department . Between Jolson and Powell in the billing are Dolores Del Rio , Ricardo Cortez , and Kay Francis . Del Rio and Cortez are a pair of tango dancers and both Powell and Jolson are crushing on her . She is hopelessly infatuated with Cortez . And Kay Francis is a rich woman who Cortez has been seeing on the side . Ricardo Cortez was one of a number Rudolph Valentino wannabes during the silent screen era and in Wonder Bar , he's as nasty a heel as ever been portrayed on the screen . Wonder Bar was produced right before the Code took effect and there are lots of sexual innuendo in this film . Of course it's set in Paris and one expects decadence there . But apart from a few newsreel shots to establish Paris as the location , this was all done on the Warner back lot . Jolson got three songs of his own , Vive La France , Otchichornya , and the infamous Heaven on a Mule . It's as bad as everyone makes it out to be . Al Jolson got his start at the turn of the 20th century in live minstrel shows which were still around then as a runaway kid . When he became a star on Broadway , he played black characters on stage in blackface . And for reasons that I still can't fathom , would not leave it behind . I'm sure that in his mind , Jolson felt this was what the audience expected from him . It's worse because Heaven on a Mule adds zero to the plot . In a Parisian nightclub , I'm sure the audience was not expecting a blackface number . Remember this was the Paris that Josephine Baker was triumphing in at that point in time . It might have been nice had Ms . Baker or Ethel Waters had done a real number , Wonder Bar would have a better historic reputation today .
I Miss Walter Matthau	Keeping up with the times this 1998 remake of The Taking Of Pelham One Two Three had to change certain things and deliberately changed others . One indisputable fact was that in 1998 the New York City Transit Police had ceased being a separate entity and was now just part of the NYPD . Hence Walter Matthau's character as a Transit Cop would not have existed any longer . For this version Edward James Olmos is not only a regular NYPD detective , but he's a hostage negotiator specialist . The change out the Transit Police was necessary , but part of what made the first version work so well was Walter Matthau being placed in a situation he wouldn't normally be dealing with . In that version in fact he's shepherding a bunch of Japanese railroad people around the Transit Authority Command Center when the hijacking occurs . Instead of Jerry Stiller as his partner , Olmos is paired with Lorraine Bracco , certainly women by that time were doing more than administrative work in the NYPD . The mysterious head of the four hijackers is Vincent Donofrio on the other side of the law . We don't know who he is , but he certainly didn't have the air of mystery that soldier of fortune Robert Shaw did in the Seventies . In fact we never really find out anything about Donofrio . The plot follows pretty much the story in the original version . Since it was shot in Toronto , the streets of New York where a lot of the excitement above ground as the City tries to meet the hijackers deadline is missing from this version . Seeing Donofrio and Olmos makes me wish for Matthau and Shaw . Maybe the new version that will have Denzel Washington and John Travolta as antagonists will be better .
As Shiftless A Group As You Could Find	I'm not sure of the appeal of this story either in the book or in the film . The group of paisanos that John Steinbeck created is as shiftless and lazy a group as you will find anywhere . Their leader Pilon played by Spencer Tracy works this whole bunch as ruthlessly as Abbott regularly did to Costello . And the Costello of this story is of all people John Garfield . Garfield inherits a couple of houses courtesy of his late grandfather and Tracy and his friends move in to free load . Garfield also has his eye on Hedy Lamarr who works in a cannery and for a husband , much as she likes Garfield , doesn't want a shiftless loafer for a life partner . Garfield has to mend his ways before he's got any chance with her . Of course the prospect of kanoodling with Hedy Lamarr is enough to make any man straighten out , even get a haircut . Tracy has no intention of changing his ways . He even tries to bilk simple hermit Frank Morgan out of his savings . Morgan , who's called the Pirate in this film , got an Oscar nomination for Supporting Actor and he's the best one in the film . Close to him is the always dependable Henry O'Neill as the local parish priest . Tortilla Flat is about as opposite a story from The Grapes of Wrath that it's hard to believe they come from the same author , John Steinbeck . The Grapes of Wrath is about hard working Anglo farmers from Oklahoma who've lost everything and just want the chance to earn a living from the soil again . Tortilla Flat's paisanos have an attitude about work that is on the level of Maynard G . Krebs . They're a harbinger of hippies to come . Tracy in his portrayal of Pilon dusts off some of the accent he used in Captains Courageous . But as good an actor as he is , he just can't make this viewer have any degree of empathy for his character . About as opposite as you can get from the simple hardworking Manuel Fidelio of Captains Courageous . A lot of Latinos today find this film offensive and looking at it , I can't really blame them .
The Fantastic Four of Revelations	Let me say that I'm not talking about the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse in the title . I'm talking about four people , Kirk Cameron , Brad Johnson , Clarence Gilyard , and Janaya Stephens who apparently out of all the people left on earth after the Rapture has occurred , have figured out who the anti-Christ is and what his intentions are . There's a whole lot of theological debate out there as to whether the Rapture will even occur . But what that's supposed to be is at a given point all the true believing Christians and most of the children on this planet will all of a sudden vanish . What's happened is that God's taken them into heaven so they will avoid the coming events of the very last days on the planet . For some reason these four have been Left Behind , but they've figured out what's going on . And the anti-Christ is none other than the Secretary-General of the United Nations . A guy named Karpathy who has a mittel-Europa accent popular in Hollywood films in the Thirties . The actor who plays him , Gordon Currie , does the best job in the film . Brad Johnson and Janaya Stephens are father and daughter . His wife and son are among the raptured . Daughter is a rebellious college kid and Brad's been having an affair with stewardess Chelsea Noble . Brad's a pilot and he's heroic in a Jack Armstrong kind of way . Why a believing pastor like Clarence Gilyard's been left behind is a mystery to me , it surely isn't explained in the film . And Kirk Cameron just does not cut it as a cynical investigative reporter . Maybe I'm unfair , but I still see him as the kid from Growing Pains . There's a problem with these kind of films as I see it besides the obvious one of that this is only one interpretation of what the last days will be like . Internationalism of any kind has always been an enemy to fundamentalism . The North American continent has NAFTA the European nations bind closer together from the Common Market up to the creation of the Euro Dollar , things like that are seen as evil . Maybe I don't get it , but I always think that the more people talk the less likely they will fight . That's a good thing in my book . But if you think your belief system is the only true one in the world , you resist all forms of dialog . That's the logic behind this film and it's also the logic Al Queda operates with for their faith . I've always thought that the Bible story that is the most insidious is the Tower of Babel . All people speaking a common language , working on a common goal even if it is to build a gigantic stratospheric tower . So God messes up languages to keep mankind forever apart . And as they come together , evil is supposed to happen . I think the planet as a whole as more to fear from those left out as opposed to those left behind .
I Am Tondelayo , the baddest girl in the East .	Everyone in this movie is overacting , even Hedy Lamarr if that's possible for her . One of the campiest , most unintentionally hilarious things ever put on screen . The plot briefly is Walter Pidgeon is both head of a rubber plantation and magistrate of a colonial area , presumably under British possession . He's getting rid of one assistant and a new one is coming on the plantation . The biggest problem in the district is not disease , heat , jungle animals or natives who don't want to be slaves . It's Tondelayo a mixed racial native woman in tight dresses who gets everybody's mojo working overtime . She's working in her own way to relieve the white man of his burdens . And now she's got her eye on Richard Carlson , Pidgeon's new assistant . Pidgeon's insistence that Carlson not get involved with Lamarr amounts to an obsession . The rest of this story has to be seen to be believed . Hedy Lamarr was an extraordinarily beautiful and sexy woman and that made up for the fact she was not a good actress . But she could give a good performance in a great while with proper guidance . But she didn't get it here . Cecil B . DeMille , no player's director did better for her in Samson and Delilah . Walter Pidgeon , Henry O'Neill , Frank Morgan , Richard Carlson , and Bramwell Fletcher are all gifted performers . They all look embarrassed to be there so they just overact the dickens out of this script . All and all it makes for hilarious viewing .
Not The Kit Carson Of History	What I remember best about The Adventures of Kit Carson is that it was not for some reason , broadcast in New York City . I only got to see this show when visiting my grandparents in Rochester every summer . Little did I know what I was seeing had absolutely nothing to do with the real Mr . Carson who was quite the frontier figure . Christopher ' Kit ' Carson's ( 1809-1868 ) active career lasted from the Era of Good Feeling until the Civil War . He was a fur trapper and mountain man from a teen who came to fame as a guide for John C . Fremont's map-making expeditions . The trails that he and the other mountain men kept as a secret were mapped by Fremont with Carson showing the way . He fought in the Mexican War and the Civil War attaining the rank of general . The Carson I saw as played by Bill Williams with a brace of pistols was a wandering fellow who was a general righter of wrongs in an era following when the real Carson died . At least the west looked pretty much like the post Civil War frontier we saw in a gazillion westerns . Williams was pretty much the standard cowboy hero . Carson had a Mexican sidekick named El Toro played by Don Diamond who was better known much later as Corporal Reyes in Walt Disney's Zorro series and as Crazy Cat of the Hekawis on F Troop . He played a mean guitar , had an amorous nature , and Carson kept him around for more than laughs the way the Cisco Kid did Pancho . Kit Carson was a most remarkable man and he's been portrayed many times on the big and small screen . Which is probably why this series hasn't had a market for syndication for years . Still seeing it again would be nostalgic and fun .
" Charismatic , Fascistic , and Wholly Fictional "	The Jayhawkers maybe unique in the annals of screen history in that as a film with a Civil War era plot it makes absolutely no mention of slavery . Nor are there any black people in this cast . What we have here in ante-bellum Kansas is the story of Luke Darcy who envisions himself as starting some kind of fascistic territorial republic in the struggle for Kansas's loyalty . Jeff Chandler plays Darcy and he is a fascinatingly evil man with a great deal of charisma . To bring him down military governor Herbert Rudley uses ex-renegade raider Fess Parker . Parker and Chandler have a history and it involves Parker's late wife who Chandler ran off with and abandoned . Parker's got ample reason to just shoot him down like a dog , but Rudley wants him alive to stand trial . Complicating things further is Nicole Maurey and her two kids who Parker's fallen for and then Chandler takes an interest when he sees her . The story does get a bit silly at times , but the players are all doing their best . Henry Silva plays one of Chandler's raiders who has an incredible jealousy of Parker and a barely disguised gay crush on Chandler . Jerome Moross wrote the music score and it's lively and quickens the pace of this film . Fans of the Wagon Train series will recognize parts of the score as Wagon Train's theme . The story of Kansas before the Civil War , usually with John Brown as the protagonist has supplied the cinema with a whole range of films . The Jayhawkers with the charismatic , fascistic , but wholly fictitious Luke Darcy is far from the best one ever done .
Should Have Been Viva Madero	I'm still not clear on how MGM got away with this film . Pancho Villa had only been dead for 10 years and his famous raid on Columbus , New Mexico almost 20 years . Surely not enough time for people to have forgotten Villa or what he did . But the most famous thing he did , raid into the USA and provide a pretext for intervention into Mexican affairs , is completely forgotten by this film . The Villa we see here is a lovable lug of a guy , a typical Wallace Beery part who gets his social conscience awakened by Francisco Madero and gives up banditry to become a revolutionary . If you're a big fan of Wallace Beery and liked him in such films as Min and Bill and Treasure Island than Viva Villa is simply an extension of the characters he played there . Actually I think the most interesting character in the film is that of Francisco Madero . Henry B . Walthall's performance is the best and I wish Walthall had starred in a film where he was the central character . Madero was as you see in the film a man of high ideals , betrayed and assassinated by his supporters . But it was hardly Pancho Villa who took vengeance on his betrayers . After long time Mexican dictator Porfirio Diaz was overthrown in 1911 and then Madero assassinated in 1912 , Mexico fell apart much like the former Yugoslavia did almost 20 years ago . Civil war raged there for a generation . Eventually it united under the PRI party which elected all of its presidents until Vicente Fox . I've never really liked this film , it stray so far from the facts it's laughable . The players go through their familiar roles and it's a good cast that Howard Hawks later Jack Conway put through their paces . Of course the most famous story coming out of this film is about Lee Tracy getting blotto and going out on a balcony and raining on some Mexican soldiers . Got him fired from the film and Stu Erwin got the break and Tracy's part as the newspaper reporter who popularizes Villa . If in fact you consider it a break Erwin got to be in Viva Villa .
Couldn't have they given Gable & Stanwyck something better ?	Gable and Stanwyck did one other film together at the beginning of talking pictures . It was called Night Nurse and Barbara was the lead and Gable an up and coming supporting player . A generation later and they're both screen legends . I would have hoped that MGM would have given them something better . It's not that it's a bad film , the racing sequences are quite good and exciting . But To Please A Lady was definitely a B picture . I have a theory that Gable wanted to do this for pleasure . After World War II , Gable and Stanwyck's husband Robert Taylor both took up racing ; motorbikes , automobiles , you name it . MGM put a stop to it , not wanting to have two of its most expensive properties out risking their necks for fun . That's why we have stunt men . It took the decline of the studio system before a newer generation of stars like James Garner , Paul Newman and most of all Steve McQueen could pursue racing without studio interference . Gable is the race car driver and Barbara Stanwyck is the Dorothy Thompson type columnist who at first dislikes him and then falls for him big time . Lots of similarities in their relationship to Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn in Woman of the Year . No comedic moments in this one though . Both Gable and Stanwyck deserved something more memorable than To Please A Lady .
John Sturges Final Journey West	John Sturges who created so many classic westerns like Gunfight at the OK Corral , Hour Of The Gun , The Last Train From Gun Hill , The Law And Jake Wade , The Magnificent Seven , so many good ones really gave us a let down with his final trip west in Chino . This was also the only western he did in Europe , in Spain to be precise . Charles Bronson is in the title role as a mixed race horse rancher who dares to aspire to Jill Ireland as a wife . That's not something her family wants to see happen . Bronson's only real friend is young Vincent Van Patten , an orphan kid roaming the west looking for work and to grow up . He does both . Bronson , his wife Ireland , and Van Patten are the only Americans in this cast populated by continental names . The action moves at a snail's pace , deadly for a western and the climax is quite unsatisfactory , especially those looking for some Bronson like heroics . Sturges had only three more films to make in his career , all of them away from the western genre . Too bad he couldn't have finished his career in the west on a higher note .
Don't Chase After This DV	The Chase has one of the best casts ever assembled . At least three generations of Hollywood are represented here from Miriam Hopkins and Henry Hull , to Marlon Brando and Angie Dickinson , and finally to up and coming stars like Robert Redford and Jane Fonda . I'm still trying to figure what all the fuss was about . The film opens with the luckless Robert Redford escaping from a Texas prison with another convict who murders a passing motorist and then takes off stranding Redford . He's guilty even if he didn't do the actual killing . Poor Bob has no luck , his wife Jane Fonda is not staying faithful and true , but she's been carrying on with James Fox , the son of the local kingpin E . G . Marshall . Marlon Brando is the sheriff who people think takes his marching orders from Marshall . He'd like to bring in Redford alive , but for reasons I'm still trying to figure out , everybody has this real hatred for Redford and no one talks of anything else . It all ends rather badly for a few of the cast . Arthur Penn directed Lillian Hellman wrote the screenplay and with the cast they assembled you'd think something better would have emerged . Brando who sometimes is accused of mumbling his lines , does so with a vengeance and looks bored and the rest of the cast follows suit . I don't think Marlon Brando's most devoted fans would particularly like this one . Skip it by if it's broadcast unless you're a stargazer like me .
No Occupation , Just A Housewife	Housewife is the kind of film that drive feminists absolutely mad in presenting the woman as fit to be nothing more than the one who keeps home and hearth for the husband . It must have been especially galling for Bette Davis who definitely did not fit the mold of the message of this film . Bette's not in the title role , she's the infamous ' other woman ' of this Warner Brothers soap opera . The title role is played by Ann Dvorak , wife of George Brent , mother of Ronnie Cosbey . She tells Brent that he's not exactly showing a certain amount of get up and go needed to succeed in the world . That sends Brent off in the direction of Davis who is a career woman who just started working at Brent's advertising agency . In the meantime Dvorak ain't taking this philandering lying down , she shows she's got some worldly ways after all and even gets an admirer in the person of John Halliday sniffing around . But this is 1934 so films like this can only follow certain specific formula guidelines . All these people are so terribly civilized about all this infidelity . 1934 was the year Bette Davis finally got a breakthrough part in Of Human Bondage . Yet Warner Brothers would still cast her in fluff like Housewife . No wonder she took off for Great Britain .
Jimmy On the Lam	He Was Her Man finds Joan Blondell torn between two men , petty crook James Cagney who's on the lam and Victor Jory the simple Portugese fisherman who's town Cagney has taken it on the lam to . Blondell's a former working girl who's also been around the track a few too many times . But she's looking for some kind of salvation in a marriage with Jory . But then Cagney comes along and she's ready to forsake all that . Cagney is a safecracker who apparently took a bad rap for some partners who doublecrossed him . He pays them back in kind by taking his cut up front and then squealing on the two of them . One dies after killing a policeman in the electric chair , but the second puts out the word to the criminal underworld that Cagney's wanted . That's why Cagney's on the run . Sadly enough He Was Her Man will never rank at the top or even the middle group of Cagney films . I think it was botched in the editing department to keep it down to a 70 minute length , pretty skimpy for a feature film now . My guess is that the Code was just coming into force and Warner Brothers was trying to keep the film respectable , but probably edited out some needed parts for the story to make sense . Compared to films like Smart Money and Footlight Parade , the team of Cagney and Blondell came a cropper with this one .
FDR's Man In The Kremlin	One of the most controversial films ever made , Mission To Moscow was not good for anyone's career who got involved with the making . Like Song Of Russia made over at MGM , Mission To Moscow was a film made specifically to improve Soviet-American relations in facing the common enemy they had . The Soviet Union no matter how much the American Communist Party trumpeted their virtues , still had a real image problem in a lot of quarters due to the purges that Joseph Stalin conducted , due to the tremendous dislocation his five year plans created , due to the misery caused by the collectivization of agriculture and the systematic slaughter of Kulaks . Kulaks roughly translated could be anyone who owned a large estate to someone who might own a slightly bigger piece of land and maybe some farm animals . Stalin slaughtered thousands of them to force collectivization . Our first ambassador to the Soviet Union was William C . Bullitt who was sent there in 1933 . The Republican post World War I presidents did not diplomatically recognize the Soviet Union , Franklin Roosevelt's first foreign policy initiative was to extend recognition . Bullitt was a guy at first enthused , but then got very disillusioned by what he saw . He and FDR had a falling out and he left Moscow in 1936 . Joseph E . Davies was an industrialist and large Democratic contributor who did go back with FDR to the Wilson administration . He was appointed US Ambassador and after that became a cheerleader for the Soviets . As is shown in the film , Davies just blindly accepted every piece of propaganda handed to him . Films made in 1943 were not going to cast a critical light on the dark underside of Communist Russia . Walter Huston dusts off his Sam Dodsworth persona to play Ambassador Davies . Ann Harding plays his dutiful wife and Eleanor Parker their daughter . Vladimir Sokoloff is President Kalinin , Gene Lockhart plays Prime Minister Molotov and Oscar Homolka plays Foreign Minister Litvinov all well known personalities of the day . In the Soviet Union like other countries Davies would have been required to present his credentials to the president and Russia did have a figurehead president who was a great deal less than Mission To Moscow makes him out . At that time Joseph Stalin was only the Secretary of the Presidium of the Communist Party , but as such wielded the real power . The People's Republic of China adopted a similar set up that never changed with Mao Tse-tung as Party head and holding the real power while Mao lived . Stalin is played by actor Manart Kippen and is only seen once as Davies is prepared to leave the Russian embassy . He's so shy and retiring the portrayal is so absolutely ludicrous that it leaves me laughing . But Davies sitting through the purge trials and accepting without question all the testimonies and forced confessions is also ludicrous . After his time was up as Ambassador , Davies wrote the book on which this film was based and did go on a speaking tour promoting Russo-American cooperation . He was doing this on behalf of his friend and president FDR , but Davies had also become a real true believer in the ' miracle ' that was Soviet Russia . When the Cold War started three films became the targets of the House Un American Activities Committee , they were ripe targets that the conservative members were grateful for . The three films were The North Star from 20th Century Fox , Song Of Russia from MGM , and Mission To Moscow . None got more criticism than this one . Screenwriter Howard Koch who had won an Oscar this same year for Casablanca , earned a place on the blacklist because of Mission To Moscow . Whatever Koch's personal political convictions were , in this case all he did was translate to the screen what was in Davies's book . Davies was held up to ridicule and in some measure deserved a bit of it because of Mission To Moscow . Time and the end of the Cold War have given us a proper perspective of the Russian contribution towards defeating the Nazis . In fact it was the lion's share in Europe . Policy decisions were made on the basis of keeping the Russians in the war before the Americans and British and respective allies got on the European continent with forces to make it a two front war , first in Italy and then in France . There was a justifiable fear that Stalin would make a separate peace with Hitler just as he signed the non-aggression pact with him before World War II started in 1939 . Of course the reports that Davies wrote off about the brutality of the Soviet Union were also true . The reactionaries had a field day with him , he was never taken seriously again . For that reason Mission To Moscow has not worn well either as history or entertainment .
A Peculiar Combination Of James Bond And Ralph Kramden	A Fine Madness marks Sean Connery's venture into screen comedy and while the man has had many funny moments in his film , comedy was not his strong suit . Ironically he's cast opposite Joanne Woodward who as we know was married to someone who many critics also said was not at his best in comedy . Whatever else is wrong with A Fine Madness I have always loved Connery's character name , Samson Shillitoe . One of the best screen names ever invented and so right for a would be poet . Samson for Connery is a peculiar combination of James Bond and Ralph Kramden with Joanne Woodward as his long suffering Alice . This lout is also a chick magnet in the James Bond tradition , though God knows why . He's suffering writer's block and can't seem to finish this epic poem he's trying to write . He also has a process server in John Fiedler chasing him down for back alimony to a former wife . Woodward puts him in the hands of psychiatrist Patrick O'Neal who claims he can cure creative people of their hangups so they can do their thing . Connery proves an interesting case however to O'Neal's colleagues , Colleen Dewhurst , Jon Lormer , Werner Peters , and especially Clive Revill who's developed a modified lobotomy that can really cure anti-social behavior . You'll find few screen characters as anti-social as Samson Shillitoe . He's also of interest to O'Neal's wife Jean Seberg who just plain ain't getting any lately . There are some funny moments in A Fine Madness , but ultimately I found it unsatisfying . When all's said and done , though Ralph Kramden threatened many times to bang / zoom Alice to the moon , he never really did . Connery has battered Woodward and quite frankly she's a battered spouse . Why she puts up with him is beyond me completely . And I'm surprised that this script didn't offend Joanne Woodward's feminist soul . She did the thing though to an unsatisfactory conclusion .
The Plane , Errol , The Plane	In Northern Pursuit , the brothers Warner tried to adapt the earlier Humphrey Bogart film , Across the Pacific to a story about our neighbors to the north . What I think they were trying for was a repeat of the critical and popular success the British film , the 49th Parallel enjoyed . I'm sure Errol Flynn's name above the title sold a few tickets back in the day , but as for drama Northern Pursuit is one of the more laughable examples of wartime propaganda zeal . Like in 49th Parallel a group of Nazis get over to Canada , but they're going to the great frozen north instead of away from it . And they nearly all get killed in an landslide , mistakenly called an avalanche in the script . All , but Helmut Dantine . Errol Flynn finds him and he's a Mountie of German ancestry , a fact that Dantine tries to exploit . Later on when Dantine escapes to try and complete his original mission , Flynn joins him and this is where the plot of the film looks just like Across the Pacific . If you've seen that film , you know exactly what happens here . If Flynn looks a little disinterested in the whole business , it's probably not just the story that's doing it . Errol was fresh from his acquittal in that rape trial so I'm sure he had other things on his mind . Seen today , Northern Pursuit is unintentionally funny in many spots , it's one of the low points of Flynn's career at Warner Brothers .
An Eastern / Western	On a peaceful day in a small western town in Nebraska in 1878 , a bank robbery occurs and Marshal Emile Meyer is killed pursuing the gang . But citizen Fred MacMurray , a former marshal , kills one of the gang and wounds the one who he saw shoot Meyer . It was Robert Vaughn a young kid who was a former resident of the town who left some years earlier . It's now obvious what he took up doing after he left . MacMurray's daughter Joan Blackman is kind of fond of Vaughn even though she's been keeping company with the young town doctor , James Drury . Good Day For Hanging has some good intentions and other reviewers have faulted for having the cast speak in modern idiom . That's not the film's problems , it's trying to graft a 20th century urban plot on a 19th century rural western situation . Try as I may , I can't believe that these frontier townspeople are so squeamish about hanging this punk . Even as Vaughn claims , he did not do the actual shooting of Meyer , he's as guilty of the murder of this peace officer whether he pulled the trigger or not . The attitude expressed in such films as True Grit and Hang ' Em High is far more typical of the times than Good Day For A Hanging . Of course in all this MacMurray is called to put on badge again and it's his testimony that actually convicts Vaughn . Still public opinion gradually turns against him for what I can see , no discernible reason . The controversy puts a strain on his relationship with Blackman as well as with fiancé Margaret Hayes . Best performances in the supporting cast are from Edmon Ryan who plays more of a modern defense lawyer in this western . Still he does do a fine job . And I particularly liked Kathryn Card as Meyer's widow . Her scenes count and you will remember her performance over everyone else's in Good Day For A Hanging . Fred MacMurray was not overly fond of westerns . In his salad days with Paramount he only did one , The Texas Rangers and during the fifties he did a few of them before becoming a Disney star . His famous quote was that he never felt ' at one with the horse ' . His riding scenes were probably doubled , but in the scenes in town MacMurray acquits himself admirably . But this one in the last analysis was an eastern / western .
Don't Mess With a Classic	A big mistake was made when someone got the bright idea to make a television series out of the classic film that starred Alan Ladd . It deservedly lasted only for 17 episodes . Fortunately no one's career got hurt . The whole premise of the film was Alan Ladd riding in to the valley , dealing with the villains and LEAVING because his job was done and he knew he was becoming a romantic rival of Van Heflin for the affections of wife Jean Arthur . Alan Ladd's conduct was the whole point of the film . Here we've got Mrs . Starrett being a widow and being looked after by gunfighter turned farm hand Shane . They added a character of Tom Tully as her father-in-law . Jill Ireland played Mrs . Starrett and villain Rufe Ryker is played by Bert Freed . Freed will acquire that Starrett homestead one way or another . He'll either drive her out or marry her . Freed casts some lascivious eyes on her the way Emile Meyer did in the film . But in the TV show he's got a wedding ring ready if all else fails . Shane is played by David Carradine who I think midway in the series lost interest . He knew he was in a turkey that was slated for early cancellation . Wise move too .
The Fantastic Four Of Revelation Do It Again	Purportedly this is the final film of the Left Behind series which is fundamentalist preacher and novelist Tim LaHaye's idea of what we can expect in our future in the final days of Planet Earth . If this is the case we can expect an activist presidency in every sense of the word if Barack Obama becomes president next year . The Fantastic Four of Revelation are all back with one cast change , Arnold Pinnock who most would know as the guidance counselor in Life With Derek , is now the minister taking the place of Clarence Gilyard . Brad Johnson as the anti-Christ's pilot by day and Christian by night is there as his daughter Janaya Stephens and ace investigative reporter Kirk Cameron . These are the only four people on Earth who have divined the true nature of UN Secretary General Nicolai Karpathy and once again are throwing sand in his machinery . This time they've got as an ally the President of the United States who is played by Louis Gossett , Jr . He's having one hell of a rough time , especially the guerrillas launch on RPG attack on a presidential motorcade killing Vice President Charles Martin Smith . That's right , the Toad is Vice President . Somebody really messed up bad here because everyone including those who would do them harm know a President and Vice President NEVER travel together . It takes all of them the entire film to convince Gossett exactly who Karpathy really is . Once again the best one in the film is Gordon Currie as Karpathy . We may yet see another Left Behind film yet , the door was left open though people assure me that they've run out of source material from Tim LeHaye . I suppose as long as they make money and these players can't get jobs in the mainstream film industry . And there are some unresolved plot issues involving Brad Johnson and Chelsea Noble who is Mrs . Kirk Cameron in real life . One of the Fantastic Four does die in this film , so will it be the Fantastic Three or will they get another fourth . Stay tuned .
Jack London's Yellow Peril	Jack London's life was certainly colorful enough for a dozen films about different aspects of him . Sad to say though that what his life was used for in film was some wartime propaganda that put the best face on some of the least attractive parts of his character . Jack London who barely saw the age of 40 when he died wrote some of the best stories around . He wrote on what he knew , but he also wrote as does everyone else bringing the baggage of his own life experience with him . Some of that experience in another day and time would have been condemned as racism . But this was World War II and London was a big believer in the ' yellow peril ' as it was called back in the day . Two thirds of the film covers his life as author , we see his years as a seaman from where he got the inspiration for The Sea Wolf . We see him up in the Yukon in a miner's cabin with a dog that was no doubt his inspiration for The Call of the Wild . London was able to capture the spirit of adventure that his own life was all about right on paper for the world to enjoy ever since . The final third dealt with his time as a war correspondent covering the Russo-Japanese War . London was a socialist , but his socialism did not encompass folks who were Oriental . Like a few million others he saw the rising immigration of the Chinese and Japanese to our Pacific coast as a threat to jobs for the white people . He advocated strict immigration policies for Orientals . The film puts the cart before the horse . London is presented as a man who saw because he was on hand at the Russo-Japanese War what Japan's ambitions were and for that reason was as xenophobic as he was . Actually the kind of atrocities present in World War II were not existent during the Russo-Japanese conflict . Japan had her imperial ambitions , but so did everyone else including the USA at that time . But our immigration policies caused by pressure from our West Coast politicians was a big contributing factor to the deterioration of relations with Japan over a couple of generations . London was part of the cause not a prophet crying in the wilderness . This film was the first independent production of Samuel Bronston who later did some films with a bit more budget than Jack London . Had he a bit more money Bronston might have gotten James Cagney or Spencer Tracy , both who would have been right for the role . Instead they got Michael O'Shea who was making his second film after Lady of Burlesque . O'Shea is fine in the part , but certainly was no box office . As London is covering the war , he meets up with a Captain Tanaka who is played by Leonard Strong , an actor who specialized in Orientals and played a ton of them in World War II . From the vantage point in 1905 Strong outlines in the best Fu Manchu tradition Japan's imperial aims right up to taking on the USA eventually . Must have gone over great with the swing shift crowd . A lot of course is left out of London's life including a first wife . Playing the second and only wife in this film is Susan Hayward who only comes into the movie when it's half over . I wish we'd have seen more of her . Charmian Kittredge London survived her husband by almost 40 years dying in 1955 . O'Shea in fact met and married the leading lady of his life in Jack London . Virginia Mayo has a small role in Jack London and they married for 30 years until O'Shea died in 1973 . Maybe one day we'll get a view of Jack London that will be a lot better than this one .
Treason In Texas	Roy apparently earns his title as King of the Cowboys by helping out Governor Russell Hicks of Texas track down a nest of Nazi saboteurs who are wreaking havoc across the Lone Star State . Did Congressman Lyndon B . Johnson know about this ? Herbert J . Yates put the best creative minds at Republic Pictures to work on this and they came up with a script that's a combination of The Thirty Nine Steps and This Is My Affair . Like the Robert Taylor MGM classic where he's a secret agent working directly and reporting to President McKinley because McKinley like Governor Hicks can't seem to trust anyone in his official capacity . And like The Thirty Nine Steps the key is Gerald Mohr with a carnival memory act . If you're going to borrow at least Yates felt you should borrow from the best . You can't do too much better than Alfred Hitchcock . Roy gets a nice group of songs and I particularly liked the fact that he gets to sing I'm An Old Cowhand which in fact he had a hand in introducing seven years earlier . When Roy was just one of the Sons of the Pioneers who also appear in King of the Cowboys he backed Bing Crosby when he introduced the Johnny Mercer classic in Rhythm on the Range . Now Roy's a star and does a nice solo turn accompanying himself on the guitar . While Republic's other big singing cowboy Gene Autry was off to war , Roy inherited for a while , Smiley Burnette who does his usual comedy bit . Sadly though the film that gives Roy the title he was forever known by is a badly dated war propaganda flick that simply doesn't wear well or age well . The King had been better served by his subjects at Republic before and after this film . They'd also done worse by him as well .
Flag Waving On the East Side	There's a split in that old gang of mine in Kid Dynamite . Some gamblers grab Leo Gorcey and take him for a ride to prevent him from fighting in an amateur boxing match that they've got bets down on . But Bobby Jordan pinch hits for Gorcey and wins . In the process though he alienates Gorcey who might wind up his future brother-in-law as Jordan is paying court to Gorcey's sister . Well he is the only one of the East Side Kids who might possibly pass for a romantic figure . Nothing terribly new in this East Side Kids film from Monogram . Since it's set in 1943 quite a bit was made about Bobby Jordan in real life joining the army which he does so here . In fact all the East Side gang went into the service and when they got out , in 1946 they started making films now as the rechristened Bowery Boys . It's a Monogram feature so don't expect too much here . There is a nice jitterbug contest sequence . But can you imagine Huntz Hall joining the Marines ? He'd make Gomer Pyle look like John Cena .
Reunion Film	Not that George Peppard and George Hamilton were any kind of buddy duo in the way Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas were , but they did do two well received films together , The Victors and Home from the Hill . But for a reunion film it would have been nice if they had gotten something better than this . In fact this is a reunion film of a bunch of players who seem to hit the heights of their careers around the beginning of the Kennedy years . Peppard , Hamilton , Capucine . Horst Bucholtz all were at their respective peaks around 1961 . None of them ever really reached any kind of screen immortality and with only Hamilton left among them were not likely to see another reunion film . Thankfully not another one like Contro 4 Bandiere . It's a cobbled together film of action sequences from other products and newsreels . The plot has six friends of varying background in Paris having good times a week before the start of World War II . They pledge to see each other at that Paris cafe every year , but war does intervene and they're all not on the same side . Some make it , some don't and if you're interested to see who shows up then watch Contro 4 Bandiere .
. . . . . . . . And there goes the audience , Ho-ho	In his brief career Ross Alexander as was the lot of so many B picture actors got the castoffs that the players higher up on the Warner Brothers food chain discarded . Watching Here Comes Carter you can see folks like James Cagney , Pat O'Brien , and Dick Powell doing the role of the fast talking press agent turned gossip columnist who's got a grudge to settle with a ham actor . Even in the Thirties the audience had seen all this before . When actor Craig Reynolds tells him to kill a story involving wife the public doesn't know he has , Alexander says no and Reynolds gets him canned . Our resourceful hero is down , but not out . By sheer chutzpah , Alexander gets himself a position as a Walter Winchell like radio commentator and manages to settle a few scores before this less than an hour long film has run its course . Ross has two girls in pursuit of him , radio singer Anne Nagel and secretary Glenda Farrell . Watch the film if you want to see who he winds up with . Also note that Wayne Morris has a small bit part as a short order cook and future Oscar winner Jane Wyman is in an even briefer part as a nurse . Poor Ross Alexander died by his own hand shortly after meeting and marrying Anne Nagel . But the studio system already had someone in line for his parts , a young radio announcer named Ronald Reagan was waiting in the wings . Now that was a career that went somewhere . Alexander's character had an annoying habit of punctuating each tidbit of gossip with a ' ho-ho ' to his audience . The critics gave this film the old heave ho .
A Big Surprise For Admiral Halsey	A crack team of US Marines is sent to one of the small Phillipine islands because there's an agent there who's got some big news , but can't get it out . Almost from the beginning Captain Clem Stadler is killed in some contact with a Japanese patrol . That leaves command of the mission to fall on Sergeant Hugh O'Brian . Ambush Bay managed to hit all the war movie clichés without a miss in its running time . One of the most prominent was the new guy on the mission , in this case radioman James Mitchum . He was a last minute replacement and with the exception of Mickey Rooney , he's not well regarded by the seasoned Marines on the mission . I can't say what it is or how the team deals with the information , but let's just say they've got one big old surprise cooked up for Admiral Halsey's task force . The movie was shot entirely on location in the Phillipines and the scenery is quite lush . I'm sure that the promise of a tropical vacation might have induced a few of our American players to work in this film . I feel either ambushed or just plain bushed right about now .
Who'd a thunk it , Ava Gardner and Huntz Hall , Brother and Sister	It's the American dream for Ava Gardner and Rick Vallin as newlyweds . They get married and Vallin has a plan to leave the Lower East Side for that dream house in the suburbs . But right next to it is an old Gothic mansion of a house , something along the lines of Manderley in Rebecca . Her brother Huntz Hall with Leo Gorcey and the rest of the East Side gang come up to investigate . They find Bela Lugosi there , haunting it to the best of his ability . But Lugosi is no ghost , he's got a more earthly reason for wanting solitude . Remember this was 1943 and you know what was going on . Ava Gardner made this film a few years before she was any kind of a film name . But her beauty and talent are unmistakable . She has the distinction of being the biggest movie name ever to appear in an East Side Kids / Bowery Boys film , a dubious honor at best . This was Louis B . Mayer's way of testing her . She had done a whole lot of bit roles in films , this was her first real role of any substance . Three years later Monogram Pictures didn't have enough money in their whole budget to acquire Ava's services . Even if they threw in all the Bowery Boys . Ghosts on the Loose is a Leo Gorcey / Huntz Hall B film without any great pretensions . But see it if you want to see the birthing of a real star . But there ain't no amount of acting going to convince anyone that Ava Gardner and Huntz Hall could be related .
Gobble Incessantly When You're In The Jungle With A Turkey	In between that glittering array of memorable roles Charles Laughton created like Henry VIII , Doctor Moreau . Moulton Barrett , Emperor Nero , Inspector Javert , and Captain Bligh is nestled in his credits White Woman . It will never make the top ten of any list of Charles Laughton's greatest films . Nor will Carole Lombard or Charles Bickford's fans be really pleased with this film . It's a jungle melodrama about a western woman whose husband committed suicide . The whispers about the reason and the scandal attached therein has left Lombard doing the only thing she can for a living , singing in a native café . The respectable white folks don't want to go near here . Except Charles Laughton who doesn't really worry about respectability . He's Horace Prin , formerly of London and self-styled ' King of the River ' on his south sea island . It's the only place where this cockney from the slums can feel like a king . And the chance for a beautiful trophy wife like Lombard isn't going to slip through Laughton's fingers . When she gets to his jungle retreat , Lombard finds distractions in Kent Taylor and Charles Bickford . She also learns what a monster she's married to . I'm sure Charles Laughton who was getting one great role after another at this point in his career knew very well this one did not rank up with the ones I mentioned before . Still he was under contract to Paramount and when you're in a turkey , gobble incessantly . Which Laughton does in an overacted performance to beat the band . But in his place he could do little else , but have some fun and collect a paycheck . The story is dumb , the other players look embarrassed , but Mr . Laughton is having one great old time . He's the only reason to watch this jungle turkey .
Overblown Outer Limits	Watching The Happening on the big screen tonight I had a feeling I was back in the Sixties looking at a souped up version of an Outer Limits episode that was given several million dollars to shoot . In fact maybe I ought to check their episode list . The strangest terrorist attack on record takes place , starting in New York City's Central Park . People just go into slow motion , stop , become completely disoriented and then start killing themselves with the closest means at hand . One woman stabs herself in the neck with a spike , construction workers just start jumping off the buildings they work on , a policeman in Philadelphia takes out his service weapon and shoots himself and then others follow picking up his weapon to use . All this is frightening stuff and when it starts spreading across the Middle Atlantic states , Philadelphia science teacher Mark Wahlberg picks up his wife Zooey Deschanel and leaves . Along the way they inherit young Ashlyn Sanchez from Wahlberg's colleague John Leguizamo . M . Night Shaymalan usually does films with some spiritual meaning so I was surprised when he offered a scientific if far fetched explanation for what was happening . The plants on our planet have sped up the evolutionary process and now are emitting a disorienting gaseous toxin in the air . If that's the case the thing to do is head for the concrete however the Amtrak train taking Wahlberg and company away from Philadelphia let's them off in the woods between Philly and Harrisburg . I'm still trying to figure out why they didn't run into any Amish . Science isn't Shaymalan's bag however and it shows . I don't think the concepts here were thought out at all . The ending you will find to be something of a surprise . Best in the cast is Betty Buckley a strange hermit like woman who lives in the woods and offers some shelter for our travelers . But she's one strange bird as you'll discover . The Happening was a major disappointment for me , I was expecting so much more and definitely something different .
The Mission , Kill Crooked Cops	To Protect And Serve is the motto of Police Departments across the USA and in this case the title of a film starring C . Thomas Howell who finds himself among a lot of crooked cops . True to the blue wall of silence , Tom backs up this crew when they beat a suspect to death in their custody . He becomes part of the crew and earns their trust . Months later somebody on a mission is doing a very nice job of killing all of this bunch who had a hand in the beating . Are they going to get to Tom next ? Will his new partner and former lover , Lezlie Deane , get in the way when it all hits the fan ? This was one of those straight to video film releases that film distributors decided at the last minute wasn't marketable for the big screen . That's a pity because this film did have the potentiality to be something better . Even with all the holes in the plot , if someone like Clint Eastwood had starred , it would have gone to the big screen . C . Thomas Howell is also listed as an associate producer . Had I been Tom I'd have paid more attention to the script because Tom does give a good performance . Standing out in the supporting cast is Zoe Trilling as a working girl who is a potential witness to the cop serial killer .
Bleak , Bleak , Bleak	Quintet marks the only venture of both Paul Newman and director Robert Altman into the realm of science fiction . It was said of Newman that he could not do comedy , but he tried until he finally scored a real success in that genre with Slap Shot . But the failure of this film left him gun shy and he never tried it again . This is one of the biggest downer films I've ever seen . It's a futuristic ice age , brought on by who knows what , but presumably it's a nuclear winter . Even during the ice age of thousands of years ago , the equatorial parts of the earth still sustained animal and human life , but apparently not here . Seals have survived and Paul Newman is a seal hunter on the outside . But hunters do need a little R & R and Newman goes to a futuristic city where things are so boring the natives have some kind of game played with six people and it's a kind of Russian roulette . To win you have to kill five other participants in your game . It's a sad turn to see what man has come down to . Which is one of the reasons I just could not get into this story . The atmosphere is bleak , the story is bleak , the people are bleak , it's all so bleak . No wonder this thing came up short at the box office . It's a film that just about everyone thinks is never going to be on the top ten list of Paul Newman films , including me . This is man's future , what a bummer .
" The Stewardess Is Flying The Plane "	Airport 1975 gets as many as four stars for the nice special effects and for the efforts of a whole lot of high priced talent headed by Charlton Heston to keep a straight face while getting through this improbable story . Karen Black who's Heston's gal pal is the chief stewardess on a transcontinental flight when Dana Andrews's private plane hits it midair as Andrews suffers a heart attack . The crash kills co-pilot Roy Thinnes and blinds pilot Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . What to do , but let the stewardess take over . Which Black does as the airline folks headed by Heston and George Kennedy try an absolutely impossible rescue . What they try and succeed in doing the second time around could never happen in real life . But this is the movies folks . The usual collection of high priced talent is on the passenger list and several generations of Hollywood are represented by people from Gloria Swanson playing herself to young Linda Blair as a kid who is flying to Los Angeles for a kidney transplant and is critically off her dialysis machine for the duration of the flight . I expected Linda's head to start turning as it was made clear it was the Devil that made this situation happen . Myrna Loy is there too as a woman with quite an intake . I'm not so sure that wasn't real boilermakers she was downing in order to get through the film . Of course the whole plot premise is shamelessly ripped off from the Doris Day film Julie . It was ridiculous then and still is ridiculous .
Feudin ' Mountain Families Go West .	The Haydens and Colbys are two mountain families who've had such a long term feud , everyone's forgotten what it started over . Never mind when Pop Colby ( Noah Beery , Sr . ) shoots Grandpa down in cold blood , Dad Hayden takes an unorthodox and cowardly approach in some eyes , he calls in the law . The Haydens move west and Colby when he gets out of the joint takes the family and moves to where the Haydens are to take up where they left off . Along the way he has an ally , Jack LaRue , who has an agenda all his own . Of course in Romeo & Juliet fashion , the Hayden son ( Randolph Scott ) and the Colby daughter ( Esther Ralston } meet and flip for each other . If anything that throws gasoline on the feud fire . This is one of the weakest of Randolph Scott's earlier westerns . I'm not sure if I'm seeing the complete film as a budget video company put out a re-release that looks like it was choppily edited . There are a lot of plot gaps and things that don't make sense . This is also one of the earliest films of Shirley Temple who's big scene is when one of the Colbys shoots the head off of her doll . It wasn't for sadistic purposes but to get the Haydens to chase them . Still it's an earlier weepy for Shirley . She later did two more films withRandolph Scott , Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm and Susannah of the Mounties and with her name above his at that point . Also at the very end , the fadeout is Esther and Randy in what looks like a photograph of later domestic bliss . And the soundtrack was blaring the Bing Crosby hit Please . Kind of out of place , but since Paramount had the rights to it , they figured they had to use it .
Marriage Sank Without A Trace	The only reason this film gets as high as four is for all the talent involved . If Frank and Dean had sung in this film it might have rated higher . But the plain fact is that Marriage on the Rocks just ain't that funny . Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin are best friends and partners in an advertising agency . Sinatra is married to Deborah Kerr with two kids and a mother-in-law in the house . Dino is a carefree bachelor and all around swinger and boozer . Basically these two really play themselves so there's no great stretch of any thespian talent . Through an odd combination of circumstances , Sinatra and Kerr whose marriage is going through a rough patch go to Mexico on a second honeymoon and through the machinations of divorce attorney Cesar Romero they get an instant Mexican divorce . Then when Sinatra can't make it back to Mexico , he sends Dino back to pick up Kerr and offer an explanation and Martin winds up married to Kerr . Now their roles are reversed and Martin is now a stepfather to Nancy Sinatra and Michael Petit and Sinatra's having a whale of a good time leading a swinging , ring-a-ding life . Of course all gets righted in the end . We've seen it all before from Frank and Dean . This would be their last joint film appearance for 17 years until Cannonball Run II . Mainly because of the critical roasting this film got . Both of them just walk through the parts here . Dean Martin was just starting his highly successful television series which would be his main venue for the next decade and Frank was doing some very nice television specials around that time . It would have been nice if both of them had sang some more on the big screen , but no more movie singing for them , except for Dino in the first Matt Helm film . In any event the Rat Pack was breaking up as the two of them plus Peter Lawford , Sammy Davis , Jr . and Joey Bishop all started doing their own thing more and more . Deborah Kerr looks like she's wondering how she got there with the boys , she certainly doesn't have the right spirit to be a Rat Pack broad like Shirley MacLaine or Angie Dickinson or Barbara Rush . In fact Marriage on the Rocks is one colossal waste of an incredible assembly of talented players .
No Rooting Interest	Sirocco was one of those independent productions that Humphrey Bogart's Santana productions did for Columbia Pictures after Bogey's long term contract with Warner Brothers expired . Bogey had a mixed record of success and Sirocco didn't exactly set the movie world on fire . The story takes place in Damascus after World War I with the French given a mandate by the League of Nations over the former Ottoman Empire territory of Syria and the Syrians not really too crazy about it . They've got a guerrilla war going against them and it is being led by Onslow Stevens as Moulay Hassan . The French occupying troops are led by General Everett Sloane with Lee J . Cobb as the Colonel in charge of intelligence . They're having no luck even trying for a cease fire . And there's a lovely black market in weapons being sold to the Syrians . Which is where soldier of fortune Humphrey Bogart comes in . Bogey's is at his most cynical here , too cynical probably to get a real rooting interest from the audience . He really has no inner core of decency that was apparent in Casablanca to which this film bears a superficial resemblance . The Ingrid Bergman character is played by another Swedish actress Marta Toren who is Lee J . Cobb's girlfriend . Can you imagine Elsa Lund as a selfish slattern , than you've got what Toren is . Somehow her domestic problems also and fling with Bogart also don't arouse the audiences interest . There are some good performances from supporting players like Zero Mostel , Nick Dennis , and Ludwig Donath as various Arabic types . You will enjoy them . But I would also have to say that Sirocco takes place at a time when certain movements and issues were coming to the fore . Great questions were being raised and Sirocco answers none of them .
No Stopping 007	With his usual sophisticated aplomb Roger Moore saunters right through another way out adventure as 007 . A man with a license to kill , James Bond should have given serious consideration to shooting the writers of this film . Granted that Bond films are not to be taken seriously , I found Octopussy to be completely ridiculous . I'm still not quite understanding the connection between some Russian general played by Steven Berkoff stealing a nuclear weapon and plotting to set off an explosion inside a US Air Force Base and the stolen Romanov Faberge eggs that another agent died investigating . But Octopussy has the usual Bond gadgets and Maud Adams in the title role as one beautiful Bond girl . The location cinematography , especially in India where the biggest portion of the film takes place is located is stunning . Then again I've always considered India , a visually stunning country from all the pictures I've seen of it . Octopussy also has Rita Coolidge singing above the titles An All Time High . Why that was not nominated for Best Song of 1983 totally baffles me . Louis Jourdan plays Bond's adversary , a millionaire of mysterious origins from the mysterious east . The final scene with Moore after Jourdan in the final chase borders on the ridiculous . I won't say more , but literally it can be said that on land , water , and midair there was no stopping James Bond in Octopussy .
Coming Comedy Style	This was one interesting comedy short that TCM happened to be broadcasting this afternoon . It's Bob Hope , but a Bob Hope not seen before . At the time this was made Hope was still a Broadway star and I'm sure did this one at Warner Brothers New York studio . It looked like old ski nose was trying to find his particular comedy style . He's in a team with John Berkes , but Hope comes across a lot like Moe Howard vis a vis Berkes and Berkes is like a bargain basement version of Stan Laurel . Away from Berkes , fans of Rapid Robert will recognize their guy as a paparazzi photographer trying to snap a particular female's photograph . Her husband is absolutely maniacal on the subject of paparazzi which is a serious topic when you think about it . Double Exposure is a good insight into the coming comedy style of America's leading comedy voice .
The Nautilus Saves The Day	Five years after the Nautilus the first atomic powered submarine made its debut , the nuclear submarine was still a unique enough weapon of war that films could be made about them . Such was this low budget science fiction thriller entitled simply The Atomic Submarine that came from Allied Artists . Dick Foran is the skipper of the USS Tigerfish and he's been given a heavy duty assignment by the Chief of Naval Operations , Selmar Jackson . Something's been destroying all shipping in the Arctic Sea causing untold damage . The whole crew has been brought aboard , all leaves canceled . The Executive Officer , Arthur Franz , has a heavy duty date with Joi Lansing so you can imagine it didn't put him in the best of moods . Especially when an old rival , Brett Halsey , is also assigned to the submarine . These two have an artificially scripted conflict which I'm still at a loss to understand . I guess the producers felt they needed something to occupy the time before we found out who's sinking the polar shipping of earth . Of course it's a particularly nasty alien creature and it's a flying saucer that goes underwater that's doing the job . What he's on earth for and how they deal with it you'll have to see The Atomic Submarine . Remember at the time The Atomic Submarine was considered the cutting edge of technology . Now practically our whole fleet is nuclear powered so it's not as big a deal as in 1959 . The film is set in the futuristic date of 1968 and that's interesting to see what the film's creators take of the near future would be . Also remember that this is Allied Artists which used to be Monogram Pictures . No great original special effects here just decently edited clips from other submarine and science fiction films . The Atomic Submarine is a decent enough B film and I'm sure it was big hit with the kiddie trade back in the day .
Duke played like a piccolo .	A common thread running through Cecil B . DeMille films is the leading lady having two men getting their hormones in an uproar over the leading lady . You've got Joel McCrea and Robert Preston rivals for Barbara Stanwyck in Union Pacific , Gary Cooper and Preston Foster over Madeline Carroll in Northwest Mounted Police , Charlton Heston and Cornel Wilde flipping for Betty Hutton in The Greatest Show On Earth , etc . But DeMille never did this theme better than in Reap The Wild Wind . Without Paulette Goddard coquetting both John Wayne and Ray Milland , you wouldn't have a plot for this film . Additionally John Wayne for what maybe the only time in his film career plays a knave . After appearing to lose Paulette Goddard to Milland , Wayne goes over to Raymond Massey and Massey plays him like a piccolo and wins him over to his nefarious schemes . Massey gives the best performance in the movie . There is a long trial sequence and Massey being an extremely shrewd lawyer almost turns the whole trial around and has court convinced that it's Ray Milland behind all the pirate wrecks in the Florida Keys . This after playing John Wayne for a fool . Massey is done in of course , but by something he really couldn't take into account . The action takes place in the Florida Keys where Paulette Goddard owns a salvage company . Yet she lives in grand plantation style that would put Tara to shame . Now Florida was a Confederate state , but the only part of Florida that had the plantation culture was the panhandle . You didn't have Tara style mansions in the Keys . But because the movie is set in the South you also have some really bad black stereotypes . DeMille was hardly the only director to use them though . But one incredible error slips through . One of the characters during the trial was a black actor named Oscar Polk who plays Saltmeat who is a crew member of John Wayne's ship and gives a key piece of testimony that ultimately proves to be Raymond Massey's downfall . Saltmeat is identified as a Barbadoes free Negro in the film . But Saltmeat doesn't talk like Harry Belafonte . He sounds like any ordinary black actor who would be playing a field hand on the old plantation . I can't believe DeMille didn't realize this error . But I guess it was easier to bow to the racial stereotypes than show a black character realistically in context . The movie made a lot of money in 1942 . It was filmed in great technicolor and it did win an Oscar for Special Effects because of the climatic fight with a giant squid that Milland and Wayne engage in . The effects look cheesy now , but back in 1942 they were something else . I think a lot of black people would be terribly offended if they watched this dated epic .
A Man's Gotta Do , What A Man's Gotta Do	If John Wayne didn't say that in The Dawn Rider he should have because the film is a tale of mixing bringing a killer to justice and getting a little payback vengeance in the process . Wayne arrives home just in time to witness his father being killed in an express company holdup . He only knows that the killer wore a polka dot neckerchief and with that clue in mind , he begins the hunt . It leads him to places he doesn't like going especially when it turns out the killer Dennis Moore is the brother of Marion Burns who is nursing the Duke back to health when he gets wounded . Added to that is a nice little romantic triangle going on between Wayne , Burns and Reed Howes who has become Wayne's best friend . Yakima Canutt plays the saloon owner and head of the gang that did the robbery and Yakima worked overtime doing the stuntwork as well . There's pretty good sequence involving a foiled robbery when Wayne takes out a gold shipment . Lots of hard riding and shooting and fighting all in a day's work for Yakima Canutt and his fellow stuntmen . I have a version that is only 54 minutes long and I suspect a lot has been cut from it as I believe originally it ran 68 minutes . I suspect the film would have been better with the director's cut .
Bud and Lou's MGM debut	With the money that Abbott and Costello made in their films at Universal to save that studio from going bankrupt , L . B . Mayer decided he wanted some of that himself . So Universal was probably paid a lot of cash to loan them out for the first of three films . MGM dusted off the old show Rio Rita which was a smash Broadway success for Florenz Ziegfeld in 1927-1928 . Universal had filmed it in 1929 with John Boles , Bebe Daniels and Wheeler and Woolsey . Come to think of it , they probably tossed in the rights for Rio Rita in the loan out deal for Abbott and Costello . All that was retained were the two big songs of the show , the title song and the Ranger song . Harold Arlen and E . Y . Harburg wrote You Came Along sung very nicely by John Carroll and Kathryn Grayson . The plot is pretty silly involving some Nazi spies sending coded messages during a broadcast featuring Latino crooner John Carroll . He's got a cheap Mexican accent that really doesn't fool anyone . Why didn't MGM use a real Latino performer like Tito Guizar ? I guess we'll never know . And Abbott and Costello don't get to use any of their patented routines here although they do have some funny moments . MGM did much better by them in Lost In a Harem which is more like the stuff they were doing at Universal .
Melodramatic Fantasy	Many a man might give up just about anything for a tumble with Ava Gardner . But what would Ava give up , would she give it all up for a man she truly loved ? That questioned is answered if not to everyone's complete satisfaction in Pandora and the Flying Dutchman . Ava's character of Pandora Reynolds , cabaret singer and jet-setter is a trial run for her later role of Lady Brett Ashley in The Sun Also Rises . She's a cool one Ava , one guy commits suicide over her , Nigel Patrick trashes a perfectly good car to prove something to her , even Harrold Warrender who has a sort of Van Helsing like role is not immune to her beauty and charm . But the guy who's really taken with her is James Mason , the legendary Flying Dutchman . He's been cursed for about 300 years to sail the seas in search of a woman who would lay her life down for him . He gets to port once every seven years to search and he's put in on the northern coast of Spain this time . The color photography by Jack Cardiff is nice , the scenery is almost as beautiful as Ava . But I think for this film to work , a more innocent type rather than the worldly Ms . Gardner would have to have been written into the story .
Cleaning Up The Docks	After Broderick Crawford won his Oscar for All the King's Men , Columbia Pictures put him into a potboiler called Cargo to Capetown . AFter that he did the second role that is identified with him on screen in Born Yesterday . After that one , Harry Cohn once again gave him a potboiler noir about a police lieutenant going undercover to clean up the docks . In the beginning of the film Crawford happens to be on the scene of a murder and when the actual killer flashes a badge at him , Crawford lets him go . Turns out the deceased was a key witness in a mob investigation . Instead of hanging him out to dry with Internal Affairs which would be what really would happen as all devoted watchers of NYPD Blue know , Crawford is assigned to go undercover to ferret out the mysterious boss of the rackets plaguing the docks . Call me picky , but I would think the last guy they would send undercover would be another material witness to a homicide . Yet that's what happens here . The premise is so dumb , I can't give this film a higher rating . But in fact The Mob is blessed with an incredible cast of name players just starting out . Neville Brand , Richard Kiley , Ernest Borgnine , even an easily recognizable Charles Bronson who has only one line of dialog are all in this film . Fifteen years later this cast would have cost Columbia Pictures a small fortune and wouldn't be wasted on a black and white B film , souped up for Broderick Crawford . If you're expecting On the Waterfront , don't be looking at this film .
" We're Poor Little Lambs who have lost Doris Day "	The Ballad of Josie for Doris Day marked the beginning of the end of her film career . Her agent / husband / svengali Martin Melcher forced her into a whole lot of mediocre films because he knew and she would find out that their wealth was something done with mirrors . She had to keep working . Not that it's a bad film , just not a terribly good one . It's populated with a whole good cast of veteran players and her leading man in this is Peter Graves . Graves is someone who should have had a good career as a screen lead in his youth . Unfortunately he got to do a lot of bad science fiction movies ( and some real classic good ones ) which didn't help . He opted for the small screen instead . William Talman makes his farewell appearance here . He's a big shot politician who sees his dream of statehood in Wyoming going down the tubes because of the controversy of Doris Day trying to raise sheep in what has been traditionally cattle country . Doris's husband Robert Lowery is killed in the first few minutes of the film . She has to raise her son alone now and lots of professions and trades were closed to her as they were to women back in that day . She decides to become a shepherd as she's told it doesn't have the overhead expense of cattle on the 460 acres she's inherited . That starts a whole big controversy with a shooting range war about to break out . Granted that women were kept barefoot and pregnant in those days , but it's hard to believe that Doris might not have heard SOME discussion about the cattle and sheep problem and why there was this unofficial line of demarcation in Arapahoe County , Wyoming . Fans of Doris will want to see her in anything though .
Marshaling Doesn't Give Him The Latitude To Deal With Bad Guys	Glenn Ford who was associated with some of the best westerns ever made has his last starring role in the genre in Santee . Although he would do more westerns up to almost the end of his career , he would no longer be the leading man / action hero in any of them . Ford was 57 when he made Santee and even in this one he's transitioning to be a father figure , much the same way John Wayne was in films like Big Jake , Rio Lobo , and The Cowboys . Unfortunately Santee takes it's plot from a combination of Henry Fonda's The Tin Star and Robert Mitchum's Young Billy Young . Ford is a former lawman , turned bounty hunter who decides that marshaling doesn't give him quite the latitude he needs to deal with bad guys . It also doesn't pay as well . But having his son shot down by John Larch and his gang was enough to turn him bitter . He's also forced to kill Robert J . Wilkie another outlaw who has a son in Michael Burns . But he takes Burns into his home . Truth be told there wasn't much attachment there anyway , Burns hardly knew him . Jay Silverheels has the best part in the film as Ford's loquacious ranch foreman . I do believe he had more dialog here than in over 200 episodes of The Lone Ranger . Dana Wynter has a few scenes as Ford's wife and makes them count . But Santee is just a tired rehash of a pair of better films . Glenn Ford fans will like it though .
Besting The Vigilantes	Deputy U . S . Marshal Tim Holt is sent to a part of Texas where a committee of vigilantes rule the roost . They've had a kind of unofficial sanction to operate in the area as there is no regularly constituted law . But there've been complaints of late so Tim is asked to investigate and put them out of business if necessary . It sure is necessary all right . Western villain Roy Barcroft has taken over the vigilantes to use in a scheme to get land for a railroad depot and right-of-way . For a bunch of films that Holt made at this time for RKO where he was their B western cowboy star , he had for a sidekick Cliff ' Ukelele Ike ' Edwards . Note that in several films in this time period before Holt went to war , Edwards was used . He was a big singing star in the twenties whose career was on the skids until Walt Disney used him as the voice of Jiminy Cricket in Pinocchio . Edwards was the voice behind When You Wish Upon A Star , the Academy Award winning song of 1940 . He then settled back into doing B films and lower for the rest of his film career . After Holt got out of the service he used Richard Martin as Chito Rafferty , his most famous sidekick . Tim Holt always had straight forward B westerns with no subtle shadings of gray in the characters . This one is no different .
Aged Broadway Vehicle Reclaimed for Gable .	But Not For Me is one of the weakest of Clark Gable's later films . It is based on a 1935 Broadway play , Accent on Youth by Samson Raphaelson , the same guy who wrote The Jazz Singer . The plot revolves around a fifty something Broadway producer who gets his batteries recharged when his secretary , Carroll Baker , confesses her love for him . That would do something for just about anyone's mojo and pretty soon they're involved . Her confession also sparks an idea in Gable for a reworking of a play that he and writer Lee J . Cobb are trying to get produced . Baker goes from secretary to star . Of course her co-star in the play , Barry Coe , is not happy with Baker and Gable as an item as he would like to be the item with Baker . Possibly in 1935 the May / December romance bit was naughty , but in 1959 it was pretty old hat by then . Fellow stars Tyrone Power and Bing Crosby both married women considerably younger than themselves during that decade . Gable's fifth and last wife was about 17 years younger than him . And today with the latest tabloid fodder being Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes , But Not For Me is really tame stuff . The best performance in the film is from Lilli Palmer as Gable's ex-wife who would like to win him back . Oddly enough she was living some of that same drama in real life . A little earlier in the decade Palmer split from her husband Rex Harrison who married Kay Kendall . According to her memoirs , Palmer agreed to the divorce because Harrison told her Kendall was dying and she did pass away of leukemia within a couple of years of their marriage . Palmer said Harrison would remarry her after Kendall died , but Harrison doublecrossed her . If you're interested in seeing how things worked out for Lilli Palmer than by all means see this film . Otherwise it really is for hardcore Clark Gable fans .
Grandma and Grandpa Kettle	The film version of the best selling novel The Egg and I with Fred MacMurray and Claudette Colbert introduced America to the Kettle family . Marjorie Main and Percy Kilbride and their brood of 15 . They were the rural answer to Clifton Webb and Gene Tierney's Cheaper by the Dozen . Who says country folk can't do it better . In this film we have the arrival of the Kettles first grandchild who Percy mistakes as another blessed event of his own creation . A natural mistake given his track record . The baby however is Meg Randall's who married their oldest son Richard Long in a previous film . The Kettles also have to contend with Meg's parents , Ray Collins and Barbara Brown . Ms . Brown is one snooty old dowager , but I think you can gather that if anyone could adjust her attitude , Marjorie Main could . Due to a pair of radioactive overalls , the Kettles also think they've got uranium on the old homestead . So do a pair of crooks who try to steal the place from them . The Kettles were a really popular item in what would now be called red state America back in the day . The pictures made money consistently for Universal and if Percy Kilbride hadn't decided to retire , I'm sure more would have been made . There was one more made with Arthur Hunnicutt as an in-law , but it wasn't the same without Mr . Kilbride . Marjorie Main retired not long after that last film also . If you are any kind of fan of those CBS rural shows of the sixties like Beverly Hillbillies , Petticoat Junction , and Green Acres , the Kettles are your cup of tea .
Not My Generation's Journey	The new remake of Journey to the Center of the Earth is one far cry from Jules Verne's original novel . The classic old version from my childhood with James Mason , Arlene Dahl , and Pat Boone set during the 19th century in Verne's time is not anything you'll recognize here . Instead what you'll see is something like an Indiana Jones film with the intrepid explorers just facing the unknown . And it's not a planned expedition from the Icelandic volcano into the earth's bowels , the travelers sort of stumble into things . Brendan Fraser is a scientist who's brother went missing eleven years ago searching for the fabled land underneath that Verne talks about in his novel . He and Anita Briem's father were Vernists , apparently folks out there who believe that what Verne wrote about has some basis in fact . At the same time he's contemplating a trip to Iceland , his sister-in-law dumps his late brother's kid on him who's all of thirteen . Josh Holloway brings his father's copy of the Verne novel with all kinds of notations which lead them to Briem who just happens to be a guide and who takes them up the side of the volcano Verne wrote about . But as I said , the three of them sort of stumble into the path to the center of the earth and then the next hour or so is like an Indiana Jones film with some Jurassic Park tossed in . Best scene is one where Holloway gets separated from the others and in eluding a very large T-Rex , gets some T-Rex drool on his person . A lot of what was in the first film is here , though not necessarily in that order . One piece of silliness from the first film was the pet goose that the Mason expedition carried along and the nasty end it met is eliminated . The notion that the Verne novels were not speculative fiction , but actual fact is an interesting one . But try and apply that to 20 , 000 Leagues Under The Sea or From the Earth to the Moon and you might run into trouble . The special effects are nice , but I'd hate to say it this one is a good film , but strictly for the kiddie trade .
The Texas Dilemma	The diplomatic and political machinations around the admission of Texas to the USA are incredibly complex and are touched on in this film . It would have taken a longer and better film to explain it all . I think MGM had plans for one in this , but Dore Schary was budget cutting at the time and this got B western treatment for a stellar cast . One thing they show is true and that is the influence of 77 year old former President Andrew Jackson on the Democratic Party he founded . His prestige was that big , he was the dominant political figure for 20 years or so in the country before , during and after his presidency . Lionel Barrymore reprises the role of Jackson , he had previously played in MGM's The Gorgeous Hussy . He's still wheeling and dealing and he doesn't like what he's heard that his old friend and comrade in arms Sam Houston is climbing off his position of being for the annexation of the Texas Republic to the United States . On his own he sends Clark Gable as Devereaux Burke Texas cattleman to seek out Houston and get the real story . On the way to completing his mission Gable finds Ava Gardner who is the editor of a local paper in Austin and Broderick Crawford another Texas cattleman who is violently opposed to annexation . They get a good political rivalry and a personal one over Gardner . In the film as in real life Sam Houston , played by Moroni Olsen , is running a big bluff . He's playing footsie with the British by negotiating a treaty of alliance with them in order to force the hand of northern politicians who are against slavery , but who would like even less the British moving into Texas . There's an exciting battle between the pro and anti annexation forces while the Texas Congress meets . It results however in a very unreal conclusion to the story . It's unfortunate given the stellar cast Lone Star has that a better scripted story was not developed for them , even one that is completely factual . It's an A picture subject that got B picture treatment .
The Old Dog Has Seen Her Day	The Magic of Lassie was the beloved collie's last appearance on the big screen . Lassie was quite the box office draw in her day , but according to the box office the day had passed . Not that the film is all that bad . Maybe if the Sherman songwriting team who gave us so many things for Walt Disney back in their day had produced something like what they did for Mary Poppins , The Magic of Lassie might be better remembered . But nothing like Chim Chim Cheree or comes from this score . James Stewart is raising a pair of grandchildren , Stephanie Zimbalist and Michael Sharrett . He's got an acquisitive neighbor in Pernell Roberts who wants to buy his land and Stewart won't sell . On that trip he spots Lassie and thinks Lassie might have been his dog who survived a fire in the kennel as a pup some years ago . Roberts proves his case and Stewart reluctantly hands over the dog , but that doesn't sit well with young Sharrett or Lassie and they take off going a third of the country in different directions searching for each other . Lassie and Sharrett run into all kinds of interesting people . From Lassie's point of view the film starts to look like a big screen version of the Canadian show , The Littlest Hobo . Sharrett proves to be a plucky lad , but he gets himself in a heap of trouble . Of course this being a kid's film you know we're going to see a happy ending . Let's just say that in Lane Davies , a young lawyer who has eyes for Zimbalist , he proves handy to have around . The Magic of Lassie marked Alice Faye's farewell screen appearance and it was also James Stewart's last starring feature film release as well . I was disappointed they did not share the screen . Mickey Rooney and Mike Mazurki as a wrestler and his trainer have a couple of laughs themselves . Still though The Magic of Lassie did not do sufficient box office to interest anyone in any more films so far about the old collie .
A Guilty Conscience	The Tunnel of Love ran for 417 performances on Broadway for the 1957-1958 season and starred Tom Ewell and Nancy Olson . It was written by Joseph Fields and repeating their roles from the original production are Elizabeth Fraser and Elizabeth Wilson . The play didn't survive the journey to Hollywood , mainly because of the horrible miscasting of Richard Widmark as the husband . He and wife Doris Day are trying to either have a child or adopt one whichever comes first . After a night's indiscretion with social worker Gia Scala , Widmark thinks he's the father of her kid and when she hits him up for a loan , that seems to clinch the deal . Widmark was in a role that should either have gone to Dean Martin or Glenn Ford . In their screen roles I've seen aspects of Augie Poole's character that would have fit Dino or Glenn easily . But in Widmark's hands it drops like a lead bassinet . Best in this film is Gig Young playing one of his male lead best friend types he started perfecting around this time . It seemed for a while like you couldn't make a domestic screen comedy that either he or Tony Randall weren't in playing the same kind of parts . He took over from Darren McGavin who did the part of the wolfish playboy neighbor on Broadway whose growing family doesn't slow him down in the hanky panky department a bit . My guess is that Widmark was trying to expand his range a bit . The best comedy effort in his career was on the I Love Lucy Show and there he was just a foil for the movie star struck Lucy Ricardo . Doris was all right in her part , but she certainly did much better work with Rock Hudson who also would have been good casting as the male lead . Best thing about The Tunnel of Love . Doris sang and recorded the title song that's sung over the opening credits . If the rest of the film had been as good as the song .
Soldiers on the Pampas have needs	Savage Pampas is a film with an unusual setting for the English speaking world , the pampas plains of Argentina at the end of the 19th century . The film is based on a novel Pampa Barbera and was filmed in Argentina before . Robert Taylor is a captain in command of a garrison on the frontier , a whole lot like the American West . But he's having some big troubles . Taylor has a morale problem at the fort , the men are deserting him bit by bit because outlaw chief Ron Randell gives them an outlet for their sexual frustration , women . It's strictly stag at Taylor's post no matter how much he tries to convince the high command in Buenos Aires that his men have needs . It's also to be remembered that most of the men aren't the best quality around . They're not king and country volunteers as Clark Gable put it in Mutiny on the Bounty . In fact a whole lot of them are criminals and were given the choice of the army or prison . Finally he does convince higher ups that some women are essential for morale , so Taylor is given an assignment of escorting some prostitutes let out for that purpose . Of course all this leads up to the inevitable showdown between Taylor and Randell . Taylor in his one and only appearance in a spaghetti western covers some familiar ground . In Westward the Women he escorts some brides to be across the American west . He's the stern and rugged Taylor we've come to know in his later films , tough , but compassionate . The film was photographed in Spain and two other American actors appear in it with Taylor . Marc Lawrence is a sergeant in Taylor's command and Ty Hardin plays an anarchist newspaper editor who accompanies the prostitutes because he's been given a choice , army or jail . Hardin has some biting lines , some of the best in the film and he makes the most of them . It must have been an interesting set on Savage Pampas . On one hand we have Robert Taylor who was a friendly witness at the House Un American Activities Committee . And also Marc Lawrence who's career suffered the effects of the blacklist . I imagine things must have been tense . Other than knowing about Evita Peron and her husband , Argentina or for that matter Latin America in general , is not a history that most Americans are taught . It's still said that Argentina is a frontier country built around a capital city . This picture shows a slice of their frontier life you might not normally be exposed to . For that reason I recommend seeing Savage Pampas . For that reason and because it's one of the last films of one of Hollywood's truly great stars who in his last years was somewhat at sea due to the decline of the studio system .
Mr . Deeds Gets Assertiveness Training	If The Magnificent Dope had been made over at Paramount it would have been a musical film for Bing Crosby . Of course Bing would never have played the kind of rube that Henry Fonda was in this film , but the premise is something he used in a whole lot of his films . Remember he had the idea of only having to work on holidays in Holiday Inn which came out the same year . A couple of musical numbers would have been nice for this film also . But this wasn't the kind of stuff Henry Fonda wanted to do though he does do a fine job in portraying a Mr . Deeds like bumpkin . Against his better judgment in 1940 he signed a studio contract with 20th Century Fox to get the part of Tom Joad in The Grapes of Wrath . For the next few years whenever Fonda made a good film it was when Darryl Zanuck loaned him out for The Lady Eve at Paramount and The Male Animal at Warner Brothers . Don Ameche with assistance from Lynn Bari and Edward Everett Horton runs a Dale Carnegie like assertiveness training course which has been on the skids of late . Lynn Bari gets the idea to have a contest to find the laziest man around and turn him into an ambitious go getter . Ameche likes the idea and they come up with Fonda who also happens to be from Vermont as Longfellow Deeds was . Without saying the idea has results that Ameche and company never expected . The Magnificent Dope is lightweight stuff , but pleasant enough entertainment . In fact Don Ameche was also getting tired of the roles he was getting at Fox as well . Both Fonda and Ameche were taking second place to Zanuck's house favorite , Tyrone Power . Maybe The Magnificent Dope could have used a song or two though .
A Little Romance Added To The Theater	Although Susan Strassberg has been unfairly compared to Katharine Hepburn from the original Morning Glory , it's not quite a fair comparison . Forgetting that there is no one like Hepburn , Strassberg does do a decent job with the material given in Stage Struck . The problem is that the story has been changed and not for the better . Romance was added to this production and it weakens the basic story of a young girl who is so single minded in her determination to be a success in the theater . The characters played by Adolphe Menjou and Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . in Morning Glory are now played by Henry Fonda and Christopher Plummer . The producer and the playwright now engage in a rivalry for Strassberg which weakens the story . In the original Morning Glory it's made clear from the beginning that Menjou is a love ' em and leave ' em type and he's really got no interest in Hepburn in that direction as he sees she's not the type . Pipe smoking Fairbanks after Hepburn makes good would like to get something going with her , but she's into her art first and for always . But Fonda and Plummer have a civilized rivalry for Strassberg and the story is which one will she choose . That I'm not telling . Stage Struck has some nice location shots of New York in the late Fifties , Broadway and the Greenwich Village area and a bit of Park Avenue . Joan Greenwood is here as the star who falters and allows Strassberg her big break . Greenwood's quirky personality that British films utilized so well is strangely missing here . Herbert Marshall is great as the older actor that C . Aubrey Smith played in Morning Glory . Stage Struck is a nice film , but definitely a come down from Morning Glory .
Matrimony On Their Minds	Spinout is somewhere in the middle of the pack of the Elvis Presley cinema output . It's an amiable comedy with the King about a singer with a group who is a celebrity racer . Along the lines of Paul Newman before and Tom Cruise afterwards . I don't include Steve McQueen because that man was serious about the sport and had he entered it earlier might have had that as a career . Anyway Elvis is the target of three women with matrimony on their minds . Rich girl Shelley Fabares , Jacqueline Susann like author Diane McBain , and the drummer in the King's own group , Deborah Walley who is a gourmet cook on the side . As usual Colonel Tom Parker got quality help for his boy behind and in front of the camera . Norman Taurog ended his career directing a series of Presley pictures and this is one of them . Such movie veterans as Frederic Worlock and Cecil Kellaway have small roles and this is the farewell big screen appearance of Una Merkel . Also in the cast is Carl Betz once again playing Shelley Fabares father as he did on the Donna Reed Show . Will Hutchins , television's Sugarfoot is also around as a policeman who appreciates good cooking and Jack Mullaney and Jimmy Hawkins are the other members of Elvis's group . Note that they play electric guitars or simulate playing them while Elvis sticks with a regular model . Of course Spinout ends with the Big Race and I don't think I have to tell you who wins , but the race itself is of the fun . No big songs came out of the score for Elvis , but he acquits himself in the vocal and comedy department . Spinout should please his fans .
Drought On The Range	In Old Amarillo finds Roy Rogers working for cattle baron Pierre Watkin as a range detective investigating a drought that is plaguing all the ranches in the Amarillo area . The foreman of the Watkin ranch , Roy Barcroft , has got a few schemes of his own to take advantage of the drought and clean up in a bad cattle market . Why the film is called In Old Amarillo is beyond me because it is set in the modern day west . One of the schemes used in fact is an airplane trying to seed the clouds so they will rain . Another problem Roy has is Watkin's spoiled son Kenneth Howell who is more at home in a nightclub than home on the range . Watkin's sends Howell to Roy to straighten out , but he falls under Barcroft's influence instead . In the midst of all this Roy takes some time to woo Penny Edwards , granddaughter of another ranch owner , Elizabeth Risdon . Risdon usually played old battle axes in her films , she's probably best known at least in western films as Audrey Long's aunt who Gabby Hayes spanks in John Wayne's Tall in the Saddle . Here she's a nice old pioneer granny . In his later films Roy's Christianity was creeping more and more into his work . When all else fails he calls a cowboy prayer meeting in which he sings the song Wasteland hoping the Good Lord will prevent such a thing happening in Texas and give up with some rain . Of course you know what's going to happen , but you might want to check out the mysterious ways God moves In Old Amarillo .
A Blue Collar Romantic Comedy	I wonder if the Red Circle Cab Company run by William Bendix and Joe Sawyer from Brooklyn ever ran into that Harlem based outfit the Fresh Air Taxi Company run by Amos Jones and Andy Brown . Now that might have made an interesting film . Bendix's Tim McGuerin is a blue collar knockabout guy who never forgets his roots . He's even got a pool table in his office at the Taxi Company office . But it's a sad day when wife Grace Bradley finds him in a compromising position with pretty Marjorie Woodworth . He was just giving her instructions in shooting pool , but what self respecting wife who's a former stripper herself is going to believe that . What's good for the goose is good for the gander as Bradley starts taking classes from physical education instructor Max Baer . She even goes up to his spa for a cure . Naturally Bendix doesn't believe that . The McGuerins From Brooklyn following the original Brooklyn Orchid film is a working class romantic comedy . When you think about it , the antics of Bendix and Bradley can be found in many comedies with sophisticated leading men like Cary Grant or Rock Hudson . It's just that no one would expect Bendix's Brooklynese speech pattern from them . Don't believe me , check out My Favorite Wife or The Awful Truth and see what I mean . Shortly after this film , Bendix went to Paramount where he was one of their most acclaimed and busiest character actors for the next decade . He also became a star of radio and later television with that other Brooklyn character he created Chester A . Riley . The McGuerins From Brooklyn is a no frills romantic comedy in its own blue collar way .
A Mild Farewell	This innocuous comedy that marked the farewell performance of Norma Shearer on the big screen has quite a history to it . It was a French play by Jacques Deval , adapted for the stage by P . G . Wodehouse among others . It ran for 152 performances in 1927 on Broadway and starred the legendary Jeanne Eagels with Leslie Howard . It then went to the silent screen the following year with Marion Davies and Nils Asther in the leads and scored a modicum of success there . But the most bizarre adaption was yet to come . In 1932 the story was reworked for Buster Keaton and Jimmy Durante in the The Passionate Plumber . Irene Purcell is the female lead . Which brings us to the last and least version of this story . I've a theory that Norma Shearer chose this vehicle to show Marion Davies that she could do one of her roles better . What other explanation could there be for turning down Mrs . Miniver as her farewell picture for this . And would you ever believe that Robert Taylor and Buster Keaton would play the same part on screen ? Shearer and Davies were a pair of feuding stars at MGM while Davies was there . Shearer was married to the boss , Irving Thalberg and Davies had her patron William Randolph Hearst who bought his way on to the lot . It's now conceded that Davies had a real flair for comedy , but that Hearst just could only see her as the heroine of many a drama . Shearer was a great dramatic actress who never quite scored in comedy . I'm betting for her final film she was going to show the retired Davies that she could do it better . Well she didn't . In fact if any of P . G . Wodehouse's wit survived in this film , I must have dozed off . What emerges is a pleasant innocuous comedy which would have been long forgotten had it not been Norma Shearer's last film . When we first meet Shearer she's trying to fend off the advances of an amorous Taylor who has fallen in love at first sight . But later on she thinks he might be useful in fending off George Sanders's advances . She's trying real hard to dump the cad , but he's one charming rogue . So Norma hires Bob as Her Cardboard Lover to pretend he's the new man in her life . I think you can guess where this is going . Shearer did not get quite the sendoff from the big screen that she thought she would have gotten , surely not anything like Mrs . Miniver would have been . For Taylor , he's pleasant enough , but if you want to see him and Shearer in much better form look at the 1940 film Escape .
Stealing What's Locked Up in the Grey Cells	Paul Newman nuclear physicist has volunteered for an unusual espionage mission . He's to fake a defection in order to get close to East German scientist Ludwig Donath and find out what advances he personally has given the Soviet bloc . As he says to agent Mort Mills , he's one of the few people in the world who would know exactly what to look for . The trick is to make Donath write it down . Nice plan , except for that fact that intrepid Julie Andrews , Newman's fiancé suspects something's up and follows him first to Copenhagen and then East Berlin . It would have run so much easier without her , but then again there would have been no film . This was Alfred Hitchcock's last star vehicle . His last three films were done with second rank players . At the time this was made Julie Andrews was fresh from Mary Poppins and had all kinds of roles offered her . I suppose she couldn't turn down a chance to appear in a Hitchcock film , but she and Newman really have no chemistry at all . I suppose Newman also wanted to work with Hitchcock . There are some good moments in Torn Curtain . The highlight easily has to be the killing of an East German security agent by Newman and Carolyn Conwell with the creative use of a gas stove . The agent is played by German actor Wolfgang Kieling and has the best role in the film . Funny how during World War II , Germans were sometimes shown as colossally stupid , Kieling is not . He's a very tough and shrewd adversary who catches on to Newman's scheme and has to be eliminated . Hitchcock also stole from himself here . The ride and Newman and Andrews take on a bus from Leipzig to East Berlin that is stage managed by David Opatoshu is ripped off from Saboteur and the bus passengers are just like the circus people in Saboteur . Good , but done before . Devoted fans of the stars and of Alfred Hitchcock will want to see Torn Curtain , others might want to for curiosity's sake .
Waikiki At The Warner Back Lot	Before Steve McGarrett had Danno booking them , before Thomas Magnum started sleuthing out of the guest house of the Robin Masters estate , this duo of Anthony Eisley and Robert Conrad had a detective agency in Honolulu in this first television series to be based out of the Aloha State , Hawaiian Eye . Looking back if I was Robert Conrad and Connie Stevens I'd feel very cheated that Jack Warner didn't bother to spring for a location budget to Hawaii . The entire series was shot on the Warner Brothers sound stage with some establishing footage to make sure you knew it was Hawaii . This was good back in the day when you could have Dick Powell in Flirtation Walk singing Aloha Oe to Ruby Keeler on the sound stage , but audiences wanted more than that . At least movie audiences did . For the small screen Jack Warner and the rest of the brothers wanted things economical . In fact though Warner proved to be quite shrewd in plunging headlong into television production . His son-in-law William T . Orr produced all those westerns and detectives shows that were sprouting like weeds all over TV Land . The sponsor's money for these shows kept Warner Brothers out of the red like other studios were going through . Robert Conrad and Connie Stevens who was the gal pal of both Eisley and Conrad got their first big breaks in Hawaiian Eye . They're the reason the show is remembered today . Anthony Eisley never quite caught on the way the other two did . Hawaiian Eye was a cloned show as was Bourbon Street Beat and Surfside Six of Bill Orr's first success , 77 Sunset Strip . Many times the same plots were used in episodes of the different shows . And the detectives on one series were probably required to do box office duty and make guest appearances on each other's shows , which they did frequently . Talk about a good neighbor policy . Still Conrad and Stevens ought to feel cheated that they didn't get to go to Hawaii for Hawaiian Eye .
To Scoop Or Not To Scoop	With Bette Davis doing a role that Glenda Farrell or Joan Blondell was used to doing and George Brent standing in for James Cagney or Pat O'Brien , Front Page Woman is about a sob sister columnist wanting to prove she's as good at investigative reporting as the man she loves . Brent's a good guy all right , but he certainly believes that woman's place is in the home or writing a woman's column about same . The chance comes when both are sent by their rival papers to cover a fire . The fire it turns out was only a ruse to cover the stabbing of a bigshot played by Huntley Gordon . As the investigation , arrest , and trial proceed , Davis and Brent go on scooping spree to show the other up who is the better reporter . That kind of fun can certainly put a strain on a relationship and the two of them , Brent more so , play fast and loose with the criminal justice system to get that scoop over the other . In the end the crime revolves around a love triangle with Gordon , mystery lady Wini Shaw , and polo player Gordon Westcott . Contrary to rumor Bette Davis could play comedy though it was not her strong suit . Her material is slight , but she does her best to rise above a role she's miscast in . Her devoted fans will certainly not turn away from Front Page Woman .
A Disappointment To His Fans	The Deputy had a fatal gimmick to start with when it debuted on television in 1959 . It's star was to be movie legend Henry Fonda who played a US Marshal . But note the title of the series , the one who carried the show for the most part was his deputy in one particular town in his jurisdiction , Allen Case . Case was a storekeeper in the town so the deputy's job was a part-time gig . He was not a violent man , only resorting to firearms when he absolutely had to . For action fans this was a big no no . But in plain fact it was Fonda's name that lured viewers to the show and he only appeared in maybe a third of the episodes and in some only brief appearances . So people tuned in for Fonda and didn't get him . This was a busy period in Henry Fonda's life , he was working in three different mediums , stage , screen , and television . My guess is that he didn't have the time to devote to a weekly television series and opted for this format . After two seasons The Deputy was canceled . It was an average television western , but the next time Fonda did a regular TV series it was as a full time star .
Gunfighter / Lawyer	Seeing the kind of success that Warner Brothers was having with Sugarfoot with a young lawyer as a protagonist , Dick Powell's Four Star Production came up with the idea of a gunfighter giving up his weapons and studying for the bar and passing same . Peter Breck was the gunfighter / lawyer and he happens to settle in Marshal Russell Johnson's town . Johnson had a peculiar relationship with Breck . He certainly was handy to have around if he was on your side . But just his reputation brought in trouble to his town that Johnson didn't need . Every episode as I recall seem to bring out these complexities . Of course both these guys did better with their respective next television series , Johnson with Gilligan's Island as the Professor and Breck as Nick Barkley in The Big Valley . Back in 1959 when I was a mere lad of 12 years old , Peter Breck came home to visit his family who happened to live on Cutler Street in Rochester , New York . My brother , sister , and I along with my cousins happened to meet him when we went across the street and kind of crashed the Breck family gathering . My grandparents happened to live on that block as well I have to say Peter Breck was a gracious man putting up with those juvenile fans of his . So here's to you Peter Breck , a real cowboy hero . And a pretty good actor , except for that film The Beatniks .
What I Did For Love	When Rob Lowe decided to wear his glasses for real in this film ( in real life he's quite nearsighted ) I think it was his and director Peter Bogdanovich's homage to Cary Grant in Bringing Up Baby . Would that Bogdanovich had as good material as Howard Hawks had with Grant and Katharine Hepburn . Rob's a near do well here , living at home with mother Jessica James and brother Ira Heiden and sometimes whomever mom's current boyfriend is , in this case it's Harry Carey , Jr . in one of his very few roles not in a western . Rob gets a jury duty notice and like most of us , he considers it one royal pain . But when he's chosen for the jury trial of Colleen Camp it's an opportunity he's been waiting for since grade school . Back in those childhood years he was crushing out on Camp big time and now she's on trial for attempted murder . I wrote a review for 12 Angry Men in which I said the film was flawed because of what Henry Fonda did , going to the accused's neighborhood and buying a switchblade similar to the murder weapon . That was absolutely nothing compared to what Lowe does while he's not deliberating on the evidence to prove the object of his affection is innocent . The film has its moments , but I'd have to say it was more silly than funny . Colleen Camp is not quite Katharine Hepburn , though Lowe does give a good try at a Cary Grant type comedy part . Still fans of Rob Lowe will like it .
Scott Loves N . Y . - - - - - - And Who Doesn't ?	There is only one reason to see I Love N . Y . and that is for Christopher Plummer to see both as an international superstar man of the theater and in character as Cyrano de Bergerac . I just loved seeing him as Cyrano , I just wish there had been more . Outside the theater Plummer has got some other problems mostly involving his little princess of a daughter Kelly Van Der Velden . He's used to getting his way , he's also used to giving her whatever she wants within reason . But when she catches sight of up and coming photographer Scott Baio , that's what she wants and Plummer thinks he's beneath her . A kid with a widowed mother , Virna Lisi , growing up in Little Italy aspiring for the daughter of a Sir Laurence Olivier like theater icon . By the way though the film is set in New York , the title is a double entendre because the object of Scott's affection is named Nicole Yeats . By any name poor Ms . Van Der Velden couldn't act at all , though beautiful she is . It's the main problem with the film . One thing I did like was in 1987 one of Baio's photographic assignments was a commitment ceremony between two gay men in Coney Island . In this day of same sex marriage on the verge of becoming a reality in more than two states , I Love N . Y . turns out to be years ahead of its time . Still you can be years ahead of your time and not be a great movie .
Some Historical Revision Might Be Needed	Some other reviewer made a comment that this was the worst sports biographical film since The Babe Ruth Story that starred William Bendix as the Bambino . He might not have seen the independent productions about Jackie Robinson or Joe Louis which The Babe Ruth Story also was . There's less excuse for Follow the Sun because it was made by a major studio , 20th Century Fox . Ben Hogan did come from poverty , he earned money as a kid as a golf caddy and learned the game and learned it could be a way out of the dire financial straits his family was in . Yet that part of the Hogan story was never really developed in Follow the Sun . But the comeback he had after that near fatal automobile accident in 1949 is the stuff legends are made from . That part of the film is absolutely true and it was in fact the reason the film was made at all . Otherwise if someone wanted to do the Ben Hogan Story again , we'd certainly have the vantage of historical perspective now . In fact Tiger Woods is approaching the kind of numbers and the kind of impact that Hogan had in his day in the world of golf . A whole lot of Hogan's rivals and great golfers in their own right like Dr . Cary Middlecoff , Jimmy Demaret , and Slammin ' Sammy Snead all play themselves in the film . That in itself shows the respect his peers had for their rival . Grantland Rice who has never been approached in his title as dean of American sportswriters also appears as himself . Glenn Ford is not given all that much to work with as Hogan , he was very much on the scene and could have sued if he didn't like what he saw . Anne Baxter is the best in the film as Hogan's wife Valerie who both narrates the film and has her best scenes tending to and watching over her injured husband . Dennis O'Keefe plays the fictional Chuck Williams and too bad he was fictional because I really liked the guy . He's a happy-go-lucky sort of golfer , earn just enough to stay on tour . He has some great scenes clowning in the way Al Schacht and Nick Altrock used to do for baseball . June Havoc is his wife . Larry Keating has a strange role as a golf writer who doesn't like Hogan because he's not accessible to the press . That frankly is his business and Keating should have known that . It was a wholly artificial plot device . Even worse was when Ford as Hogan bears down like the competitor he always is and beats his good friend O'Keefe . Havoc takes all kinds of umbrage at that and O'Keefe is a bit put out . That was just plain dumb . Golf was the man's business and Hogan was the best and never gave less than his best . That plot device was worse than the feud with the writer . But the scenes involving the accident and recovery were well done and maybe Ben Hogan's story could use some historical revision now .
Commandos Invade Norway	In Commandos Strike At Dawn , Paul Muni is a Norwegian fisherman who does not like what the Nazis have brought in occupying his country . After a murder he resolves to leave Norway and do something about it . As Eric Toreson , Muni has his most stoic role with the exception of Benito Juarez . But his facial expressions and the controlled anger in his voice tell the story than a lot theatrics . It's unfortunate that a better story could not be utilized for a man of his talents . I'm still struggling over the idea that before the war an admiral of the Royal Navy , Cedric Hardwicke together with his daughter Anna Lee , are visiting Muni's village . It certainly doesn't look like a vacation spot or that she would take up with Muni who was certainly beneath her in the European class system . A year later Warner Brothers produced The Edge of Darkness also about the Norwegian resistance which starred Errol Flynn . Now Flynn was in no way in Muni's class as an actor , but as an action hero he certainly filled the bill . Lillian Gish is in this film as the wife of Ray Collins who is picked up for his anti-Nazi views and tortured . For someone of her talents , she's given little to do . Western fans will recognize B picture cowboy actor Rod Cameron in the role of the Lutheran parson of the village . George MacReady is the village school teacher in one of the few sympathetic roles he ever had on screen . Doing double duty is Alexander Knox as the Nazi captain among the occupiers of the village . You can also easily recognize Knox's voice as the unseen parson blessing the British commandos as they embark on a raid near Muni's village . It's typical World War II propaganda and if it weren't for the quality of the cast Commandos Strike At Dawn would barely be a blip on the nostalgia radar .
Those Seminole Wars	United States Pictures which released Distant Drums through Warner Brothers was I think Gary Cooper's own production company . Looking at The Films of Gary Cooper book , I noticed about three others with same credits in the Fifties of which Distant Drums was the first . The film was shot on actual location in the Everglades , I think Gary Cooper must have gotten some taste of what Bogey and Hepburn were enduring doing The African Queen . Too bad the story didn't rate the same as The African Queen . Cooper is an American Army captain on duty with the army of General Zachary Taylor , played by Robert Barrat , who lives on his own island and doesn't dress in any army uniform . Zach Taylor had a reputation for informality , but that was carrying it a bit too far . The only other guy who had his own private island during war was Lt . Commander Quentin McHale and his PT Boat crew . Anyway Barrat gives Cooper a mission and a Navy lieutenant played by Richard Webb to carry it out . To attack an old Spanish fort and go by boat across Lake Okechoobee . An early type of amphibious warfare . The attack goes off as planned and some civilian prisoners are rescued from the renegades using the fort . But the Seminoles are in hot pursuit of Cooper and the whole bunch through most of the film . I can't believe by the way that a director like Raoul Walsh had the army and the Seminoles fighting with repeating rifles and six shooter revolving pistols . Stuff wasn't invented yet . For the early years of the republic , Florida under Spanish rule and loose rule at that , was a thorn in our side . Pirates like the ones you see here used it as a haven for raiding purposes . But it was also a refuge for runaway slaves . Our southern states wanted Florida acquired to put an end to that . The indigenous tribes to Florida , the Seminoles did offer refuge for runaway slaves . So a war there was inevitable , especially when southern presidents like Andrew Jackson were in the White House . Maybe one day someone will do a proper film on the early history of Florida , but this ain't it .
Singing And Dancing On the Waterfront	James Cagney in his autobiography said that he never ran his old films at home with the exception of the musicals . Those he ran continuously and he regretted he didn't do more of them . Which is probably why towards the end of his film career he decided on a musical which had a certain amount of potential , but went sadly awry . Labor Unions were a big news back in the day . The hearings held by the McClellan Committee in the Senate made the doings of the Teamster's Union presidents , David Beck and Jimmy Hoffa front page headlines . There were any number of exposes showing how organized crime was muscling into honest unions . The Taft-Hartley law was a perennial issue back then with Democrats wanting to repeal it and Republicans staunchly in favor . The songs by Allie Wrubel and Maxwell Anderson were singularly unmemorable and the comedy in Never Steal Anything Small is forced . However James Cagney is such a dynamic performer that he's put over far worse . Roger Smith who played a straight arrow lawyer was a protégé of Cagney's back then . He played Cagney's son in Man of a Thousand Faces and after this film with a plug from Cagney to his old boss Jack Warner got cast in the television series 77 Sunset Strip . My favorite in the film is Cara Williams . She's got the part that Joan Blondell or Gladys George would have played opposite Cagney back in the day . Williams is a worthy successor to both those women . There is one true incident in Never Steal Anything Small . At one point Cagney nearly gets acid thrown in his face . There was just such an incident involving columnist Victor Riesel which was more successful and left him blind . But Riesel was a far more noble character than the one Cagney plays here . Though in the end Cagney does show he has some scruples where women are concerned .
A Lovable Blowhard Braggart	Spencer Tracy was busy working at Fox Studio at this time , turning out a succession of B film programmers that gave very little indication of the star he would eventually become . Fox loaned him out occasionally and they did here to MGM where he would really hit the big time . Watching The Show-Off today I thought of two early television characters that Tracy reminded me of . A little bit of Phil Silvers as Sergeant Bilko and a whole lot of Jackie Gleason as Ralph Kramden . The film is of course based on George Kelly's play of the same name and in doing a little research on Kelly I found there was a live production on television in the Fifties that starred none other than Jackie Gleason . Red Skelton did a remake of this as a feature film , but I hope that Gleason's performance is not lost and a kinescope of the performance exists and is preserved . Tracy's a lovable mug with a gift for gab who like Ralph Kramden had every big scheme blow up in his face . And he's got his Alice here in the person of Madge Evans who Audrey Meadows could have played in a remake . Tracy's not a womanizer here , he really does love Madge and she him . But Madge is about at her wit's end with him . During the course of things they have to move back with her mother . You remember Ralph's mother-in-law ? Clara Blandick almost steals the film as Madge's mom who cannot stand her son-in-law . Like Bilko and Ralph he's always " on " all the time . I know I couldn't stand living with someone like that . Tracy gives it a good try and the cast does well . But maybe the film needed a Norton character .
Playing for all the marbles	Charles Cioffi , the consigliere of a jailed Mafia chieftain decides to get a war started among the three Las Vegas crime families . Knowing that Angel Tompkins , singer girlfriend of the son of a recently deceased Mafia Don , is looking for a break , he arranges a meeting with Anthony Quinn , Godfather of the third Mafia family where nature takes its course . When former boyfriend Robert Forster returns to America and finds out it ain't long before the bullets start flying . When the film is over there are only a couple left standing and if you want to know who does pick up all the marbles than watch the film . Of course this film came out to take advantage of the enormous publicity reaped by The Godfather in the previous year . It's an average sort of gangster flick , it could have been done at Warner Brothers during the Thirties with their stable of gangster players . Al Lettieri and Abe Vigoda were both in The Godfather and their presence sort of lends an aura authenticity to the film . Lettieri was just coming into his own as a great portrayer of villains and assorted gangland types . His early death was a real loss to film . Anthony Quinn of course is always good and fans of his which are legion will want to catch The Don is Dead .
An Interesting Experiment	Though the role of Trigger Hicks in Spitfire turned out to be disastrous commercially for RKO and did nothing to help the career of Katherine Hepburn , it's still an interesting experiment when seen today . Especially seen by fans who regard Kate as a feminist icon . Trigger Hicks is about as far as you can get for a role from the most well known graduate of Byrn Mawr in history . Kate's an illiterate hillbilly lass who is a mountain faith healer , respected by many and feared by more for her alleged powers . Two who don't fear here are a pair of engineers sent to the Ozarks to build a railroad , Ralph Bellamy and Robert Young . Hepburn unfortunately falls for the married Young who of course doesn't tell her of his marriage to Martha Sleeper . In her own way Trigger Hicks is as much an independent spirit as Tess Harding or Pat Pemberton or any of the other more sophisticated women that Kate later portrayed . I'm sure she thought of the film as expanding her range a bit even though it didn't quite stretch in that direction . Still it's interesting to watch .
An Outdoor Summit for the sake of a Photo-Op	The malevolent forces of Islamic terrorism have one sophisticated plan to foil an international summit where President William Hurt is about to sign a treaty with several nations . It's more of a photo-op than a summit ; it looks like agreement's been reached for some new cooperation against terrorism . But the jihadists have something in the works . I'm still trying to figure out why not only our president but several other unnamed world leaders are left in harm's way for the sake of some publicity . Sign the treaty and send out a press release . All hell breaks loose as William Hurt is shot as he reaches the podium and after that a bomb goes off in the city center of Salamanca , Spain where all this is happening . It's only gradually after seeing the events from eight different perspectives that the whole story unfolds . It was an interesting concept , but really far fetched . In fact the only reason the bad guys get as far as they do is because they have some inside help . I'll say no more . Dennis Quaid is the intrepid Secret Service agent who puts the whole thing together literally on the run . Best in the film for me is news producer Sigourney Weaver and innocent American tourist bystander Forest Whittaker who in my humble opinion is the real hero of the piece . Interesting this title was chosen for the film . Vantage Point was the title of the presidential memoirs of Lyndon B . Johnson . One of the dullest reads for presidential writing ever . But LBJ's view of the policies he followed had nothing on unreality as this film does .
Milk Run film	By the time the St . Louis Kid was made Warner Brothers had gotten the James Cagney persona fixed in the mind of the movie going public . The cocky wiseacre working class hero in perpetual motion who always gets what he's after , be it money , power or a girl . Here it's a girl , but he also gets himself mixed up in a labor dispute between dairy farmers and the trucking company that ships their product in between St . Louis and Chicago . In those early years of the New Deal labor disputes were a pretty hot topic in the newsreels . Robert Barrat , a leader of the farmers , is killed by one of the goons hired by Cagney's trucking company and the cops think Cagney did it . Patricia Ellis , the girl Cagney's been courting , witnessed the murder so the goons have snatched her . Will the ever resourceful James Cagney will find a way to set all this right ? You have to see the film to see if and how . Cagney has Allen Jenkins along acting as Pancho to his Cisco Kid . Jenkins is funny , but you know Cagney only keeps him around for his amusement value . The plot calls for the pair to spend some time in the jail of the local town constable played by Spencer Charters who is also a dim bulb . Fast paced { is their any other kind of Cagney film } action makes the 67 minute running time go by real fast . St . Louis Kid is very typical of the stuff Warner Brothers would continue to give Cagney throughout his years with them .
A Weird Fantasy from the mind of Will Rogers	There's a famous story about President Herbert C . Hoover meeting Rudy Vallee during the midst of his term which as we know coincided with the Great Depression . Hoover supposedly said to Vallee it would be great if he could sing some hit song that would make people forget their troubles , economic and otherwise . Well maybe that story got back to the ears of Will Rogers because he was the one who came up with the idea of a Cabinet position for Secretary of Amusement . Maybe Rogers had himself in mind for the job , he was sure doing it unofficially . Fox was Rogers's home studio , but he makes no appearance here . Instead the president of the United States hires Warner Baxter for that job . Baxter essentially reprises his role of Julian Marsh the driven director from 42nd Street . I guess the money from that hit show didn't last long for Baxter so he's got this job . But can you imagine ; instead of trying to get financial backers for a show , Baxter goes before a Congressional committee for an appropriation ? I'm not sure which is a worse ordeal . So the movie is Baxter trying to find a talent enough for a big extravaganza that will do what Herbert Hoover wanted from only one song . Stand Up and Cheer survives today because of the appearance of Shirley Temple , on her way to becoming the movies ' biggest box office attraction of the decade . She only does one number here , with hoofer James Dunn as her father . But it's one of her biggest , Baby Take a Bow . If it weren't for Shirley , the film would have been a curious forgotten relic of some very tough times . Still it's worth watching for more than just Shirley Temple .
Butterworth Flunks The Team	Philosophy Professor Charles Butterworth just can't get into the school spirit . He's gone and flunked the entire rowing team and their world tour is canceled . What to do , but bring Butterworth along on the Student Tour and tutor them and give them makeups before the big match at Oxford . And who do they get to room with Butterworth , none other but rowing trainer Jimmy Durante . Probably with a better script the team of Butterworth and Durante might have done better , but this was a slapdash affair that MGM put together . The love interest is a Cinderella story involving team captain Phil Regan and Butterworth's daughter Maxine Doyle . What a difference taking off your glasses can make as Clark Kent would be the first to tell . MGM house songwriters Nacio Herb Brown and Arthur Freed contributed a most unmemorable score . Jimmy Durante wisely had his own , I Say It With Music interpolated for his number . The main song in the film was The Carlo , a big singing and dancing number that Nelson Eddy sang . Eddy was being showcased as a possible new leading man and would be the following year in Naughty Marietta with Jeanette MacDonald . Student Tour is all right and entertaining , but could have stood a lot of improvement .
The Hearst Parameters	Let's understand one thing before talking about Operator 13 . It is a Cosmopolitan Picture meaning it is a Marion Davies film first and foremost . And it's the kind of film that William Randolph Hearst wanted her to be seen it , as he saw her , the brave little heroine , in this case during the Civil War . Operator 13 is the kind of story that would have been popular on stage at the turn of the last century . It's also the kind of story that Cecil B . DeMille would have found appealing to do . I'm guessing that Hearst and DeMille would never have worked in tandem on any project given their egos . Marion is an actress and in the beginning of the story as the north is badly defeated at the second battle of Bull Run , Davies is appearing on stage in a play with one John Wilkes Booth . She's recruited by Union spy-master Allan Pinkerton played by Sidney Toler to accompany Katherine Alexander playing Union Spy Pauline Cushman as her octoroon maid . The term ' octoroon ' was used back in the day to describe a person who was black and has deservedly fallen out of fashion . Of course the various black stereotypes are present in force in Operator 13 , however in Marion's case it can be forgiven somewhat as she is a spy on a mission and disguising herself . You might remember that in Going Hollywood she did the same thing to avoid the attention of Fifi D'Orsay . One person she does attract the attention of is Confederate Major Gary Cooper who is intrigued by her . Later on not in disguise , Davies is sent on another mission and she meets up again with Cooper . Once again he's suspicious , but by that time they're in love . If some of this sounds familiar you might recognize certain plot elements from MGM's later success , the musical The Firefly which starred Allan Jones and Jeanette MacDonald . That story is also about two rival espionage agents during the Peninsular War . In fact Operator 13 almost qualifies for a musical . Between the songs that Walter Donaldson and Gus Kahn wrote , and the traditional Civil War era melodies sung by Davies , a campfire chorus and the Mills Brothers a lot of songs are packed into the 85 minute running time of the film . Operator 13 was old fashioned even in 1934 . However the battle scenes are done quite well and director Richard Boleslawski does make the characters somewhat interesting . And apparently managed to work within the parameters of W . R . Hearst .
Oh Please , Wait A Minute Mr . Postman	For the life of me I can't understand why Loretta Young fought so hard to get this part . It hardly shows her to her best advantage on screen . She's terribly miscast in a role that Barbara Stanwyck could have phoned in or Joan Crawford have telegraphed . She's Mrs . Suburban Housewife to all appearances , married to Barry Sullivan who's now bedridden with a touch of illness . Physical and mental . Sullivan's conceived of a plot that Loretta's hatching with the doctor , Bruce Cowling to kill him . It's all in his mind , but Sullivan's written a letter to the District Attorney and Loretta gave it to the postman . Loretta spends the rest of the film trying to get that letter back , but in the end fate and good old Dr . Cowling seem to solve her problems in the end . I say seem to because given her behavior during most of the 73 minutes of the film , there ain't no way she ain't raised a few eyebrows . In other words she's got plenty Cause For Alarm . My guess is that since the character of the wife is on screen every moment of the film and narrates the melodrama Loretta might have seen it as a good woman's picture where the female dominates . She probably also wanted to expand her range from films like The Farmer's Daughter and Come to the Stable so she decided to poach on Stanwyck / Crawford territory . Her best scenes are with Irving Bacon the complaining postman and with Postal Superintendent Art Baker trying to retrieve that letter . Also she has some nice scenes with young Brad Morrow the kid in the Hopalong Cassidy suit which was just becoming the rage back then . The scenes with Morrow are to establish the niceness of her character , not the sort who plans on killing husbands . Cause For Alarm just was not material in Loretta Young's league .
The Spying Honeymooners	For what she obviously knew what would be her last film with MGM , Joan Crawford saunters through the part of a newlywed bride who thinks a little espionage on her honeymoon with Fred MacMurray would be just the thing to give it some spice . Above Suspicion finds MacMurray and Crawford as a pair of newlyweds in 1939 Great Britain . He's a visiting American professor at Oxford and right after their visit to the preacher MacMurray is asked by someone from British Intelligence to locate some of their missing agents in Nazi Germany . Also to try and get a copy of the design of a secret weapon which was the original agent's mission . Incredibly enough they agree both being good anti-Nazis . They get into a whole lot of intrigue over in the Reich which includes the assassination of a concentration camp head . It also includes meeting a former Oxford colleague of MacMurray's Basil Rathbone who now works for the Gestapo . Rathbone is no fool , he's a shrewd adversary and gives the best performance in the film . The part Joan does seems to have been written with Myrna Loy in mind , possibly something to do with Bill Powell , though at Powell's age it would have been a tough sell for him as honeymooner . Myrna after Pearl Harbor put her career on hold and devoted herself exclusively to all kinds of war work permitted for females . I'm sure a lot of parts were written for her that got played by others and this got assigned to Crawford on her way out of MGM . Obviously the miscasting didn't bother Louis B . Mayer a bit . As for MacMurray he had a career turning role just ahead in Double Indemnity at his home studio of Paramount . This might have worked for him better had he been teamed with a frequent screen partner , Carole Lombard . But that was a casting decision no longer possible . Conrad Veidt is also in this in one of his last roles before his untimely death . He's a ' guide ' which is a term to cover a multitude of talents that prove useful to the spying honeymooners . Well , I'll bet Ralph and Alice didn't have a honeymoon as interesting as this one .
Bears Little Resemblance	I can't say I read the Alistair McLean novel so I have to take the word of other reviewers that the plot bore no resemblance to what McLean wrote . What's here is an average suspense thriller set in the frozen north . I did however take a look at Bear Island photographs as they bear { pun intended } to the scenery here . It was not a huge mass of snow . Of course that could be because the film may have been shot in the winter and the pictures I saw may have been summer . Bear Island is roughly halfway between the northern coast of Norway and Spitzbergen in the Arctic Sea . A team of scientists headed by Richard Widmark is up there for scientific reasons . One of his team , Donald Sutherland , is hoping to find some information about his father who was a U-Boat captain . Seems that back in the big war , the Germans had a base there for their submarines who were preying on Allied convoys to Murmansk . Of course Sutherland finds a lot more than he bargained for and he and gal scientist pal Vanessa Redgrave have to fend off some nasty people anxious to get their hands on what the contents of Dad's old U-Boat has . The actions sequences are done nicely . The situations are a bit hokey especially the idiocy about maintaining radio silence even as team members are being killed . I might wear sunglasses watching this . You might get a case of snow blindness if you care to view Bear Island .
An Inauspicious Debut	Along The Great Divide marked Kirk Douglas's western debut . Fortunately he made several more and they were a whole lot better than this one . Douglas is a federal marshal who with his deputies John Agar and Ray Teal breaks up a lynching of Walter Brennan who is accused of rustling and killing the son of cattle baron Morris Ankrum . Douglas arrests Brennan and brings him back for trial . It's the journey back across the desert that's marked by ambush and betrayal with Brennan maintaining his innocence in the homicide . Along for the ride is Brennan's daughter , Virginia Mayo . Kirk Douglas proved to be a natural western star and he's cast well as the determined federal marshal . Unfortunately he's hampered by an extremely improbable script as is the rest of the cast . Some of the B westerns of Tim Holt or Roy Rogers make a lot more sense than this one . I won't give away the plot or the incidents involved , but Kirk should have died on the desert and Walter Brennan should have made it to Mexico .
Ankara , City of a Thousand Plots	It's now part of Hollywood lore how George Raft immeasurably aided the career of Humphrey Bogart by turning down High Sierra , The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca . After the last one I guess Raft thought he'd go for a Casablanca type story and the film of Eric Ambler's Background to Danger seemed like a good bet . If working with Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre worked for Bogey . . . . . . . . . . . Background to Danger only confirmed Raft's wisdom about trying to stick to what he could handle . Had he been in Casablanca , the film today would be a routine action adventure picture not the cinema classic it is . According to a biography of Raft , Peter Lorre was stealing scenes all over the place and blew cigarette smoke in Raft's face causing him to lose concentration . After repeated requests to stop doing it , Raft clocked Lorre on the chin and that settled the problems they had . On the set that is , on screen Raft registers no presence at all with his fabled co-stars . Raft is an American agent , Greenstreet a Nazi , and Brenda Marshall and Lorre are a brother and sister team of Soviet agents all looking for a forged document about false Soviet invasion plans for Turkey . The action starts in Turkey's capital of Ankara and ends up in the city of Istanbul . Background to Danger had to be the first American made film based in Ankara . Before the overthrow of the Ottoman Empire , Ankara barely passed for an oasis . Mustapha Kemal selected it for his capital because of its central location on the Anatolian peninsula . The city grew exponentially between the wars and Turkish neutrality in World War II kept up the growth rate though the Ankara we see here is depicted on the back lot of Warner Brothers studio . All the neutral capitals in the World War II years were good subjects for espionage films . Everyone of them could have been described like Ankara as a city of a thousand plots . Too bad a better film couldn't have been done here .
Part Of The Flying Crown Stable	Jack or Jock Mahoney as he was known depending on what point in his career he was played The Range Rider for a few seasons on television . The show was part of Gene Autry's Flying Crown stable of television shows . I remember The Range Rider because of the fact that Mahoney really did favor the old fashioned frontiersman manner of dress . Other than a cowboy hat and the regulation six shooter , he wore buckskins and Indian moccasins . His youthful companion Dick West favored the more traditional cowboy garb , in fact his outfit was black like Hopalong Cassidy's . We never did learn what the Range Rider's real name was . He just rode into town with Dick , righted the wrongs and left all in 30 minutes with commercial breaks . Dick Jones who played Dick West was in fact a good rider himself , he could match Jock Mahoney's stuntman background in many ways . As a child actor you might remember him best for being the young Senate page who sported a Boy Ranger badge in the Senate and encouraged Jimmy Stewart to fight on . He was also the kid who died on the gold wagon train heading east in Virginia City . But it was a good thing he could ride and shoot because he was annoying . I guess the Range Rider put up with it as coming with the territory . Jock Mahoney later went on to become Yancey Derringer and later on was one of Hollywood's Tarzans . He might not have had the physique of Johnny Weissmuller or Gordon Scott , but the man was athletic as all get out . Thanks to Gene Autry for bringing us the Range Rider when I was a lad .
Murder At The Presidio	A Military Policeman investigating what looked like a break-in at the Officer's Club at the Presidio in San Francisco is shot down . The same man also shoots an SFPD officer while fleeing the first crime . This makes the whole thing a dual jurisdiction between the Army and the local law enforcement . Hard enough normally , but in this situation you have a detective played by Mark Harmon who's a former MP who has a bad history with Sean Connery the provost marshal in charge at the Presidio . Though they hate each other's guts they of necessity have to work together . Sean Connery is one of those players who just being in a film elevates in class . Without him in the thing this would be just a routine police yarn , might have been good enough for a made for TV film and nothing more . Another conflict in the film is Connery with daughter Meg Ryan who takes an interest in Harmon at first to spite dad , but then finds herself falling for him . Acting honors in this film go to Jack Warden the retired sergeant major who won a Congressional Medal of Honor saving Connery's life in Vietnam . Warden and Connery keep you interested in the film , in finding out just why the MP and the SFPD officer had to die . Without them , I doubt anyone would care .
Mustard and Custard	I just picked a copy of a joint biography of Roy Rogers and Dale Evans and the story behind the television series was an interesting one . Both were winding up their contracts at Republic Pictures where they didn't make much money from the studio itself . Herbert J . Yates ran a pinch penny operation to say the least . Their money came from Roy's shrewd business sense and merchandising of the Rogers / Evans name . But they decided to get into the new medium of television . The problem they foresaw was Yates selling or leasing their old films for television showing while they were making new product . So Roy and Dale had to go to court to enjoin Yates from selling the films so as not to compete with the weekly half hour western show they were planning . The films eventually made it to television , but not until after the series went into syndication . By that time Republic Pictures was no more . I certainly remember the show as a kid watching it . It was little more than an extension of the films . No doubt existed that Roy and Dale would rout the bad guys in the end . Roy operated out of the Double R Bar Ranch and Dale had her own business , very advanced thinking especially for folks as conservative as these two were . Instead of a saloon she ran a small diner type establishment for travelers who were going by car or horse . What I remember best was Pat Brady though . He was a funny guy who was a friend of Roy and Dale , but he was more of a hindrance at times than a help . Roy had the patience of Job with him , but Dale would really get exasperated at times . Pat didn't ride a horse , he had a jeep which he named NellyBelle . The jeep I swear had its own personality . One thing you could always depend on , that in a crisis that jeep would always let you down . Pat had his own swear oath , a G rated one to be sure . I've never heard anyone else use the phrase ' mustard and custard ' and it was usually directed at that cantankerous jeep NellyBelle . Roy's show ran for about six seasons and by that time the western was becoming more of an adult enterprise for television as well as the big screen . Still I do have fond memories of it and I even use Happy Trails as my way of saying goodbye .
Judy Takes Refuge	Here's real movie trivia teaser . What is the only role that Miriam Hopkins , Betty Grable and Judy Canova did movie versions of ? The answer is that under different names they played the same part in She Loves Me Not , True To The Army , and How To Be Very Very Popular . I'm sure that the classical movie fan cannot conceive of any part where these three could be cast in . But in 1942 Paramount decided to use the plot of She Loves Me Not and switch it from a college to the military as per our wartime period . Judy Canova is a hillbilly trapeze performer in a carnival who from her vantage point sees the mob carry out an execution . The police want her as a material witness , but the mob wants to rub her out . On the run Judy decides to go to the army base where her true love Jerry Colonna is stationed . At the same time Broadway musical star Allan Jones and Colonna's friend is at his wit's end trying to put on an army morale show as was done in countless musicals of varying quality at the time . Canova disguised as a soldier auditions for the show and Jones has to help Colonna protect her secret . He also wants to get his commanding officer Clarence Kolb's daughter into the production and who wouldn't want the lady of a thousand taps , Ann Miller in any show . If you've seen She Loves Me Not you've got an idea of the general plot outline . The film is distinctly Canova and Colonna's show with Allan Jones and Ann Miller taking a back seat . I'm thinking that had to be because Canova was drawing more people to the box office than Allan Jones was at the time . Colonna was also a household name by dint of his status as a regular on Bob Hope's radio show . True To The Army has an unmemorable score , but the numbers are nicely staged for a B musical . William Demarest is also in the film and plays the part of a crusty sergeant , one he could do in his sleep . It's an OK film , but geared for the fans of the quartet of stars .
Misses The Tiomkin Score	Though James Arness and Bruce Boxleitner are a good fit for the roles originated by John Wayne and Montgomery Clift and Ray Walston stands in very well as the old-timer sidekick to both instead of Walter Brennan , the television remake of Red River sinks right to the bottom . The thing that I missed most from the original film was Dimitri Tiomkin's music , one of the finest film scores ever done . It really set the tone for the film , actually helped give you that sense of movement of the cattle , helped you empathize with the size and scope of the herd and the task that John Wayne undertook in the original . If the producers had done nothing else , they should have paid whatever price was necessary to get that music . Whole chunks of dialog from the original is taken . There is a new plot component in this film that of black cowboy Stan Shaw who Boxleitner and Arness take on despite racial objections from some of the ex-Confederate soldiers would have made . Shaw does a fine job and his inclusion is the only improvement on the original because in real life Wayne and Clift would no doubt have had black cowboys on their drive . Laura Johnson as a Civil War widow is an extreme let down from Joanne Dru's slinky Tess Millay from the original . It wasn't Johnson's fault , just not a good idea to change her type . But that was necessary to set up the confrontation between Bruce Boxleitner and Gregory Harrison who has John Ireland's part which is also a big plot change from the original . I think those who remember fondly the John Wayne classic will be much let down with this one .
What A Posse Audie Murphy Had	There's a murderous outlaw named Drago played by Morgan Woodward who keeps committing all kinds of crime in the state of Colorado and then running back to the New Mexico territory where the local sheriffs can't catch him . That's not going to stop Audie Murphy , sheriff of Lodgepole , Colorado . Woodward's robbed a train that was carrying funds for the bank and because he's got the town nest egg , a lot of businesses will fold . Murphy puts together a posse to go after Woodward and it's some posse , with just about everybody in it working off their own agenda . There is no way Murphy should have accomplished his mission in this film . Which is of course why Gunpoint , though entertaining , is highly unrealistic . Still a nice cast of western veterans give Murphy some good support . Particular to note are Warren Stevens as the saloon owner and Edgar Buchanan as a leader of a family of equally bad rawhiders whose camp the posse stumbles across . Gunpoint has a lot of action and a great cast that make up for a highly unrealistic story .
Little Caesar on the Barbary Coast	I love the story about Sam Goldwyn who said that he bought the rights to the title , Barbary Coast , and then said to the writers hired to write a story with that title . They gave him a story that made a pretty good picture . Edward G . Robinson is at his snarling best as a nineteenth century version of Little Caesar on San Francisco's Barbary Coast during the gold rush days . Basically Miriam Hopkins has come to San Francisco to marry a newly minted millionaire whom she barely knows , but finds he's dead and fortune gone on her arrival . Since there was no real love involved , she doesn't have a problem teaming up with the man who probably had her fiancé robbed and killed , that being Edward G . Robinson . It's a pretty lawless place San Francisco . It's been newly acquired by the USA in the Mexican War and it being one of the great natural harbors of the world , a perfect arrival point for people traveling by sea to the gold fields . And such law that's operating is pretty much operating for the town bosses . There is a scene where after Brian Donlevy , who's Robinson's chief henchman , kills a man a trial is held right in Robinson's gambling palace . It's an impromptu affair with a crooked judge who naturally finds Donlevy not guilty . It's no wonder that certain citizens form a vigilante committee to restore some kind of justice to San Francisco . All part of the colorful history of that place . And that part of the film is well done . Where Barbary Coast fails is in the romance department . Miriam Hopkins though a woman of conscience has a practical side to her . The weakness of the film is in Joel McCrea's performance . He's a prospector who having made his fortune wants to return home . He has a chance encounter with Hopkins and she takes a shine to him and McCrea doesn't know she's Robinson's main squeeze . Now I'm a big fan of Joel McCrea , the most virtuous of heroes Hollywood ever produced . But in this one , he's not really virtuous as much as he's an idiot . Let's just say that I cannot understand why Hopkins wants anything to do with him . A much stronger character might have believably taken her from Robinson , but not McCrea in this film . Barbary Coast was responsible for the first real notices of two prominent character actors . Walter Brennan had been knocking around for years , but he received his first real attention as a player as waterfront character Old Atrocity . And with minimal dialog , Brian Donlevy made his first real impression on film audiences as Robinson's strong arm killer . It's entertaining , but I'd mute the sound when Barbary Coast turns away from the action .
Tough Mayor Versus Tough Marshal	How ironic if Tom Drake and his brother hadn't fired on U . S . Marshal Dana Andrews one of them wouldn't have wound up dead and we would have had no film called Johnny Reno . Dana Andrews plays the title role and he's drawn into a nasty local situation when that ambush happens . He brings Drake back to town to stand trial , but finds the town in a strange mood . They literally genuflect when their Mayor Lyle Bettger gives an order . Bettger really did not want to see Drake again . Drake's accused of killing the son of a nearby Kiowa chief . That in it self is strange , why is Bettger and the town all worried about the death of an Indian which Drake protests he never did ? Turns out there's a lot more going on than meets the eye . A . C . Lyles once again provides work for several players of the forties and fifties who unless they were doing television found work increasingly hard to get . Jane Russell reprises one of her tough as nails , heart of gold women she took out a patent on . Lon Chaney , Jr . plays the part of an over the hill sheriff , very similar to what he did in High Noon . He does show why Gary Cooper did not want him backing him up in that . Lyle Bettger adds another to his collection of twisted psychos he did like no one else could in the fifties . Richard Arlen and John Agar have decent size roles in this as well . Not a great western , but thank you A . C . for bringing all of this cast together .
Cowboys Halt A Coup	John Payne's first feature film western was El Paso in 1949 , but earlier on when he was under contract to Warner Brothers he did this Vitagraph Short about a Wild West Show that comes to a Ruritanian type kingdom in the Balkans . Young king Scotty Beckett is real enthusiastic about it , especially after Payne saves his life after he falls over from the royal balcony . But Payne has to keep doing it because some of the king's adult counselors are planning a coup d'etat . Payne and sidekick Cliff Edwards foil the plans of plotters Stuart Holmes and Boyd Irwin . The film is a cut down version of the Ken Maynard feature film Royal Rider and between all that life saving , several musical numbers get thrown into the bargain . I'm betting that Jack Warner was trying out young contract player Payne to see if he might make a passable singing cowboy . In any event within two years Payne was doing A musicals at 20th Century Fox with Alice Faye , Betty Grable , and Sonja Henie . And when he got around to westerns again , he sung not a note .
No Taming These Shrews	Another group of scientists on a deserted island have yet let another experiment go horribly wrong . These scientists Baruch Lumet , Ingrid Goude , Ken Curtis and Gordon McLendon have been experimenting with raising and lowering metabolism as a way of staying the aging process . But what they've done is blown up their lab rats or in this case their lab shrews to the size of a German Shepherd . And the few hundred that are now on the island have eaten all the other animal life and are ready to start feasting on the humans . Good thing hero sea captain James Best has come along with his boat delivering supplies . Otherwise these scientists would be in a terrible fix . They all don't make it out alive in any event . I still have memories of those good people with metal tubs over them for protection , duck-walking to the beach . It's one hilarious hoot from a science fiction camp classic .
How To Make A Jewish Western	Billy Two Hats was made at a dry spell in Gregory Peck's career . He himself admitted he was taking roles just for the work and the loot and possibly the thought of doing a western shot in the Negev desert in Israel may have appealed to him . It probably would be more feasible today . In 1974 Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat hadn't sat down at Camp David and made peace . I wonder just how much danger Greg and the cast were in . The title role is played by Desi Arnaz , Jr . and Gregory Peck plays a Scottish outlaw from the old west . A pair of amiable bankrobbers , Arnaz prevents Peck from being captured by Marshal Jack Warden . Of course Arnaz is caught , but later Peck rescues him at the cost of a broken leg . Actually the most interesting part in the film is that of Jack Warden as the Marshal . He may have the badge , but he's not exactly Wyatt Earp as the Wyatt Earp legend has him . In fact Gene Hackman may very well have studied this film for his portrayal of a nasty town marshal in Clint Eastwood's The Unforgiven . I wouldn't recommend this film for anyone other than fans of Gregory Peck .
A Northwestern for the Duke	Within the first 10 minutes of The Trail Beyond , John Wayne gets a chore from a friend to locate the friend's friend and his daughter in the Canadian woods , meets another friend Noah Beery , Jr . from college , gets innocently involved in a murder and is fleeing up to Canada with Beery . There's almost as much canoe paddling as horseback riding in The Trail Beyond for our intrepid heroes . They've got to keep on the move from the Mounties who are looking to extradite both of them to America and Wayne's still got his mission on his mind . And if that ain't enough they get involved in a feud between the Hudson Bay Company local trading post owner , Noah Beery Sr . and some French Meti trappers . They're the bad guys and as another reviewer remarked their accents are pretty bad . Like Pepe Le Pew . Other than Island in the Sky , I believe this might be the only John Wayne film with a Canadian location . Even though they got no farther to Canada than the Sierras in California . What this film does give , is an opportunity to see both Noah Beerys , senior and junior in the same film . I saw that they have about seven screen credits jointly and this I believe is the only one available on VHS and DVD . Furthermore for once the senior Beery is not playing a bad guy . So while this one won't even make the top Fifty of John Wayne's films for all those reasons it might be worth a look .
Lindsay Drew Gets A Clue	For this Disney Channel television movie Get A Clue , Lindsay Lohan turns Nancy Drew in everything , but name to solve the mystery of her disappearing teacher . Turns out that the teacher has a mysterious past , Ian Gomez used to be a high profile banker who was accused of embezzling ten million dollars from a bank he worked for in Arizona and has been living under an alias and teaching at a fashionable prep school where Lindsay goes . Gomez is also carrying on a romance with fellow teacher Amanda Plummer . But when Lindsay publishes an article in the school newspaper with his picture , somehow it comes to the attention of the police and other folks seeking to know Gomez's whereabouts . When Gomez fakes his death and disappears , Lindsay and her friends don't believe it and the four of them , Brenda Song , Bug Hall , and Ali Mukaddam go on the case . It's amazing that the kids seem to be one step ahead of the cops and the other seekers through creative use of the internet . Doesn't say much for New York's finest . Get A Clue is an amusing teen comedy that has its moments . It's not the best work that the Magic Kingdom ever did nor is it the top tier of Lindsay Lohan's work .
Hobb's Lane	Films like In The Mouth Of Madness are admittedly not my cup of tea . Still when a writer of horror lives in a place like Hobb's Lane in New Hampshire , that's an open invitation to stay away . Noted Stephen King like horror story writer Jurgen Prochnow has disappeared and he's a guy who's even more secretive than J . D . Salinger in his quest for privacy . But he's missed a deadline and he's got a load of fans out there who are actually rioting because they are salivating over a new novel . Concerned about his contract , the advance they've given , the general investment they have in Prochnow , Charlton Heston , Prochnow's publisher has hired insurance investigator Sam Neill to locate this guy who they can't find . They used to communicate with him through his agent , but almost at the film's beginning the agent goes berserk and starts taking an ax to people and is shot down . Protecting his investment further , Heston sends Julie Carmen his girl Friday along with Neill where they discover Hobb's Lane , New Hampshire . Remember this is New England , host of the Salem Witch Trials back in the day , and they know Satan and his works when they see it . These people keep clear of a place like Hobb's Lane , but Neill and Carmen go blundering in and meet up with Prochnow and it's an experience to put it mildly . The ending is one pessimistic one for the human race , but I've got a theological question worth pondering . If reading works like this from the mind of Satan himself affect people so powerfully as described here , why doesn't reading the Bible , or C . S . Lewis , or Lloyd C . Douglas , or G . K . Chesterton have a similar affect ? I'm not a big fan of this genre in general , but those devoted to these films should have enough fright and violence to satisfy .
So what's wrong with a Latin Mass ?	Not being a Catholic , I think I'm a bit lost in criticizing the movie . I can't understand for the life of me what the big problem was . Not that the liberalizing tendencies of John XXIII were bad , they didn't go far enough , but they were a step in the right direction . But if older priests set in their ways wanted to say a Latin mass , why couldn't they ? Martin Sheen is an emissary from the Vatican who's come to this really remote island off the coast of Ireland which some television station broadcast a Latin Mass said by the Father Abbott Trevor Howard . In the Russian Orthodox Church there's this crowd called Old Believers who practice their religious rites from before the Patriarch Nikon introduced his reforms . I'm guessing what Howard is fostering there is a nest of Catholic old believers . Anyway Sheen's come from the Vatican with a cease and desist order and it's met with hostility by Howard and the monks in his charge . Call me ignorant here , I plead guilty to it , but why can't the Vatican just make the English or Latin Mass optional ? Certainly these guys might take positions on other issues I'd have serious problems with and so would other people . It seems that what language you do your religious observance in should be a matter of choice . If they want to say it Latin , let them . Of course other issues are touched on , but that ain't why Sheen's there . He and Howard give good performances of two generations of Catholic clergy in conflict . But should non-Catholic viewers of the film really care ?
Ambitious , But Badly Executed	It's entirely possible that the VHS that I watched of this film was badly edited because the film seemed to begin in the middle . The Cloud Brothers , Robert Sterling and John Drew Barrymore , have settled in some country where there's a nice range war in progress . They've got both big cattle baron John Litel and a group of smaller ranchers against them . All they want to do is be left alone , but neither group will allow that . A third brother , Robert Preston , arrives on the scene . He's a noted outlaw named Kid Wichita and he really ratchets up the violence quotient . That also includes killing the sheriff who is Litel's son and Jack Elam who's married to Cathy Downs who he's taking a fancy to . This is a nice cast and John Drew Barrymore certainly showed he had the potential to be an earlier version of James Dean . The heritage of that name proved too much for that man though . One of the more ambitious undertakings from Eagle-Lion Studios . But The Sundowners was flawed in the execution . Yjr Robert Mitchum / Deborah Kerr Sundowners was far better .
The Monogram Stock Company	West of the Divide finds the Duke as a man searching for his younger brother and at the same time the people who kidnapped him and murdered their father . The film opens with a piece of good luck coming their way in the person of the dying gunman Gatt Ganns who's been hired by Lloyd Whitlock to kill rancher Lafe McKee . Of course Whitlock is once again a villain in the Snidely Whiplash tradition who not only wants the ranch , but also has evil designs on McKee's daughter Virginia Brown Faire . In reviewing B westerns , sometimes I have a tendency to reach back to those 19th century morality plays so popular in that era . Whitlock in fact even laughs like a villain in one of those plays . For reference you should see the Irene Dunne-Allan Jones version of Showboat to see just the kind of drama they used to put on then . It survived in the B western , John Wayne's as well as other's . Wayne of course by the end solves all the problems concerned and the villain gets his just desserts . We can't say how though . The Duke pretends to be the recently deceased Mr . Ganns to get the goods on the bad guys along with sidekick Gabby Hayes . He discovers a young kid being raised by one of the outlaws . Interesting in this B western set firmly in the 19th century morality play tradition , we also have a topic so very gingerly touched on as child abuse . A rather adult theme for a western or any kind of picture at that time . Wayne was just beginning his stay at Monogram Pictures Lone Star westerns , this was his third . Monogram had a stock company to rival the much better one of John Ford . Note how for the next three or four years , the casts are just about the same in every Wayne western at that studio . It gets hard to keep these in chronological order , I wouldn't be surprised if a few of these weren't shot simultaneously . The best you can say about the Monogram films is that they kept John Wayne employed , not something easily said during the Depression . And they beat those serials he did for Mascot . West of the Divide will never be on any John Wayne fans top 10 list .
Fighting Caravans gets the B treatment	In 1931 Paramount filmed Zane Grey's Fighting Caravans and turned it into an A picture western with Gary Cooper . It was the mentality of the studio bosses back then , why waste good stock footage . So a shorter version of this same story was done three years later with Randolph Scott playing the leading role of Clint Belmet . Having both versions , I could compare them side by side . Same footage involving the wagon train going west and of the Indian attack climax . Just juxtapose close-ups of the current cast and you got yourself another movie on the cheap . Since this version is only 56 minutes it was part of Paramount's B unit and played second on double bills . Like in the first Fighting Caravans , Wagon Wheels has one young scout and two old ones leading the wagon train west . Gail Patrick gets one of her first and only leads . Usually Patrick is cast as the other woman . Maybe her best know role was as Carole Lombard's sister in My Man Godfrey . Gary Cooper was an A list star , but Randolph Scott was on the way up and would get to not quite the top of the heap soon . He acquits himself well here . Great stuff for the Saturday matinée crowd .
Failed Island Venture	Rhythm Of The Islands maybe one of ultimate in escapist entertainments for the movie-going public in 1943 . The Dorothy Lamour like world of the south seas that Hollywood created never existed , but we liked it just the same . But in 1943 there was news from the South Pacific every day about a war . You would never think that was happening judging by this film . Allan Jones , Andy Devine , and Maceo Anderson of the Step Brothers have 60 % paid for a tropical island in the south seas . But labor problems with the natives and the original owner demanding the rest of his money have put these three in cash flow crunch . In a way that makes the film almost relevant for today . These guys just wanted to throw away the cares of the Depression world and live in the south seas , but there are problems doing that . If they could unload the island to visiting tourists , Ernest Truex , Marjorie Gateson , and their lovely daughter , Jane Frazee their problems would be solved and they could go back to of all places , Brooklyn where Devine has fiancé Mary Wickes . Wickes has left for the south seas however to take matters in her own hands . The film looks like it was shot on the set of Abbott & Costello's Pardon My Sarong where at least Bud and Lou made some concession in the plot to the fact there was a war on out there . Charles Previn , Andre's dad wrote a score of south sea island ditties for Jones , Frazee , and the rest of the cast to sing , none of which are worth mentioning . The comedy though was pretty good , especially Devine and Wickes . I'm wondering if they were ever teamed again . And Maceo Anderson had a considerable with some concessions to racial stereotyping his part was pretty substantial and it's clear he's an equal partner in the failed island venture with Jones and Devine . I can't believe people wore those zoot suits back in the day , they look like they could give one a major hernia . Still with World War II raging in the South Pacific you've got to wonder what planet these people were on .
The Reluctant Nazi	Roger Moore is the Austrian commandant of a German POW camp located in the Grecian Isles in Escape to Athena . He's got a couple of favorites among the prisoners , an Italian cook in Sonny Bono , an archaeologist in David Niven and a black GI magician in Richard Roundtree . In addition USO entertainers Elliott Gould and Stefanie Powers are shot down in their transport plane and become Moore's prisoners . Moore really hasn't got his heart in the commandant business . He's an antique dealer in civilian life and he relishes the assignment only because of the location where he's also involved in Adolph Hitler's looting of Greek antiquities of which there are many in that area . Niven and company aid him because if they didn't they'd be in the hands of the SS . STill they want there freedom . Which they get when they join with resistance leader Telly Savalas and his mistress , bordello madam Claudia Cardinale . It's rumored there's a lot of hidden loot in a monastery on a nearby hill , whatever Moore hasn't taken for his own private stock for after the war . But Savalas is interested in some prototype V2 rockets located there . Escape to Athena mixes the plot elements of The Guns of Navarone and Topkapi , but they're not stirred too well . The scenery is quite nice and I'm sure the prospect of some paid time in the Aegean Sea might have been a big inducement for all these people signing on for the movie . As he was involved with Stefanie Powers at the time , William Holden gets a small unbilled cameo in a brief scene with Elliott Gould . As it turns out Moore's Prison Camp is also Stalag XVII . That might have been part of the package for Stefanie to go to Greece . It was also plain dumb to make Richard Roundtree a black GI . Americans were not involved in that theater , let alone black soldiers . Now if they had made his character be part of the African colonial troops of the British Empire , it would have made more sense . Then again we couldn't have heard Roundtree call a German soldier a ' cool cat ' . The action sequences are done well enough , but the cast here just collected their paychecks and walked through the parts .
Out of His League	I Sell Anything features Pat O'Brien as a fast talking auctioneer who operates from a store on Second Avenue who boasts he can sell anything to anybody . As Spot Cash Cutler , Pat has one busy afternoon when he takes in Ann Dvorak who tries to lift a watch from him because she hasn't eaten in a few days . Things like that happened during the Depression . But also he gets himself good and taken when he lets go for Fifty dollars a silver belt buckle that was owned and designed by Cellini . The glamorous Claire Dodd who bought it from him then turns around and sells it to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for $5000 . 00 . Of course Pat's hot under the collar having been taken like that . It's his pride more than anything else that's hurt . So he goes to her place on Fifth Avenue and demands a cut . Now he has about as much standing to squawk , legal or otherwise , as I do . But Dodd's intrigued with him . Pat should have listened to the advice of his faithful assistant Roscoe Karns and stayed well clear of Dodd . She's got quite a ride in store for him and for that you have to hope TCM runs this film again in the near future . We're all used to seeing Pat O'Brien as the fast talking streetwise con man , but we're not used to seeing him get taken . That's the gimmick here in I'll Sell Anything . Might make one curious to watch . O'Brien is in a comfortable part for him as is Roscoe Karns . Ann Dvorak and Claire Dodd are in their usual good girl / bad girl roles . Actually a good thing Dvorak is around as a choice , although she really doesn't contribute anything to the story except offer O'Brien an alternative woman . Still it's an amusing 71 minutes .
The Oklahoma Kid Lite	If anyone who saw this film back in 1943 as a short subject with a Warner Brothers feature and thought this looked familiar , they were absolutely right . Even the costumes were the same for Robert Shayne and Warner Anderson playing the roles that James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart played . Of course with those guys being somewhat taller than Cagney and Bogey the fit had to be considerably let out for this mini-version of The Oklahoma Kid . Apparently Warner Brothers was doing something like that with a few of their classics . I saw another mini-version of Dodge City done by them at the same time which also used footage from the original . That one was so badly edited you could plainly recognize Errol Flynn and Olivia DeHavilland in crowd scenes . Never say the old moguls didn't know how to salvage and reuse .
Dino , say Mini-Series	Dino DeLaurentis was a man who thought big and somewhere in the early sixties he got the idea to do the biblical spectacle film of all time . Not just settle for one story mind you , but the whole Bible . Of course what he proposed would have been something along the lines of Erich Von Stroheim's silent film Greed which in the director's cut ran something like nine hours . DeLaurentis was persuaded that maybe just half the book of Genesis might contain enough subject matter for a theatrical film . But even at that it was too much . But curiously enough according to the Films of John Huston , The Bible was the best grossing John Huston film ever . Mainly because the one section of the film that got good critical response was the section dealing with Noah and the Flood . And playing Noah and directing himself was John Huston . I'd have to agree with the critics , Huston was a good Noah indeed , in fact in the last of the Planet of the Apes series he kind of reprises his part as the patriarch Noah with simian makeup . I remember back in the day , The Bible got a whole lot of family trade as parents brought the little kids in to see all the animals on the ark . The rest of the film unfortunately is too long . The people talk just like they did in a DeMille film , but without DeMille's flair for the spectacle . In fact Dino should have waited for another decade when the mini-series format was accepted on television and tried his original idea on the small screen . For myself , I don't think there's ever been a film about Joshua and his leadership of the Israelites in conquering the land of Canaan . Jericho's walls a-tumbling down , make a great movie scene , especially now with computer graphics . Maybe one day they'll release the Noah portion as a single film and it might still get good reviews today .
Adam In Spats	For those of you who remember Dino DeLaurentis's solemn and serious film The Bible and the sight of humpy Michael Parks as Adam the idea of Adam being cast as Leon Errol is something to turn over in your mind . Errol together June McCloy as a curvaceous Eve . Errol in fig leaves and spats as Adams is quite a the treat , just the concept makes you laugh . Leon takes a bite of the apple at the urging of Eve , but instead of being banished , the two of them take a surreal tour through their descendants . The biggest segments are at the courts of Nero and King Arthur . There seems to be some dispute whether this is the first three strip color film or the second . It is a landmark of sorts and a funny film with the inimitable , lovable , inebriated playboy Leon Errol . In the end Adam and Eve find themselves where Cain went , the land of Nod .
Joel Got A Randy's Script	With the officers killed , Sergeant Joel McCrea finds himself in command of a patrol that's supposed to meet up with a larger column of men at a water hole . McCrea and his patrol find that larger group of men , but they turn out to be hostile Apaches . That's the beginning of Fort Massacre , a tough and brutal western about an army patrol trying to get back to their lines . The problem they have isn't just the Indians , it's McCrea . He lost his wife and children to the Apaches a few years before and it's unhinged him and clouded his judgment . At least that's the considered opinion of most of the men . The main problem with Fort Massacre is the miscasting of Joel McCrea who usually made it point of always being an upright hero in his films . In fact when his swan song picture was originally being cast , Ride the High Country , McCrea insisted on being the hero Steven Judd because he knew it would be better on him instead of the original casting of Gil Westrum the former deputy who was turning bad . Randolph Scott agreed to the switch and it worked out all for the better . In fact Fort Massacre would rate a lot higher with me if Randolph Scott had done the lead . In his later westerns Scott's heroes had a real edge to them , the film would have worked better with him . I'm not sure producer Walter Mirisch didn't send this script for Scott to McCrea by mistake . McCrea's sergeant had a lot of similarities to the revenge crazed character Alan Ladd played in One Foot In Hell . The rest of the cast does nicely in parts that fit them . Denver Pyle , Forest Tucker and John Russell are other troop members . Anthony Caruso is a laconic Pawnee Indian scout for the patrol who's full of a lot of wisdom . Susan Cabot and Francis McDonald are a Paiute cliff dweller and his granddaughter with whom the troop take refuge and Irving Bacon and Claire Carlton are a pair of Indian traders . Fort Massacre is a grim western with no frills , it could have been a lot better if Randolph Scott had done this one though .
" Oh You Nasty Man "	Unlike Florenz Ziegfeld who died before MGM could properly enshrine his memory on film with The Great Ziegfeld , Ziegfeld Girl , and The Ziegfeld Follies , his rival George White wasn't about to wait until he was beyond caring . White produced two versions of his famous scandals for Fox and the film is interesting because it's a chance to see a Broadway review , a type of show now relegated to piano bars . It might have really been something had White hired Busby Berkeley for the dance numbers . Then again he probably knew that those films like the ones Berkeley did at Warner Brothers would be remembered for him and not White even with his name in the title . White appears in this and looks every inch the dapper man about town and former hoofer himself . But George White's Scandals suffers from two drawbacks . The first is a rather silly backstage plot involving a romantic triangle of Scandals performers Rudy Vallee and Alice Faye and society débutante Adrienne Allen . The story in fact was written by White himself . It would have been a far better film had he done an introduction prologue like William Powell as Florenz Ziegfeld in Ziegfeld Follies with White playing himself . Rudy Vallee in fact did appear on stage in George White's Scandals of 1931 where he introduced Life Is Just A Bowl of Cherries and a song that did better as a revival in 1943 than when it first came out , As Time Goes By . Alice Faye at this time was a female vocalist hired by Vallee to appear with him and his Connecticut Yankees orchestra and was involved with him romantically . This was her film debut and she gets the best song in the score , Oh You Nasty Man . Jimmy Durante and Cliff Edwards also appear in George White's Scandals and Edwards has a good number with him comparing his trouble with women with that of Henry VIII . Unfortunately Durante's big number involves the second reason why George White's Scandals isn't shown that often . Durante has a number where he spoofs fellow entertainer Al Jolson . It's not just that Durante dons the black-face which he would have to do to imitate Jolson , but then White had the bad taste to back him with a big chorus of singers and dancers , boys and girls , all in black-face doing one of those Mammy numbers . Despite a frivolous plot and bad taste , George White's Scandals deserves to be remembered for the debut of Alice Faye , one of the best musical stars Hollywood ever produced .
From Gangster To Romance	Gambling Lady was the first of seven films that Joel McCrea and Barbara Stanwyck would team together in . But the fact that it's the first of them is the only distinguishing feature about this rather routine film that skips from a gangster story to a romance without missing a beat . Stanwyck is the daughter of professional , but honest gambler Robert Barrat who commits suicide because he's broke and won't tie in with the gambling syndicate . But he's taught his daughter all he knows about various games of chance . She's so good that Kevin Spacey would definitely have picked her for his team in the current 21 . She's got two guys on the hook for her , rich playboy Joel McCrea and bookie Pat O'Brien . Claire Dodd is in her usual role as the other woman , in this case McCrea's other woman . Best in the film though is C . Aubrey Smith , McCrea's father who's the wisest rich guy around . A murder , an alibi , a divorce , all figure in this film which when it started I thought would be one of Warner Brothers gangster flicks . Turned into a romantic melodrama which I wasn't expecting . Joel McCrea was under contract to RKO at the time and this was one of those loan out deals . Neither he or Stanwyck thought much of the film , but they formed a lifelong friendship out of this and went on to such better films as Union Pacific , The Great Man's Lady , and Trooper Hook . See all of those before you see this one .
Bankrolling the Kingdom	Other than identifying the title character as an American now , The Merry Widow pretty much retains the same plot , even some of the same lines from the 1934 Jeanette MacDonald-Maurice Chevalier film . Lana Turner is the widow of the man who was the richest person in the small kingdom of Mariskova . It's estimated in fact she has part ownership in 52 % of the gross national product of the kingdom . She's the big fish in this pond . Operating under the premise that Lana though she is now living in New York would still like to be a big fish in a small pond than be swallowed by an Austrian whale , King Thomas Gomez dispatches one of his playboy relations , Fernando Lamas too woo and wed the widow . The Hapsburgs are threatening that if they don't make good what's owed them they'll just come in and annex Mariskova . King Tom obviously does not want to spend his declining years in the fleshpots of Baden Baden or Marienbad or the French Riviera , he wants to stay king . Getting the rich widow to underwrite the kingdom is not as silly a premise as it sounds . Just a bit before the action of The Merry Widow takes place , J . Pierpont Morgan literally underwrote the USA financial structure when asked to by President Cleveland . Of course with a multi-millionaire fortune , Turner is naturally suspicious of a host of people trying to become friends and lovers . The Franz Lehar songs which is what makes this operetta a beloved one by many repertoire companies are mostly present . Some are sung , others are relegated to the background . They are divided equally with the leading man and woman , here though Fernando Lamas carries the musical load . Trudy Erwin who dubbed Lana Turner's singing voice joins him briefly in the Merry Widow Waltz . All the other songs are given to Lamas including Vilia which is sung by the leading lady normally . Jeanette MacDonald sang it in the 1934 version and did it well . Lamas and Turner were quite involved during this film . Esther Williams in her memoirs and this was years before she married Fernando tells that she was visiting the set at MGM one day and heard all kinds of squeals of passion coming from Turner's trailer . Obviously Fernando and Lana getting some rehearsal done . Look for two nice supporting performances from Richard Haydn and John Abbott as a pair of bumbling Mariskovian diplomats and Una Merkel in her usual role as secretary and gal pal to Turner . Even with technicolor this one doesn't quite measure to the 1934 version though Fernando Lamas does sing real nice .
Banking Can Be A Dangerous Business	The International as it is spoken of in hushed tones by its friends and foes , is a multi-national European based bank that's into all kinds of activities , only marginally related to banking . An Assistant District Attorney from New York County , Naomi Watts , is interested in it because they launder money for organized crime . And Interpol agent and former Scotland Yard detective Clive Owen is interested because of some arms trafficking . They decide to pool their resources . The film was shot all over the world , with significant portions of the story taking place in Istanbul , Milan , and New York . The cartel always stays one step ahead and even for those among us not the conspiratorially minded , the film does show the difficulty in dealing with multi-jurisdictions insofar as law enforcement are concerned . There's not a hint of any romance in this film between the leads , they are as professional as Mulder and Scully tracking down those aliens . But the characters don't really excite any interest either with their problems . For the action minded , there's a political assassination in Milan and a shootout at the Guggenheim Museum in New York . The place was a shambles after it was over . In the end some extra legal methods are used to get the bad guys and the monster simply does grow a new head . The International is a fair action film when it gets down to the action . Clive Owen is capable enough , but 25 years ago Sean Connery would have been perfect for his part .
Montana Bull	Montana Belle which probably at best started out to be an average B western product from RKO got to Howard Hughes's attention because it starred his protégé Jane Russell . This make believe account of the famous female outlaw Belle Starr got cut and recut and edited down to a mess of a story if you're looking for coherency . The film was made in 1948 and released in 1952 and that's always bad news . Like Jane's first feature , The Outlaw , certain western legends who never in real life met up with each other , have dealings in the Hollywood west . In The Outlaw , it's the Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid story rewritten to have Doc Holiday's participation . In Montana Belle , Jane as Belle Starr is rescued by Bob Dalton played by Scott Brady . But later when she mistakes a doublecross she forms her own gang with Forrest Tucker and Jack Lambert as a most stereotypical Indian . In the meantime another guy with his hormones in a tizzy over Jane's titanic weaponry is George Brent , gentleman gambler and owner of the largest liquor & gaming establishment in Guthrie , Oklahoma . He's going to reform Jane and separate her from her disreputable outlaw companions . Nice work if you can get it . You can't say too much about the story , Howard Hughes muddled this one , the same as he muddled , The Outlaw , Jet Pilot , and My Forbidden Past . One thing he didn't do for which we can thank the Deity is that he didn't cut Jane's number , The Gilded Lily from the film . It's definitely the best thing about Montana Belle . But over at Republic they were shooting westerns with all their B stars that had more coherent plots than you see here .
Give Peace A Chance	Robert Mitchum plays the title role of The Ambassador and in this case he's the American Ambassador to Israel . He's got the notion in his head that if he can get the Arab and Israeli students dialoging , it might lead the way to eventual peace . Of course there are malevolent forces on all sides that don't want to see that happen . But that's not Mitchum's only problem . His wife Ellen Burstyn has embarked on a torrid love affair with an Arab , played by Fabio Testi , who turns out to be a big honcho in the Palentine Liberation Organization . And somebody's been taking some nasty home movies of them doing the horizontal mambo . Setting up Mitchum for blackmail and embarrassment whichever comes first . Playing the supporting role of Mitchum's Embassy security chief is Rock Hudson and this was to be his last feature film . As the film progresses the strain on Hudson's health is becoming apparent . It was not a happy shoot and the results show it . Mitchum and Hudson did not get along particularly . According to Lee Server's biography , Mitchum spent most of the time getting plastered more than normal . Ellen Burstyn supposedly took a sample of what he was drinking and was shocked to find it real booze . But Mitchum was legendary for holding his liquor . I can see why Mitchum wasn't particularly happy with the film . His role is essentially that of a well meaning fathead who thinks he has all the answers to the Middle-east . Hudson took his role strictly for the cash , because he was having increased medical expenses from what would kill him a year later . Being it's a Golan-Globus film the usual quota of violence is present . When you do a film about the Middle-east , that's almost a requirement for a picture . Still the location cinematography in Israel certainly helps . Too bad that Mitchum and Hudson could not find a nice western to do as a joint project .
Courtroom Melodrama Fails to Ignite	Evelyn Prentice was the third film that William Powell and Myrna Loy made together . It's hardly up to the standard that Manhattan Melodrama or The Thin Man were . Myrna in the title role is far from Nora Charles . She's a dutiful mother , but a neglected wife of her husband John who is an ace criminal defense attorney . Powell the husband is wrapped up in a big vehicular manslaughter case where the beautiful Rosalind Russell is the defendant . Loy gets the impression that Powell may have more than a legal interest in Russell so she starts flirting with Harvey Stephens who turns out to be one predatory gigolo . When Stephens ends up dead , his long time girl friend Isabell Jewell is arrested . I'm not going to say any more because this is where a promising court room drama goes haywire . I just refuse to believe the behavior of everyone after this especially defense lawyer Powell and District Attorney Frank Conroy . This was Rosalind Russell's debut and while she looks good , she shows not an inkling of the talent she showed in later films like The Women or His Girl Friday . Still there was indeed a spark . But unless you're a fan of Powell and Loy , I doubt you'll be sparked .
Unfashionable	The next to last film in William Powell's hiatus at Warner Brothers between his long stints at Paramount and MGM was Fashions of 1934 . He got to work with two Warner Brothers institutions for the one and only time , Bette Davis and Busby Berkeley . Powell probably knew he would be leaving shortly and plays his part in his usual charming manner . Davis had the trapped look of a wild animal who wanted desperately not to be where she was . Things would drop into place for her later in the year with Of Human Bondage . Powell had to do a lot to make his character likable , quite frankly he's an out and out crook . He moves from one racket to another in the fashion business , from stealing designs to then working for the folks he's stealing from . He cons and blackmails people into partnership , all and all , a despicable figure . But it's William Powell so you almost forget to hate him . One who doesn't is Davis who would dearly like to see him give up his evil ways , but you certainly would think the odds were against that even at the end of the film . Sammy Fain and Irving Kahal wrote the theme for Fashions of 1934 which was Spin a Little Web of Dreams . It was used as the background for one of Busby Berkeley's more opulent numbers from the cinema . It was Berkeley's contribution to the film . The fashion industry would have seemed a natural for a Berkeley type extravaganza . I'm surprised that so mediocre a film resulted from the idea . But a pair of bored and mismatched stars didn't help the proceedings . Best in the film is Frank McHugh as Powell's assistant in scheme and Hugh Herbert the ostrich feather magnate .
Minstrel Show Biography	Probably because the songs of Stephen C . Foster were in the public domain and therefore cost penny pinching Herbert J . Yates not a dime , Yates decided to do a minstrel show musical comedy with the life of Stephen C . Foster to hang the story on . The songs of Stephen Foster retain their beauty to this day , sad though that they do reflect the times they were written in . Since the famous minstrel star and entrepreneur E . P . Christy was the one who popularized Foster's work , to not have a minstrel show in the story would be historically way inaccurate . But this film isn't anything close to the story of Foster's life . For all the inaccuracies of that film , 20th Century Fox's Swanee River which starred Don Ameche as Foster and Al Jolson as E . P . Christy is far more accurate . The thin plot seems to be borrowed a bit from Bing Crosby's Mississippi where Bing is courting Gail Patrick , but it's really Joan Bennett who's crushing out on him . Here William Shirley as Foster is courting Muriel Lawrence , but it's really Eileen Christy as , guess who , Jeanie who's giving him the come hither glance . One thing I will say , the Foster songs are given magnificent vocal treatment . The women both sing well and Shirley most famous for his behind the camera vocalizing in Sleeping Beauty and My Fair Lady has a terrific tenor voice . Ray Middleton however , most famous as the original Frank Butler in Annie Get Your Gun , gives the best performance in the film as the egotistical E . P . Christy . The rest of the cast , acting wise , is pretty weak . The plot is razor thin and in 1952 there was no excuse for calling a young black kid , Chitlin . Rex Allen , Republic's last cowboy B picture star makes a guest appearance here in blackface as a minstrel and that sure didn't help his career in any way . I'd stick with the Ameche-Jolson version of the Stephen Collins Foster story .
The Film That Won World War II ? ? ? ? ?	In his memoirs Henry Fonda hated this film above all others that he did in his career . That's taking in quite a bit of territory because Fonda did some dreadful stuff in the seventies like Tentaccoli with a giant octopus . A lot of this was done for the money and Fonda with five wives certainly had much expenses in alimony . But Immortal Sergeant held a place dear in his heart because of the head of 20th Century Fox , Darryl F . Zanuck . Back in 1940 in order to get the part of Tom Joad , Fonda made a faustian deal with Zanuck signing his only studio contract . The studio cast him in what he considered junk . The good films he made in that four year stretch were on loan out , to Paramount for The Lady Eve , to Warner Brothers for The Male Animal , to RKO for The Big Street . He was not fond of what Fox cast him in for the most part because he got what was left after Tyrone Power and Don Ameche rejected it . Anyway come 1943 Fonda had two objectives , to make The Oxbow Incident because he knew that would be a classic and to enlist in World War II as pal Jimmy Stewart did . He prevailed on Zanuck to do The Oxbow Incident and it was a cheaply made western , classic though it was because it was shot completely on the sound stage . Then Zanuck cajoled , begged , and pleaded with him to make this one more film which he said was a great propaganda piece one that would tear the hearts of the movie going public and rally the homefront and be an inspiration to the fighting troops . When Immortal Sergeant proved somewhat less than that , Fonda felt hoodwinked and gritted his teeth and finished the film . He tried in fact to enlist to get out of it and Zanuck had so much pull in Washington , DC , Fonda kept getting his enlistment postponed . It was one angry Henry Fonda who finished The Immortal Sergeant and then went to war . His experience with this film made him bound and determined to get out of his contract one way or another . Ultimately he left Hollywood in 1948 when he got a great Broadway role in Mister Roberts . Fonda didn't return to Hollywood until 1955 and then to make the screen version of Mister Roberts . But that's getting away from Immortal Sergeant . Without Henry Fonda's rather colored viewpoint of the situation let me say it's not the worst World War II flag waver the studios put out . As is usual Henry Fonda is a Canadian to explain his non-British speech who has enlisted in the British army and is serving in North Africa . He's a young man with a lot of angst and when his patrol's sergeant is killed , Fonda has to summon something from within to bring the men back to their lines . Thomas Mitchell is the sergeant and Maureen O'Hara is Fonda's girl back home and both do a creditable job . For the rest of his life Fonda would foam at the mention of Immortal Sergeant . Being the professional he was , he did a good job in the film . But Immortal Sergeant hardly belongs in the same company as The Oxbow Incident and Mister Roberts in the works of Henry Fonda .
Made With The Best Of Intentions	Bushido Blade is a film that kind of got lost with all the hoopla surrounding the Shogun TV mini-series . Commodore Perry's opening of Japan deserved a better treatment than what it got here . No reflection on the cast , they certainly try hard enough . And the making of the film is a service of sorts because America is woefully ignorant about Japan other than knowing that they were our opponents in World War II . Making his farewell appearance on the screen is Richard Boone as the crusty Commodore Matthew Calbraith Perry . From what little I know of Perry , Boone seems to have captured him very well . Perry was the younger brother of Oliver Hazard Perry who was the commander of the Great Lakes Navy that beat the British and kept them from invading us through Canada . Younger brother Cal ( family and friends used Perry's middle name when addressing him ) served in the United States Navy for over 30 years and the opening of Japan was the capstone of a great career . Bushido Blade is a fictional sideline to the true events surrounding the treaty Perry signed with the Shogun . There was a faction in Japan who wanted to keep the country's isolationist policy going and were quite willing to do anything in that endeavor . They steal a ceremonial samurai sword that is to be presented to President Franklin Pierce by Perry . As this is a question of honor , the Japanese balk at signing the treaty at the last minute . The Japanese insist on themselves recovering the sword , but Perry unofficially sends Marine Captain Frank Converse , Boatswain Mike Starr , and young Naval Midshipman Timothy Patrick Murphy on his own mission . The three get split up during an attack . The bulk of the film is the separate experiences of all three . Frank Converse is a fine actor , but I couldn't quite believe him as an instant Samurai . When he has to battle the champion Samurai he gets a bit of help to say the least . Skill with a Samurai sword is not something one learns on the job or on the fly and by rights he should never have survived . Young Timothy Patrick Murphy cuts a fine romantic figure as his odyssey includes a small romantic interlude with a young Japanese girl who is intrigued by this occidental who speaks her language . Murphy reminded me just a bit of Tyrone Power in Son of Fury . It was sad indeed that he died so young of AIDS , he had a great career ahead of him . Such fine Japanese players as Toshiro Mifune , Tetsuro Tamba , and Mako fill their roles well . I very much enjoyed James Earl Jones who played a whaling harpooner who was a prisoner . Before the treaty was signed with Japan , sailors from the west who had the misfortune to be shipwrecked in Japan could expect never to see home again . The Bushido Blade is an average film about a key incident in both American and Japanese history . It could have used a lot more of everything , direction , production values , editing . But the players did their best with it . A good triple feature one day might be watching The Barbarian and the Geisha even with a woefully miscast John Wayne , The Bushido Blade , and the best film on 19th century Japan after the opening , The Last Samurai with Tom Cruise . It's a chance to see the Japanese as more than our enemies in World War II or having their city's destroyed by some prehistoric beast .
Who's Looking To Blow Up The Panama Canal ?	One of the very few Spencer Tracy Fox films that is available is Marie Galante . In it Spence plays an American agent working out of the Canal Zone in Panama and trying to stop a plot from blowing the canal up and incidentally trapping the American fleet as it is steaming through . Complicating matters is Ketti Gallian playing the title role of the film . She's a French girl who gets picked up by a drunken sea captain and left ashore in Yucatan . She works her way down to the Panama Canal hoping to get a boat back to France , but she kind of blunders into the whole scheme of some master criminal to destroy the canal . Of course her undocumented presence without passport in the Canal Zone arouses everyone's suspicions . Only Tracy has faith in her . Marie Galante boasts the presence of Helen Morgan playing a variation on her Julie role from Show Boat . She's a drunken chanteuse and of course this too sadly reflected on her real life . She gets a couple of songs to do in her inimitable torch style , but nothing on the order of the hits Jerome Kern wrote for her . The usual suspects in films like this are there , but this is not World War II yet and alliances have not been formed . Also the reason for blowing up the canal reflects a bit more on today's politics than in those of that era interestingly enough . Marie Galante was an example of the kind of two fisted action parts that Spencer Tracy was doing over there with barely a stretch on his considerable talent . Still fans of Tracy will appreciate the film .
A Very Silly Story	Deanna Durbin was blossoming quite nicely into adulthood by the time His Butler's Sister was made . A pity that a whole bunch of talented people were wasted on this one . Deanna's traveling east to live with her stepbrother , Pat O'Brien , and she thinks he's rich . He's not rich , he just works for the rich , specifically as Franchot Tone's butler . She finds out the truth when she arrives , but Tone is also a Broadway author . But O'Brien doesn't want her to sing at all . Because Tone is bothered by would be performers all the time , O'Brien figures his own job will be in jeopardy . So he explains her presence in the apartment by saying she's a maid who he's just hired . Sheer and utter nonsense . Tone's a guy who knows this is part of the game he's in , so what is the big deal ? Deanna sings some nice tunes in this , especially Victor Herbert's When You're Away . And her youthful spirits make some real believers in the other butlers of the building , Akim Tamiroff , Hans Conreid , Alan Mowbray . Walter Catlett has a nice bit as a producer with more than musicals on his mind . If you're a fan of Deanna's though you will like it .
The Last Assignment Is The Last Straw	Luckless Brad Pitt can't seem to work off a debt that he owes crime boss Gene Hackman in an unbilled role . Four years earlier he got into a fender bender with Hackman right at the moment that Hackman was carrying someone in the trunk of his car . Only because it was a live someone , Hackman got off with a few years in the joint , but he makes sure Pitt pays and pays for that fender bender . His last assignment seems simple enough go to Mexico and find a bring back an antique pistol , a real piece of craftsmanship that several legends have been told about . But even that last assignment is the last straw for his girlfriend Julia Roberts . She gives him the old heave ho as he leaves for Mexico . But just to make sure Pitt follows through , Roberts is kidnapped and held hostage by James Gandolfini , a gay hit man with whom she bonds rather strangely with . Of course you don't expect things to go smoothly for Pitt . The Mexican is one of those murphy's law films , if anything can go wrong it does go wrong . The Mexican is a film that was made more than likely for no other reason than let's team Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts and get some real box office out of it . They seem to work well together , but this very quirky film just doesn't quite jell . Possibly it should have been played more as an out and out comedy than it was . James Gandolfini comes out best in this film . Still fans of Pitt , Roberts , and the Sopranos might like it . Although if you go in expecting to see Tony Sooprano , fuggedaboutit .
I'll See You In C-U-B -	According to the Citadel Film series book on Sean Connery , Sean violated a rule that both he and Charlton Heston normally follow , never take an assignment on an unfinished script . The cameras were rolling on the players before the final script was done and the results clearly show it . Cuba as a film certainly had potential , but it's not realized in this story . Sean Connery plays a British mercenary who is going to go to work for the tottering Batista regime . He's being hired on the strength of good work he did in Malaya where the British did successfully quell a Communist insurgency in the Fifties . Connery's got a lot of reservations when he sees the quality of the troops that Batista has . But that's not what's totally occupying his mind . He's found an old flame in Brooke Adams who is married to wealthy Cuban cigar factory owner Chris Sarandon . As a film Cuba veers back and forth between an action adventure , a political tract , and a romance novel , never really settling in any one category . Best performance in the film is that of Jack Weston who plays the archetypal ugly American . It's a sad film Cuba , because it had the potential to be a whole lot better .
The Rodeo Racket	In this low budget oater from Monogram we've got John Wayne helping U . S . Marshal Gabby Hayes bring down some bank robbers in the very act of same . Gabby liked the way young man handled himself so he takes him on as an undercover agent to smash a rodeo racket . You heard it folks , a rodeo racket . This bunch comes to a given town sets up a rodeo , take in bets from the locals on their best cowboys and the gang's cowboys always seem to win by hook or deadly crook . They also do a few other things on the side like bank robbery , rustling , your usual western crimes . They've also got a unique way of dispatching competition into eternity which I won't get into . The Duke was lucky to discover what they had in store for him . I will say that modern forensic science would have had the mystery solved . This was one of those films where they tried to make John Wayne a singing cowboy . The film begins with him on a white horse , strumming a guitar , singing some forgettable ballad . Some Nelson Eddy wannabe's voice is dubbed in and you know it isn't Wayne . It's so bad that even audiences in 1934 would have known this wasn't John Wayne , And this was before he became JOHN WAYNE .
Makin Island , Hollywood Style	The campaign of Makin Island which was the very first piece of Pacific Island we invaded against the Japanese in World War II . It serves as the basis for this film . Not much of an island the island was directly between the Hawaiian Islands and a place called Guadalcanal . The theory was get in , destroy the Japanese base and communications and get out . That much is true . The rest of the film is Hollywood hype . Randolph Scott plays a character based on Major Evans Carlson of Carlson's Raiders which was an elite unit of Marines trained to take the island . Carlson had seen service in China and was impressed with the Chinese guerrilla campaign against the Japanese there . He studied the tactics of Chu The who was the military commander of Mao Tse-tung's Chinese Communists . I don't know much Marxism , if any , Carlson took to heart , but after World War II it got him in no small amount of trouble . In an organization as conservative and tradition bound as the United States Marines he became a pariah . He died in 1951 . Since the Makin Island campaign was the start of our Pacific Offensive it was natural that Hollywood seized on the opportunity to make a quick B picture as a morale booster . Universal assembled a good cast that included a young Robert Mitchum before stardom . Besides Mitchum , I liked J . Carroll Naish and Sam Levene who gave good support to Scott . Levene played the typical serviceman from Brooklyn which by that time was becoming a cliché in war pictures . Anyway Carlson's lasting contribution to the Marines was the phrase Gung Ho . So if you want to know how that got into the Marine vocabulary , see this movie .
The Appaloosa of Our Eye	The Appaloosa is a film that was made at a time when Marlon Brando's career was in the doldrums . Either films were not money makers though critically good like Reflections in a Golden Eye or they were outright duds like this one . It's not a horrible western , just not a terribly good one . Even Brando's One Eyed Jacks with a whole lot of posing was more interesting than this one . Brando plays a Confederate veteran come home to his Texas border town and the Mexican family that took him in as an orphan . He's got himself a nice Appaloosa horse that he hopes to breed as the start of a horse ranch . He also manages to come between bandit John Saxon and his woman Anajette Comer . Saxon gets his back up over it all so he steals the Appaloosa , leaving Brando to cross the Rio Grande into Mexico and track him down . All this over a horse , seems hardly worth the effort , we're not exactly talking about Trigger here . Brando and Saxon have a great old contest in trying to top each other in overacting . I leave it to your own judgment , but personally I think Saxon won the prize . Not Brando at his finest by any means .
Crawford as a T-Girl	The Boob features the talents of George K . Arthur as a naive country boy who is trying very hard to impress a young lady Gertrude Olmstead , but she can't see him for beans , much preferring the slick talking city guy Antonio D'Algy . He even puts on a big cowboy outfit , but Olmstead laughs at him , saying he's just a Tom Mix wannabe . This was my first exposure to the comic talents of George K . Arthur whose career sputtered to a halt with the coming of sound . The role he plays here would be the kind that Joe E . Brown would do in the Thirties , Red Skelton might try in the Forties and after his split from Dino , Jerry Lewis might have a go in the Fifties at . There's rumor of bootlegging being done in the area and guess what , D'Algy's at the bottom of it . I think just about anyone else can figure out where the rest of this film is going . Former Mack Sennett employees Hank Mann as the soda jerk and Charles Murray as the grizzled old time western sidekick to Arthur are featured . Murray has a very nice turn as a man who just because Prohibition is in the land is not going to let that stand in the way of that old western tradition of the saloon . In fact I've often wondered what happened to the saloon in Prohibition times and The Boob does provide something of an answer . The film might have been forgotten today , but for the presence of Joan Crawford in a secondary role as a Treasury agent . In fact that's a feminist concept many years ahead of its time . What must Eliot Ness have thought of this film ? Crawford could have been given a lot more to do in this film . In her next film she would also be in support of a silent screen comic , Harry Langdon in Tramp Tramp Tramp . The Boob was pleasantly amusing enough and it was interesting to see Joan Crawford in her silent days , something I hadn't done until now .
An Itch To Scratch	Don't Bother To Knock finds airline pilot Richard Widmark flying with more than the safety of his passengers on his mind to New York . He's on a mission to confront Anne Bancroft who's given him a ' let's call it a day ' letter . Anne works as a singer in a posh New York nightclub attached to one of the fancier hotels . After a nasty scene with Bancroft , Widmark's left with an itch to scratch . The answer might be Marilyn Monroe across the courtyard looking real provocative and arousing Widmark's interest . He gives her a call and things might be going good . Then the little girl , Donna Corcoran , wakes up from the next room and Marilyn starts to act very weird indeed . This one was one of Marilyn's first roles which exploited a little more than her beauty . She plays a troubled young lady who's just spent some time in a mental institution . Her uncle Elisha Cook , Jr . , got her that job as a babysitter for Corcoran whose parents Jim Backus and Jeanne Cagney are at a banquet in the hotel . Truth be told the role was no stretch for Marilyn given her own sad history . Widmark's not a particularly noble character here , but he's a decent enough man . He's just like millions of other men who when they lose their love , cure it with trying to love what's available . Anne Bancroft makes a nice screen debut here although I can't believe she sung those songs herself . If so , why didn't she do any more singing on screen ? Though the film gets melodramatic and the characters don't give you any real rooting interest , Don't Bother To Knock remains a landmark film for the careers of both Marilyn Monroe and Anne Bancroft .
Tragic Romance Along the Navajo Trail	In viewing Laughing Boy today I counted elements of Camille , Romeo and Juliet and Duel in the Sun in the plot of this Indian love story . Ramon Novarro plays the title role and he's a Navajo from way off in the rural part of the reservation . Lupe Velez is also a Navajo , but an orphan who is the live in mistress of William B . Davidson . It's doomed from the start . Lupe's been living too long in the white man's world and Ramon's family simply will not accept her . It ends bad for both of them . I've got a mixed reaction to the film . I've got to give some credit to MGM at that time for even attempting to make a film showing Indians as three dimensional people . They do in fact include some stereotypes , but give the studio credit for trying . Both Lupe and Ramon were big stars in the silent era and did make the transition to sound . They both had pleasant speaking voices . But both led lives that given the times should have been more discreet . They were both descending into B films at a steady pace . In Ramon's case the vogue for Latin lovers which crested with Rudolph Valentino in the silent era with Ramon as one of his imitators had long passed . MGM had trouble casting him . Laughing Boy might have been a better film if MGM had been trying to build Lupe and Ramon up instead of looking to be rid of both .
Spencer Tracy's turn at Hemingway	Ernest Hemingway's books have been filmed by Hollywood with varying degrees of success . Such stars as Gary Cooper , Gregory Peck , Tyrone Power , Rock Hudson , and Humphrey Bogart have taken a turn at being Hemingway heroes . I guess it was Spencer Tracy's turn to do it now . I'm not sure that any actor no matter how good they are could keep the audiences attention on him for 90 minutes just alone in a boat , struggling to hook the mother of all marlins . But Spencer Tracy is as good as they get and I'm not sure he did it either . But Tracy ought to be commended for trying , in fact an Oscar nomination came in the way of a commendation . One thing I will say , Tracy may have been the least vain actor on the screen . When a whole lot of his contemporaries were still doing romantic leads , Tracy let his age and everything else all hang out in this story of an old Cuban fisherman with two passions , baseball and fishing . His favorite ball player , who else but Joe DiMaggio the son of an Italian fisherman . The old man's passion ; to go fishing with Joe DiMaggio . Actually in real life , DiMaggio honed his baseball skills to get away from the life his father and the old man led . Of course there's that epic struggle with the marlin and what happens after . Hemingway goes Melville on us here , the big fish is the old man's white whale . Of course unlike Captain Ahab , it's an individual struggle , Tracy doesn't take a whole crew down with him because of his obsession . It was a great effort and Tracy and director John Sturges deserve an A for effort here in trying to film an essentially plot less story . I suppose The Old Man and the Sea found an audience with fishermen and Spencer Tracy fans .
Guarding An Inheritance	Neath The Arizona Skies finds John Wayne as the guardian of little Shirley Jean Rickert who is a half Indian little tyke who stands to inherit some really big bucks because property her Mother left before she died has oil on it . Dad's been out of the picture for some time and most believe he's dead . The Duke thinks otherwise and sets off to find him . He's got Yakima Canutt and a gang he's leading for competition who would like nothing better than to snatch the girl , kill the father if he's alive and get guardianship of the fortune . Remember this is 1934 and kidnapping stories were very commonplace in films because of the Lindbergh kidnapping a few years earlier . I wish this film had been done by a major studio with production values of same . There is a good nugget of a plot idea here and it could have been developed a lot better than it was . Still it's not bad for a Lone Star production for John Wayne and I think more than Duke devotees might like it .
Catering Bandits	Carson City has the distinction of two real western characters hiring the fictional character played by Randolph Scott to build a railroad from Virginia City to Carson City . William Sharon ( Larry Keating ) is getting very tired of having his gold shipments held up by a gang of bandits who also cater when they do a holdup . Sharon approaches banker Charles Crocker ( Thurston Hall ) who also is a big wheel in the Central Pacific railroad to build a spur line so he can ship by railroad . Of course the railroad has its opponents in Carson City and quite subtly mine owner Raymond Massey is heading the opposition . Because Massey doesn't have a working mine , he does it the easy way , he robs the gold from the other guys and then ships it as his own . Massey's the brains behind those bandit / caterers . His bandits holdup the stagecoach have the passengers removed and then show them to a picnic lunch topped off by a magnum of champagne . The other passengers don't care when the rich Larry Keating gets robbed and aren't too helpful to the law . It's unique in westerns I have to say , but it's also kind of silly , the sort of stuff you might see in a western from Roy Rogers or Gene Autry , but not Randolph Scott . Starting out with such a silly premise it was hard for me to get really into Carson City , even after it turned deadly serious with Massey trying to stop the railroad in any way he can . Randolph Scott had a unique leading lady here , radio singer Lucille Norman who sings not a note . That's a pity because the woman had a wonderful soprano . I have an album she did with Gordon MacRae of the score from The Desert Song . Lucille is the daughter of Carson City Clarion editor Don Beddoe who gets murdered by Massey when his suspicions are aroused . Lucille is also got Scott's half brother Richard Webb , TV and radio's Captain Midnight as a rival suitor and opponent of the railroad . Randy's got all kinds of personal problems for taking on this job . Carson City is also badly edited . There were a few things that were left in the air that I'm sure wound up on the cutting room floor . Randolph Scott's legion of fans will like Carson City , but it's far from his best work .
Liz and Dick and Eva Marie	Another story about middle-aged anxst . Only this time we have Richard Burton as an Episcopal minister leading a humdrum life as the head of a religious school . He's bored with his marriage too , to Eva Marie Saint . Into his life comes single mom Elizabeth Taylor who is raising her son Morgan Mason out of wedlock and living in a hippie colony on the California coast . Art imitates life as Liz gets Dick's hormones into exponential overdrive . A lot of younger members of IMDb could not possibly appreciate all the publicity surrounding Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor from the first reports of an affair on the set of Cleopatra . They were two of the best well known international celebrities anywhere . Of course producers rushed to find stories for them to do . They did a whole number of joint projects . The Sandpiper was not one of the better ones . It did have an Oscar winning song The Shadow of Your Smile which both Tony Bennett and Johnny Mathis sold a lot of records of . Liz and Dick got a good supporting cast that included Charles Bronson , Robert Webber , Tom Drake and Torin Thatcher . Thatcher plays a judge and he inadvertently gets the adultery ball rolling when he orders that Liz Taylor stop home schooling young Mason and he orders her to send him to the Episcopal school run by Burton . We certainly have come full circle . Kids are homeschooled today for religious reasons and judges would get a lot of negative publicity if they ever ordered a kid into a religious school . Charles Bronson is one of Taylor's artist friends and a militant nonbeliever . He gives atheists a bad name and is constantly giving Burton the needle . Clergy are all too human and the best of them acknowledge that . Robert Webber in his career played a whole lot of smarmy types . He's on the board at Burton's school and has had his fling with Taylor as well . This is one of his best screen roles and typical for him . Despite some good moments , The Sandpiper sinks into the level of soap opera . I would recommend seeing Cleopatra , The VIPs , or Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf if you want to see Liz and Dick at their best .
Who's Got the right of way ?	The Denver and the Rio Grande is purportedly the story of the construction of that line financed by Dean Jagger , designed by J . Carrol Naish and constructed by Edmond O'Brien . They meet some stiff opposition from the the bad railroad where Sterling Hayden and Lyle Better run things . With some elements taken from films like Union Pacific and Saratoga Trunk , Denver and the Rio Grande is entertaining , but not consistently . Part of the plot is where the baddies convince Edmond O'Brien he killed Don Haggerty . They do a weak job of it in my opinion . Unfortunately that weakness leads to some rather silly motivation on the part of other characters . What is nice is the good Rocky Mountain location photography and two very good performances by Zasu Pitts and Paul Fix in sidekick roles . They have a very cute romance going and at times they're better than the leads .
" The Riffs Will Strike With A Blow , That Leaves You Low "	The Sigmund Romberg-Otto Harbach-Oscar Hammerstein , II operetta from the Twenties , The Desert Song is given an update and World War II worked into the plot about the Caucasian leader of the Riff tribesmen of Morocco in revolt against the French Colonial government . It's in this version that the real Riff leader from the Twenties , Abdel Krim is acknowledged as reporter Lynne Overman is phoning in a story as he tells them that the new leader of the Riffs is a mysterious masked man named El Khobar . In this version Dennis Morgan is a saloon entertainer in Gene Lockhart's place by day and by night , he's the mysterious El Khobar . Like Humphrey Bogart's Rick Blaine in Casablanca he's an anti-fascist , unlike Bogey he doesn't have to be coaxed back into the fight , he's fighting the good fight albeit from a secret identity . Gene Lockhart stands in quite nicely as the intriguing saloon keeper for Sydney Greenstreet . The Ingrid of the piece is Irene Manning , another entertainer who matches her soprano to Morgan's tenor . Most movie fans remember Irene best from Yankee Doodle Dandy where she played Fay Templeton . Which brings us to the Claude Rains part , the guy who's chasing El Khobar for the Vichy government , Bruce Cabot . This film contains the most charitable view of Vichy that I've ever seen on the screen . My guess is that this one came from the top as we were probably still in negotiation with the Vichy government in what was unoccupied France . The Nazis have set up a dummy corporation in Switzerland which is funding a railroad to Dakar , the western most part of Africa , then in French West Africa . Victor Francen is the duplicitous Arab sheik who's cut a deal with them . They will build a railroad using slave labor from the Riffs who are Francen's enemies . All this under the French noses . The fact that a couple of Teutonic looking gentlemen are around Francen doesn't give anyone , but Morgan and his allies a clue , is a bit much . Morgan and Manning sing The Desert Song score beautifully , the main songs are all retained for this film . That's the main reason to see this dated film . In fact with events moving as rapidly as they were in North Africa starting in September , 1943 , this version of The Desert Song dated before it hit the screen . For myself , I certainly recognized some of the interior sets that were used on Casablanca . I'm not sure which came out first , but since everybody comes to Rick's , you'd best be going there unless you like operetta .
Happy Trails Begin	In a joint book about Roy Rogers and Dale Evans that I recently read , it seems as though Herbert J . Yates at Republic Pictures had the idea that Roy could use a regular female singing star , the better to boost the audiences for his number one B picture cowboy at the time . He had under contract one Frances Octavia Smith renamed Dale Evans who had done about nine films in minor roles . She was most prominent in John Wayne's In Old Oklahoma as a second female lead . Dale was understandably reluctant to do the film . Although she was born in Uvalde , Texas her thing was not exactly country / western . She was a band singer and a good one with Anson Weeks . Her ambition was to do musical comedy , she wanted very much to do the lead in Oklahoma and later do Annie Get Your Gun . But Yates was the boss so she agreed and the rest is history . The film they were assigned to is Cowboy and the Senorita and truth be told it's not one of the great westerns of all time . Roy and sidekick Guinn Williams get themselves involved in saving an inheritance of a gold mine from the grasp of villain John Hubbard who's about to marry Dale , the older of the two sisters . Younger sister Mary Lee has run away because she dislikes her prospective brother-in-law so much . Roy and Big Boy save the day of course . Cowboy and the Senorita is only important in that it was the first teaming of Roy Rogers and Dale Evans . They did several pictures over the next few years and eventually married after Roy's first wife Arlene Wilkins died suddenly . After that Dale only teamed with Roy occasionally until they went to television as she was busy raising Roy's kids , her son by previous marriages and their children . Until I saw this film I never knew Guinn Williams had done any films with Roy as sidekick . The version I have is the edited one for television and I think it's a lot of his footage that was edited out . Apparently he had a rivalry going with Fuzzy Knight that looked interesting and funny and I'd certainly like to have seen more of it . A historic landmark and it shows Herbert J . Yates apparently did have good business sense when it didn't involve his wife Vera Hruba Ralston . On the other hand he could have asked Roy to take Vera as his next leading lady .
One of the ' Sickest ' Films of All Time	When the original script of The Roots of Heaven was shown to John Huston , he had it in mind for William Holden to star in it . It seemed like a natural given Holden's interest in conservation . Errol Flynn remarked in his memoirs that he was looking forward to co-starring with Holden . But Bill Holden backed out of the project and not as big a movie name , Trevor Howard , was substituted . Flynn's part was then built up though clearly he's a supporting character . In any event all these guys were just there in support of Juliette Greco who was Darryl F . Zanuck's main squeeze at the time . Ms . Greco was a better actress than that other squeeze of Zanuck's Bella Darvi and she didn't come to a tragic end as poor Bella did . Huston maybe should have known better , after all he had done The African Queen on location in Africa already and knew the problems therein . The Roots of Heaven may have set some kind of record for illnesses among the cast , maybe rivaling The Conqueror . The most serious was Eddie Albert's nearly fatal case of sunstroke . It was reported that Errol Flynn kept the illness at bay by consuming large quantities of gin on location . He had the most to worry about as he had chronic malaria , acquired in his youth in the New Guinea jungles that kicked up on him every now and then . Of course right after the film , he was reported to suffer a major attack of it and was in hospital for weeks . The story never quite takes off . It's about Trevor Howard's efforts to save the elephant population and the lack of interest therein among most of the natives who depend on the ivory trade for a livelihood . Conservation is a noble cause , but it's usually talked about by those who've already plundered their area already for its resources and are now telling others what to do . Howard's cause never quite gets off the ground and sad to say , neither does the film . Maybe it could be made today with better results .
You'll Live Through It	In the one and only film Gary Cooper and Joan Crawford made together , unless you count their joint cameo in It's A Great Feeling , it's one very old fashioned wartime soap opera set in the United Kingdom during World War I and then in France . Howard Hawks maybe was the wrong director for this film . It might have been better handled by someone like Frank Borzage or George Cukor where they might have made the tender romantic lines believable . I don't think anyone would have believed Joan Crawford as British . Elegant she does look however in those gowns she was famous for in her early films . Joan shouldn't be blamed for not sounding British . The story involves a mixture of British and American characters . But in checking out the entire cast list , I found only three of them were actually born across the pond and another born in Australia . Where was the fabled Hollywood British colony in this film . ? Gary Cooper is an American aviator who takes over Joan's estate following the death of her father . She's already involved with fellow countryman Robert Young who's in His Majesty's Navy . Also around is her brother Franchot Tone who gives the best performance in the film . As we all know this was Tone's first film with the woman who became his wife in a couple of years . The romance is pure soap opera with Joan going back and forth from Cooper to Young and back . You know that someone is going to have to do the decent thing . If you're interested you can watch the film for who does . Courtesy of Hawks's earlier masterpiece and from Mr . Howard Hughes came some nice aerial footage from Hell's Angels . Aviation enthusiasts if there willing to sit through the drama will get a real treat with all the vintage World War I aircraft . It's too bad Cooper and Crawford did not get something better . Of course Gary later worked with Howard Hawks on Sergeant York and Ball of Fire . Now those are films not to be missed .
Deanna's lovely voice	Can't Help Singing featuring Deanna Durbin singing those wonderful Jerome Kern-E . Y . Harburg songs either solo or with Robert Paige is nice musical entertainment . So entertaining it can even be forgiven some very illogical plot premises . Deanna's the daughter of a United States Senator who's run away from home to catch up to her beau , cavalry lieutenant David Bruce . On the wagon train west to California she hooks up with gambler Robert Paige and a couple of Russian con artists , Akim Tamiroff and Leonid Kinsky . Maybe I am being picky , but I cannot understand for the life of me why Deanna's father Ray Collins had such a problem with David Bruce . He sees him as an opportunist , but at the time of the California gold rush when this film is set , there was in fact a very famous marriage by an army lieutenant to a prominent Senator's daughter . That would be John C . Fremont wedding Jessie Benton , daughter of Senator Thomas Hart Benton . Of course an ambitious army lieutenant is no match for his sugarplum , but hooking up with a gambler is all right . Doesn't make any sense no matter how many times I see Can't Help Singing . Still when Jerome Kern writes the music , a whole multitude of sins are forgiven . Universal spent quite a bit of money on this film , probably more than they'd spend on three Abbott and Costello films and those two were Universal's bread and butter at this time . In fact Kinsky and Tamiroff make a very funny pair . Maybe they should have teamed more often . Can't Help Singing is good musical entertainment , just learn to live with the ridiculous plot .
Spreading The Ramone Gospel	If you're not a fan of the post disco music scene that The Ramones represented you're probably not going to like Rock " N " Roll High School . And if you do nothing that I or any other reviewer says will influence you in the slightest degree . There's no plot in this anarchistic film by Roger Corman , but that's part of the fun . It involves new school principal Miss Togar from the Ilsa Koch's Buchenwald school of education trying to restore some discipline to Vince Lombardi High School . Her main opponent is P . J . Soles who has dedicated her life to spreading the gospel of The Ramones to her peers . But in Mary Woronov as principal Togar , she's got a ruthless adversary . There's a subplot going involving young Vincent Van Patten looking for some sex from somewhere . Here it gets a bit ridiculous because I can't believe Vincent Van Patten couldn't get any female or gay male if that was what he might want . He plays the same kind of goofy teenager that David Cassidy did on The Partridge Family . Of course all this is an excuse to play a whole lot of Ramone songs including the title song of this film . Stylistically Rock ' N ' Roll High School borrows from A Hard Day's Night and from Grease and the mix is good . It ain't exactly my kind of music and it's not O'Neill or Shakespeare , but the film is amusing and harmless . And the ending is the dream of a lot of teenagers .
" What A Built "	Doris Day as Ethel ' Dynamite ' Jackson gets a letter from the State Department saying that she's been chosen to be an American representative at an Arts Festival in Paris . The letter was supposed to go to Ethel Barrymore instead . Doris had written the State Department about a work permit visa to work at a nightclub in Montreal . It's a faux pas of the highest order that State Department bureaucrat Ray Bolger has committed and he tries to rectify the situation . But when the press gets a hold of it , the thing becomes a popular move . So Bolger's boss Paul Harvey puts him in charge of getting Doris's diplomatic etiquette up to speed . For better or worse Bolger and Day are going to spend April In Paris together . The popular Vernon Duke-E . Y . Harburg standard serves as the title for this film and Warner Brothers got Vernon Duke to write the balance of the score with Sammy Cahn's lyrics . Nothing really outstanding here , but the score fits well with styles of the two leads . Doris is great as always , the problem here is Bolger and the part he plays . Ray Bolger was a great personality on stage who but for two roles never quite was able to translate the same popularity to the big screen . One role was of course the Scarecrow in The Wizard Of Oz and the other was the lead in Charley's Aunt . And both of those were comic parts . As a traditional screen lead Ray never quite made it . In fact in watching April In Paris I couldn't quite see what Doris saw in him . Of course with her attraction it was obvious as Bolger so succinctly put it , ' What a Built ' . Ray plays a traditional WASP stuffed shirt diplomat who is engaged to the demanding daughter of Harvey , Eve Miller . Getting involved with Day was not an upward career move . Of course Doris sparks the attention of Claude Dauphin who's working his way back to France on the same ship that Bolger and Day and company are traveling . She has a nice number with Dauphin in a Parisian nightclub . Bolger's big moment on the screen is a very nicely staged fantasy number where portraits of Lincoln and Washington come alive and dance with him as Bolger dreams about his future . It was as creative as something Gene Kelly or Fred Astaire might have done . Still Ray is not quite leading man material and the film can't overcome that . Fans of Doris and Ray will like it though , but I fear it's not one of Doris Day's best films .
Rescuing Paul Fix	Henry B . Walthall goes to bat for John Wayne after an overzealous sheriff charges him with a crime during a rodeo . Henry likes Wayne's riding skill and he reminds him of his lost son who fled after being accursed of a murder and hooked up with a murderous gringo gang South of the Border . Wayne repays Walthall's kindness and goes to Mexico to search for Walthall's son played by Paul Fix . Paul Fix , very good friend of the Duke and father-in-law of Harry Carey , Jr . , had more films with John Wayne than any other player . This was the second joint venture for the two of them and the last would be Cahill , U . S . Marshal , 40 years later . Fix is in a terrible fix , the gang who took him in is one of those once in , never out outfits . But Wayne with the help of his trusty horse Duke sets things to right . Of course Duke the horse plays a mighty big hand in the final showdown . Somewhere in Sonora entertained many a kid at the bottom half of a double bill for Warner Brothers on a Saturday afternoon . It still holds up pretty good today .
When Giants Roamed The Earth	Back in ancient Sumeria when supernatural creatures were roaming the Earth with the descendants of Adam and Eve , they mated with humans and created a race of giants . But when the Deity decided to flood the Earth they were lost . All except one who was mummified and dad in the person of Navid Negahban has come back to resurrect him and establish his reign on Earth . An archaeological team headed by Casper Van Dien and Kristen Miller are his unwitting accomplices . And Negahban has other Snidely Whiplash like plans for Miller . For a product from the Science Fiction Channel I found myself really liking this film that takes itself so seriously it's good fun . Veterans like Geoffrey Lewis , Robert Wagner , and Tom Bosley in an atrocious Jewish accent as a rabbi / scholar seem to be enjoying themselves while waiting for the paychecks to clear . Best performance in the film is young Scott Whyte , late of City Guys TNBC series who has some rather droll lines written into the script for him which he delivers with aplomb . Not the worst thing the Science Fiction Channel has done .
Made Up as he went along	In his autobiography , Charlton Heston spent more time talking about this film than any other . Some other commentator said that it looked like someone took over the direction . The commentator was very observant . Heston had to take over the direction because Sam Peckinpah just lost interest and began indulging in all kinds of vices down on location in Mexico which I won't get into . Read Heston's book . Suffice it to say that he was unable to go to the set , for any number of reasons . Heston says that Peckinpah was making it up as he went along and the film sure looks it . The plot just meanders into various situations that this motley crew of Indian fighters encounter . Heston also said that he violated a rule of his own to never start a film without a complete script , something he never did again . The film is an incredible waste of fine talented cast . Charlton Heston and I both think the film had real possibilities and that Sam Peckinpah was a flawed talent . If you want to see the film , read Charlton Heston's account of its making .
The Man In The Gray Suit	Mister Buddwing , a curious made up name for the lead character , finds James Garner as a man who wakes up in Central Park without a clue as to who he is . All he has are a couple of scraps of paper with a phone number on one , an address on another and the name of Grace ringing through his clouded mind . From this he tries to build an identity . He's also given some reason to suspect he's an escaped mental patient . He also runs into during the course of his day , three women , Suzanne Pleshette , Katharine Ross , and Jean Simmons all of whom as his fevered mind flashes back , play the elusive Grace at some point in his life . And they're three very different Graces . We do find out he was married to Grace . Some of the issues involving amnesia were done better in Mirage which starred Gregory Peck and Diane Baker and in Garner's own film 36 Hours . In 36 Hours however Garner is made to think he's developed amnesia . Here it's the real deal , the hysterical kind after some kind of mental trauma . Mirage is a much better film however , far more suspenseful . Mister Buddwing is interesting , but really does lack suspense as a whole . Jim Garner does his best with the Buddwing character , but you really don't develop a rooting interest in him . Best in the film is Angela Lansbury who plays an Adelaide from Guys and Dolls type character , presumably after she finally married Nathan Detroit and settle down somewhat . She only has two scenes , but you really remember her . Especially now since the character is so different from Jessica Fletcher or Mame Dennis roles we know her far better for . The role must have been thought of as a challenge for James Garner , but I think he was betrayed by a flawed story .
America Guarded By A Nest of WASPS	I came away from The Good Shepherd terribly disappointed . A really talented cast was very wasted in this fictional retelling of over 20 years of American espionage . The USA got into the spy game on a permanent basis real late . We had intelligence services during all of our Wars up to World War II . It was deemed something to be handled by the military up until then . Our attitude was best summed up by Henry L . Stimson who said that line about ' gentlemen do not read other gentlemen's mail . ' Stimson served in the cabinet of three American presidents and the last one , Franklin D . Roosevelt , had a different view of espionage . Knowing that the USA would be entering World War II sooner or later he felt the need for this country to have an espionage agency , the equal and superior of what our friends and foes had . The man he selected was World War I hero and Congressional Medal of Honor winner , William J . Donovan . In previous films he's been portrayed by George Brent in The Fighting 69th and Joseph Crehan in O . S . S . That is General Sullivan who director Robert DeNiro portrays . Donovan by all accounts did an outstanding job in organizing the Office of Strategic Services . But for some reason the OSS was disbanded after World War II . Bill Donovan ran afoul of Roosevelt's successor Harry S . Truman and there's lots of speculation what caused the rift . Truman's memoirs are silent on the issue . Anyway from 1945 until 1947 when the Central Intelligence Agency was born , we had no espionage agency . Those were critical years and this country played a whole lot of catch up . Donovan aka Sullivan had nothing to do with the CIA , in fact was frozen out of the agency . A whole lot of his people joined it though , including our fictional protagonist Edward Wilson as played by Matt Damon . This is the most glaring factual error of The Good Shepherd . Matt Damon is our WASP type protagonist who joins the OSS after graduation from Yale . He's a member of Skull and Bones , the elite fraternity of Yale and the OSS and CIA did in fact try to recruit among America's WASP first families on the theory that they had the most to lose if the country went down the toilet . Not true however that it was exclusively a WASP preserve . The personal story is the best part . The demands of his job put an unbelievable strain on his marriage , one by the way that resulted from a pregnancy during a one night stand with Angelina Jolie . Look for a good performance by William Hurt as Philip Allen aka Allen Dulles . The Dulles family God only knows has been accused of a lot of things , many of them true . No one ever accused them of being thieves however , the failure of the Bay of Pigs was enough reason for John F . Kennedy to demand Allen Dulles's resignation not some Swiss bank accounts . In contrast to Hurt look also for a small role from Joe Pesci as the Italian Mafia guy who's lost big bucks when Castro took over the hotels and casinos . As I write this , a whole lot of American companies are ready to move back into Havana once Fidel Castro no longer fogs a mirror . Only it won't be the Joe Pescis who will lead them . I don't know if anyone remembers , but shortly after the U . S . government issued a clarion call for those who were gifted in Farsi , Arabic and all kinds of exotic languages . Just because the Cold War ended and the Soviet Union went out of business , didn't mean a happy ending . Our biggest intelligence failure was a basic one , the failure to perceive a new threat . We were still turning out experts in Russian and Chinese from our universities including the elite Ivy League ones like Yale . Only now are we turning out the experts needed for a new challenge . Again , playing catch up . Matt Damon's self contained performance and a talented cast in support are reasons to see The Good Shepherd . Don't take a short cut and write any term papers based on this film .
Not following the family plan	This Lifetime film involves the richest kid in a small Texas town who falls for a girl from the other side of the tracks . Much is made of the lack of identity of the girl's father , but in the end that turns out to be quite irrelevant to the proceedings . There's no anonymity in a small town like this . Maybe if young Polly Cusumanno had grown up in a big city , her past might have disappeared , but in a place like this everyone knows everyone's business . Including Marshall Teague , the richest guy in town . He wants son Chad Allen to marry the banker's daughter in fact he insists on Chad standing up Polly and taking Shonda Farr to the senior prom . They do have a rendezvous after the prom though . Teague and his wife Gretchen German are an interesting pair though , a bit freaky . They are also single minded in training Chad's younger sister Kaitlyn Lewis to be a new Miss Junior Texas . Seeing her in that pageant reminded me of Jon Benet Ramsey and what her parents must have been like . A serious crisis brings the parties together though not quite all at once . What Matters Most is not bad for a Lifetime Channel production . Viewers from Texas seem to think it captured the culture very well and who am I to argue ?
Starving Out A Town	Blue Steel finds sheriff Gabby Hayes on the trail of a bandit known as the Polka Dot Bandit by his distinctive polka dot neckerchief . After a robbery at a local hotel , Hayes has reason to suspect a tall stranger played by John Wayne as the bandit . But before he can act on his suspicions both of them get themselves involved in foiling a scheme by a group of outlaws who are starving out a town and they're an especially murderous bunch , attacking supply trains and killing everyone on the trains . It's not too hard to figure out who's behind all this dirty work , especially when you hear one of the town's leading citizens make a ' sacrificial ' offer for everyone's land . Wayne and Hayes come to the same conclusion as the audience does and spend the rest of the film foiling the dastardly scheme . Blue Steel has lots of action in it , the action covers up some of the holes in the storyline . The villain also has designs on the daughter of another town leading citizen and Eleanor Hunt plays the daughter in the best Little Nell manner of all those Victorian morality plays . Still John Wayne and Gabby Hayes work well together and it's not the best or the worst of Wayne's Lone Star films .
The Case of the Stuttering Gangster	Mr . and Mrs . Charles Bronson co-star in Love and Bullets . He as a cop and she as a protected witness . She needed a lot of protection . It's an average Bronson action / adventure saga , but with the unusual twist that Jill Ireland actually comes off much better than her husband does . I did enjoy her saucy portrayal of mobster Rod Steiger's moll . It's a combination of Judy Holliday's Billie Dawn and Tammy Faye Bakker . I'll tell you this Tammy Faye must have been the makeup consultant for Jill on this film . Rod Steiger has an interesting part as a gangster with a stutter . He's persuaded by his associates to do in the woman he loves because they're all afraid she'll rat them out . Broderick Crawford's solution was to finally propose marriage to Holliday in Born Yesterday . Jill might actually have done it . Instead she's chosen for a rub out and Bronson is the Phoenix City detective who travels to Switzerland to get her back and into protective custody . He's a by the book cop , until the end when he evolves into his Death Wish character . Love and Bullets said to say can't really make its mind up whether it's a straight action / adventure or satire of same . Indecision costs it many points from reviewers , but Bronson fans should like it .
Bronson Turns Punk and Morey Goes Gay	For anyone who's looking for the real story of George ' Machine-Gun ' Kelly they'll be in for a disappointment . In the wake of the success of The Untouchables on television , Hollywood was rediscovering the gangster era and the criminals that were household names in the Twenties and Thirties . Both the major studios and independents like Roger Corman took a crack at all their stories . Although Kelly in real life was as big a punk as Charles Bronson plays him here , this is not his real story by a mile . Still Bronson does a good job and in fact this was the first film in which he was given first billing . He turns out in the film to be very good at bullying people , but when in a fight for his life , does a begging act that hadn't seen a cinematic equal since James Cagney turned yellow going to the chair in Angels With Dirty Faces . The one with the real gonads in the outfit is his wife played by Susan Cabot . In fact Kelly is even intimidated by her mother , beautifully played by Connie Gilchrist as a bordello madam . She's a woman who's been handling his type for years . The most interesting character in the film is Morey Amsterdam playing the flamboyantly gay Fandango , Kelly mob member . This was a time when gay was practically invisible and only an independent producer / director like Roger Corman in 1958 would have had a gay character . Would that Amsterdam played a positive role model or that a positive role model was in the film to counterbalance . Amsterdam is very stereotypical and at that time there was no organized gay movement to protest . Over twenty years later there was a great hue and cry over the film Cruising and that would have been nothing had Machine-Gun Kelly come out then . Machine-Gun Kelly is far from the best work that either Roger Corman or Charles Bronson ever did . Still it might be of interest for the curious . Oh , and Kelly never utters those words he allegedly said about the FBI giving them their nickname of G-Men .
Perestroika Saves The World	Meteor and When Time Ran Out marked the end of the decade of the disaster epic . I guess that Hollywood was just running out of ideas and that the formula of getting a bunch of big name players and put them in harm's way was wearing thin . You can see that just about everybody here is bored , they all say the lines without any real conviction . Except for Martin Landau . As an Air Force General and Cold Warrior of the first order , he's extremely upset that the USA and the USSR have buried their differences to work on a real immediate problem . He resents Russians Brian Keith and Natalie Wood in the war room and Landau overacts outrageously . A comet hurtling through the asteroid belt hit one of the big asteroids and sent one big chunk of rock and a whole bunch smaller ones as space calling cards speeding to Earth . That big guy if it hits spells the end of life on the planet . Some criticism has been made that the special effects were a bit cheesy . By today's standards of course they were . So are some of those of the great Cecil B . DeMille . That's progress for you . I'm not sure but this may have been the first time that Natalie Wood played someone of her own ancestry on film . Too bad she and Sean Connery as the NASA scientist didn't get to do something better before she passed away . All the stars got a good pay day out of this though Sean Connery said there were some real scary moments with the cast trying to escape through the subway system with all the mud . A few times some people came close to really being buried in it for art's sake . And this isn't a film to give your life for .
Not Your Current View of Andy Johnson	Though Tennessee Johnson boasts fine performances by Van Heflin , Ruth Hussey , and Lionel Barrymore as Andrew Johnson , Eliza McCardle Johnson , and Thaddeus Stevens respectively , the wrong story about Johnson was told here . The accepted historical view of Andrew Johnson's presidency now is that had he been a bit more of a politician and also had been able to rise above the prejudices of his poor white class , the whole impeachment would never have happened . His actions through the use of the presidential veto in stalling the Reconstruction set racial equality in the USA aside for a century . Men of good will on both sides had they been willing to give a little might have settled on a compromise Reconstruction policy without all the rancor that characterized it and U . S . politics for decades . The real story is Andy Johnson's rise to the presidency . As is showed here young Johnson arrives in Tennessee escaping a kind of slavery of his own . He was an indentured servant to a tailor and learned the trade , but after differences with his employer in his native North Carolina , Johnson escapes to Tennessee . Andrew Johnson is the only United States president who never spent one day inside a school classroom . He was taught to read and write by the woman who later became Mrs . Johnson . There's was a real love story , one of the most romantic in our history . Johnson's real moment of courage was after a slow rise up the political ladder that saw him elected as Mayor of Greenville , Tennessee , the state legislature , the House of Representatives , governor and then senator from Tennessee . In 1861 he was the only southern Senator to not walk out of the Senate when the south seceded . He became military governor of Tennessee when the Union Army captured enough of it to set up a government . Johnson's very life was in peril every minute from the firing on Fort Sumter to Lee's surrender at Appomattox . That's a story worth telling . Unfortunately Johnson represented the poor white class in Tennessee and saw freed slaves as a rival labor force . He had all the prejudices of his class and wasn't hesitant to voice them . That part of the story is not told in Tennessee Johnson . I did like Charles Dingle's performance as Senator Waters , why he wasn't given his real name in history of that of Ben Wade of Ohio is beyond me . As President Pro Tempore of the Senate with no sitting Vice President , he was first in line of succession had Johnson been impeached . From what I know of Ben Wade , Dingle fitted the role well . Though it made good cinema , Andrew Johnson never addressed the Senate personally during his impeachment trial . There was an ill Senator who cast a deciding vote that saved Johnson's presidency . But unlike William Farnum's character of Senator Valley , James Grimes of Iowa had been felled by a stroke and no one expected him to be in the Senate that day . But he was carried in and voted not guilty . The real story of Andrew Johnson is one of the most dramatic about one who turned out to be one of our worst presidents . Too bad it wasn't told in Tennessee Johnson .
The Movies Love Billy	I don't think Paul Newman was ever at his best in the west . Certainly not in this film . But fans of his will like it . The Billy the Kid saga has been told so often at this point on film , I don't think it's possible to write a spoiler . The actual truth has never really been told because the participants in the Lincoln County War in New Mexico were not all good or all bad on either side . Just a couple of political factions jockeying for power with both legal and illegal means at their disposal . Paul Newman is usually at his best laconic and cynical . A Newman on dexadrine is not something I'm used to . He's rather hyper in The Left Handed Gun . We've seen every kind of version from matinée idol Robert Taylor whose film dispensed with all the real names except William Bonney that were in the story to the Two Young Guns Movies . Emilio Estevez was a juvenile delinquent gone west in those films and that's probably closer to the truth . Of course no version quite matches Howard Hughes's The Outlaw . That one has to be seen to be believed . The Left Handed Gun falls somewhere in the middle range of films about Billy the Kid neither the best or worst . I think John Dehner as Pat Garrett probably comes out the best in this film .
Sabotaging The Saboteurs	If you want to know about Guantanamo and the precedent for all those enemy alien combatants being kept there , a viewing of They Came To Blow Up America is in order . Given the title and when it came out I found it to be more restrained in the flag waving than I thought . Not to say it doesn't have its problems and a more factual basis in the story might be in order if the tale is ever retold . They Came To Blow Up America finds George Sanders returning home from South America to New York , specifically the Yorkville area in Manhattan where German Americans predominated back in the day and where in some quarters the German American Bund was popular . Not in his household though , his parents Ludwig Stossel and Elsa Janssen are heartbroken over George going to the Nazis . In fact Ludwig takes to bed physically ill over it . Ludwig Stossel and Elsa Janssen the year before played Lou Gehrig's parents in Pride of the Yankees . Of course the Nazis recruit Sanders and he goes off to Nazi Germany in secret to their spy / saboteur school run by the Gestapo . Note the similarities of those training scenes to scenes later in our films about the OSS in 13 Rue Madeline , Cloak and Dagger , and OSS . But fear not Ludwig and Elsa , turns out this is all one big ruse by the FBI , George is working with them to sabotage the saboteurs and FBI agent Ward Bond is his handler in today's terms . Of course when Bond like a dope tells Stossel feeling sorry for the old gent , he nearly blows up their plans . It wasn't as bad a bit of flag waving as I thought it would be and the story does have a factual basis . Still everyone involved has done better work . After all Ward Bond did star in Hitler , Dead or Alive . Go screen that one before you criticize They Came To Blow Up America .
Taking On The KKK	Not that the subject matter of Storm Warning lends itself to music , but isn't it fascinating that Warner Brothers cast two of the best female musical performers in the history of film as the two leads . Sisters even . For Ginger Rogers this was hardly her first dramatic part , having won an Oscar for Kitty Foyle . But this was Doris Day's first non-singing role and she acquits herself very well . Ginger gets off a Greyhound Bus in some small southern town where her married younger sister Doris lives with her husband Steve Cochran . In those wee small hours during the graveyard shift , Ginger witnesses a murder committed by several men in white sheets . And lo and behold she recognizes one of them as Doris's husband . Cochran is the best one in the film , a real boorish lout of a redneck . But Doris loves him although bit by bit she gets disillusioned . Rogers spends the whole film trying to make Doris see Cochran for what he is . The Ku Klux Klan might have been the Elks in white sheets . No pun intended , but they get quite a white washing here . No mention at all of their racism or hatred of Catholics , Jews , and foreign born of all kinds . Still they are a nasty bunch who have a habit of doing in people who disagree with them . Ronald Reagan here is a District Attorney who is bland in a very poorly written role . The problem with the Klan was that the various county District Attorneys in the south were more than likely Klan members or who at best just looked the other way . After all these cretins with the hoods were the very voters who put in the District Attorneys . When the Klan was prosecuted , if witnesses were found against it back in those days , it was always done at the federal level by appointed United States Attorneys . Still Cochran and Day got the deserved best notices for this film which unfortunately defuses the issues it brings up .
Studying Art In Gay Paree	Harry Gribbon former Mack Sennett Keystone Cop and Shemp Howard sometime Stooge are a pair of house painters who get a once in a lifetime opportunity for an art scholarship . All they have to do is do it under the aliases provided by James Stewart and Don Tomkins who are being forced to go to Paris and study art by their rich mater and pater . If you can believe that , you'll believe anything . Just as I never thought I would see a film where Shemp Howard was billed over Jimmy Stewart . Yet this Vitagraph short subject marked the film debut of a screen legend . Gribbon and Shemp are living it up in Gay Paree with the money sent by the parents of the guys they're impersonating after each pre-written letter that they send . Still they manage to screw up the arrangement . Highlight of the short subject for me is Shemp Howard attempting to do the apache dance and getting the roles reversed . Art Trouble is a mildly amusing short that would be totally forgotten today if a screen icon weren't in it .
" Let's Go to Mexico "	Ann-Margret has hired John Wayne and company to find some stolen gold that her husband along with other outlaws had robbed . It's in Mexico , a four day ride according to her . So off our intrepid group goes to Mexico . Of course those other outlaws are after it also so therein lies the tale . Burt Kennedy did so much better for the Duke in The War Wagon than in this one . Pity because the chemistry between the cast is pretty good . If this were back in the days of B westerns , I can easily see Wayne with Ben Johnson and Rod Taylor in a kind of Three Mesquiteer series with a bigger budget . There are so few action sequences . The chemistry is good , but that's only part of it . In my review of The Comancheros I mentioned that Wayne and Stuart Whitman's chemistry was excellent and it carried the film . But there was a LOT more action in The Comancheros than in The Train Robbers . It's only 90 minutes and that is short for a feature film by 1973 . There is a real explosive climax with the nameless , faceless , villains that have been pursuing the group at the end . And Ricardo Montalban's Pinkerton man at the end really gives an unexpected twist to the proceedings . That was pure Burt Kennedy . I think most fans of John Wayne will be disappointed in this one .
Another Three Mile Island	Since this film was a product made for the Science Fiction channel you would expect to have all kinds of unearthly creatures from space or newly rediscovered earth monsters in it . For Atomic Twister you would be wrong . The title is terribly misleading . No monsters arise from a tornado . A tornado is the cause of things , in fact a couple of them hit a nuclear power plant creating all kinds of problems for acting director of the facility Sharon Lawrence . The plot is completely ripped off from both The China Syndrome and the real life Three Mile Island near disaster from 1979 . In many ways Atomic Twister is a throwback to the disaster films of the Seventies . Stars Sharon Lawrence , Mark-Paul Gosselaar , and Corbin Bernson give decent performances in a disaster film that has all the standard clichés of same . Still it's an unusual product from the Science Fiction network and easy to take .
A Place To Hone Talent	For Will Rogers last film it was a reunion of sorts because he got to play opposite Billie Burke who as we know was the widow of Will's great theatrical benefactor , Florenz Ziegfeld . Ziegfeld died quite broke as a result of the stock market crash and Burke was out in Hollywood trying to support her daughter by going back to work . I'm sure this was one reason why she and Rogers worked together in Doubting Thomas . The film is based on the George Kelly play The Torchbearers which had a run of 135 performances . It's been updated to change the plot from theatrical hopefuls to movie hopefuls . This is not a play that's revived too often today because the message of a woman who ought to know her place is in the home would not be received well . Will and Billie play a middle aged married couple who are happy except that Billie has a theatrical urge and thinks she's talented . She's under the spell of Alison Skipworth , the grande dame of their town who is putting on theatrical productions with some of the town's citizens . I've got mixed feelings about the film and its message , I'm not sure what Kelly was trying to say . One of the great losses with the age of mass communications was the number of home based and touring companies where players learned their trade . Of course Skipworth and her pretensions are great fun . But it is in those companies that talent is honed and refined . Actors need a place to be bad in while they learn the trade . In fact Alison Skipworth played this same role on Broadway , she's the only member of the Broadway cast to repeat her performance . In fact when she's on , you forget about Will and Billie . The best part of the film is the production and all that goes wrong with it and Skipworth ready to have a nervous breakdown . Rogers is in the audience and making rather trenchant comments to Frank Albertson who serves as his son and straight man . Doubting Thomas is dated and certainly politically incorrect for today . But Will , Billie , and Alison put it across nicely .
Kanoodle And Tell	This particular Perry Mason television film , The Case of the Reckless Romeo , is distinguished for having Geraldo Rivera play a version of himself and well on the screen . It was almost a shame to have him killed off , he was the best thing about this film . Like Geraldo in real life , Geraldo is the host of a tabloid television talk show and he's written some tell all memoirs about the women of whom he's had carnal knowledge of . But whereas in real life some of them issued denials altogether and some just didn't comment , these women are furious . But unfortunately one of them made the mistake of having the cameras rolling when she threatened to do Geraldo in . She's the star of an action television series , so when Geraldo is done in , she's the one who needs the services of Perry Mason . The other thing The Case of the Reckless Romeo is noted for is the presence of Tracy Nelson who comes from a distinguished show business family , the daughter of Ricky and the granddaughter of Ozzie and Harriet , with her husband William R . Moses . Tracy plays a kind of budding Geraldo like journalist herself and she's carving an agenda all her own in this episode . There's a cute subplot about Raymond Burr being constantly reminded that it's Barbara Hale's birthday coming up . As if someone as sharp as Perry Mason would ever forget Della Street's birthday .
Disaster Film On A Budget	The Neptune Factor deals with some scientists who live and work out of an undersea lab in the Atlantic Ocean . One fine day while their bosses , Walter Pidgeon , Yvette Mimieux , and Ernest Borgnine are up top , an earthquake occurs and the lab topples over into an underwater crevice . Though an atomic power submarine could stay down there indefinitely the problem is that crevice is way too small for one of those big boys . A smaller type submarine able to withstand the pressures of the very deep is needed and that's where Ben Gazzara and his ship the Neptune come in . As disaster films go The Neptune Factor is small potatoes special effects wise . It's a Canadian production and I've seen Hollywood come up with worse films spending a ton more money than was done here . The special effects such as they are , are merely movie films of some ordinary species of marine life blown up several times their size , because these are the creatures the crew finds down at depths that man hasn't been before . It's beautiful undersea photography just like a trip to Marineland . It's a no frills production , no subplots of any kind , no social interaction of any kind with the crew , just do the mission and go home . That's why it was given a G rating when first released . If you love Jacques Cousteau , you'll love this film .
All You Have To Do Is Ask Any Girl	Shirley MacLaine made her film debut a scant four years earlier in The Trouble With Harry and in her third film , Around the World in 80 Days , co-starred with David Niven . Reportedly they did not get along on the set , Niven felt she wasn't suited for the part of a Hindu princess and after seeing it I think you would agree . MacLaine really made her mark in the following year by blowing all the rest of the cast off the screen in Some Came Running . Had it not been the year for Susan Hayward's I Want to Live , Shirley would have gotten her Oscar back in 1958 . David Niven had won his Oscar in 1958 for Separate Tables so both of them were box office then . Seemed only natural team them up again and this time MacLaine is most suitable for her role as a hopeful career girl in Ask Any Girl . Shirley's fresh from the country having made her way to New York in the hopes of getting a career going and / or landing husband . She develops quite a few potential suitors along the way . Ask Any Girl is a combination of Sabrina plus elements of any number of Doris Day vehicles that came out at that time . Eventually Shirley winds up at an advertising agency run by two brothers . Older brother David Niven runs the agency and younger brother Gig Young views the place as fertile ground for female companionship . MacLaine exasperates Niven , she's not real good at anything , but he's given up all hope in Young just settling down and tending to business . He sees maybe MacLaine just might be what Young needs , or maybe just what the elegant , but stuffy Niven needs . The principal players go through roles they were all seasoned veterans at handling . Ask Any Girl is pleasant enough entertainment though looking back I wonder just what the very outspoken feminist Shirley MacLaine thinks of this husband hunting woman she plays here .
Getting The Duke Out Of France	Reunion in France finds Joan Crawford as an upper class French woman happily engaged to industrialist Philip Dorn and confident that the French army will defend the Maginot Line and the Germans will be defeated once they make a move west . Of course history and the film both tell us it didn't work out that way . When she arrives back in Paris because she's away in the country when the surrender happens , she finds that the Germans have taken over her house to use as office space , but they've permitted her to occupy one room on the ground level with its own entrance to the street . That's a minor inconvenience compared to when she learns that her fiancé is collaborating with the Nazis . Around that time a young flier with the RAF Eagle Squadron , John Wayne , accosts her in the street and gets her to take him in . He's escaped from Nazi custody and looking to get back to Great Britain . This is a minor film in the credits of both John Wayne and Joan Crawford in there one and only film together . Crawford was being slowly eased out at MGM and she knew it . Still she was a professional if nothing else and gives the role her best . The part called for her to look chic and those Adrian gowns were in play again . John Wayne doesn't even get into the film until almost 40 minutes into the story . When he does get in , even though he makes a play for Crawford , the Duke has some real problems as Crawford in order to help him has to play up to Dorn and his Nazi friends . It's not the John Wayne we're used to because it really isn't his film . There's been some criticism by other reviewers that Crawford doesn't sound French . Then again neither does anyone else in the film . The rest of the cast . The cast in fact has a variety of European and American accents , Frenchmen weren't in good supply at that point in Hollywood , either that or they were otherwise committed . Surely Crawford was no more French sounding than Humphrey Bogart in Passage to Marseille . Albert Basserman is the commanding general in Paris and the fellow who Dorn cultivates . John Carradine may be the best one in the film as the Gestapo agent who knows there's something fishy with Crawford , but can't quite prove it . Both the Duke and Joan Crawford had better days ahead of them . Still the film is a curiosity and worth a look .
The Consolation Prize	We're it not for the fact that Bette Davis won her first Academy Award in Dangerous , this film would hardly be remembered by anyone except the most ardent Bette Davis fans . There were a number of films that woman carried by sheer force of nature and this is probably the best example of one . Her character of Joyce Heath is rather obviously based on Jeanne Eagels who was only dead six years and who many had vivid memories of on stage and screen . In fact at one point in the film it's mentioned that a play that Franchot Tone is interested in being the financial backer of could only be played by Bette's character Joyce Heath and Jeanne Eagels . Franchot Tone is a dapper successful young architect to the rich and famous and he's got a few bucks himself and he's engaged to society débutante Margaret Lindsay . But one fateful night he meets up with Bette Davis who was once big , but is now down and out . She broke many a heart in her day and even she considers herself a jinx to any who get involved with her . That don't stop Tone who hears his hormones calling . You will not forget Bette as the hedonistic and reckless Joyce Heath , she really dominates this film . Because of that and because there was a big outcry about her not even being nominated the year before for Of Human Bondage , Davis got a nomination and to her surprise got the Oscar for Best Actress . If the criteria for winning an Oscar is carrying a mediocre film to glory than Bette deserved it . There have been a few times in Academy history that a performance of a star just totally dominates the film , the best examples I can think of besides this is Jose Ferrer is Cyrano DeBergerac and Susan Hayward in I Want To Live . But both Jose and Susan had a whole lot better material to work with . Even Davis while proud of the Oscar thought the film mediocre , the way Elizabeth Taylor felt about Butterfield 8 . Part of the reason is that the Code had come into being . If this film had been made a year or two earlier we would not have had the absolute cop out of a finish . Still Bette's fans will love it , no doubt .
Zealously Guarding Home And Hearth	Before Laramie became infamously known as the location of Matthew Shepard's murder it was best known as the title of a western set there in old west Wyoming . The premise was young Slim Sherman as played by John Smith and his younger brother Andy ( Robert Crawford , Jr . ) trying to hang on to the family ranch after their father had been murdered by a cattle baron trying to grab the land . It was a tough go for the Sherman Brothers and the family cook Jonesy who was played by Hoagy Carmichael . But in that pilot episode a lone Shane like gunfighter Jess Harper showed up . The Shermans took him in and he became a family member with roots at the ranch . After that only fools messed with the Shermans especially if they knew that they had Robert Fuller to mess with as Jess Harper . Laramie was one of many towns founded as a rail depot of the Union Pacific . But into the hinterlands of Wyoming still one of our most rural states you got some place on horseback or by stage . And the Shermans had a franchise way station at their ranch which I'm sure supplemented their income during a lean year for cattle . It allowed for a whole range of stories combining the stagecoach way station with the ranch . Laramie had a respectable run of four years . Carmichael and Crawford dropped out and housekeeper Spring Byington and orphan Dennis Holmes joined the Sherman ranch . Bob Fuller went on to a good career , a stint on Wagon Train after Laramie was canceled and later a long run on the Jack Webb produced Emergency . John Smith had done a few films before Laramie and got a second lead in the John Wayne film Circus World . He dropped out of sight after that and some thirty years later I read in an obituary that he had died of cirrhosis of the liver . There's probably one awfully tragic story there . But I prefer to remember John Smith as Slim Sherman zealously guarding home and hearth with Jess Harper to back him up . Maybe we'll get to see Laramie again some day .
A Statue of Liberty Play	On my VHS box of Saboteur the film was noted as Alfred Hitchcock's first with an all American cast . Thinking about it you can make that claim for it considering the foreign locations of both Rebecca and Foreign Correspondent . Saboteur involves Robert Cummings as both the pursuer and the pursued . The police think he's a Saboteur who bombed a Los Angeles aircraft factory where he worked . Cummings knows it was Norman Lloyd who did it , a mysterious man named Fry . So Cummings is both evading the cops and looking for the real Saboteur who can clear him . The chase and pursue theme is one that Hitchcock uses over and over again from The Thirty Nine Steps to North By Northwest . In both of those films it was much better done . Hitchcock did not pick his leading players in this film . Priscilla Lane had left Warner Brothers and was looking to broaden her appeal . She'd signed with Universal and Hitchcock had to take her . She's good , but she's hardly in the image of classic sophisticated Hitchcock blonds like Grace Kelly , Madeleine Carroll , or Eva Marie Saint . She's just to perky to compete with those ladies . Bob Cummintgs was a second choice , Hitchcock wanted and couldn't get Joel McCrea . That proved to be a fortunate accident . Cummings is froth with youthful idealism in his performance , he holds his own in confrontational scenes with master fifth columnist Otto Kruger . In fact the villains here are the most interesting characters . Whether they are from the isolationist mid-west like Otto Kruger or society matrons like Alma Kruger or some nobodies like Clem Bevans , Alan Baxter , or Norman Lloyd , they've drunken in the philosophy of a master race and find it heady stuff indeed . Listen to Otto Kruger's explanation for his treason , his contempt for the easily manipulated voters , his drive for power as well as money . The most frightening part of the film . More even than that climax at the Statue of Liberty . For years the torch on the statue has been closed so Cummings and Lloyd at the top is maybe even more thrilling for today's audience than at the time the film was released . But Hitchcock himself said he made a mistake , when he did the chase in North By Northwest , better to have the hero than the villain do the dangling . It's not one of Hitchcock's best films , but Saboteur holds up well for today's audience and in an age of global terror , very relevant .
Updating of a Prohibition era play	The Racket was originally a play on Broadway which ran for 119 performances in the 1927-1928 season and was later made into a silent film by Howard Hughes . Come 1951 and the Kefauver Senate Rackets Committee hearings in full swing , the gangster film was having a renaissance . So Hughes dusted off this old chestnut and updated it to post World War II America and gave it to his most reliable star at RKO . Robert Mitchum , though cast against type , does well as the upright police captain . I believe his character is based on a man named Lewis J . Valentine who was a well known police captain in New York in the Hylan-Walker era . Valentine was assigned to something called The Confidential Squad which delved into organized crime . Valentine like Captain McQuigg in The Racket , stepped on a lot of toes and got transferred to garbage assignments . Ultimately he was vindicated when Fiorello LaGuardia became mayor , he made Valentine first the Chief of Uniform Patrol and later Police Commissioner . He probably was the best that ever held that job in New York City . Robert Ryan is at his snarling best as old time gangster Nick Scanlon . Ryan is a man behind the times , the syndicate is looking for less public methods to enforce it's will and Ryan is constantly bumping up against them . Interestingly enough , problems are not solved here . McQuigg keeps his precinct clean , but the corruption is shown to be quite systemic . A very groundbreaking attitude for that era . Though The Racket met with a great deal of criticism by reviewers as being old fashioned , I rather like it and would classify it as one of the better products coming out of RKO during the Hughes era .
A Contentious Series	Riverboat was a television that never quite developed it's audience . My guess is that the reports of the fighting on set which I well remember got more attention than the show itself . Darren McGavin who had a few film credits , most notably The Man With The Golden Arm and a half hour version of Mike Hammer that ran in the middle fifties was the captain of the Riverboat Enterprise and star of the show . Who could possibly have known what an illustrious history that name for vessels would have ? His co-star was young Burt Reynolds in what was to have been his first big break . Like John Wayne in The Big Trail which was supposed to make him a big star , it flopped and Reynolds would have to wait a few more years for stardom . The main thing was how the two of them didn't get along , McGavin and Reynolds . If we had tabloid TV back in those days , McGavin and Reynolds would have been feature stories . Maybe one day Burt Reynolds will tell us the reason , we certainly can't hear it any more from McGavin . John Mitchum's rollicking memoir , Them Ornery Mitchum Boys , does devote a bit of space to Riverboat . Bob's younger brother was a series regular and he does say that the cast generally sided with Reynolds , feeling that McGavin was the heavy here . He also said that everyone else also felt that Reynolds was a star in the making . It wasn't a bad series , but it will be more known for the offstage battling than anything else .
The Great Berzini	The Public Eye was an attempt to elevate Joe Pesci to star status from respected character actor in the wake of his acclaimed Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for Goodfellas . Though Pesci did give a great performance in the film , the public was not prepared to buy him as leading man status . The film is really Pesci's show in that there are no really developed characters outside of his in the film . However Robert Zemeckis really did a bang up job in creating the mood and atmosphere of the early 1940s with America just going into World War II . With the USA engaged in the ' war on terror ' and no demands being made for civilian sacrifice , it is probably somewhat vague for people who are not our most senior citizens to realize what was being attempted . And curiously enough though the racket that is being investigated is gasoline rationing . Joe Pesci is an independent photo journalist who with police scanner always on is first on the scene for every event in town . He gets asked by this glamorous socialite , Barbara Hershey , who normally wouldn't go near someone like him to check out an acquaintance . The acquaintance is found dead by Pesci and that leads him into a racket involving collusion between gangsters and government employees of the Office of Price Administration to control gasoline with stolen ration cards . Back in that war food and other commodities like gasoline were rationed to the civilian public and the price strictly controlled . This was serious business indeed for those times . Pesci also fancies himself an artist , not just a paparazzi , he sees himself as a Matthew Brady or an Ansel Adams , a recorder of his times and his city . That vain but artistic streak leads him to take some real chances . The Public Eye is a good throwback film to the forties . I can see had this been made post World War II a grown up Mickey Rooney playing Pesci's role .
Robert Stack Takes On The Mob	Before Brian DePalma gave us his stylish telling of the tale Eliot Ness and his band of Treasury agents , the world was reintroduced to them via this television series from Desilu productions . Eliot Ness was portrayed in tight-lipped , square jawed fashion by Robert Stack and it became his career role . If Ness had only lived to see it . After his high point in leading that gang of Treasury agents in Chicago that raided illegal liquor establishments with flair , Ness went on to become Cleveland's Chief of Police and an unsuccessful candidate for mayor of that city . He drifted into obscurity after that . But shortly before that Ness who was in bad health and in a bad financial situation contacted author Oscar Fraley who helped him ghost write his memoirs of those days . Ness died right after that and the book was published after his demise . It was then snapped up by Desilu productions because Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz saw potential for a television series . The Untouchables had a good run for a few seasons . The period atmosphere was helped by the familiar voice of Walter Winchell who lived through that period and covered it . Winchell helped give the series a ring of authenticity it didn't deserve . After a while the Untouchables were in New York dealing with Lucky Luciano and those gang wars , dealing with the Purple gang of Detroit and others that had nothing to do with what they really did . They hit Al Capone and his competitor Bugs Moran in the pocketbook , but of course were not the ones who brought them down . We all know it was those busy accountants in the US Attorney's office in Chicago that did the job . The success of the series spun a brief spurt of nostalgia for that era in America both on the big and small screen . Neville Brand as Al Capone and Bruce Gordon as Frank Nitti were a perfect pair of scowling counterparts to the jut-jawed Robert Stack as Ness . Occasionally the series is still run on the nostalgia channels . It remains an interesting and glamorized look at a part of our past .
Oh Captain , My Captain	In the book that Michael Freedland wrote about Gregory Peck , Only the Valiant is described as the worst film Gregory Peck ever made . During those beginning years of his stardom it seems like just about every film became a classic of some kind . Only the Valiant was shot on the cheap and it shows . The book says that Gregory Peck's cavalry uniform was an old costume worn by Rod Cameron in one of his B westerns . It was an independent production by James Cagney and as part of the deal Peck got Barbara Payton who had a contract with Cagney himself and was used in Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye which he produced and also starred in . According to Michael Freedland's book , Peck who was still tied to David O . Selznick got $60 , 000 . 00 for the part of cavalry captain Richard Lance . Selznick got $150 . 000 . 00 and Peck was not a happy camper . Still being the professional he was , Peck did the film . In truth Only the Valiant is a far better film than MGM's big budget The Great Sinner which Peck also starred in . Mainly because of a very competent crew of players that James Cagney gathered for this film . And an interesting script which contains elements of Beau Geste , The Lost Patrol , The Dirty Dozen and David and Bathsheba which Peck had starred in . Peck and Gig Young are rivals for Barbara Payton and Peck is ordered to send Young on a patrol to take hostile Apache chief Michael Ansara to a better staffed army fort . Young gets killed and Ansara escapes and the old Uriah the Hittite story starts circulating at Peck's post . Later he gets an assignment to man an abandoned fort that sits across a narrow mountain pass that the Apaches can't even charge through on horseback . He takes a select group of army misfits , some of whom would like to kill him worse than the Apaches . Even with Ward Bond as an alcoholic corporal , any resemblance between these soldiers and those John Ford cavalry pictures is coincidental . The ones who he takes with him , Sergeant Neville Brand , Lieutenant Dan Riss , Bond , Troopers Terry Kilburn , Steve Brodie , and Lon Chaney , Jr . are a collection that Lee Marvin would gladly have taken on a mission . Chaney has the strangest role . He's named Kabushyan and he's Armenian though the men refer to him as A-rab . He's got one big old gay crush on Gig Young though it's not spelled out due to Code restrictions and he hates Peck worse than the others . It's the best performance in the film . Only the Valiant has an A list cast with B production values , I wish it had been done with a bigger budget .
A Biblical Plague	I was enjoying Magnolia right up to the part where a biblical type of plague came down upon all the characters in the film and I was then wondering what it was all about . Magnolia is an episodic , along the lines of director / writer Paul T . Anderson's previous success , Boogie Nights . A whole bunch of people , tied to each other by a successful long running quiz show have a lot of life altering events happen to them within 24 hours . The problem was that in Boogie Nights you followed a community of people from the pornography industry over a period of years . In Magnolia this all happens over 24 hours , more like Crash , although I think Crash was better handled . Some parts are better than the whole . Several characters for me really stood out . Tom Cruise took a daring career move in playing a motivational speaker for hedonism and male supremacy . How he arrived at this particular doctrine he preaches and makes money off is his story . His hedonism is covering up a very deep hurt from childhood . I liked William H . Macy as a has been celebrity made by that quiz show as a child . He's come to the end of his rope being able to cash in on that celebrity . Now he's a forty something gay man , mooning over a young and humpy bartender at his local watering hole and thinking he could nail the guy with a little cosmetic improvement on his part . Magnolia was the last theatrical film of Jason Robards , Jr . who plays the producer of the quiz show , Kids Know Best . The idea was to match whiz kid type geniuses against grownups in some sort of academic bowl situation . It actually sounded like a good idea for a real quiz show , I'm surprised no one thought of it in real life . Robards is dying of cancer and he's made a mess of his life as well as his sons's . Their reunion is painful to say the least . But of all the performances in the film by the grownups , I liked young Jeremy Blackman as one of the current kids on the show . He's being pushed by a stage father , Stanley Spector , who's living vicariously through his kid . All these good performances and others just somehow don't come together in the way Boogie Nights or Crash does . And the ending with the plague of frogs descending on Los Angeles was really too much and unnecessary .
Preacher Dan Takes Out A Vampire	This is one of those classic cult films that get a devoted following from repeated viewings . I remember seeing it on television for the first time , hosted by that vampire fiend , Zacherley . Michael Pate is a mysterious gunfighter who seems invincible and there's a good reason for it , he's a vampire . Though he dresses in western garb , he's still an old world type vampire . Right after this film Eric Fleming got slated to play the lead in the long running western series Rawhide with that well known co-star of his , Clint Eastwood . He's the town preacher and he figures out what the town is plagued with . I think that when Fleming strapped on the six gun and faced Michael Pate in a gunfight , armed with revolver loaded with silver bullets , it was one of the great camp moments in film history . The bullets of course were on loan from the Lone Ranger . For that reason , this film gets as high a rating as six stars and should not be missed whenever it's broadcast .
A Note of Love	Although at first glance Break of Hearts looks like Katharine Hepburn is doing another version of Eva Lovelace . Her Patricia Dane is a young struggling classical composer whose mentor is that old music master Jean Hersholt . Turns out Hersholt also mentored well know symphony conductor Franz Roberti played by Charles Boyer . When they meet he does his little bit to put them together . Here the resemblance to Eva Lovelace ends . Picture young Eva in Morning Glory betrayed by those around her . Kate discovers Boyer is quite the womanizer so rather than let the grass grow under her feet , she responds to the attentions of violinist John Beal . Things get bitter and rather melodramatic as Boyer falls to pieces . There was no conviction in this part for Hepburn in the way that Terry Randall from Stage Door or Eva Lovelace from Morning Glory were . Probably because unlike those two career minded women which Hepburn surely was in real life , here she admits she's got no talent and is willing to do a My Man number to get the drunken dissolute Boyer back on his feet . Definitely not the Kate we all know .
" . . . . . . . . a fleeting wisp of glory , called Camelot . "	I wish I had seen the original Broadway production of Camelot . As a lad the Broadway cast album was a treasured staple in our house , played over and over again by my parents . Can you imagine a cast led by Richard Burton , Julie Andrews and introducing Robert Goulet as Lancelot ? So why couldn't Warner Brothers sign the original cast from Broadway for the movie ? Robert Goulet had in fact come to Hollywood and didn't set the world on fire , but the other two were already big box office names by 1967 . Julie Andrews had won an Oscar for Mary Poppins and just did the Sound of Music . And Richard Burton was one half of the most noted show business couple of the Sixties with his wife Elizabeth Taylor . Jack Warner , usually a smart guy , said that he didn't think that anyone would believe that two guys like Arthur and Lancelot would put a kingdom at risk for the love of Mary Poppins . So Julie wasn't even asked and Vanessa Redgrave got the call . She's certainly sexy enough , but she opted for the Rex Harrison talk / sing in doing Guinevere . If you have the video or DVD of Camelot play that and then listen to Julie Andrews sing from the original cast album . My favorite song from the score is I Loved You Once In Silence and Julie Andrews is at her best singing that song . Vanessa doesn't come close . Ditto for Richard Burton and Richard Harris . Though in the case of Harris I think he was toning it down a mite for a clearly handicapped co-star in the vocal department . Harris later in his life toured extensively in various productions of Camelot as Arthur , virtually taking over the role originated by his close friend Burton . The biggest hit from the Camelot score was If Ever I Would Leave You , sung by Robert Goulet . In 1961 you couldn't get away from that song being played on the radio right in the midst of all the rock and roll . Goulet also toured in various stock companies of Camelot and like both Burton and Harris revived it on Broadway . I don't think anyone ever asked Franco Nero to tour . But Redgrave and Nero certainly created their own screen magic , they got involved with each other on the set . But folks this is a musical and musically they don't measure up . David Hemmings takes over the role of Mordred from Roddy McDowall who did it on stage . His Mordred is a clever schemer , but a coward as well . For myself the best Mordred ever portrayed on screen was in Knights of the Round Table by Stanley Baker . Baker's interpretation of Mordred is light years from Hemmings , he's a schemer , but he's definitely no coward . I love the score of Camelot and when it was filmed I only wish the singing was half as good as the Broadway show .
Hope Plays For Peanuts	Haven't movie fans wondered how Bob Hope has managed to have so many glamorous leading ladies fall for the schnooky characters he played in his career ? It's a source of amazement and amusement too . But I've always thought that was part of the secret of Hope's appeal , that if he could get the glamor girl , anyone could . They don't get much more glamorous than Hedy Lamarr who was in the midst of a mini-comeback because of Samson and Delilah . Unfortunately the roles she got post DeMille didn't sustain her career . When one works on a Bob Hope film as a leading lady you will definitely be second banana . Hedy Lamarr was not second banana material and that was a source of some friction between her and Hope . But being second banana was something she should have known walking in . In My Favorite Spy , Hope was spoofing all those espionage / adventure films set in various exotic places like Casablanca . He gets to play a dual role here . First as Eric Augustine , Bogart like adventurer , and secondly as Peanuts White burlesque comic who is a dead ringer the U . S . government drafts into getting some secret microfilm before Sidney Greenstreet stand-in Francis L . Sullivan does . Of course Hope has a Peter Lorre type factotum in Arnold Moss . Though uneven in spots , mainly because Hope doesn't have the chemistry between him and Lamarr the way he did with Jane Russell or Madeleine Carroll , or Dorothy Lamour , My Favorite Spy does have some good moments . My favorite moment is when the truth serum is administered to Peanuts White and he starts doing his burlesque shtick for Sullivan . It's not the best of Hope's Paramount films , but it does have some good moments . And besides only Bing Crosby could ever really expect to not be a second banana .
Would You Believe They Wanted John Wayne ? ? ? ?	Howard Keel says in his posthumously published memoirs that he grabbed the part of Simon Peter in The Big Fisherman to prove his versatility as an actor . Musicals were pretty much done by that time and he was free of his MGM contract . He got the role after John Wayne turned the part down . That one was an eye opener I have to say . My conception of St . Peter has always been that of a big hale and hearty man used to working in the outdoors . We see an older Peter in Quo Vadis with Finlay Currie and now we have a younger one in Keel . Still I can't believe that Frank Borzage wanted John Wayne . After coming off that disaster in The Barbarian and the Geisha , the Duke wisely turned this one down . Keel does give a good performance as Peter . Other than Keel the player best remembered for this film is Ray Stricklyn as the evil young Arab prince . It's good to remember that this is a fictional story about a biblical figure though some scenes of events described in the Bible are in the film . Nevertheless there are some plot flaws . Peter goes among the Arabs here and this was six centuries before Mohammed came on the scene . If you were to follow the logic of the film , the Arab people would have been converted to Christianity . Now maybe it would have saved us all a lot of bloodshed over the centuries had they , still even in a work of fiction that's a bit much to swallow . Keel liked making the film and had high hopes for it . Unfortunately it ran up against Ben-Hur another filmed biblically based novel this time with the protagonist being a fictional character . Additionally The Big Fisherman got lost somewhere in the corporate doings of Buena Vista Films and the Walt Disney studio . Back in the Fifties , Buena Vista did distribute films not necessarily with the Walt Disney brand on them . It's been seen on television a few times , I saw it again about 12 years ago . It should be seen in theaters though . Like Ben-Hur something is lost even with a letter box version . But can you imagine John Wayne as St . Peter ? Turn that one over in your minds .
For a screenwriter , too stagey	Ceiling Zero is a story about airmail pilots back when flying was itself an occupational hazard . It was written by Frank W . Wead , better known as Spig Wead whose life was later brought to the screen by John Ford in Wings of Eagles . For those who've seen Wings of Eagles , they know that Spig Wead was a navy pilot who set all kinds of aviation records before becoming paralyzed with a broken neck due to a fall down some stairs in his home . After that Wead turned to writing and published all kinds of articles , stories , and screenplays mostly relating to aviation . Ceiling Zero was Wead's one attempt at a Broadway play . It ran for three months on Broadway in 1935 with John Litel and Osgood Perkins in the roles played by James Cagney and Pat O'Brien respectively . It got good critical acclaim , but a short Broadway run as did a lot of plays during the Depression . O'Brien is the operations manager of an airline and Cagney is an old friend who is an irresponsible but talented flyer . Superficially those seem like parts tailor made for Cagney and O'Brien , but this is in fact a serious drama so their usual hijinks are not present in this film as well they shouldn't have been . Cagney and O'Brien had done another film about aviation , Devil Dogs of the Air which is far more lighthearted , but which Warner Brothers invested far more production values . For the most part , Ceiling Zero is a photographed stage play with some scenes that are clearly done on the backlot . I'm surprised that Wead who did in fact write more for the screen didn't push for a bigger budget and some location shooting for his play . On the plus side Director Howard Hawks handles his cast real well and you can see some influences for the later and better Only Angels Have Wings .
Cooking For Employment and Husband Catching	If You Could Only Cook had been made over at MGM , Jean Arthur would have had her pick of leading men like Robert Montgomery , William Powell , Robert Young , or Franchot Tone all of who might have been a bit more believable as the auto tycoon who gets tired of his stuffy board of directors and walks out on them . As it was Columbia Harry Cohn got her Herbert Marshall is far better cast in more mature parts like in The Little Foxes or the head of MI5 in The List of Adrian Messenger . He really hasn't the touch for light fare like If You Could Only Cook . That's what happens to Marshall though , he walks out on his board of directors and a week before his wedding to Frieda Inescourt who's from a family with an old name , but no dough . On the park bench he runs into Jean Arthur who is one of the great mass of unemployed . They get to talking about food and Arthur sees in the want ads one for a married couple to be cook and butler on an estate . On a whim as these things are in screwball comedies , Marshall and her agree to pose as husband and wife . What they don't know is that who's hiring them is gangster Leo Carrillo who's particular about his food . Not unusual because if you remember Goodfellas the wise guys in stir were very particular about their food and were rich enough to buy what they want in the joint . Carrillo's number two , Lionel Stander , thinks these two just don't sound right . The rest of the film is the normal antics of mistaken identities and mistaken motives and finding out who really loves who after all . It's not a bad film , but not particularly a memorable one . But If You Could Only Cook attained a status way beyond its own importance in film history by becoming the object of a fraud perpetrated on the foreign markets by Harry Cohn . Seems as though when the film reached Europe , Cohn advertised it in the foreign markets as being a Frank Capra Production . When Capra found out about it , he went ballistic and ultimately his connection with Columbia was severed . The story is described in great detail in Capra's memoirs and the whole saga is a great example of the power those studios had back when they were at their height . In fact that whole story might make a great movie .
Glossy Political Soap Opera	John O'Hara whose Pal Joey was brought to the screen the year before wrote the book Ten North Frederick on which this film is based . For some reason this is a film of Gary Cooper's that is rarely shown any more . Cooper is the WASP type upper crust patrician who has some political ambition . He's a well respected man in his area , except apparently in his own home . He's married to a woman who makes Lady MacBeth look like Mary Poppins . Geraldine Fitzgerald steals the acting honors in this film with her portrayal as the exponential shrew of a wife . Though I haven't seen Ten North Frederick in years , it's Fitzgerald's performance that has stayed with me and I suspect will stay with you if the film is ever going to see the light of day . Diane Varsi and Ray Stricklyn are the rebellious kids in the household who can't quite figure out all the hostility there , but they not something is radically wrong . Suzy Parker plays Varsi's friend with whom Cooper has a midlife crisis affair with . Believe me when you see Fitzgerald in this film , you won't blame Cooper in the slightest . Ten North Frederick set the standard for John O'Hara type soap operas and I'm surprised no one picked up on this one . With some updating this could easily be a plot for a prime time soap opera pilot .
Alice Gets Her Man	The title role in King of Burlesque is played by Warner Baxter who is the impresario of burlesque down on East 14 Street and Irving Place . But he aspires to higher things and won't be satisfied until he's a monarch on Broadway . For that he's willing to marry up with Mona Barrie an impoverished society girl and leave the faithful Alice Faye behind . Of course this is not a permanent situation . Probably the biggest fault with King of Burlesque is that Warner Baxter does not come over like the hero / heel that Tyrone Power and later John Payne would be in dealing with Alice Faye . He's just too nice for the role . But the film is a real treat for Alice Faye's legion of fans . She gets to sing I'm Shooting High and Spreading Rhythm Around . And I really did like the number she did with British comic actor Herbert Mundin , I Love To Ride The Horses On The Merry Go Round . Radio singer Kenny Baker gets into this film with Lovely Lady for which I have a Bing Crosby recording . Baker had a nice pleasing tenor voice who made his best mark on radio . Around this time he was a regular on Jack Benny's radio program . And King of Burlesque gives fans of Dixieland jazz a real treat in one of the few film appearances of the legendary pianist Fats Waller . Waller plays an elevator operator who Baxter finally gives a break to in his new show and he plays and sings I've Got My Fingers Crossed . Jimmy McHugh and Ted Koehler did the score for King of Burlesque and the numbers are fine . Elements of the plot were done in Alice Faye's later film , Hello Frisco Hello . That one was better , but this one is not bad other than Baxter's miscasting .
The Plot Doesn't Get Too Much In The Way	Famed Broadway producer George White appeared in a second film version of his famous scandals the year after the first one . The original screen George White's Scandals introduced Alice Faye to the screen and Faye is once again featured . White appears as himself again and this time does a little hoofing in a dance contest . The plot is again a backstage romance story on wish to display various numbers you would have seen on Broadway in the Scandals revue . It involves Alice Faye and James Dunn , a vaudeville team appearing in a small town show that's also in another White show , this one though involving small town producer Elmer White played by that merriest of screen actors , Ned Sparks . White's passing through town and discovers that the show is really a gold mine of talent . He signs Dunn , Faye , Cliff Edwards , Lyda Roberti and even Sparks himself for his new George White's 1935 Scandals . Of course both Dunn and Faye let stardom go to their heads a little , but you know it all works out in the end . Eleanor Powell got her first big break after a couple of bit roles in two previous films . But this didn't lead to a Fox contract , Louis B . Mayer snapped her up right away . Like the previous film , George White's 1935 Scandals is a nice historic record of a Broadway review . One only wishes Florenz Ziegfeld had lived long enough to create a film version of the Follies himself . But this pales in comparison with what Busby Berkeley was achieving over at Warner Brothers in this decade . White might have considered hiring Berkeley , but then his personal imprimatur wouldn't have been on the picture . After all he wasn't producing the Busby Berkeley scandals . Still it's a pleasant enough musical review and the plot doesn't get too much in the way .
Puff Piece for the Federal Bureau of Investigation	When Machine Gun Kelly gave up , uttering that famous line , " Don't Shoot G-Men " , he gave the Federal Bureau of Investigation members a moniker that has survived down to this day . He also entitled an upcoming film being made at Warner Brothers about the FBI . Though the FBI had been in existence since 1908 , founded during the Theodore Roosevelt administration , it's structure and mystique never took shape until Calvin Coolidge's Attorney General Harlan Fiske Stone appointed a young civil servant named J . Edgar Hoover as it's new head . The place was known as dumping ground for political hacks up to that time and Hoover put an end to it . He brought in the laboratories and fingerprint data base . Folks who had law and accounting degrees saw the FBI as a good career now . Crime was now national and a national organization was needed to fight it . Probably if J . Edgar Hoover had put in his retirement at the end of World War II his historic reputation would be a lot higher today . The negative stuff about him only comes during the McCarthy Era and beyond until his death in 1972 . And only after that . If Hoover was nothing else , he was media conscious . One of filmdom's most notorious gangster actors went on the side of law and order for G-Men . James Cagney is a young lawyer who's not doing so good in private practice , wasting the education that an oldtime gangster helped finance . After his friend FBI agent Regis Toomey is killed , Cagney joins the FBI . His knowledge of the underworld is put to some good use though he has a lengthy time winning acceptance from his superior , Robert Armstrong . Lloyd Nolan makes his debut as an FBI agent here also . Later on during the Forties , Nolan played THE ideal conception of what J . Edgar Hoover had in mind for an agent in The House on 92nd Street and The Street With No Name . A couple of incidents fresh in the mind of the public were recreated for G-Men , the famous Kansas City Massacre and a shootout at a rural motel that involved Baby Face Nelson who escaped as chief hood Barton MacLane does here . No doubt these scenes lent a certain documentary authenticity to the film . G-Men dates very badly , the FBI is still respected , but not revered as it once was . But Cagney and the cast do a fine job and G-Men is a relic of bygone years .
A Tokyo Location	I'm sure that Cary Grant was dangled the prospect of a nice all expenses paid for location shooting in Tokyo for his final film , Walk Don't Run . It's the reason he did the film I'm sure . It's not a bad film to go out on , not near as good as say The Shootist was for John Wayne , but no Cuban Rebel Girl like Errol Flynn had . It's a remake of an earlier Columbia Pictures hit , The More the Merrier that starred Joel McCrea , Jean Arthur , and Charles Coburn . Coburn got a best supporting Actor Oscar for his performance and Grant has his part . The original film dealt with a tremendous housing shortage in Washington , DC during the World War II , a crisis of four year duration as opposed to a few weeks in Tokyo where because of the Olympics of 1964 there are no hotel rooms to be had . On a whim , visiting industrialist Cary Grant answers an ad for a room mate posted at the British Embassy by Samantha Eggar . She gets the full court Cary Grant charm and after a bit of reluctance , allows him to stay . Then Grant lends half of his half to American Olympic athlete Jim Hutton . Eggar has a fiancé , but foxy Cary works his wiles on both Samantha and Jim . The results are obvious . Walk Don't Run has a few funny moments , Cary Grant style , especially when Grant strips down to his underwear to talk to Hutton during Hutton's event which is the long distance walk . He also has to pry Eggar's fiancé away to get Eggar and Hutton together . John Standing is Eggar's fiancé and he puts in a droll performance as a dull predictable British civil servant . Cary managed to mine a few more laughs out of his last screen role , but you decide if the trip was worth it .
We're Vikings , burning , pillaging , and raping is what we do .	I doubt today we could make a film today with the opening sequence a rape of Queen Enid who is Maxine Audley by Ragnar the Viking Chief played by Ernest Borgnine . And Borgnine's supposed to be one of the good guys . She's had no kids by her late husband the king and her late husband's cousin , Frank Thring , takes the throne . However Borgnine left something behind and the Queen has her child . She gives the child to some monks , but then the child is captured by that same pack of Vikings . Some twenty years go by and Borgnine and his son Kirk Douglas are living high off the hog from their raids . They hit on another plan , capture Princess Janet Leigh who is betrothed to Frank Thring and get a hefty ransom for her . But Janet gets the hormones going of both Douglas and slave Tony Curtis . Kirk Douglas produced The Vikings and he cast himself as the lusty Einar . He's always been an actor not afraid to be seen as less than noble , in fact some times as down right villainous . But here he's a chip off the old Borgnine block and while as a kid I loved this film , as an adult I've got some real problems viewing Borgnine and Douglas as heroes . In fact the other problem is with Frank Thring . As King Aella , he IS the legitimate heir to the throne . He's supposed to be the bad guy , but the only bad acts we see him doing are to his enemy Borgnine who's done a lot of things he'd have to answer for and to Tony Curtis for disobeying an order . It's a major fault with the story . The battle sequences and the general atmosphere of pre-Norman England and Viking Norway are well done by Director Richard Fleischer . I still like The Vikings on some level , but not as much as when I was a kid . And The Vikings as a film should stay with the kid trade .
" For Tonight We'll Merry Merry Be "	I Married a Witch was a good fantasy / comedy that could have been a great one if it were not for the fact that the leading man and lady couldn't stand each other . Fredric March thought Veronica Lake was a no-talent studio creation and Lake thought March a would be rake who was put out because she wouldn't give him a tumble . Both to some extent were right . March's peccadilloes have been reported on by a number of people . Doesn't take away from the fact he was a great player . It is clear though he wasn't really interested in the project and it shows in his performance . In her memoirs Lake spoke very highly of Joel McCrea with whom she had worked well together in Sullivan's Travels and later in Ramrod . Also of Sonny Tufts who certainly had the New England Yankee background for this part . But March , she went on for several pages about how much she loathed him . Lake and her father Cecil Kellaway are a pair of New England witches condemned and burned around 1670 and whose spirits become part of a tree . When lightning strikes around 1940 those spirits are freed to resume practicing their trade , specifically on Fredric March's family who denounced them back in the day . As it turns out March is running for governor and when Lake gets a body she steals him away from his fiancé Susan Hayward . Through some manipulating of the votes when March looks like a sure loser , he wins by a miracle . A joke that might be lost on today's viewers is the way Veronica Lake spins her magic on the state as the voters keep shouting ' we want Wooley ' which is March's name , Wallace Wooley . Two years earlier , the American public heard through several ballots at the Republican convention in Philadelphia , Wendell Wilkie nominated for president with an incessant cry coming over the radio , ' We Want Wilkie ' . Another example of mass psychology that's never really been duplicated . Cecil Kellaway easily steal the film from the disinterested leads . He's at his best in the local jail , suffering from a hangover trying to remember any kind of spells that can help him . Rene Clair does the best he can with his feuding leads and maybe this would have been a classic if the two leads had at least liked each other . It just occurred to me . Did George Bush become president in 2000 through witchcraft ? Veronica Lake shows us its possible .
" Hey Butcher , Hey Baker , Love's Landed a Real Haymaker "	It was not planned that way , but as it turns out the film adaption of the Rodgers & Hart Broadway musical I Married an Angel turned out to be the last pairing of Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald . Nelson in fact left Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer after this film and bought his own contract out for $250 , 000 . 00 according to a recently published book about the pair by Sheryl Rich . They are in good voice and the songs of Rodgers & Hart never got a better treatment . Unfortunately the film ran into some censorship problems about celestial creatures doing some very earthly things . Rodgers & Hart were busy on Broadway and couldn't help . Two very big shows for them , Pal Joey and By Jupiter kept them occupied . Nelson is a happy carefree Hungarian playboy who's grandfather started the Bank of Budapest . But Nelson would rather spend his time with wine , women , and song and since it's Nelson Eddy , song doesn't take third place to the other two . At his birthday party he's taken by a little known to him employee at the bank in an angel costume . Guess who that is ? Feeling a little the worse for wear from the revelry , Nelson takes a little snooze . During the dream Jeanette appears to him as a real angel and Nelson is smitten . He asks her to marry him and she agrees . She's without a dishonest bone in her heavenly body . Unfortunately her time in heaven has not prepared her to deal with certain earthly hypocrisies . It's one wild celestial ride that Jeanette gives Nelson . The title song , I'll Tell the Man in the Street , and Spring is Here are the big hit numbers from the Broadway show and the stars do them well . The satire comes off far better here than it did for Jeanette and Nelson in Bittersweet , but still censorship really crippled some of the best lines from Broadway . Binnie Barnes , Reginald Owen , Edward Everett Horton and Douglass Dumbrille give good support to the singing sweethearts . Barnes practically steals the show as the wisecracking earthly friend of MacDonald who sets out to teach her worldly ways . I think fans of MacDonald and Eddy and others who do knock this film ought to give it a second look . It's not as bad as some would make it out to be .
Close Air Ground Support	Flying Leathernecks finds John Wayne in the Marines again , but this time as a commissioned officer / pilot . He has an idea about better coordination with ground troops on that lovely tropic isle of Guadalcanal and he inherits a squadron that essentially become guinea pigs to test his theory out . He also inherits a resentful Executive Officer in Robert Ryan who keeps getting passed over for command . Ryan's a favorite with the men and he bleeds over the prospect of any of them being killed . Fine traits for a human being , but not something that works in a war situation . As so many others have said , Flying Leathernecks has a whole lot of the elements that made Sands of Iwo Jima a critical and popular success . Wayne and Ryan work well together , possibly the political differences with both in real life lent itself to the performances of both men . In the supporting cast you will like Jay C . Flippen as the larcenous sergeant in charge of the ground crews . Flippen provides a lot of what comic relief we have in Flying Leathernecks . Years later Flippen and Wayne worked together again after Flippen lost a leg to diabetes . Wayne gave him a small part in The Hellfighters to help him with medical expenses . Wayne did that on numerous occasions when he later produced films himself or had a say in casting . He wasn't about hand outs , but he always was ready to help an ill colleague with a pay day that did not rob folks of dignity . He didn't give jobs , he hired men as he said in a later filmNot the best stuff technically speaking for the air sequences . That Howard Hughes put in Jet Pilot with unfortunately a ridiculous story to go with it , not anything like the Flying Leathernecks story which admittedly is average at best . Still it's far from the worst or best work John Wayne ever did .
The Dunstans and Banks at it again	I'd like to be able to write that Father's Little Dividend is as worthy a sequel to Father of the Bride as The Bells of St . Mary's is to Going My Way . Unfortunately it did not happen that way . The whole cast is re-united for this sequel with newlyweds Elizabeth Taylor and Don Taylor expecting their first . The possibility of being a grandfather has Spencer Tracy all disjointed , old age has come upon him with the suddenness of a punch in the nose . But the film essentially is the story of his adjustments to the situation . The other three grandparents , Joan Bennett , Moroni Olsen and Billie Burke all seem to be taking it in stride . Joan Bennett has a lot more to do in this one than in Father of the Bride . Her driving like a maniac to get to Elizabeth Taylor's side as she's about to deliver is a great scene . And her plans to take over the raising of the baby are pretty funny as the whole thing just exasperates Tracy . But the end was a horrible let down . I have to agree with the other reviewer that there ain't nothing funny about losing an infant which is what Tracy does when he's distracted by kids playing in the park while he's taking the kid for a stroll . Too many real tragedies happen this way for any humor to be gleaned from the situation . But if you find humor in it or think the way it was handled OK , than by all means see Father's Little Dividend .
The Rommel Story	Though The Desert Fox is good as far as it goes and James Mason is perfectly cast as Erwin Rommel , one would hope that a fuller biographical study might be done on the screen . Erwin Rommel was one of a group of like minded military leaders in various countries who after World War I , rose to the top of their country's military establishment because they saw the value of the tank in any future war . Some of those people would be Charles DeGaulle in France , Dwight Eisenhower and George Patton in America , Marshal Tukachevksy in the Soviet Union and Rommel in Germany . In 1942 Hitler as he was constantly doing sent Rommel in to bail out the Italians who up to that point had been running the desert campaign in North Africa . With less men and supplies , his tactical ability bedeviled the Allied command until The Second Battle of El Alamein . The film starts with Rommel as desert warfare genius and then when he does become ill and is invalided out of North Africa , the Allies regain the initiative and beat his famed Afrika Korps . Rommel is then sent to Western Europe to supervise the defenses on the Atlantic . There comes a point when Rommel does realize that his Fuehrer is destroying his country and becomes involved in the plot to kill him and overthrow the government . That is what most of the film deals with . James Mason is a stalwart Rommel a perfect conception of the man they called The Desert Fox . In this mostly male film , Jessica Tandy has little to do but be loyal and supportive as Frau Rommel . Luther Adler who among other parts he played in his long distinguished career was David Ben-Gurion . He goes the whole opposite way in his portrayal of a ranting and malevolent Adolph Hitler . How a man who took his Jewish heritage as seriously as Luther Adler did , prepare for the role of Hitler is beyond my scope . But then again , there were few actors as good as he . Though Mason does a fine job given what limited material he had to work from , archives have been opened and we know a whole lot more about Erwin Rommel . Time for another biographical study .
Sinatra's Last Schnook Role	Frank Sinatra's last role under his contract with RKO was this slight comedy Double Dynamite . It was also the last time he played a milquetoast schnook . Double Dynamite was started in 1948 but Howard Hughes in his infinite wisdom kept under under wraps for three years , not releasing it until Christmas of 1951 . In a backhanded way he may have helped Sinatra because in 1951 the film offers were not coming and at least his name was kept before the public eye . Hughes could read the trade papers though and the Sinatra who had box office clout in 1948 had little in 1951 . Probably Frank was going to be billed below Jane Russell in a Hughes production in any event , but he was third billed below Groucho Marx in this one . If this had been done at Paramount you would have seen Eddie Bracken and Betty Hutton in the roles Sinatra and Russell have . They're both bank tellers at Howard Freeman's bank , but Freeman's in retirement and it's run by his playboy son Don McGuire and manager Harry Hayden . Frank and Jane make $42 . 50 a week , not a princely sum even back in 1951 and poor Frank goes and asks for a raise from Hayden . Personally I thought it was his best moment in the film . The way Hayden just jawbones him out of the raise reminded me of Branch Rickey negotiating salaries with baseball players . Right around the time this film was being made , there was a campaign against Rickey being orchestrated by New York Daily News sports columnist Jimmy Powers . One of the tags Powers hung on Rickey was El Cheapo . Based on the stories that Powers and others told about Rickey beating down every dollar a player might ask for , I have no doubt Rickey was the model for Hayden's character . Anyway Frank lucks into a windfall when he saves a notorious bookmaker , Nestor Paiva , from a beating being dished out by a rival mob . In gratitude Paiva ' lends ' Frankie a thousand dollars and he bets on several ' sure things ' with Paiva and he walks away with $60 , 000 . 00 . But as Frank returns triumphantly from Paiva's betting parlor , he discovers Hayden making a speech to the staff about someone embezzling a lot of money . Not even Russell believes him . His only ally is their good friend , a waiter at a one arm spaghetti joint , Groucho Marx . At this point Groucho really takes over the film . He gives Sinatra and Russell all kinds of advice , romantic and financial , about how to deal with this perplexing situation . One of them being put all the money in his name . They do that and Groucho does live it up in grand style . Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn wrote two of their most forgettable songs . With the release held up for three years , Sinatra never even bothered to record them for Columbia Records where he was at the time . Kisses and Tears is a duet with Jane Russell and there's a comedy patter number , It's Only Money for Groucho and Frank . Sinatra was usually given some great songs by Styne and Cahn in the forties , but they definitely failed him here . If it wasn't for Groucho Marx , Double Dynamite might very well be several notches lower in my estimation . When he's not on the screen you just wait for him to come back . I have a funny feeling that Groucho stole the film from Jane Russell who Hughes was trying to build up and that that was the reason it was held up for three years . I marvel that Jane Russell had any career at all considering Howard Hughes's obsession with her two weapons of mass destruction . Double Dynamite is the third film that I know of that he held for years before releasing that starred her , The Outlaw and the noir classic His Kind of Woman were the other two . Good thing she did The Paleface with Bob Hope over at Paramount and out of his reach . Besides those mentioned look for a nice performance by William Edmunds as Groucho's suffering employer , Mr . Baganucci . And Don McGuire is really quite the wolf in wolf's clothing as he keeps sexually harassing Jane . It's not a great film , it might have been better had it been in the hands of someone like Preston Sturges at Paramount .
Descending to the Same Level as Whom You Hunt	The big surprise in The Deadly Trackers is Rod Taylor's emergence as one mean and nasty villain here . Although he had played a bad guy early in his career in Hell on Frisco Bay as a contract killer , the public was used to Rod as the civilized fellow bringing a sense of order to a future world in The Time Machine . He's anything , but civilized in The Deadly Trackers . Richard Harris is a sheriff with some rather strange notions about capture instead of killing in a lawless land . Rod Taylor and his gang rob the bank in Harris's town and kill the bank manager on a whim . Then when Harris tries to capture and use reason with Taylor , Harris's wife and son become dead also . That gives our sheriff a whole new outlook and he hunts the gang into Mexico where he teams up with a federale played by Al Lettieri who has all the ideas Harris used to have . This was the farewell performance of Al Lettieri and interesting that he went out as a good guy here . He created a great group of villains in The Godfather , McQ , Mr . Majestyk , and The Getaway . He was a great talent . Some attention was paid to the fact that Harris is an Irish sheriff and for that matter Rod Taylor is Australian . But America is in fact a nation of immigrants and this should be no stranger than Errol Flynn's emergence as a western star in the heyday of the studio .
The Fighting McGuinns	I'm really amazed at some of the reviews I've read on this film . It's not the greatest boxing film ever made , still it portrays both the good and the seamier side of the sport . It's a low level Rocky with a touch of an old James Cagney-Pat O'Brien film , The Irish In Us . The idea that even a top amateur can step into the ring with a ranked professional contender in his division and beat him is nonsense . What The Irish In Us had was James Cagney as the MANAGER stepping into the ring when his fighter is injured and beating the welterweight champion for the title . Next to that Split Decisions is positively realistic . What's nice here is the relationship of the three generations of boxers in the McGuinn family . Grandfather John McLiam , Father Gene Hackman , and sons Craig Sheffer and Jeff Fahey . When Fahey stands up to mobster James Tolkan and refuses to throw a fight to his boy Eddie Velez , he's worked over and then accidentally killed . Sheffer steps in for his slain brother . Though the McGuinns fight with each other a bit , they do stick together in a crisis . In its way Split Decisions is a boxing fantasy , much like the highly acclaimed Rocky . Not bad entertainment either . This review is dedicated to McKennon Wimberly of the Professional Bull Riders who did some amateur boxing himself and shows the same heart riding bulls as Craig Sheffer did in this film .
Idolized Outlaw Father	The Great Stagecoach Robbery was one of the Red Ryder series from Republic Pictures . Though Herbert J . Yates's main star at this time was singing cowboy Roy Rogers not all of his stars sung . Bill Elliott was one of several actors to play the role comic book cowboy hero Red Ryder on the screen . He might be the best known of the screen Red Ryders although his nickname of Wild Bill Elliott came from playing Wild Bill Hickok in a few films . This film was something of a shock to me as it involved the murder of a child and a deliberate one on one act of homicide . The Ryder tries to aid an outlaw played by Francis McDonald to go straight which is his intention . But other people have different ideas for McDonald . First his two kids John James and Sylvia Arslan who idolize their outlaw father . Two of McDonald's former henchmen want to take up business as usual . But the fact that McDonald is coming back to Painted Valley to return $150 . 000 . 00 in stolen money which he hid before being arrested doesn't sit well with them at all . These two try to use the kids for their nefarious purposes . The murder of Sylvia Arslan in a film that was designed for the Saturday matinée crowd was something I never figured to see in a Republic cowboy movie . It's all the more gruesome because the perpetrator is an authority figure . How Herbert J . Yates let this one out let alone the censors miss it is a mystery . Considering what has transpired the Heigh-Ho Silver ending with Red Ryder and Little Beaver riding off into the sunset is a bit much . Still The Great Stagecoach Robbery is not a bad B western and you can see why the strong and personable Wild Bill Elliott was such a popular cowboy star back in the day .
" Give Or Take A Lie Or Two "	I appreciate Sunset the film because it gave the man who I consider the best big screen Wyatt Earp , James Garner , a chance to reprise the role . Garner played Earp back in the mid sixties in John Sturges's Hour of the Gun . That film took the unusual plot line of beginning with the famous Gunfight at the OK Corral and showing the aftermath from that event . It was a pretty grim western , and Garner was not playing his usual likable con artist . It took twenty years from Hour of the Gun to Sunset , but it was over 40 years in real life from the OK Corral fight until the events of Sunset that take place in Hollywood in and around the first Academy Award dinner in 1928 . Wyatt Earp was in fact in Hollywood and did in fact know Tom Mix . Earp died in 1929 at the age 80 and Garner is one of the liveliest 80 year olds ever on screen . Blake Edwards must have hated Charles Chaplin because Malcolm McDowell as Alfie Alperin , the Happy Hobo and villain of the film is one loathsome creep . No doubt Chaplin's character is used as the basis for McDowell's . The famous Thomas Ince shooting on board a yacht is also worked into the plot . Topping all that the first Academy Award dinner had a triple homicide in the lobby . Bruce Willis as Tom Mix stars as Wyatt Earp in a film about the OK Corral and of course with Wyatt still being alive , Garner is brought in as a technical adviser . The two of them get involved in a lovely web of intrigue during end of the silent era that starts with the murder of a bordello madam who had a lot of blackmail information concerning the mighty of Tinseltown . Wyatt Earp discovers a few personal facts about himself he didn't know also . Patricia Hodge is McDowell's long suffering wife and Jennifer Edwards is his equally loathsome sister . Another pair that Willis and Garner have to deal with are Richard Bradford as a corrupt LA detective and M . Emmet Walsh as the studio cop who do a lot of McDowell's dirty work . Sunset is entertaining enough , not a great film for either Willis or Garner . And it does capture the ambiance of old Hollywood , give or take a lie or two .
Bud & Lou Go a Feudin '	The feud is on between the Wingfields and the McCoys when Bud Abbott discovers his clients , hopeless magician Lou Costello and the Park Avenue hillbilly Dorothy Shay are both McCoys and Costello's inherited concertina holds the secret to a treasure of hidden gold . So off they go to the Appalachins where Costello's arrival sets off the feud that had pretty much died down . Bud and Lou get themselves a good supporting cast with a group of players used to rustic roles . I'm wondering how the folks at Universal missed getting Judy Canova and Marjorie Main and Percy Kilbride in this film . Lou's best scene involves him haggling with a hag played by Margaret Hamilton in her wicked witch makeup over some love potion with each making a voodoo doll of the other to poke holes in . Dorothy Shay was just about at the end of her peak of popularity which started post World War II . She was a singer with a warm contralto who decided to play up her southern roots . Dorothy made a whole lot of hillbilly ditties popular back in those days and her big hit song , Feudin ' a Fussin ' and a Fightin ' was still selling good in 1951 when Comin ' Round the Mountain came out . I have it and also a vinyl record of a Bing Crosby radio show where she sang that song as a trio number with herself , Bing , and Groucho Marx . She did what very few did in Abbott and Costello pictures , hold her own with the boys and not get lost in the supporting cast . It's not the best of their films , but still enjoyable and just wait till you see the treasure that they do find .
A Couple Of Navy Men	Edward G . Robinson and Glenn Ford star in Destroyer , a sentimental Navy tale of two different generations of Navy men . Though the film's World War II vintage somewhat dates it , the film is still good entertainment . The film begins with news of the USS John Paul Jones being sunk in the Pacific . That news is particularly hard for retired Navy chief Edward G . Robinson who now makes a living building ships in the navy yard . He gets to build the new John Paul Jones and decides that he ought to serve on her . But when he pulls some strings to get assigned to the JPJ II , someone gets displaced as the chief boatswain . That someone is Glenn Ford and that doesn't make for a harmonious ship . In addition Robinson's kind of behind the times in the newer improvements the US Navy has made since the last war . Complicating things is Marguerite Chapman , Robinson's daughter who Ford falls for . That really makes things bad on shore and off . Robinson's the show in this film . His portrayal of an old Navy fighting man who won't be beached in a second war is sentimental , but effective . His best moments are when he finally begins to win the crew's respect by telling them the story of the guy and the engagement that the guy fought for whom the ship is named after . In fact the final duel between the USS John Paul Jones and a Japanese submarine has a lot of similarity between what happened with the Bonhomme Richard and the Serapis of the Royal Navy . Rounding out a nice supporting cast are Regis Toomey , Edward Brophy , Edgar Buchanan , and Leo Gorcey who gives us a bit of New York street smarts for the ship . Destroyer is a dated propaganda film from the World War II era , but still entertaining because of the two leads .
Purvis Vs . Dillinger	Although Warren Oates makes one charismatic Dillinger in the title role of this film , the story concentrates as much on Melvin Purvis the G-Man that got him , played here by Ben Johnson . We meet Dillinger as a full blown criminal whose exploits and daring captured the public fancy in Depression Era America . With banks failing all over the country and people losing their life savings , bankers were not among the most popular people in the USA in the Thirties . No matter that these robberies didn't help the situation any , a lot of people were glad someone besides the rich was just going in and taking the money . Ben Johnson is a grim and determined Melvin Purvis , eager to the shooting down of FBI men in the Kansas City Massacre before J . Edgar Hoover's agents were allowed to carry weapons . He did not however personally bag all the criminals he's credited with in this film . Nor did Pretty Boy Floyd played by Steve Kanaly later of Dallas ever run with Dillinger's gang . However Baby Face Nelson aka Lester Gillis did and he's played as the psychotic punk he was by Richard Dreyfuss before he became a star . There's no real character development in this Dillinger , but certainly enough action to satisfy those who want that in their movies . The film has a documentary like quality to it . The main female roles are played by Michelle Phillips as Dillinger's girl Billie who stands by her man and in the end Cloris Leachman as the infamous Lady in Red who betrays him . Neither actress is given much to work with in the script . I'm looking forward to the new Dillinger film with Johnny Depp this year . Knowing him , we'll get one interesting Dillinger . Still Warren Oates is the best we have so far .
Allies Of Convenience	After a bad beginning because I could not believe the way that bounty hunter Randolph Scott was able to bring in James Best , the rest of the film fleshes out nicely to another tension filled western directed by Budd Boetticher and written by Burt Kennedy who would soon be directing features of his own . When Scott does bring in Best unfortunately he must rely on a pair of young guns , Pernell Roberts and James Coburn , to bring Best in . These two have one idea about what to do with Best , but Scott's working an agenda all his own . They settle down as allies of convenience . They have to because there are hostile Mescalero Apaches all around . For a while they fort up at a stagecoach station operated by Karen Steele and her husband . The husband's away and later we find out the Apaches have killed him . She's also forced to join the group . Besides Apaches , Best's brother Lee Van Cleef has heard about his capture . Van Cleef and Scott have a lot of history between them and that's part of the story as well . Ride Lonesome borrows quite liberally from the successful James Stewart / Anthony Mann western The Naked Spur where Stewart is also a bounty hunter forced to make some allies of convenience . When the film gets down to business , the best part of it belongs to Pernell Roberts and James Coburn in his feature film debut . They are one pair of morally ambiguous characters and right until the very end you don't know exactly whose side they will come down on . If only Burt Kennedy had devised a better way of capturing James Best at the beginning , Ride Lonesome would rank at the top of the Randolph Scott / Budd Boetticher collaborations . As it is , it's still not a bad film from the two of them .
Doing Their Bit For Uncle Sam	One of Laurel and Hardy's last films was this one for MGM where they play a couple of 4Fs who still want to do their bit for the USA at war with the Axis . After getting turned down by all the armed services , Stan and Ollie return to their small town and their bicycle shop to volunteer as air raid wardens . Their bicycle shop in fact has been taken over by Donald Meek who is running a radio repair shop , but Meek allows them back in as partners . MGM did give the boys an excellent supporting cast a lot better than what they usually had with Hal Roach . Problem is that they looked a bit old and tired and both were having health problems at the time . Still they got a few good slapstick licks in , especially with Edgar Kennedy and Howard Freeman who was a great foil for them . My favorite moment in the film was when after one foul up too many they get canned as air raid wardens and Stan who usually cried at the drop of a hat , was almost in real tears about it . Both he and Ollie really do want to do something for the war effort even if they know they're a pair of bumblers . Ollie in fact was the most restrained I've seen him . The Laurel and Hardy shtick is that Stan is a dummy and he knows it , Ollie is dumb , but has delusions of grandeur . Here Ollie also tones down the usual pomposity we expect from him . Of course they redeem themselves when they stumble on to a real group of Nazi spies . Among that cast of all American small town types are a pair of known character actors who are in fact spies and saboteurs . But you'll just have to see Air Raid Wardens to find out who .
Just Who Is Callaway ?	Consider the time this film came out . It is one of the first feature films about the cinema's new rival , television . More specifically it is based on the renaissance of Hopalong Cassidy as an early television star . This film takes me back to when I was a lad in the early days of television when there was a need for programming . The first films that were shown on early television were grade B product from the studios which were not about to be re-released for the big screen . And of course those B westerns were in plentiful supply . In fact I have a theory that John Wayne's rapid rise to number one at the box office may have been in large part to the showing of his pre-Stagecoach westerns giving him valuable publicity for the A product he was currently working on . But the guy who had the biggest benefit was William Boyd who made his last Hopalong Cassidy picture in 1948 . He had scraped together every bit of cash he could to buy all the rights to the Hopalong Cassidy films and character from producer Harry Sherman and author Clarence Mulford . So when those Cassidy films became a big hit on early television Boyd's career revived and he became a tycoon with all the Hoppy merchandise . And the craze was big , the film accurately depicts the merchandising bonanza that Hoppy was in real life and Smokey Callaway in this film . Like the Cassidy films in real life , the old films of B picture western star Smokey Callaway become a big hit on TV . They'd like to make more of them , but where's Smokey . TV programmers Fred MacMurray and Dorothy McGuire would sure like to find him . Smokey's just dropped off the planet . MacMurray and McGuire dispatch former agent Jesse White to locate Callaway who was quite a boozer back in the day and nothing like his screen image . In the meantime they locate a cowboy from Colorado who is a Callaway doppelganger . Howard Keel plays both parts and plays them well . The two scheming TV programmers hire Keel on to impersonate his lookalike . But they get quite a bit more than they bargain for . Callaway Went Thataway is an enjoyable film about a forgotten era in our social history . Cowboys don't have quite the image they once did in America and I'm not sure how today's audience relates to a film about early television which we pretty much take for granted . Still it's a piece of nostalgia for me .
Knute Rockne Joins the Army Air Corps	Pat O'Brien takes his Knute Rockne character and joins the Army Air Corps in Bombardier and he and Randolph Scott have a disagreement as far as air tactics go . Scott wants to do things as they do in the RAF where he's been an observer . Fly in low and drop bombs and avoid being shot at . O'Brien is more interested in technology . Develop and learn how to use an accurate bombsight so you can be up around 20 , 000 feet and only have to worry about enemy planes which presumably your fighter escort has to deal with . But since these guys are friends it's a good natured fight as both are in the business of training bombardiers . Among the familiar faces they train are Eddie Albert and Robert Ryan before both went in the service themselves . Bombardier is so very dated now , but still entertaining . The advances in technology are light years beyond what O'Brien and Scott are dealing with . Film buffs who are air historians might like it though .
Johnny Suede , Likable But Shallow	Johnny Suede finds Brad Pitt in a character study of a would be rock and roll superstar who just can't quite get his career off the ground . In a homage to a famous Twilight Zone episode He finds a pair of classy suede shoes that seem to complete the look he keeps trying to obtain . Unfortunately it takes more than just a look and some talent to make a star . Brad's Johnny is a likable if shallow character . He can't seem to get a career goal in focus and some things beyond his control seem to be defeating him . Nevertheless he persists and even finds some true love in the end in the person of Catherine Keener , though he nearly blows that situation . That exaggerated pompadour was absolutely unreal , it must have been close to a foot high . It so obviously a wig yet it did seem to match Brad Pitt's natural coloring . He must have gotten a migraine headache just wearing it around . Johnny Suede is a film made on the cheap . I will say I liked the choice of location shooting in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn . Around that time the area was starting to become gentrified . Now some of those loft apartments and reconverted brownstones are starting to match the more swanky sections of Brooklyn if not yet at Manhattan levels . In the supporting cast I did like Calvin Levels performance as Pitt's best friend and confidante who finally decides to leave him because he's tired of waiting for Pitt's dream band to become reality . Johnny Suede is not a great film , but it does give full display to Brad Pitt's natural charisma and talent and clearly shows the star he was to become .
Some Inconvenient Allies	After an eleven year absence from the screen , Sidney Poitier chose to return in an action / adventure film where he plays an FBI agent in search of a killer . He's got good reason to want this guy bad . His quarry is ruthless and kills without mercy . Poitier loses a hostage and the ransom he's asked for . But some good detective work has traced the man to a remote part of the Pacific Northwest . Where the perpetrator has killed again and joined a party of dry fly fishermen being guided by Kirstie Alley into the rugged mountains . No place for a city kid like Poitier , says mountaineer / hermit Tom Berenger who has the prerequisite skills to get the job done . These two are forced into an alliance of inconvenience . The best thing I liked about Shoot To Kill is the guessing game we play for the identity of the perpetrator . Any one of the five men in Kirstie Alley's party could have been the killer . Look at the cast list and you'll recognize a few names who've played some pretty loathsome villains in the past . The identity is revealed suddenly and quite shockingly . What I didn't like with Shoot To Kill is the fact that the final confrontation with the perpetrator is in big city Vancouver where he's escaped with Alley . He needed her in the woods , not any longer , she should have wound up dead . And Berenger and Poitier should have confronted him in the woods . That script decision made the climax a rather ordinary one that you see in a whole lot of police chase films . Still all the players do fine here , my favorite being Kirstie Alley as the woods smart guide .
Sidekicks of the Invisible Man	One thing I can say about Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man is that here we know why someone would hire Bud and Lou as anything . Bud and Lou are newly graduated private detectives from a school and a man on the run from a murder rap goes into the first office he sees that advertises what he's looking for . He's Arthur Franz , promising heavyweight fighter , accused of killing his manager . Franz is innocent and he hasn't any time to look for references . Franz himself has a scheme . His girlfriend Nancy Guild has a scientist uncle played by Gavin Muir who is taking up the experiments that Claude Rains did in the original Invisible Man . In fact Rains's picture is in his office and his character is referenced . With the police on his trail , Franz takes the concoction that makes him invisible . Now with Bud and Lou at his side Franz can try to get proof of those he suspects already . Because we know right away who the killer is , there's not a lot of suspense here . But there sure are a lot of laughs . The funniest scene is of course the prize fight where Costello aided by Franz goes into the ring with the fighter Franz was supposed to take a dive against . Second funniest is mob moll Adele Jergens trying to seduce Costello . Other good performances are Sheldon Leonard as the mob boss and William Frawley as the investigating detective on the murder that Franz is suspected of . The boys and their invisible friend really drive him to the brink . This was right before Frawley went into the I Love Lucy Show and immortality as Fred Mertz . It's one of A & C's best of their later films and should not be missed .
Cashing In On It Happened One Night	A year earlier Clark Gable as a " punishment " for a recalcitrant star was farmed out to Columbia Pictures by Louis B . Mayer to make a real dog of a film about a bus trip entitled It Happened One Night . That film essentially created the modern screen comedy as we know it and made a grand slam of the major Oscar categories including one for Clark Gable as Best Actor . Gable played a newspaper reporter in that one , on the trail of runaway heiress Claudette Colbert . One thing about Louis B . Mayer , if he saw a trend he'd capitalize on it . If his number one star got an Oscar as a reporter , we'll make him an editor . And we'll bring the society girl into the newsroom where she's also working as a reporter . Common job interests should provide a basis for romance . And that boys and girls is how After Office Hours came into being . But despite the naughty title , the main thing that Clark Gable and Constance Bennett are working on after work is an argument over a society murder . Gable has a notion that the man arrested for murdering a society grand dame who was doing a little stepping out is not the guilty party . He needs Bennett to help him gain entree to the Cholly Knickerbocker set to prove it . Bennett and Gable settle comfortably into their roles and Stu Erwin has a nice turn as Gable's sidekick . As for Louis B . Mayer and MGM , After Office Hours did OK , but Gable made them some big money that year in Mutiny on the Bounty . But I'll bet Mayer was mighty careful over what he assigned as punishments .
That's Short For Schuyler	Though it was a nice play on words the character Sky King did not get his moniker from his reliance on air travel , it was simply short for Schuyler . Nevertheless it's a great handle and suggestive of all kinds of romantic fantasies about air travel . The last name King was also an interesting choice . One of the largest , if not the largest cattle ranches ever was the King Ranch of Texas . If people thought Sky was one of those Kings , so much the better . And I don't think the King Ranch minded the free publicity . The title role in this modern western was played by Kirby Grant who also had played him on radio . He was the owner of a considerable spread , but the main thing with Grant was that he was up to date with the times . He had a private plane that he named the Songbird which he used to both oversee his ranch and help deal with bad guys who couldn't ride horses fast enough to get away from Sky King and the Songbird . As you can imagine , the law had need of Sky and his plane and Sky was only too willing to help out a sheriff in need . Sky lived on the ranch with niece Penny { Gloria Winters } and nephew Clipper { Ron Haggerty } . These two headstrong youths got themselves in jams and half the plots of the shows were Uncle Sky using the Songbird to get them out of a jackpot . Kirby Grant who broke into film as a singer and not a bad one found his niche on radio playing heroic Sky King . The show transitioned smoothly to television and was a big hit with the kids including this kid . Ironically enough Kirby Grant's death was a postscript to the Challenger disaster . Long retired and living in Florida he saw the Challenger blow up and then died in a car accident on the way home . Probably the horror of what he saw unnerved as it did everyone else who witnessed it live or on television . So a man whose fame was as a fictional air hero died after witnessing one of the great air disasters of the last century . Sky King was a nice family show and I'm surprised no one has thought to revive it .
Nothing Can Stop The Army Air Corps	I was lucky enough to get to see this recruiting film on TCM this morning with James Stewart this morning . Before going off to Europe and flying several bombing missions over Axis territory in the next four years , Stewart stopped by Warner Brothers long enough to make this recruitment film . What's ironic here is that those who didn't take to the skies and became infantrymen would have nothing , but derision for films like these . Despite the contributions of the Army Air Corps which were certainly real enough , those who weren't in that service felt these guys got all the glamor . You can see that idea running through any number of war films . Still it was interesting to see such folks as Charles Drake , Peter Graves , Don DeFore and Ray Montgomery before they became recognizable civilian actors . James Stewart had three loves in his life , Gloria , acting , and flying and this was I'm sure a labor of love for him .
It's When He Gets Home The Trouble Starts	When Johnny Comes Marching Home Again finds Allan Jones as a hero soldier on home with some well earned leave , not only from combat , but from a bond tour where shapely débutante Marla Shelton has been sticking to him like glue . He's a fighting man under his real name , Johnny Kovacs , but everybody knows him under the name of Johnny O'Toole when he was in his civilian occupation , singer with Phil Spitalny's band . Coming home he finds that Phil Spitalny's whole orchestra is now women including new singer Jane Frazee . She's got a sister played by Gloria Jean who has a trio act going with Donald O'Connor and Peggy Ryan . O'Connor's mother Emma Dunn is Jones's former landlady and it's her place he considers home . They don't know him as Johnny Kovacs the hero , they only know him as band singer Johnny O'Rourke who enlisted in the army . And somewhere along the line they all get the idea he's gone AWOL . It makes for bulk of the plot in this fast paced musical of the World War II years . For those who aren't familiar Phil Spitalny's Orchestra in real life was an all female ensemble , very popular in the Thirties and Forties . Of course with women filling jobs in a lot of traditionally male roles , the gender of the orchestra's musicians was used for a nice gag . Composers Gene DePaul and Don Raye wrote the bulk of the score as they did for a lot of musical products at Universal . But Allan Jones had the good sense to have the Howard Deitz-Arthur Schwartz classic You And The Night And The Music interpolated in the film . His singing it with Jane Frazee and Gloria Jean is the musical highlight of the film . When Johnny Comes Marching Home is a pleasant , but dated wartime musical film . O'Connor and Ryan were teamed in several films in this era by Universal and are entertaining . And the Four Step Brothers do a nifty dance drill version of The American Patrol . If you like films of this era or you love Allan Jones's voice as I do , you'll like When Johnny Comes Marching Home .
A Curvacious Hostage	Imagine Kirk Douglas's character of Lomax from The War Wagon years later presumably after he'd spent that much reduced share from that robbery and you've got Handsome Harry Holland . Kirk is still a charmer , but now is just a bit tired of putting up with some of the people he has to deal with . Case in point where he wins a hand at poker where the sniveling son of the town's richest man , Derek McGrath , acts like a real sore loser . His crybaby attitude sets in motion the whole plot where Douglas who only wants to cash McGrath's IOU at the bank winds up killing the sheriff who drew on him . Douglas is shot in the leg also in the same fracas and traveling actress Alexandra Bastedo takes him up to her room . With McGrath stirring up the populace and Douglas's reputation the only thing to do is send for feared lawman James Coburn who's dealt with Douglas in the old days . Coburn who is now a sodden alcoholic does sober up for the occasion and of course finds he has more in common with Douglas than the ' law and order ' citizens of the town . Those old pros Douglas and Coburn are the main reason to see Draw ! . That and the considerable feminine charms of Alexandra Bastedo who really does make the best of being held ' hostage ' by Douglas in her room .
The TV Show Takes The Rap For Radio	I don't think I've seen any Amos ' n Andy Shows for over 40 years now , but I still remember them from television and the history behind them . Early television was stuck for creative programming and what better programming than to bring successful radio programs over to television . There certainly was no more successful radio program than Amos ' n Andy . A couple of average vaudevillians who did a blackface act called Sam ' n Henry named Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll sold a radio program based on their act . They just changed the names and it became Amos ' n Andy , the better for alliteration . This was in the middle of the Roaring Twenties and it was the most successful of radio programs during radio's golden age . If you were to look at television Amos ' n Andy and contrast it with something like Sanford and Son , you'd find a remarkable lot of similarities . On television Amos got into the episodes , but mostly functioned as narrator as the character Kingfish really starred in the series . Every week this Fred Sanford like character had all kinds of plans and it usually involved getting his Lamont like pal Andy swindled in some manner . This Sanford was not a widower , he lived with his Elizabeth who is not the saintly figure Fred makes her out to be . Sapphire was at her wit's end with her lazy husband . George Stevens was Kingfish's straight name and he also lived with an Aunt Esther in the person of Sapphire's Momma , not a woman to cross as I remember . The men hung out at the Mystic Knight's of the Sea Lodge probably to stay away from the wives . Except Andy who was a confirmed bachelor . They also included a shyster lawyer Algonquin J . Calhoun who I remember actually got to court in one episode and we learned he was disbarred . I daresay you could have taken the plot of any given Amos ' n Andy television episode and have rewritten it for Sanford and Son . They may have done just that in fact . Still though Amos ' n Andy with its origins in vaudeville blackface has born a stigma that it can't erase . I really feel if Amos ' n Andy had been an original television creation it would not have the stigma it has today . The Kingfish with his never ending get rich quick schemes that involved duping the hapless Andy every week and his henpecked home life that W . C . Fields never saw the equal of was a pretty funny show . I knew it was even in my single digit years . The chemistry between Tim Moore as Kingfish and Spencer Williams as Andy was evident even for a little kid . The Kingfish was a funny guy , but he was a loser and I sympathized with Ernestine Wade as Sapphire for being stuck with this lunkhead . And no one should have had the mother-in-law from hell Amanda Randolph . One of these days I'll see some of those episodes with Sanford & Son side by side and test my theory .
A Sincere Project , Hampered By Lack of Interest	Johnny Tiger was a film that Robert Taylor hoped would help him transition to older more mature roles . He's a man of academia who's taken a position on a Seminole Indian reservation in Florida . While there , he encounters the charming and reckless title character played by Chad Everett . Everett is the grandson of the old chief Sam Tiger played by Ford Rainey . The grandson and grandfather are estranged as Everett has been too long living in the white man's world and won't assume his rightful place in the tribal councils . In a plot gambit obviously taken from The Corn Is Green , Taylor recognizes Everett as a most intelligent young man . Not quite Will Hunting type smart , nevertheless Everett has the potential for bigger and better things . Taylor feels it's those backward Indian ways holding him back . Education and literacy are the answer and he develops a messianic fervor on the subject . Taylor would be described today as a secular humanist , but he does learn the wisdom of Hamlet's words to Horatio about there being more things on heaven and earth than are dreamed of in your philosophy . If Johnny Tiger was made today , it would be a natural project for Lou Diamond Phillips with his partially Cherokee heritage no one would object to the casting . You could never get away with casting Ford Rainey and Marc Lawrence who plays the Seminole medicine man in Indian roles today . Still they are not bad in them and those players , Everett included , do not insult or demean the people they portray . Probably this film should have made its debut on television . I remember it being released back in the day as the second half of a double bill with a Munster film . Not exactly an opportunity to showcase the players , including most importantly Robert Taylor . Geraldine Brooks plays the government doctor on the reservation and she's a most fetching female who tries very hard to humanize Taylor and derail him from his mission which is essentially to destroy what little is left of the Seminole culture . Brenda Scott is Taylor's daughter who gets involved with Everett , further complicating things . Johnny Tiger is not a bad film , it was never really given a chance to find its audience back in the day . Though I do wonder about where Seminole Indians would have heard of tigers from the real India .
Bob's been working on the railroad	Robert Taylor arrives in Africa to survey a route from Mombasa to Lake Victoria for a railroad . Of course British policy against the slave trade has some of the locals up in arms and the fact that Taylor makes it clear his company will not be permitting the transport of slaves makes him a few enemies , chiefly Gregoire Aslan the big honcho among Arab slave traders . Taylor's got a friend in the enemy camp though . Young John Dimech came over on the boat with Taylor and he's Aslan's son , recently educated in an English prep school where he's taken in some western ideas . He hitches a ride with Taylor , Anthony Newley and Anne Aubrey on the surveying expedition . Aubrey is along to locate her father and fiancé who've disappeared into the interior . One of the previous reviewers remarked about the good location photography in East Africa that highlights Killers of Kilimanjaro . It's my contention , expressed elsewhere in other reviews that ever since King Solomon's Mines and The African Queen , phony backlot jungles were just not going to do for the movie going public . The story is not as good as either of those other films , but Killers of Kilimanjaro is good routine action adventure film and the cast give a good account of themselves . Anthony Newley has some funny moments as Taylor's tenderfoot assistant and Allan Cuthbertson for me stands out in the cast as Aubrey's dissolute fiancé .
Grass Skirts ? The Better To See Betty Grable's Legs	I'm not sure but that Song of the Islands was had been done before December 7 , 1941 and definitely before US servicemen started bleeding and dying in the South Seas . There certainly is no mention of World War II at all in this escapist Betty Grable film where she's poaching on Dorothy Lamour's south sea territory . I'm sure that Darryl Zanuck must have saw the kind of money that Paramount was raking in with those Dorothy Lamour sarong pictures . So why not put the woman who had risen to be their top musical star in the tropics . They gave Betty a hula grass skirt instead of a sarong , the better to show her legs with . Zanuck was also smart enough not to pass the blond Grable as a native Hawaiian . She's come home to teach school on the island where her father , Thomas Mitchell , has a small place , but also where George Barbier is the absentee owner of a cattle ranch . Barbier's place is run by Hal Spencer , but Victor Mature and Jack Oakie sail over from America to see if they can buy out Mitchell . Mature is Barbier's son and of course when he and Grable meet , the inevitable sparks do fly . Zanuck also put an official Hawaiian imprimatur on Song of the Islands by using Harry Owens to write the music with Mack Gordon's lyrics . Owens was the musical interpreter of Hawaii to the world , his most famous song being Sweet Leilani . And a Hawaiian national treasure named Hilo Hattie also appears in the film , singing in her inimitable style and setting her marriage cap for Jack Oakie . It's all light and pleasant escapist entertainment and Song of the Islands is a good indication of why Betty Grable was the number one pin-up of GIs all over the globe . Except for Rita Hayworth .
Help and Cooperation	The White Tower is an allegorical film about the need for cooperation among people and nations . It's no accident that this film was made during the early years of the United Nations when there was so much hope for its success . Maybe we will be one world , one day if we all cooperate . The story takes place in Switzerland and the White Tower is as yet an unclimbed Alp . Alida Valli's father died making an attempt and she wants to climb it . She manages to convince five guests of the resort hotel she's staying at to climb with her . Her party consists of Glenn Ford , Lloyd Bridges , Claude Rains , Oscar Homolka , and Sir Cedric Hardwicke . The story is what happens on the mountain and what the challenging climb brings out in all of them . Not all of them survive the trip . But you ain't gonna get me to spill the beans . Lloyd Bridges is the most interesting of the characters . He's a former Nazi who's doing it to prove Deutscheland is really uber alles . He gets quite a reality check on the mountain . The White Tower has some good color photography of some really fabulous mountain scenery . The story at times gets a big talky and bogs down , but the climax is both spectacular and real .
Oh , Give Me A Home Where The Buffalo Roam .	This is one of a group of westerns that Randolph Scott's home studio of Paramount assigned to him . Filmed previously as a silent and taking use of a lot of the action sequences from the silent version , Thundering Herd's source was one of Zane Grey's novels . This is not the Randolph Scott we became acquainted with post World War Two in the westerns he did then . He plays a callow youth here , although he's 35 in real life . He's in the employ of a Harry Carey and Raymond Hatton , partners in a buffalo hunting outfit . Carey and Hatton run an honest group , but there's a rival outfit headed by Noah Beery , Sr . which gets hides the easy way , murdering whites and / or Indians for them . Randolph Scott has a hankering for Judith Allen who's Beery's stepdaughter . Of course so has Beery to the discomfort of his wife , Blanche Frederici . Throw in a buffalo stampede and an Indian attack and I think you can figure the rest out . It's good action from Paramount's B picture unit .
British Elvis Goes In The Military	Poor Elvis Presley . Had he realized he could have done his military obligation and not have to put a career on hold , he might very well have become a British subject . Elvis's being drafted into the army was world wide news back in the day and the British sought to take advantage of it with this film , Idle On Parade . It casts Anthony Newley as a young British rock and roller who has to do his national service and even being a teen idol won't get him out of it . His status causes no end of grief to Captain Lionel Jeffries and the drill sergeant William Bendix . Around this time Bendix went over across the pond and made a few features for the British film industry . He mastered an Irish accent quite well for the part . I wouldn't have thought anyone as American urban as Bill Bendix could have carried it off , but he did . The interesting I found was that I had just finished reading Tommy Steele's memoirs , Bermondsey Boy , where Steele goes into some detail about his national service . He eschewed military service for the sea , serving as a steward on one of her Majesty's ocean liners . Actually some of what Tommy had to say would make an interesting film . Newley fits the role well as a teen idol and the lovely Anne Aubrey who is Jeffries's daughter in the film is his romantic interest . That's part , but only part of the story of Idle On Parade .
Combining The Genres	Randolph Scott at this point in his career when he wasn't doing other films was learning the western genre in a series of films that Paramount's B unit was doing from Zane Grey novels . In this particular one , Rocky Mountain Mystery , Grey tried his hand at a detective story and skilfully combined the genres . Randy's a mining engineer , but he's turning amateur sleuth to find out what's happened to his brother-in-law , who no one has heard from . Upon arriving at the scene he meets deputy sheriff Chic Sale who's investigating the murder of the owner of a mine . The two of them decide to join forces . The film is set in the contemporary west , at least the contemporary west of when Zane Grey wrote the story . There's reference to Chic Sale's son killed in the Great War and how Scott reminds him of his late son . When these two arrive at the mine , there's a lot of interesting people living there . As it turns out there's quite an intricate scheme working there of which the homicide is only one aspect . I wish this film had been given a bigger budget and the A treatment because the film had potential . Young Ann Sheridan is the female lead , this is probably one of her first films in that regard , she'd be signed by Warner Brothers next year . However the important reason to see the film is the appearance of one of the great stage stars of the last centuries and notorious personalities . Mrs . Leslie Carter ( and that's how she was billed ) has the role of family matriarch of the clan at the mine and even in her old age you can tell what a beauty she was back then . Her acting is also decent , no exaggerated stage mannerisms from back in her day when she learned her craft from David Belasco . Her divorce from her husband was one of the great scandals of the day . Divorce back in her time was scandalous in and of itself . She was left penniless by the divorce , but Belasco seeking to capitalize on her notoriety , took her under his wing and trained her in the thespian arts . People exploiting their celebrity , some things never change . You can see her story in the film , The Lady With Red Hair starring Miriam Hopkins and Claude Rains . By the way she was billed under her former married name to take advantage of the fact that was how the public knew her and to stick it to her ex . Even without Mrs . Leslie Carter , Rocky Mountain Mystery is a decent film , I wish had been given better production values by Paramount .
The Marines Have Always Been Looking For A Few Good Men	Stepping into the hero / heel part that Tyrone Power specialized in while at 20th Century Fox is John Payne as the spoiled kid of a former Marine officer , Minor Watson . Payne's hoping to get out of the Marines for a nice desk job in Washington , DC , but Watson's hoping that his former sergeant Randolph Scott , now a drill instructor will give Payne the necessary attitude adjustment . Payne's getting an attitude adjustment in another direction too . He's fallen for pretty nurse Maureen O'Hara even though he's got Washington society girl Nancy Kelly pulling strings for him . The part is such a perfect one for Tyrone Power that I'm sure it was offered to him and rejected and given to Payne who was hired by Darryl Zanuck because of his resemblance to Power and the fact he could sing opposite Alice Faye and Betty Grable . Power did similar roles in A Yank in the Raf and Crash Dive and in fact did serve in the Marines in the South Pacific after 1943 . The film was shot on location at the San Diego Marine training station and I visited San Diego a few years back and some of it looks pretty much the same . Harry Morgan made his feature film debut and if you look close you'll see that another one of the Marine recruits is the Skipper himself , Alan Hale , Jr . To the Shores of Tripoli is badly dated and doesn't play real well against today's attitudes . Still it's a great example of a World War II propaganda piece .
Trigger & Son versus The Phantom	Trigger , Jr . finds Roy Rogers heading a traveling circus that is looking to put up at Dale Evans ranch for winter quarters . Unfortunately her father George Cleveland owns the place and he's an old circus man himself who's sworn off the sawdust . Still he lets them stay for a bit . Turns out he needs Roy around because he's in a battle with Grant Withers of the Range Patrol . Withers has himself a real nice protection racket going . Those ranches who don't employ him somehow keep losing their stock . Withers during the course of the film employs the services of a killer white stallion that was a former army horse that the army ordered destroyed . Trigger tangles with the horse they call the Phantom and is injured and has hysterical blindness in their first encounter . Guess who wins the return bout . Here's a hint , think Louis and Schmeling . Roy and Dale really do take a back seat to Trigger and his problems in this film . They do however get to sing a very nice duet entitled May the Good Lord Take A Liking To You which sold a few records back in the day . I have it on one of my old record albums . Roy did all right in the recording field , but never was a blockbuster best seller the way his singing cowboy rival Gene Autry was . It's not a bad film , but Trigger really should have been billed first .
A Cutthroat Profession	Like America when Australia decided to make its first talking motion picture it decided it should sing as well . With the exception of one player in the cast , the film was mostly made up of folks who must have primarily been stage performers . The theater in the outback must have been one cutthroat profession . Susan Denis and Sadie Bedford are in a traveling theatrical troupe that seems to be barely getting by . Anyway when an offer comes for Denis to star in a new talking motion picture to be made in Sydney , Bedford steals it and pretends to be Denis . The troupe travels in a cattle car with a koala bear for company and Denis , desperate for work , signs on as a Swedish maid at a hotel . Why they specified Swedes in the job application , God only knows , but she fakes it . And wouldn't you know , the film company doing some location shooting also arrives and things start to pop . All the cast members who this Yank hasn't heard of have real limited screen credits . But Arthur Tauchert had several silent films for his resume and he was one of Australia's leading actors at the time . My knowledge of Aussie cinema begins with Chips Rafferty , but Tauchert in fact made his farewell appearance in this film . Sorry I don't know more about him or the films of Australia . I will say this though , having seen the recent big budget production of Australia , I am impressed with it now more than ever seeing how well it captured the outback after having seen this .
" I catch them , I don't hang them . "	The Hangman finds Robert Taylor as a relentless U . S . Marshal who pursues criminals with the zeal of Lieutenant Gerard when he was hunting for Richard Kimble in The Fugitive . Barry Morse's words from that show could equally have served as Taylor's bywords , " I don't philosophize , I hunt . " Who he's hunting is the last man of a four man gang accused of a holdup where a death occurred . Two guys are already dead and one is sentenced to hang . But nobody knows who number four is or what he looks like . Taylor in his quest goes to an army post where he finds recent widow Tina Louise and he's authorized by Wells Fargo to offer a reward of $500 . 00 if she'll come to a town where he's reputed to be and point him out . When he arrives in town , the object of his quest who turns out to be Jack Lord is about the most popular fellow there . Why he didn't run for mayor or even for Fess Parker's job as sheriff is beyond me . But Taylor gets no help from anybody . The title derives from the nickname Taylor has acquired for his dogged dedication to duty . The Hangman is a western with very little action surprisingly , but it has a good character study by the mature Robert Taylor . It's a well rounded portrait of a man who'd like to leave the job he's in , but has grown used to it and it's the only living he's known for years . The Hangman was the first film Robert Taylor did outside MGM since Magnificent Obsession in the Thirties . He has a record , definitely unlikely to be broken now of the longest running studio contract in film history . The Hangman is a good , not great western besides those already mentioned I did enjoy Mabel Albertson's performance as a dotty old biddy who's eying Robert Taylor like a slab of romantic beef . Well he was one of the biggest screen heartthrobs ever . Personally , I think Taylor should have concentrated on westerns in his later years the same way Joel McCrea and Randolph Scott did . He liked making them and though he's not primarily known as a western star , films like Devil's Doorway , Saddle the Wind , The Last Hunt and The Law and Jake Wade hold up very well today . The Hangman's not as good as these I've mentioned , but it still has a fine performance from Robert Taylor and the rest of the cast .
How would Rooster Cogburn have handled it ?	As portrayed by John Wayne , United States Marshal J . D . Cahill is a man obsessed with his work as a lawman . I guess you needed super dedication in doing that job right . Trouble is , he's neglected his two sons , Gary Grimes and Clay O'Brien who've fallen in with bad company . In fact that bad company has thought of a pretty good scheme in how to rob the town bank with the help from the Cahill boys . One unforeseen consequence of the scheme is the sheriff and deputy from the town are both killed . Wayne catches up with some nefarious characters who fit a general description and have a chunk of cash on them . They're not the right guys and he suspects as much . The rest of the story concerns what happens as Grimes and O'Brien are conscience stricken and how that brings about a general righting of wrongs . My problem with the story is that marshal's kids or not , they've committed a major league felony . In another film Grimes would have hung for it . Two law enforcement officials were killed in the performance of their duty . You do recall in Hang ' Em High those two kids who did not help Bruce Dern overpower Clint Eastwood still hung in the end . Or in True Grit , John Wayne shoots without hesitation some young criminals there . But this is a John Wayne film involving his family so the Duke is trapped by certain parameters that his fans expect . It makes for some weakly resolved issues in the plot . But if you're a fan of the Duke , Cahill U . S . Marshal will fill your bill .
A Pair Of Normal Fellows	Three Little Words purports to tell the story of the fabled songwriting team of Bert Kalmar and Harry Ruby and for the film the unlikely team of Fred Astaire as Kalmar and Red Skelton as Ruby were brought in to star . It's a good thing the real Kalmar and Ruby had a lot more chemistry than Astaire and Skelton do . But as in all these musical biographies of songwriters , it's the songs that are the real star . Kalmar and Ruby wrote some great ones , no doubt about it . Songs like Nevertheless , Thinking of You , Who's Sorry Now are still sung and will be sung for the next millennium . Both these guys had their eccentricities , Kalmar fancied himself a magician and Ruby was a big baseball fan . Kalmar wanted to be Mr . Blackstone and Ruby would have swapped every song he ever wrote for a chance to play in the Major Leagues with any of the New York based teams . Astaire is strangely lacking in dance routines in this film . They are confined to some vaudeville type numbers as befitting the fact that Kalmar was a song and dance man until a knee injury made him turn to writing . Red Skelton's antics were confined to some scenes on the baseball diamond where his good friend , the clown prince of baseball Al Schacht played by infielder George Metkovich provided some good humorous moments for Skelton . Incidentally one big error in the film identified Al Schacht as a pitcher . Schacht was a catcher , his vaudeville partner was Nick Altrock who was a pitcher and a good one , but he's not in the film . Arlene Dahl and Vera-Ellen play the women in the lives of Ruby and Kalmar . Vera-Ellen dances well with Astaire and her singing is dubbed by Anita Ellis . Debbie Reynolds is in this in one of her earliest roles as Boop Boop a Doop singer Helen Kane who did introduce Kalmar and Ruby's I Wanna Be Loved By You . And Gloria DeHaven playing her own mother who died that year and she sings Who's Sorry Now . Kalmar and Ruby also wrote Groucho Marx's theme , Hooray For Captain Spaulding . I'm still wondering why it was only confined to the two of our leads in rehearsal , why Groucho himself didn't appear . In real life he was a very close friend of Harry Ruby's . Kalmar and Ruby wrote the score for Duck Soup as well and later on they wrote Go West Young Man for Groucho in Copacabana . The song Three Little Words was NOT introduced on Phil Regan's radio show . It was written by Kalmar and Ruby for the Amos and Andy film Check and Double Check where Duke Ellington and his orchestra played it with the Rhythm Boys singing . They also recorded the song with the Rhythm Boys who were Al Rinker , Harry Barris , and their lead singer , a fellow named Bing Crosby . Kalmar had passed away when this film was released in 1950 . Ruby went on after a fashion . Oscar Hammerstein , II helped finish a Kalmar lyric to a Ruby song that became A Kiss To Build A Dream On which was sung by Louis Armstrong the following year and was a big posthumous hit for half the team . And Harry Ruby wrote the famous television theme to The Real McCoys later on in the Fifties . Other than their respective avocations for prestidigitation and baseball , Kalmar and Ruby were a pair of normal fellows and led pretty dull lives . But that's the problem when you try to do biographies of people like them . So relax and listen to some really great songs by a pair of normal guys .
Mildly Amusing , But Not To Dick Powell	Riding High marked the end Dick Powell's association with Paramount Pictures . He never went back on the Paramount lot after finishing Riding High . Seeing it now , Riding High has the look of a Bob Hope film and I have a feeling that's who the original male lead was supposed to be . My guess is that Rapid Robert was entertaining the troops on some far distant shore and Powell was shoved into this film to appear opposite Dorothy Lamour . Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer wrote some forgettable songs for this film . Funny thing is that Paramount seemed to spend a pretty penny on Riding High . It was shot on location in Arizona , not on the studio back lot and it did actually get an Academy Award nomination for sound . Poor Dick Powell just walked through this film and supporting players like Cass Daley and Victor Moore and Gil Lamb stole the film right out from under him . Powell plays a salesman who has sold mining stock to Dorothy Lamour's father George Carleton who has no operating capital though and relies on Powell to get some . In trying to raise the capital Powell gets himself involved with Victor Moore , a mild mannered counterfeiter who's carrying a nice wad of the bogus cabbage . Moore passes it when he has to , but he's evolved his own system based on the old Mark Twain story that was later made into a Gregory Peck film , Man With A Million . The premise is that if people know you are well heeled , doors of credit automatically open for you and you need not necessarily pass the stuff and thereby endanger your freedom . A lot of the comedy here is based on Victor Moore constantly trying to fend off one lug-nut of a sheriff in Gil Lamb who is trying to catch him with the goods . Moore also is at the same time fending off the amorous intentions of amazon Cass Daley . These three totally steal the film from Powell and Lamour . There's a chuck wagon race at the end where rich rancher Russell Simpson bets against Cass Daley's rig with Moore and that gets pretty wild . It's Powell and what he does in that race that makes me think this was intended for Bob Hope . While shooting this film , Powell who had been promised by Paramount executives that he would be getting some serious dramatic roles , learned that a part he wanted very badly in Double Indemnity was given to Fred MacMurray . According to the films of Dick Powell , he got a release from his contract and refused to ever work there again in the same way he never worked for Warner Brothers again either after leaving them in the Thirties for the same reason . Riding High is a mildly amusing film today with the supporting cast just taking over from the uninterested leads . Not a film Dick Powell had pleasant memories of .
Swinging World War II	Reveille With Beverly is one of Columbia Pictures all star war time contributions for the boys in the service . But not having a really big studio with a lot of contract players like MGM or Paramount , what was Harry Cohn to do . The answer is take your stars from that other medium , that of swing music . Ann Miller plays a young lady named Beverly who works the telephone switchboard at an easy listening radio station . She'd like to break into radio on the air , but the boss Tim Ryan won't give her a break . Besides he's not into current musical tastes . But the resourceful Beverly gets her chance when she gets the hypochondriacal Franklin Pangborn who plays classical music in the wee small hours around dawn into thinking he's down with something terrible . She subs for him and plays the current swing bands and the rest is history . The new draftees at a nearby army base like her music so much the program is dubbed Reveille with Beverly . Of course there's a silly subplot involving a pair of draftees who used to be millionaire and chauffeur who are rivals for Ann Miller . These two parts are played by William Wright and Dick Purcell in a plot situation that is totally ripped off from Abbott & Costello's Buck Privates . They are a bit friendlier than Lee Bowman and Alan Curtis from the Universal classic . But all of this is just so we can get to hear such bands as Count Basie , Duke Ellington , Bob Crosby and Freddie Slack's respective orchestras . The Mills Brothers are also on hand . And a young singer who had just left the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra sings Night and Day with an all girl band . Frank Sinatra and the rest of the acts were brought into the film by Ann Miller as she introduces the record and it starts spinning and the screen dissolves into a performance by the performers . So other than a toe tapping finale by Ann Miller this certainly was doing one of those all star extravaganzas on the cheap . Ann's number was clumsily introduced into the proceedings since at no time during the film was it mentioned she had any dancing talent . But Ann's fans bought tickets to see her dance so I guess it was understood there would be a dance number . Reveille with Beverly is a great piece of World War II nostalgia and definitely for fans of swing music .
Cagney has some wrong ideas about class	This pre-code film starring James Cagney has him playing Jimmy Corrigan who is a private detective specializing in finding heirs to large fortunes . He's in competition with Alan Dinehart who calls himself a " geneologist " and has just about the same set of ethics Cagney has . The only difference is Cagney lacks the polish of Dinehart and is less a hypocrite . Now no one ever confused James Cagney with Ronald Colman on the screen and I daresay they probably were never up for the same parts , but Cagney dumbs it down to Leo Gorcey levels in order to contrast himself with Dinehart . It's effective though . What makes this film special is that the leading lady is Bette Davis who was a year away from finally getting Jack Warner to give her a role with substance in Of Human Bondage . Speaking of class , you can see that Ms . Davis has it in abundance and that she wasn't going to be held down with supportive leading lady roles . Later on Cagney and Davis were given The Bride Came COD when both were big box office names . Cagney is quite the operator here and I won't tell you exactly what he does , he does bend our legal system over backwards though . And if he's not exactly reformed , he does learn the difference between class and manners .
No Americans in Africa in June of 1942	Humphrey Bogart after scoring his big success in The Petrified Forest was signed to a long term Warner Brothers contract and only made two outside films while he was under contract for 12 years . The first was Dead End for Sam Goldwyn and the second was Sahara for Columbia . So Bogey was working with at another studio with a group of unfamiliar players . But this is Bogey post Casablanca when he became very big box office indeed . Harry Cohn must have laid out a lot of cash to Jack Warner for his services . Sahara is a fine allegorical film about a patchwork quilt of allied fighters standing up to Nazism . Humphrey Bogart and his tank crew of Bruce Bennett and Dan Duryea come across a group of British Eighth Army regulars commanded by a medical officer . They get the news Tobruk has fallen and they have to make it back to their lines . First things first though , they need to get water . Along the way this motley crew picks up a Sudanese and his Italian prisoner , Rex Ingram and J . Carrol Naish . Then they shoot down a German plane and capture its pilot Peter Van Eyck . Reaching a nearly tapped out oasis ahead of the Germans they make a heroic stand as the Germans are out of water themselves . They play a deadly psychological game with the Germans and most of them don't survive . Sahara is a curious film . It's a good psychological as well as war film that has absolutely no basis in facts . When Tobruk fell there was not one American GI in all of North Africa . At the end of the film , the survivors hear about the First Battle of El Alamen where General Claude Auchinleck and the Eighth Army held the line against Rommel and stopped his drive to the Suez . What Bogey , Bennett , and Duryea were doing there is beyond me . Usually the gambit is to make Americans , Canadians to explain non-British accents . It wasn't used here however . By the time Sahara was in theaters , a combined British-American expeditionary force had already landed in Morocco and that was September , 1943 . I guess our gullible audience thought Bogey was already in the thick of it . Anyway that rather glaring historical inaccuracy has always prevented me from thoroughly enjoying Sahara .
Creeps You Out	This Val Lewton production from RKO could have been a whole lot better , it seems to have been butchered by bad editing . Still and all with some gaping plot holes it's a very effective thriller and is guaranteed to creep you out on viewing . Young Kim Hunter ( and her billing here is ' introducing Kim Hunter ) gets the bad news that her tuition is owing at an exclusive girl's school . Her sister who is her legal guardian seems to have up and vanished from sight . Kim leaves the school to investigate . When Lou Lubin the private detective she hires is also killed , things start to get real hairy . For most of the film and it's the most effective part of the film , Hunter hasn't a clue who to trust here . Neither does the audience and that's what makes it work at all . As it turns out sister Jean Brooks has fallen in with a cult of Satanic worshipers . Just who's part of the group and who's not is not easy to spot . Hugh Beaumont is in the cast playing a part far different than Ward Cleaver . He plays the brother-in-law Hunter never knew she had . Tom Conway plays a most mysterious psychiatrist and well . There's a shower scene with Kim Hunter and one of the bigwigs in the cult that anticipates what Alfred Hitchcock did in Psycho with far less gruesome results . Maybe one day we'll get a director's cut of The Seventh Victim and I can give the higher rating it probably deserves .
Another Trek Through Hostile Indian Country	Escort West finds Victor Mature as a former Confederate escorting his young daughter out to Oregon territory . They meet up with a troop of cavalry at a stagecoach station , some of whom are hostile . Not nearly as hostile as Faith Domergue who lost a fiancé during the Civil War who is accompanying her sister Elaine Stewart out west to marry cavalry captain William Ching . After Mature and daughter Reba Waters meet some hostile Modocs and find what they did to part of the cavalry troop they go back to the station where all they find alive are the two women and the sutler , Rex Ingram . Ingram's been wounded and left for dead with a broken leg . At this point the group sets out to find help and safety , whichever comes first . Escort West bares a similarity to the Richard Widmark western of the previous year , The Last Wagon . If you've seen that you might figure out how it all turns out . Or just if you've watched a whole lot of westerns . Escort West barely runs 75 minutes , it played at the bottom of double features in the Fifties . It was produced by John Wayne and folks like Ken Curtis , Leo Gordon , and Noah Beery , Jr . , all of whom worked with the Duke before are in the cast . Best in the cast is Leo Gordon who also wrote the script and is one nasty deserting cavalry trooper . It's a nice action western with some adult themes mixed in with enough action for the kids .
Overall Creative Vision Lacking	Neither the RKO 1935 version of Roberta or MGM's 1952 Lovely To Look At are anything like the original show on Broadway . RKO eschewed a male lead singer opposite Irene Dunne and went with Randolph Scott . In and of itself that necessitated change as the vocal chores got divided up between Irene Dunne and Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers who were the secondary leads . In that version it was Scott who inherited the Parisian dress shop and romanced a woman who managed the place named Stephanie played by Dunne . Stephanie played by Kathryn Grayson is still running the dress shop known as Madame Roberta's . But here it's Red Skelton who inherits half the place from his late aunt . He's partners in an act with Howard Keel and Gower Champion and they want him to sell his half so that they can get the money for a Broadway show . The three of them have to cut Ann Miller in on the deal just to get passage over to Paris . Of course it's Keel who Grayson pairs off with and in doing so the film comes into balance vocally as the stage show did . Getting the dance numbers are Marge and Gower Champion , Marge playing Grayson's younger sister . I think I can see the way the minds worked at MGM . In 1950 they copped the Best Picture Oscar for An American In Paris with a nice Parisian setting . Then the following year , Keel , Grayson , and the Champions were in a remake of another Jerome Kern classic Showboat which did very well . What to do , but combine all that in a Jerome Kern show that's Parisian based in Roberta . Besides why let all those expensive sets recreating Paris go to waste . Also the fashion show finale was absolutely inspired by the fantasy ballet from An American In Paris . But the fantasy of Kelly in that film is replaced by a surreal reenactment of Jimmy Durante's famous line of ' everybody's getting into the act ' . Sometimes these things work and sometimes they don't . In this case the sum was definitely not greater than its parts . Howard Keel in his memoirs said that he felt that Mervyn LeRoy did not do right by him in this film that he had to make up his own interpretation of his character . Maybe LeRoy had to loose a hand and the film needed an overall creative genius like Gene Kelly .
Murky Melodramatic Macao	When the haphazardly put together His Kind of Women turned into a big hit for RKO , Howard Hughes decided to team Robert Mitchum and Jane Russell again . This time instead of a resort in Baja California , the location was to be the orient , in the Portugese colony of Macao . Like in His Kind of Woman , Howard Hughes couldn't keep his hand off the day to day production and even more so after the film was finished in the editing . As it was the film runs barely over 80 minutes and if Lee Server's biography of Mitchum is to be believed it was supposed to be a whole lot longer . Macao within the last decade reverted from being a Portugese enclave back to China . I'm not sure what it's like now , but back in the day it was a legendarily corrupt place as typified by the corrupt police inspector Thomas Gomez . Gomez is doing custom duty and he reports to gambling kingpin Brad Dexter of the arrival of Robert Mitchum without money or passport . That to him means he's the law . Dexter's real interested in the law , especially the United States law . Though it's never specified exactly what he did , the cops in New York want him real bad and have tried to get him outside Macao which has no extradition treaty . The film when you think about is starting to bear some resemblance to Algiers . But Dexter ain't half as charming as Charles Boyer as Pepe LeMoko . Mitchum's without money or identification because light fingered Jane's lifted them from him . That's a grand way to begin a romance , but this is Hollywood . Mitchum and Russell both give out a lot of heat here and Russell has some competition in Gloria Grahame . One of the criticisms of Macao is that Grahame ain't on the screen often enough . She's Dexter's girl and she don't like Jane and those weapons of mass destruction she's sporting . William Bendix is here as a traveling salesman with a line of nylons and snappy patter . He's not around often enough in Macao and he's welcome in any film . Lots of atmosphere and melodrama permeate Macao . Best scene in Macao is Mitchum eluding Dexter's knife wielding henchmen , Philip Ahn and Vladimir Sokoloff . They chase him through the dock area in and out of shadows in the best noir tradition . The original director Josef Von Sternberg got canned by Hughes and Gloria Grahame's then husband Nicholas Ray finished the film . Macao's not bad , not half as good as His Kind of Woman . Maybe if Howard Hughes had resisted interference . Just like playing for George Steinbrenner .
Sahara redux	A good remake of Sahara with Broderick Crawford leading the cast of competent if not name performers . Crawford was still in the glow of his two star quality performances in All The King's Men and Born Yesterday . Broderick Crawford is a cavalry sergeant leading a patrol in the Arizona desert and they're attacked . As in Sahara , the patrol settles in for a siege at a waterhole , where the numerically superior Indians surround them , but are being dehydrated for lack of water . It's a test of wills and if you saw Sahara , you know how it will come out . Young Johnny Stewart as the Comanche boy Little Knife is in the second of the two feature films he did for Columbia . He had a good screen presence and God only knows why he didn't become a major star . Good B western with a quality cast .
My Resistance Is Low	Substitute Victor Mature for the part that Robert Mitchum normally played in these RKO films of the Fifties and you've got The Las Vegas Story . Wonder what Mitch was doing at this time ? Nothing terribly groundbreaking in this film . Jane Russell and Vincent Price arrive back in Las Vegas where Jane used to be a singer when she was a single gal . Also working there is ex-boyfriend Victor Mature now with the Clark County Sheriff . When casino owner Robert J . Wilke turns up dead , there's a host of suspects out there . Jane's diamond necklace also is missing which is seen quite reasonably as a motive as Price said it was in the hotel safe . Things pretty much go as they normally do in these noir films , some good action sequences a nice car chase through an atomic bomb testing site in the end . What sets The Las Vegas Story apart is the presence of that old music master Hoagy Carmichael . ANY film he either appears in and / or writes some songs for is a cut above average just for that . He and Russell end the film singing his Academy Award nominated song My Resistance Is Low . So will your's be once exposed to the talents of Hoagy Carmichael .
Conning For Your Clients .	This film has a singularly appropriate title because the larceny is equal to the music in this very short B musical from Universal . There's also equal parts of comedy and chicanery here as well . Leo Carrillo is a former bootlegger who's now a respectable hotel and nightclub owner and running up really respectable debts in both . He even considers an arson fire on a house he owns in Rochester , but girl Friday Lee Patrick reminds him he hasn't paid his fire insurance premiums . Agent William Frawley knows about Carrillo's money troubles and hatches a scheme that will get his clients the Alvino Rey Orchestra with the King Sisters and singer Allan Jones all employed . Frawley hires out of work ham actor Gus Schilling to impersonate a lawyer and visit Carrillo on the pretext that he's looking for Allan Jones who was left a quarter of a million dollars by his uncle in Argentina . That gets Carrillo's attention as he goes to hear Jones and Carrillo with great fanfare has announced the most incredible singing discovery since Frank Sinatra . Carrillo does have a problem though and that's the contract he has with his current attraction Kitty Carlisle . She doesn't take kindly to being shoved aside and smells a rat . And the rat in this particular case is Schilling who starts blackmailing Frawley over this con he's pulled off . With some better production values and musical score Larceny With Music could have been a classic . One hit song would have made this film . As it is it's got a stellar cast and a wacky plot that really keeps the film moving . Hopefully TCM will broadcast this one , it's a comic gem in the rough .
An Aussie Icon	If any kind of biographical film was to be made about Annette Kellerman , champion swimmer from the turn of the last century , MGM was the only studio to do it . They had the only star qualified and the only studio that gave said star her own set . If Annette Kellerman hadn't blazed the trail , Esther Williams could not have had a movie career . Kellerman first won many swimming medals in her native Australia and then went to the United Kingdom and then to America where she was the first international female swimming star . The Aquacade , the water ballet , I believe the Australian crawl swimming stroke were named in her honor , all these are due to her . She was crippled as a child and swimming did indeed make her legs grow stronger , as therapeutic to her as it was to a certain crippled president of the United States . I'm really surprised that the Australians have not done any kind of big screen or small screen film about her , she was such an icon in a newly independent country . Leaving it to America and to MGM , Million Dollar Mermaid is a fine Esther Williams film , but no more than that . I get very little information about the trials and tribulations of the real Annette Kellerman and the people around her . She did in fact marry her manager James Sullivan played here by Victor Mature who did NOT bring Rin Tin Tin to the silver screen . They do in fact cover her notorious arrest in Boston for wearing a shocking newly designed one piece bathing suit . Boston had many silly laws back in the day , they were known for it . If you remember in John Ford's Donovan's Reef , a gag is used about Elizabeth Allen wearing the typical Gay Nineties bathing attire and then stripping down to what Kellerman popularized . Most of the plot of Million Dollar Mermaid is fictitious , her romance with Hippodrome impresario David Brian , her accident on the set of Neptune's Daughter . Annette did become an early silent film star as big in the silent days as her male successors Johnny Weissmuller and Buster Crabbe became in sound . Kellerman and Sullivan lived to see Million Dollar Mermaid and it's unknown what they thought about it . The fact they were both still around I'm sure made MGM tread softly . One thing the film didn't answer was why Kellerman did not compete in the Olympics . In that she has something in common with Esther Williams . Esther didn't compete because the 1940 Olympics were called off as were the 1944 . She had to turn professional and then became an actress and the rest is history . Why Kellerman didn't is something I'd like to know . Perhaps an Australian production might answer that question if one is made . Until then we'll have to be satisfied with the beautiful and expensive Million Dollar Mermaid .
Quite A History	A little research will yield some interesting results sometimes . Let's Face It was originally a very risqué comedy from the Roaring Twenties entitled Cradle Snatchers . It was written by Norma Mitchell and Russell Medcraft and produced on Broadway by Sam Harris and ran 332 performances in 1925 . It concerned some college kids working as gigolos who some married women pick up after their husbands take one too many trips out of town for some frolicking of their own . Two of the married women were Mary Boland and Edna May Oliver and one of the college kids was Humphrey Bogart . I would love to have seen this play . By the way it should be remembered at this time Bogart was playing young juveniles on Broadway and it was he who uttered the line " tennis anyone " for the first time . Maybe it was here . Fast forward to 1941 and Cole Porter sees the possibilities of this play as a book for one of his musicals . It certainly has the plot elements for his double entendre lyrics . The book was updated to have the gigolos be recent army draftees from a nearby camp and it starred Danny Kaye and Eve Arden . But as what happens in all of Cole Porter's work it gets watered down so it's a passably good comedy now for Bob Hope . Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn write extra material suited to Betty Hutton . Eve Arden repeats her role as one of the man hungry women . Betty Hutton is in this as the proprietor of a fat farm where three husbands led by Raymond Walburn dump their wives so they can frolic . Only this time Arden and her chums decide to do some frolicking on their own as in the original play . Who do they pick but Bob Hope and two of his fellow draftees . Hope incidentally is going out with Betty Hutton and she catches wind of the scheme . I think you can figure the rest out . Cole Porter's score was totally emasculated for the screen version . Some additional numbers were written for Betty Hutton , I don't think Porter exactly wrote her type of material . And of course it even has a Nazi submarine in the plot . That you have to see to believe . Hope and Hutton do click very well , it's a pity they didn't get to work together again on material that was constructed for them as opposed to something watered down . I imagine you could sure make a film of Cradle Snatchers now without the censor . But imagine , a story filmed by Humphrey Bogart , Danny Kaye , and Bob Hope . Great piece of trivia at your next tournament .
From Evil to Spoiled	Against All Odds is an less than effective remake of Out of the Past that RKO noir classic that starred Robert Mitchum , Jane Greer , Kirk Douglas and Rhonda Fleming . Not that the players in this film are bad , far from it . But the whole basic structure of the story was completely changed . What made Out of the Past the classic it is , is the moody tension and overwhelming sadness surrounding the leading characters . Most of all Jane Greer who is an evil temptress beyond description bringing death and destruction to all around her . Jane Greer is in this film , but as the mother of Rachel Ward who plays the part Greer had in the original . Ward in this one is just a spoiled young woman who runs off with bookie James Woods to upset mom and then runs off with him . Greer is the owner of a professional football team in Los Angeles which she runs with her high priced fixer of a lawyer Richard Widmark . I think they're characters are modeled on Joan Payson who was the original owner of the New York Mets and M . Donald Grant who was reputed to be the hard character Widmark portrays . Anyway Jeff Bridges gets into the act when he's cut from Greer's team and goes to work for Woods trying to locate Ward . The rest of the film is pretty much following the plot of Out of the Past until the ending which is completely different . Remember how everyone ended up in the RKO film and the same doesn't happen to most of them . Still it's not a bad film , but Against All Odds just won't be a classic .
It's A Suite Life	To be all of about 12 and living the life of luxury in a permanent suite at a five star hotel . That's the premise of The Suite Life Of Zack and Cody starring real life identical twins Cole and Dylan Sprouse . They play Zack and Cody Martin whose mom , divorced from their Dad is the hotel lounge singer and played by Kim Rhodes . Of course the twins get into the usual trouble of kids in Disney comedies . Their nemesis and he considers them his nemesis is hotel manager Phill Lewis . I have to say that Lewis has a real gift for comedy , his reactions to situations are quite good , almost Jack Benny like . The twins Dad has popped up in a few episodes . They got divorced because she was tired of life on the road , especially raising two kids and liked this steady gig at the Hotel Tipton . The hotel maintenance man played by Robert Stepenek is crushing out on her big time . It's a part of the storyline I'm not crazy about . Stepenek's character Arwen is a geeky sort who you know in real life Rhodes would brush off in a Boston minute . I hope they pair Arwen with someone , especially if and when the show completes its run you know Mom and Dad will get back together . Two secondary characters are millionaire teen Brenda Song whose Daddy owns the hotel and others in the chain and she lives there . She's friendly rivals with Ashley Tisdale who's a working class kid from Boston and who runs the concession stand after school . They're a mismatched pair indeed . Tisdale's played the teen villainess Sharpay in the High School Musical series , light years from her character of Maddie Fitzpatrick . And Brenda Song's character of London Tipton is a reincarnation of Marie Wilson . She's got more air in her head than a NASA pressure chamber . Back in the day Rudy Vallee had a hit song Kitty from Kansas City which could have been London's theme . For the Sprouse twins when the show eventually runs its course I hope the Magic Kingdom is considering a remake of The Prince and the Pauper .
When He Doesn't Sing	Any excuse like Meet Danny Wilson you can get to hear Frank Sinatra sing some great old standards is something to take advantage of . Problem with Meet Danny Wilson is that when Sinatra stops singing , he's really one obnoxious boor in this film . Singer Frank Sinatra and his accompanist piano player Alex Nicol are making a meager living in a whole lot of dives until top singer Shelley Winters hears them and gets them hired by her gangster boss Raymond Burr . Burr's got eyes for her , Sinatra has eyes for her , but she only sees Nicol . That leads to a whole lot of complications . What further leads to complications is Raymond Burr's verbal contract to get 50 % of Sinatra's earnings . Burr doesn't like things in writing just fork over the money and he has 32 caliber lawyer if needed . Some have said this is a thinly veiled Sinatra autobiographical film . If so it's a picture of Frank no one could take . I'm still trying to figure out why Nicol puts up with him . They're old army buddies , but that only takes you so far . Danny Wilson is one of the least attractive characters Sinatra ever brought to the screen . But when he's singing , my oh my .
Shirley Away From Fox	The only Shirley Temple appeared away from Fox studios was in this loan out film to Paramount co-starring Gary Cooper and Carole Lombard . After Fox became 20th Century Fox , Darryl F . Zanuck would not lend out his biggest star and America's biggest star during those years . Now and Forever was made slightly before Temple's peak years , but she was rising fast . Another viewer said he could not understand why Cooper and Lombard would want to be associated with this film . Very simply it was going to make money and they would also gain exposure . The challenge was holding their own against the adorable little moppet . Cooper is a confidence man who apparently isn't as good as he thinks he is . He swindles Guy Standing , but later finds out he's actually been the one taken . Of course by that time he's reunited with his little daughter and she introduced to his new wife Carole Lombard . Cooper just is an instinctive grifter though , content to lead life one step ahead of the law . It's not however a life that he can have a little daughter along with for the ride . The ending here is a little darker than most Shirley Temple movies are and that makes it somewhat unique . Lombard is good , but she's somewhat subdued in this film . Best in the film besides Shirley is Guy Standing . Not one of Cooper's best or Lombard's best , but Shirley Temple fans of every generation will probably like it , but find the film a bit strange .
Bronco , Bronco , Tearing Across The Texas Plains	Bronco was a western television series that got rushed to market when Clint Walker walked out on Cheyenne during a contract dispute with Warner Brothers . It's star was one Orville Whipple Hungerford , III , better known to us kids as Ty Hardin . Hardin certainly didn't have the looming presence of 6'6 " Clint Walker as Cheyenne , but he was a more than adequate western hero . Bronco Lane was a wanderer and in the course of this Confederate veteran's western wanderings he ran into a whole lot of famous true western legends . Warner Brothers was doing something that all the studios did with their westerns back in the day , mixed their cowboy heroes with stories real western personalities . When Clint Walker came back and Cheyenne resumed production , Bronco was sort of like a spare tire that became a fifth wheel in the Warner Brothers western shows . It was on for a few seasons and dropped . It's star got a few good movie roles and then dropped out of sight . Years ago I read that Hardin got involved in some really far right wing politics . I mean John Birch Society style right wing . I'm not sure if that drove casting directors to pass him by or did he get involved in that blaming his fading career on the Communists . Either way it's kind of a sad story . But I still remember that theme song , " Bronco , Bronco , Tearing Across The Texas Plains , Bronco , Bronco , Bronco Lane . "
A Couple of Hip Private Eyes	Although at the time it was on the air 77 Sunset Strip was primarily known as the vehicle that launched Edd Byrnes into short lived teen idol stardom . Looking back however 77 Sunset Strip set a pattern of Warner Brothers television detectives , it spun so many copycat shows . At 77 Sunset Boulevard was quartered the private detective firm of Bailey and Spencer . Stu Bailey and Jeff Spencer were played by Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . and Roger Smith . These two guys did not take their detectives cues from rumpled private eyes like Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe . With their stylish clothes and hipster rat pack style dialog , Zimbalist and Smith were the new style private eyes for the Fifties . These guys were good , but what really made the show a success was the presence of Edd Byrnes playing one Gerald Lloyd Kookson , III AKA Kookie . Second to Elvis Presley , Byrnes was the first teen idol I was cognizant of in my youth . He talked as hip as Zimbalist and Smith and he had the most carefully groomed hair on television . Kookie was never without his comb and in fact he and the comb spawned a hit record of the time , Kookie , Kookie , Lend Me Your Comb . In fact his character name became a slang term for strange , still used among folks in my age bracket . Byrnes was a parking lot attendant and he was always getting vehicles for the stars . Eventually the guys actually made Kookie a detective in the firm and a new teen idol Robert Logan was hired as J . R . Logan however never took off the way Kookie did . There is one constant in show business . If something succeeds , copy it to death . Warner Brothers put out Surfside Six , Hawaiian Eye , Bourbon Street Beat and a few others as did other producers trying to imitate them . During the late Eisenhower and Kennedy years , television was inundated with hip private eyes . None of them had the success of the original . Zimbalist and Smith guest starred on some of these other shows and they in turn had visiting detectives as well . In fact Richard Long who co-starred in Bourbon Street Beat after that show was canceled , Long and his character Rex Randolph moved from New Orleans to Los Angeles to get taken into the Bailey-Spencer firm . After five seasons ABC canceled 77 Sunset Strip . Roger Smith was developing the health problems that forced him to leave acting and CBS picked up the show and promptly fired everyone else , except Zimbalist . From the hip Stu Bailey , Zimbalist became Stu the cynic . He was now an international secret agent and man of mystery . The first five shows were appropriately entitled Five . It was possibly the first mini-series ever . Some 25 guest stars appeared in a five part show that was not bad in and of itself , but it certainly shocked those who expected what they were used to . 77 Sunset Strip didn't last long after that and Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . joined The FBI next season . Still as a pioneering show of sorts , 77 Sunset Strip has an honored place in TV Land memories . By the way , the end of that Kookie song had Byrnes telling some girl she was the ' ginchiest ' . To this day I don't know what that means .
The Medieval Gauntlet	The famous Hitchcockian McGuffin that everyone is looking for is a medieval jewel encrusted knight's gauntlet said to have belonged to a warrior saint who defeated the Moors in battle back in the day . The fact that the Moors never got to the French Riviera in and around Monte Carlo is of minor importance . It's an object of veneration and worship to the villagers in that small town that saw battle in the southern invasion of France by Alexander Patch's American army in August of 1944 . Paratrooper Glenn Ford landing in that town finds George MacReady stealing the item during battle . MacReady is a creature of mysterious origins who survives on his wits , resources and whatever he can steal at the moment . To the French he's a spy to the Nazis he's a collaborator which is a nifty arrangement I must say . The Nazis as we know were real big on liberating art treasures from their various conquered countries . But some allied bombs prevent MacReady from stealing The Green Glove and Ford has it and leaves it with a family in an sealed attache case that belonged MacReady . After the war , flashing forward seven years , things haven't gone well for Ford in civilian life and he goes back to France with some hope to find that valuable Green Glove and hoping that's his meal ticket . But when he gets there , he finds MacReady as well who's hoping Ford can lead him to The Green Glove . A few murders later , Ford picking up tour guide Geraldine Brooks to share his fugitive status because MacReady has framed Ford for those murders and it's time for Ford to confront MacReady , The Green Glove and what he really wants from life . The Green Glove is an independent film released through United Artists that was shot entirely on location in France and Monaco . I'm sure it was a good excuse for a vacation for the English speaking thespians of the film , Ford , Brooks , MacReady , and Cedric Hardwicke who plays the village priest and custodian of The Green Glove who prays for its return . It would have been nice to have some color , I'm sure part of the reason it was done in black and white was budgetary and part was so that World War II newsreel footage could be incorporated . Still you're talking about some beautiful area of the planet that two years later Alfred Hitchcock would show us in To Catch A Thief . Paramount gave Hitch a much bigger budget than Rudolph Mate had for The Green Glove . It's not a bad film , in fact it has an exciting chase sequence involving Ford eluding MacReady and his men by taking a rugged mountain trail that is euphemistically called the goat path . Hitchcock couldn't have staged it better . But the cheapness of the production values and a somewhat confused story line prevent The Green Glove from gaining any lasting glory .
Murder On A Budget	Murder on the Blackboard is the second of three Hildegarde Withers stories that Edna May Oliver and James Gleason were teamed for . Today the charm of these two people , two of the best character actors that movies ever saw carry this rather dated and melodramatic story . One of the teachers at Edna's school , Barbara Fritchie , winds up very dead and she's quite the lively corpse as the perpetrator keeps moving the body in an effort to be rid of it . In fact the only way the crime is discovered is because that day Edna kept young Jackie Searle after school . Unlike the Thin Man movies where you could have as many as ten suspects or more in a room as Nick and Nora reveal all , this is not MGM with their lavish productions . This is RKO and this studio had a limited budget for their films . We only have four suspects so your chances of guessing who did it increase quite a bit . Edgar Kennedy as the dumb cop who gets clunked on the head and develops amnesia is his usual funny self . In fact he's the foil used to catch the murderer in the end . As for the end , I found it a bit melodramatic for my taste and let it go at that . But for fans of the wonderful Edna May Oliver and the dependable James Gleason this film is a must .
Doing This Film Was Murder He Says	In 1942 Dick Powell signed a contract with Paramount Pictures on condition that he vary his roles and would occasionally do some dramatic films which Warner Brothers had refused to cast him in . But his first film for them was Star Spangled Rhythm and his bit part in that wartime musical was with Mary Martin doing probably the best number in the film , Hit the Road to Dreamland . They certainly seemed well suited for each other . With that in mind Powell got to do his first color film Happy Go Lucky with Martin the following year . But for some reason Mary Martin never quite clicked with film audiences . I'm at a loss to know why myself because she certainly had a sparkling personality . Powell did this one with Martin with the hope that dramatic parts would eventually come his way and Happy Go Lucky is certainly amusing enough . Powell and Eddie Bracken play a pair of beachcombers on a tropical island in the Caribbean created nicely on the Paramount sound stage . Martin is a cigarette girl pretending to be a débutante hoping to land a rich husband and her sights are set on Rudy Vallee who is reprising his role from The Palm Beach Story replete with glasses and all . Also along for the ride is Betty Hutton who is a fellow cigarette girl traveling with Martin and an old flame of Bracken's . Certainly Bracken and Hutton seemed to team well together as they had in The Fleet's In and Star Spangled Rhythm and both would be used again to even bigger acclaim by Preston Sturges in The Miracle of Morgan's Creek and Hail the Conquering Hero . In fact Hutton stole the film right out from under the leads with her rousing rendition of Murder He Says . As long as Rudy Vallee and Dick Powell were appearing in the same film it would have been nice if they had sung together , but Rudy did not sing a note and an opportunity was lost . I don't think I have to talk about the plot too much more with the ingredients I've given you , I'm sure you know exactly how this will all come out . The only other item involved in this film is a voodoo love potion that apparently is spread to victim like you were spraying your garden for pests . Happy Go Lucky is an amusing average comedy from Paramount that led to nothing for its leads , but it's supporting cast did just fine .
Uncle Bill For The Defense	The last of the contracted Perry Mason television movies is The Case Of The Jealous Jokester where Dyan Cannon plays television mom of Harriet Nelson family values with a comic twist and who is one real hellcat off the stage . Mean , manipulative , and vindictive to all around her , Cannon is probably one woman who really did deserve her fate . The problem is that the perpetrator fixed a good alibi by framing the niece of Wild Bill McKenzie played her by Victoria Jackson . Hal Holbrook's character was an interesting one and I'm sorry the series wasn't continued with his name on it . I believe that the public just didn't accept him as a Perry Mason lite . Probably because of contracts , the films had to be presented as Perry Mason mysteries . It would have been better had they even just dropped that identifiable theme music , used Barbara Hale and William R . Moses in their characters and simply said that Perry had died . Barbara Hale was going to retire in any event , in fact you can see she's breaking in Holland Taylor to fill her familiar role . Billy Moses would have no doubt continued as lawyer / investigator Ken Malansky with the Wild Bill McKenzie law firm had they continued the series . It's not a bad film , but the McKenzie character , maybe because of legal problems was sold wrong .
Bud And Lou On The Slopes	Hit The Ice was Universal Studio's attempt to cash in on the popularity of 20th Century Fox's Sun Valley Serenade which mixed swing music with Sonja Henie's ice skating . Universal didn't have an ice skater of the caliber of Sonja Henie , but they did have Abbott & Costello and Costello on the ice was a sight to see . As for the swing music , Glenn Miller and his Orchestra were in Sun Valley Serenade and Universal didn't have them either . By this time Glenn Miller had gone to war . So they hired one of the good second line swing orchestras of the period led by violinist Johnny Long . And they also acquired Ginny Simms one of the best female singers from the Forties to appear with Long . However first and foremost the film is an Abbott & Costello effort and the boys do come through . They're first free lance photographers who take a picture of gangsters Sheldon Leonard , Marc Lawrence , and Joe Sawyer robbing a bank while Leonard is supposed to be in a hospital . Leonard's set up careful alibi about that even with doctor Patric Knowles and nurse Elyse Knox suspicious . Costello's camera work threatens to blow up some best laid plans . The whole cast winds up at Sun Valley during the ski season , setting up a most excellent chase sequence with the boys and the crooks going down slope . We're not quite sure who's chasing who , but the loot from the robbery is involved . Bud and Lou do some very good work . Sad to say that the film was badly edited and there are some plot problems because of it . Towards the end you see the boys in tuxedos waiting for Ginny Simms at a train station with no real explanation as to why they're in the formal wear . Simms also gets to play straight girl for the boys , part of her role is to vamp Costello and she does a good job . All that beauty and an incredible set of pipes . Hit The Ice is not one of their best efforts , but still better than some of what they did in the Fifties and should please Bud and Lou's strong legion of fans the world over .
John Dillinger Died For This Film	Manhattan Melodrama is a trivial pursuit game all in itself . Consider the number of things it's known for . 1 . The only teaming of Clark Gable and William Powell . 2 . The first teaming of William Powell and Myrna Loy . 3 . A popular song that didn't get popular from this film . 4 . A famous gangster being shot to death because he wanted to see this . 5 . William Powell's first film under the MGM banner . And I'm sure I might think of a few more later on . It's a very dated piece , but made enjoyable because of the skill of its three leads . Two kids , Mickey Rooney and Jimmy Butler who later become Clark Gable and William Powell , are left orphaned as a result of the famous General Slocum disaster in the first years of the 20th century . One works hard , studies hard , and becomes a successful lawyer and prosecutor . The other works hard becoming the kind of man the first one makes a living prosecuting . Gable's the gambler and his girl friend is Myrna Loy . Gable is his usual charming self , but with a streak of toughness and nobody crosses him . He runs into Powell at the famous Dempsey-Firpo fight and later Powell runs into Loy . She gets a taste of respectability through him and she likes it . Gable would probably be sore about losing her to anyone , but Powell . Powell rises to become governor of the state and Gable gets to the top of his profession , the death house at Sing Sing . This is where the film truly turns into melodrama . Powell is a person of exacting moral standards a bit too exacting for my taste . I can't see how today's audience could accept the course of action he pursues , for just being TEMPTED to commute Gable's sentence . Manhattan Melodrama features a song sung by Shirley Ross , The Bad in Every Man . It's a familiar tune , but didn't do anything for the film . Composer Richard Rodgers had faith in his melody however and persuaded his partner Lorenz Hart to try another lyric . He did and Connee Boswell recorded it and made Blue Moon a big hit . Of course the legend of the film is that John Dillinger wanted so much to see the film that he came out of hiding . As soon as it was over he got betrayed by one of the women accompanying him and the FBI gunned him down in the streets of Chicago . Manhattan Melodrama entered into American folklore after that . I'm not sure today's audience would feel this film was worth even John Dillinger's life . If he wanted to see Gable , Powell , and Loy so badly , he should have waited later in the year for It Happened One Night or The Thin Man .
The Battle For Guadalcanal	War correspondent Richard Tregaskis's memoir of the battle for the strategic island of Guadalcanal provides the basis of this film with a solid cast of players . Tregaskis himself is played unnamed in the film by Reed Hadley , who's rich narrative voice greatly enhances the film . Guadalcanal Diary unfortunately has not aged well . It was made the year after Guadalcanal , together with its key airfield Henderson Field was finally cleared of Japanese . It was a slow , steady war of attrition , on both land and sea . While this film concerns the Marines on the island , at sea our navy was battling with the Japanese Navy in what was euphemistically called ' the slot ' which was a channel that bisected the Solomon chain neatly in half . Our Marines dealt not only with the Japanese on the ground , but from Naval bombardment from the Japanese Fleet whenever they snuck in . The Japanese positions were in the jungle and further in land and were less affected by off shore shelling from us . All the types you expect from World War II are there , the tough Marine sergeant Lloyd Nolan , the Marine from Brooklyn , where else , William Bendix , the young recruit , Richard Jaeckel in his first film playing a teenager when he actually was one . Preston Foster plays the Catholic chaplain , a wise and compassionate fellow who once played football for Notre Dame . It's a page out of Pat O'Brien's Father Duffy portrayal from The Fighting 69th and Foster is the best one in the film . Sad to say that the Marines do refer to the Japanese as less than human on a few occasions . It's why the film doesn't age well , especially after Clint Eastwood's latest films about the Pacific Theater . Guadalcanal Diary still is a good film for those who are fans of World War II films made in the World War II years .
A Spirited Lass	Very rarely was Katharine Hepburn cast as the Scot she was by descent . Our most popular image of her was with that clipped Bryn Mawr accent , cool , elegant , and sophisticated . She only played two Scots in her life Queen Mary Stuart who if truth be told was more French than Scots and the gypsy waif in The Little Minister . This was certainly an unusual project for Kate requiring her to adapt a Scottish burr to her speech . She also plays the mysterious gypsy girl who stirs the elders of that Presbyterian congregation more than they realize . She certainly stirs the new minister in town , John Beal who's come to live there with his mother Beryl Mercer . In an odd way Kate's character of Babbe is like the ditzy heiress in Bringing Up Baby , wreaking havoc wherever she goes , but charming Cary Grant as she does John Beal here . If James M . Barrie had twisted the plot in a Somerset Maugham direction , Kate's Babbe could easily have been a Scottish Sadie Thompson . Turn that one over in your mind . But she's a lot more than she seems as Beal and the rest eventually find out . Beal does well as the earnest young man in his first parish , trying hard to do the right thing , but hormones just seem to be getting in the way . They'll do that . Good thing Kate was not a Sadie Thompson character . The Little Minister is based on a novel by James M . Barrie about an unfamiliar time for Americans . I'm sure the film did well in the British Isles for RKO where they would have been more familiar with the history and mores of the time . Still it's an unusual part for Katharine Hepburn , her devoted fans would be the first to agree .
Saving The Diamond Hitch	False Colors is an above average entry in the Hopalong Cassidy series . Young Tom Seidel , a ranch hand on Cassidy's Bar 20 spread is gunned down without any apparent reason . But there's a big reason it turns out , young Seidel is the heir to two thirds of the Diamond Hitch ranch in another part of the state . It seems as though he ran away from home as a kid and his father has died and split inheritance that way with he and his sister . So Hoppy , Jimmy , and California go off to the Diamond Hitch country and find someone posing as their recently deceased friend . Tom Seidel is playing both the heir and the impostor . Anyone with any kind of experience watching B westerns will know that it is banker Douglass Dumbrille behind the dastardly scheme as he's behind any number nefarious enterprises in film . Dumbrille even has sheriff Roy Barcroft in his pocket . The suspense here is how Hoppy and his pals save the situation for the sister and now real sole heir of the ranch . Let's just say he's got something up his sleeve and he doesn't tip his hand right away . In the cast as one of Dumbrille's henchmen is Robert Mitchum and this is one of about half a dozen Cassidy westerns where Mitchum got some of his earliest roles . He has a really brutal saloon fight with Bill Boyd who has to save Andy Clyde from a beating . Truth be told Andy Clyde kind of deserved one . But you see the film to find out . It's a nicely plotted story , definitely above average for a B western and even a Hopalong Cassidy film which were generally above average as B westerns went . Jimmy Rogers is playing a character with his own name and Jimmy was the younger son of Will . Truth be told he's not much of an actor , but the part doesn't exactly call for Robert DeNiro .
Do You Believe in Magic in a Young Girl's Heart ? Jimmy Stewart sure does .	It took Bell , Book , and Candle almost a decade to get from Broadway to the screen . John Van Druten's play ran for 233 performances during the 1950-1951 season and served as a starring vehicle for the then married Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer . I'm sure that the Shepherd Henderson that Harrison portrayed must have been light years different than Jimmy Stewart . Also the entire play took place in the Holroyd apartment and a whole lot of characters were added for the screen . A good job was done in transferring this stage work for the screen , it barely betrays it's stage origin . Stewart is very good as the puzzled publisher who gets ensnared in a witch's spell because Kim Novak takes a fancy to him . Novak was quoted as saying that her favorite leading man during her career was Jimmy Stewart and her two favorite films , Vertigo and Bell Book and Candle are the ones she did with him . Hermione Gingold is absolutely brilliant as the head witch , Mrs . DePass , and watching Stewart drink that concoction she mixed up to kill Kim Novak's spell was a scream . Jack Lemmon plays Novak's brother and by this time he was doing leads and carrying films on his own . He's good , but I do wonder why he accepted a supporting part here . One thing I am curious about . How did they manage to get Pyewacket the cat to act on stage for 233 performances ?
Inheriting A Feud	Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey get themselves stuck with little Spanky McFarland . They're a couple of itinerant magicians and the last thing they need is a kid . But this might be a pot of gold because Spanky just could be the heir of the Milford estate in Kentucky . But what the boys don't know is that in passing themselves off as Milfords as well , they're inheriting an old mountain feud with another clan called the Wakefields . Made even worse by the fact that poor Bert has fallen for Mary Carlisle the daughter of Wakefield family patriarch Noah Beery , Sr . The boys are pretty resourceful though and the last twenty minutes or so with them , Willie Best and Spanky holding off a horde of Wakefields is pretty funny . Sad to say though that Willie Best's portrayal of Buckshot probably keeps Kentucky Kernels from having been shown too much on television for years . Although Kentucky Kernels is funny , I'd see Abbott & Costello's Comin ' Round the Mountain . A similar story without the racism .
Oedipus Alive And Well On The Riviera	The trio of David Niven , Deborah Kerr , and Jean Seberg star in Otto Preminger's Oedipal drama Bonjour Tristesse . With those Givenchy gowns featured , how did Audrey Hepburn miss this film ? Based on the Francoise Sagan novel , this is one strange tale of a playboy father , the daughter who adores him and the woman who threatens to come between them . Niven is the playboy who must have inherited his wealth because he doesn't look like he worked a day in his life . At one time he was married and had Seberg with his late wife . Anyway she travels with him and enjoys life and its vices the same way he does . It's all right when Niven's fooling around with Mylene Demongeot , the latest in a string of flings , but when old flame Deborah Kerr shows up and wants to marry Niven , that puts Seberg off . Truth be told Kerr had no right acting like a stepmother before the wedding . Still it didn't justify what Seberg set in motion that ends in tragedy . The novel is French based of course and I think the French should have filmed it . I think Otto Preminger was just the wrong director for this kind of material . Geoffrey Horne plays Seberg's boyfriend and Martita Hunt is his mother round out a stylish cast . But with only one actual person of French nationality among the main cast . that was a big mistake .
Go Wildcats	Never let it be said at the Magic Kingdom that they miss an opportunity to make that extra buck . For the final version of High School Musical , the Disney crowd released it to the theater instead of television . The decision was a no-brainer , the various road company High School Musical performers have been doing great business wherever they appeared including my home city . And certainly the box office for High School Musical 3 has justified this decision . But this is the end for this particular class , the six stars are already way too old for High School Musical 3 , we've got to graduate them . In the cast are the new people getting ready to take over for Zac Efron , Vanessa Hudgens , Corbin Bleu , Monique Coleman , Ashley Tisdale , and Lucas Grabeel . They are going out with style however and the plot such as it is has the cool kids from East High competing for a scholarship to the Julliard School of Music . Two representatives from Julliard will be at the senior show to award a scholarship and you already know that scheming Sharpay ( Ashley Tisdale ) is going to do whatever it takes to get that scholarship . In fact Tisdale's quest for the scholarship sets her up with an All About Eve twist in this plot . Jemma McKenzie-Brown plays a new girl from London who attachs herself to Tisdale . Now if any of the teen crowd that likes the High School Musical reads this review and decides to check out All About Eve , I will have done my job . In fact the eventual decision of the judges is quite a good one and to appreciate it you would have had to see all three films . High School Musical 3 is an appealing film as the others are , but it creates an incredible fantasy world which I can tell you didn't exist when I went to high school lo these many years ago . And supposedly we're far more sophisticated now and like realism in our cinema . But those who've followed the series , see the original Wildcats one more time .
Captain Blood's Identity Theft Problem	Harry Cohn must have wanted to do Captain Pirate and it's predecessor Fortunes of Captain Blood very bad because he had to have shelved out some big bucks to Jack Warner for that footage he used in a flashback sequence in this film . Might have been interesting had he gotten Errol Flynn along with the movie . Not that Louis Hayward is a bad Captain Blood . Hayward definitely has the swashbuckling Elna for the part . But he's up against a rather routine script that's concerned with a case of identity theft . Somewhere along the line Blood ditched the Olivia DeHavilland character from the Warner Brothers classic and in the Fortunes Of Captain Blood wooed and won the daughter of Spanish don , Patricia Medina . Now wedding bells are ringing , but when one of His Majesty's representatives , John Sutton , who also has a hankering for Pat brings news that Blood has led a raid on Cartagena and among other things stolen some valuable jewelry , it looks like Hayward is back to his old pirate ways . In fact that becomes something of a wish fulfillment for Sutton , because Hayward in order to prove his innocence has to round up his old crew and steal a ship , Sutton's ship to be precise , and roam the Caribbean in search of the impostor . During the search he uncovers some treason as well . Great Britain and Spain were allies at this time during the 1690s and the French would like nothing better than to tear this alliance apart . Hayward and Medina make a beautiful pair of hero and heroine . Hayward's Blood is not as dashing as Errol Flynn's , but he does make up for it with being very cunning . Still the results are rather predictable and if you haven't figured out who the bad guys are , you haven't seen too many pirate movies .
" We Build So That Others Can Fight " . . . . . . . . . . . " We Fight For What We Build "	Before writing this review I took a quick look at Wikipedia and the article they have on the Seabees . Despite the fanciful story that Borden Chase wrote here about how the service was founded , the Seabees were actually an idea already thought of by Admiral Ben Morreell the Chief of Navy Supply even before Pearl Harbor . Unlike the war in Europe where the Allies would be looking to take an hold cities with facilities already there , like air fields for example , those planning the war in the Pacific knew that they would be starting from scratch . Airfields , fuel depots , etc . would have to be constructed on jungle islands in the Pacific . So the idea of a separate service for the construction trade was born . Now that we know that the plot of The Fighting Seabees is so much hogwash , let me say that what the film does do very well is show the hazards of what the men in that service faced . Trying to build facilities at the same time as the enemy is firing on them . The scenario in this film is repeated many times over on the islands of the Pacific . As to the story of this film , John Wayne reverses roles here . In most of his war films he's usually the professional military man , here he's the tough , but inpatient civilian who never seems to learn the value of military discipline . Of course being this is the Duke , he does redeem himself in the end in a spectacular manner . A love triangle is tossed in here , rather unnecessarily in my opinion , a straightforward account of Seabee heroism would have been sufficient . Wayne and Navy Commander Dennis O'Keefe are both interested in war correspondent Susan Hayward . This was Hayward's second film with John Wayne , who along with Clark Gable , and Dean Martin , she once described as her three favorite leading men . Her big scene is when she's wounded and thinks she's cashing in , she declares her love for the Duke . Susan Hayward has always been a favorite of mine , but it's on the strength of her performances in her starring roles in the Fifties , not as the sex object in The Fighting Seabees . The Fighting Seabees isn't one of the Duke's top 10 or even top 20 , but it's a decent enough film to sit through even with the World War II heroic bravado that was obligatory at the time this was made . You even get to see John Wayne attempt the jitterbug . During that scene , the Duke looks mighty uncomfortable . He was never going to compete with Fred Astaire for roles .
Hatching Pete Or Channeling Cyrano	Disney Studios new teen comedy Hatching Pete is about two high school kids who both are their team's Chicken Mascot . Only one claims credit for it while the other does the work . I suppose that Cyrano De Bergerac is well in the public domain so no one will be suing the Magic Kingdom any time soon . But I suspect that Rostand would not be too unhappy with this updating of his classic set in 21st Century America . In fact things work out a whole lot better for these kids than for Cyrano and Christian . Teen Disney Television stars Jason Dolley , Mitchell Musso , and Tiffany Thornton star in Hatching Pete . Musso is the school's chicken mascot , a family tradition as his father was one also . The problem is that Musso's developed an allergy to the costume and just can't go on . So he has good friend and wallflower transfer student Jason Dolley put on the suit for a game . But Dolley discovers he's got a real flair for those outfits and soon he becomes the reason the crowds come out . It certainly isn't for the team and its coach Brian Stepanek . In fact there's a lot of jealousy developing between Stepanek and his players with the chicken no matter who it is . In fact both Dolley and Musso would like to win Homecoming Queen Tiffany Thornton even though cheerleader Josie Lopez is a whole lot nicer . Trust me , it all works out in the end . Hatching Pete is a nice product from the Magic Kingdom and who knows in some English Literature class in some high school in the USA someone may realize where this plot comes from and develop an appreciation for the classics .
Anna May Wong anyone ?	Dragonseed is a whole lot like that other far better film of a Pearl Buck novel , The Good Earth . Since both came from the MGM studio the two films have the same look to them and in many ways this is another generation of the family depicted in The Good Earth facing new problems of the Japanese invasion . Of course if it were made today , you'd be casting all oriental players in the roles . But in The Good Earth , both Paul Muni and Luise Rainer were well suited to ethnic roles . A lot of the members of the cast of Dragonseed were not . Walter Huston at least to his credit never tried an accent in playing a Russian in North Star or a Norwegian in Edge of Darkness also films about resistance to Axis invaders . He's once again the voice of reason , driven to do unreasonable things against his nature by war . Still he doesn't come across as Chinese . Neither does Henry Travers as his scholarly cousin . But most of all Katherine Hepburn just doesn't make it as an oriental . When Luise Rainer played Olan , the part was written with minimal dialog and she won that Best Actress Oscar for her facial expressions which said more than pages of words . Hepburn unfortunately sounds like the peasant from Bryn Mawr . Seeing real oriental players in smaller parts like Philip Ahn and Benson Fong only draw attention to how ridiculous some of the occidentals look . It's not a bad story , maybe it would have been better if they cast Anna May Wong though .
We're Off To See The Wizard , the Wonderful WiZard ( of ) Oz	Zardoz is one of the most ambitious films ever undertaken . It may have been a little too ambitious for its own good . There's a whole lot to keep in your head and it does take away from the enjoyment of the film . It's an interesting alternative telling of the Garden of Eden story with a mixture of the Wizard of Oz . Only this particular Eden is a trap where the people in it , a self created elite , are so bored with immortality they long for the release of death . Outside of the Eden known as the Tabernacle , in the rest of the war ravaged future Earth live the Brutals . Those are the folks who didn't make the cut of membership for the elite . They just survive out there , hunting , farming , whatever and they have to watch out for a special group of trained killers who are given guns by the elite of the Tabernacle to kill them just to keep the population down . Wouldn't teaching them about condoms and the pill been a little less bloody ? Anyway one of the killers , a chap named Zed played by Sean Connery , breaks into paradise where no one from the outside has been in several hundred years and he becomes an object of fear and curiosity . Study him or kill him is the debate that rages for the rest of the film . There's a lot to digest with Zardoz . One of the consequences of immortality is the fact that with no need to propagate , certain sexual functions in the male have been discarded . That's causing a certain antsiness in the females of paradise and Connery might be an answer to a lot of prayers . Like the Garden of Eden story , Connery gains knowledge through in this case more than one Eve and knowledge destroys the garden . But here the population of Eden can't wait to be released from paradise one way or the other . The final moments showing Connery and Charlotte Rampling as the new founders of a renewed human race are unforgettable . I saw Zardoz in the theater back in the day and back then the critical response wasn't good . It's an interesting film , but more cerebral than entertaining . Maybe it provokes too much thought for its own good . One thing you might be wary of . Depending on your view and tolerance of controlled substance you should be forewarned or urged as the case may be in seeing Zardoz while stoned or high .
This Is Not a Good Mix	Though this is not a good film for Bob Hope , it has one redeeming feature . It gave American audiences exposure to the great French comedian , Fernandel . Fernandel almost was given the role of Passepartout the French valet to David Niven in Around the World in 80 Days . In fact he was going to learn English for the role . It fell through and the part was played by Cantinflas whose style was similar to Fernandel . Too bad for Fernandel that Around the World in 80 Days didn't work out for him . Because Fernandel didn't speak English that presented problems trying to team him with Bob Hope . It was handled rather clumsily , Fernandel's part in the film was completely superfluous to the plot . Nothing extraordinary about the plot itself . Hope's an American actor in Paris who comes across a nasty gang and he agrees to help both American and French authorities to capture them . Along for female decoration are Anita Ekberg and Martha Hyer . It's a Bob Hope movie , not one of his best , so I'm sure you can figure out the plot from here on in . Fernandel has a few good moments though . There is a scene where he's trying to get in an insane asylum to rescue Hope and he's trying to convince the guard in front that he's crazy . So a certain amount of craziness follows and he's outstanding . His biography here says he worked in a bank when he was young . But that long horse-face of his made people laugh , so to use an American expression , Fernandel took a lemon and made lemonade . If they're going to laugh , I'll get paid for it . I wish some of his films were available here in the USA . I could easily even in this film see why he was such a national treasure in France .
Enter Mr . Peck	This tribute to Russian resistance in World War II gave Gregory Peck his opportunity for a starring film screen debut . No walk-ons , or bit parts are in Peck's career resume . He was billed a star from the beginning . Not that Days of Glory was the greatest of debuts . In fact it was only in his second film , The Keys of the Kingdom for which he got his first Oscar nomination that made him a big star . Still Peck as the stoic and brooding Russian peasant resistance leader certainly had star quality written all over him . Now that the Cold War is over we can appreciate the Russian contribution to defeating Nazism without getting hung up over Communism . The Russians took a quick study in what defeated Napoleon and applied those lessons to World War II . Where you see the German Army in the Ukraine in Days of Glory is roughly how far they advanced into the Soviet Union . Those partisans that Peck heads are on the cutting edge as factories are being transported and rebuilt in the Urals and east of same and the Red Army is being reorganized . Joe Stalin is also looking a military leadership team to beat the Nazis . The Russian people took a tremendous toll and it was the great worry of both Roosevelt and Churchill up to the Allied invasion of Normandy that Stalin might just make a separate peace . If he had the world would be very different . Peck's love interest was dancer Tamara Toumanova who plays a dancer caught up in the partisan movement . As an actress she's a great dancer , she's seen to better advantage in Alfred Hitchcock's Torn Curtain where she concentrates on dancing . Days of Glory did get an Oscar nomination for Special Effects , but despite that it's essentially an A picture from a B picture studio , RKO . Still it's not a bad last stand story and a decent enough debut for Gregory Peck .
Who's Smuggling The Gold From Cripple Creek And Why ?	There's one well organized ring of gold smugglers operating out of the gold strike camp of Cripple Creek , Colorado . There's so much gold being smuggled out of the place that the Secret Service is concerned . Remember the USA was on the gold standard back then . So the Secret Service assigns agents George Montgomery , Richard Egan , and Jerome Courtland to go undercover and apprehend this gang . Courtland is young and impulsive , but both Montgomery and Egan think pretty fast on their feet as you'll see as the story unfolds . Just about everybody of any importance in Cripple Creek is involved in the smuggling which is why the government hasn't been able to get a handle on it so far . That's why our agents really have their work cut out for them in this fast paced western . Cripple Creek is a competently made B western with a real twist at the end . Two twists in fact , especially when you find out who the head of the smuggling ring is and what's the purpose behind all the gold smuggling . Cripple Creek is one western not just for the kid trade .
There Aren't Any Better Places To Serve Time That We Know Of	Young Nicholas Strouse due to a combination of interesting circumstances learns he might be the leader of an alien race who while they might not have powers and abilities far beyond those of mortal men certainly he and those like him feel they're just Doin ' Time on Planet Earth . Is he the one to lead these misfits home ? Well not if it's going to interfere with his big brother Timothy Patrick Murphy's wedding this Saturday to Isabelle Walker , the daughter of Hugh O'Brian who once ran for president . But after Strouse starts getting e-mails from a pair of serious UFO fanatics like Adam West and Candace Azzara , he starts to think there might be something to him really being an alien . Doin ' Time on Planet Earth is a bit above the usual teenage coming of age party film and part of the reason is the incredibly hammy and overacted performance of Adam West who is just having one grand old time leading a band of misfits . The film is worth a look just to see him alone , burlesquing his Batman persona . Martha Scott is in this , looking a bit lost as to how she got roped into this film . Matt Adler is fine as the perpetually hormonal best friend of Strouse and Andrea Thompson is miles from no-nonsense Detective Jill Kirkendall from NYPD Blue as the lounge entertainer and stripper who fulfills all of what Strouse really needs . It is sad though that this was the farewell film of Timothy Patrick Murphy , best known for being Mickey Trotter on Dallas , who died way too young of AIDS . That young man had it all , looks , charisma , and a goodly share of thespian ability . He was a particular favorite of mine from the Eighties . Doin ' Time On Planet Earth is far from the worst film of this kind I've ever seen and you might get a few genuine laughs from it .
A Very Good Detective Yarn	Private Eye Sam Campbell is hired by the estranged husband of a woman whose father he's accused of killing . With a few good plot twists , he uncovers the real murderer and the reason behind that and two other subsequent killings . Don't pass up an opportunity to see character actor Jerome Cowan for once in the lead . His most noted role in film was also a detective as Sam Spade's luckless partner Miles Archer in the Maltese Falcon . In that film he was a lady's man whose hormones got him killed . Here he's quite the ladies man as well , but his mind as it turns out is on business first . Cowan's main squeeze in this film is Jane Wyman . She played a lot of molls before she got real roles of substance later in the decade , culminating with that Oscar for Johnny Belinda . It's interesting to see her in these roles sometimes though . Of the supporting cast the biggest kudos go to Cy Kendall who was the hapless sheriff . It's a running truism in Hollywood that in these detective stories , the police always get shown up by the private eye . Sometimes the cops are smart , but the private eye is smarter and sometimes they're downright dumb . It's the latter here . This film is an enjoyable product from Warner's B film unit .
Corruption And The LAPD , Who Would Have Heard Of Such A Thing	Street Kings is another film from director / writer Don Ayer who brought us Training Day . Unlike Training Day the central protagonist of this film is the honest cop who's in a corrupt unit . Corruption and the Los Angeles Police Department seem to go hand in hand in the real world and the cinema world . Street Kings is the latest in a line of films about LAPD corruption . Keanu Reeves is our honest cop here and his character is a whole lot like Russell Crowe's in LA Confidential . The guy who just goes in no questions asked , and not too squeamish about his methods . Miranda is just a Latino surname for him . When another member of his unit is killed in a bodega holdup where he's also on the scene , rumors start flying that Keanu greased him to prevent the dead guy from dropping a dime on him with the Internal Affairs folks . Unit commander Forest Whitaker tries to protect Reeves , internal affairs officer Chris Evans works with him to find out the real story . When it's all sorted out it's quite a twisted tale . I would have expected a bit more from the creator of Training Day which boasted the mesmerizing Academy Award winning performance of Denzel Washington . Street Kings hasn't any performances that good . It's a routine police action drama , none of the cast need be embarrassed by their participation though .
As Buffalo Bill saw himself .	If William F . Cody had lived until 1944 he would have loved this film . Most of all he would have approved of the casting of Hollywood's most straight arrow hero Joel McCrea as himself . That's the image Cody liked to convey even if it wasn't exactly the truth . The real Cody was a brave enough hero all right and this film does mention some of the highlights of his real life , the buffalo hunt with Grand Duke Alexei of Russia , the hand to hand fight with Yellow Hand at War Bonnet Gorge , and the formation of his wild west show . The trouble was the real Cody got into show business and he was ballyhooed out of all proportion to his real accomplishments . And Cody was lent himself admirably to exploitation . The movie is the kind of ballyhoo that Cody would have approved . Cody's chief publicist in real life was Ned Buntline who is faithfully portrayed here by Thomas Mitchell . Maureen O'Hara is Louisa Frederici Cody and she's the faithful , but eastern bred wife . No hint of the real marriage problems that plagued the Codys . Linda Darnell and Edgar Buchanan are in this film and I don't really know why . Darnell is an Indian school mistress and Buchanan is a grizzled old army trooper . No real reason for either of them in the film . Darnell is killed at War Bonnet Gorge and she must have been the first squaw who rode into battle . Buchanan's character is also left hanging in the air . Anthony Quinn is Cheyenne chief Yellow Hand and is Cody's worthy adversary on the screen . Buffalo Bill Cody's real contribution was the wild west show . Cody had many imitators , but he was the original . Until Hollywood took over with the making of the first silent westerns , these shows created the myths surrounding the winning of the west . Sadly that part of Cody's life is given short shrift . But Buffalo Bill would have loved this film . Whether today's audience would is open to speculation .
Rita's Comeback Picture	When one talks about Rita Hayworth and Glenn Ford as a screen team , one is primarily talking about Gilda . There first film , The Lady in Question had them as featured players , second was the classic Gilda , third was The Loves of Carmen with a horribly miscast Glenn Ford . It was after that one , that Rita Hayworth married Aly Khan and was off the screen for four years . When she came back , Harry Cohn decided not to be too adventurous . Her last big success was Gilda with Glenn Ford , she got Glenn Ford . She was a singer stranded in the southern hemisphere in Gilda , she was again a singer stranded in Affair in Trinidad . Stepping into the George MacReady's shoes as villainous mastermind is suave and continental Alexander Scourby . Rita's husband is murdered and the Trinidad police inspector Torin Thatcher knows full well Alexander Scourby is behind it . Scourby is your international man of mystery in the Sydney Greenstreet , Orson Welles tradition . Thatcher wants Rita to spy on Scourby and she agrees to find out exactly what he's up to . In comes Glenn Ford into the picture as her late husband's brother . He wants some answers and nearly succeeds in wrecking the whole project . Good thing Rita's a quick thinking girl , a better thing is that Ford's a man of action , helps them both out in a pinch . Come to think of it , though Alexander Scourby is a fine player , Orson Welles would have owned this part and even better if he had directed Affair in Trinidad . This is just the kind of story that someone like him could have made into a classic . What a film to remember with Rita with her most well known co-star and another ex-husband as well . Harry Cohn probably would have shot anyone who brought him that idea , still it's interesting to speculate . Though Affair in Trinidad got panned by critics it cleaned up at the box office with all of Rita's loyal fans wanting to see her again . It's still a treat for fans of the screen's greatest sex symbol .
Cold War Noir	Assignment : Paris is another of those films with a faraway location that never got past the Columbia back lot . Still it's a decent enough Cold War noir thriller . Dana Andrews is a hotshot reporter for the New York Herald Tribune assigned to its prestige international division in Paris which is headed by editor George Sanders . Andrews is covering the capture and trial of an American for espionage by the Hungarian hardline regime . Of course when he's sent to Budapest in pursuit of the story , Andrews becomes the story himself and Sanders works like a demon to get him free . Sanders is aided and abetted by the lovely Marta Toren who gets in a bit of hot water herself in the effort . Audrey Totter , the fashion editor , provides moral support all around . Hard to believe that in five years Toren would be gone , dying of leukemia at a young age . That was one extraordinarily beautiful woman , what a career she should have had . Though Andrews is first billed , the film is really carried by Sanders in one of his few roles as a good guy . The man with the built in sneer carries the part off well . The Cold War atmosphere was just right for these shadowy noir films of intrigue . Assignment : Paris is a good representation of the times .
Ben Does Bogey	Saint Jack is a film short on plot , but long on character study , at least for the title character Jack Flowers , patron saint of the working girl in Singapore . Ben Gazzara plays the title role and if you can imagine Humphrey Bogart at his most existential running a brothel , than you've got Gazzara's character . And that's what Jack Flowers does , he served in Korea went to college on the GI bill and tried a hand at writing . He gave that up because he hadn't experienced enough of life in his own words , shipped out on a tramp freighter and wound up in Singapore managing a brothel . If he wanted to know about life , that's as good a place as any to get material for twenty books . And he's originally from Buffalo , New York , probably on the west side , unanglicized name Jack Fiore . Gazzara's co-star is the city of Singapore in all its aspects , both the high and low end of it . Gazzara's got friends in high and low places , his most unusual friend is Denholm Elliott who is an accountant and sent by the front office in Hong Kong to do a yearly audit . They hit it off believe it or not , Elliott becomes kind of a role model of probity for Gazzara . Humphrey Bogart , starting in Casablanca did a lot of his films in exotic locations . But mostly he never got there , his films mostly done on studio back lots , The African Queen a shining exception . I'm sure Bogey would have jumped at the chance to do a location film in Singapore which in his day was involved in a nasty civil war after World War II . There's not much of a story line , in fact Gazzara's not a terribly heroic character until the end when he does have an attack of conscience . For what that is you'll have to see Saint Jack .
Captain Marvel On The Cheap	One of the most popular of superhero comic strip characters came to us in the middle seventies in the form of a very low budget television series that only lasted for two seasons . It had actually two Captain Marvels when Jackson Bostwick left and was succeeded by John Davey for season two . Since the grownup Marvel was merely a manifestation of the teenage Billy Batson and since Michael Gray as Billy was the main reason most of us watched the show , that the Elders decided Marvel needed another personality would be accepted without question . Billy and this older man Mentor played by Les Tremayne traveled around in this motor home and Billy was what we would call home schooled . But what home schooling he got . The Elders are a group of mythic heroes of the past and we only saw them as animated manifestations . Zeus , Atlas , Mercury , Achilles , Hercules from Greek religion and King Solomon from the Bible . Can't do better than that for teachers . The Elders would summon Billy through some kind of celestial pager and he would travel in his mind to see them . They'd offer him a piece of wisdom that would be necessary for a situation he'd be involved in shortly . When things became necessary , Billy would utter the single word ' Shazam ' and he'd morph into Captain Marvel . It certainly had a powerful cultural influence , but it never worked for me and Gomer Pyle never did become a superhero and he was always more than uttering ' Shazam ' . Les Tremayne came to films and television late , he cut his acting teeth in radio and that strong voice was one of the most familiar out there . Michael Gray and he never seemed to have any kind of life outside of each other which certainly could lead to all kinds of speculation about their relationship . Except for Solomon those Elders were Greek heroes and they sure had no problem with being gay . One thing is for sure , the cheapness of the production was manifested not just by the same stock footage used over and over again , but that I don't recall Mentor or Billy ever changing their clothes through 30 episodes . Still ' Shazam ' was entertaining kid's stuff and it seem to run in syndication for years afterwards . I've seen worse out there .
Restless Spirits	By the thinnest of plot connections in Supernatural is millionaire heiress Carole Lombard connected to Vivienne Osbourne a serial murderess who is awaiting her execution in prison . Alan Dinehart , Osbourne's sometime boyfriend is the one who turned her in to the authorities because he was afraid . With good reason as it turns out . Dinehart is a fake medium , but H . B . Warner is the real deal , a psychologist studying life after death . He wants Osbourne's body after she dies for experimentation and she agrees to it . Turns out he's a family friend of Carole Lombard who is mourning the recent death of her brother , leaving her sole heir to a vast fortune . And Dinehart has designs on it through her . Warner has the best performance in this film . His scientist is part Dr . Frankenstein and part Dr . Van Helsing , the best parts of both . Closely following is Dinehart who is definitely one scurvy rat . Lombard did far better work in her career in those screwball comedies than she does her as a frightened heiress who gets possessed by the spirit of a killer . Supposedly a female serial killer has not been identified , but apparently Supernatural anticipates one will eventually be found . Randolph Scott plays Lombard's boyfriend . He was doing B westerns for Paramount at the time , based on Zane Grey stories mostly . He looks like he'd rather be back in the saddle than in the tuxedo he wears mostly in this film . Of course his part is colorless and he's given little to do , but look concerned . Not the best work for fans of either Carole Lombard or Randolph Scott .
" That Isn't Thunder Dear , It's Only My Poor Heart You Hear , And It's Applause , Because You're Mine "	By the time Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer started Mario Lanza in his fourth film , the formula was wearing thin . In That Midnight Kiss , he was an opera singing truckdriver . In The Toast of New Orleans , he was an opera singing fisherman . And in The Great Caruso he was , the greatest opera singer of all . Now he was going to be cast as an opera singer drafted into the army . So you can understand that Mario was feeling in a bit of a career rut . Why he wasn't cast in some of the classic musicals and operettas of old is beyond me . So despite the fact that the title song became a big hit for him , Mr . Lanza was unhappy . He set records for binging on food , on liquor , on women that outstripped even what Mario previously did . Looking at some of the scenes filmed out of sequence you can see how his weight went up and down . Reportedly he behaved so outrageously to co-star Doretta Morrow that she up and quit Hollywood and never returned . That was a pity because Ms . Morrow was certainly a great talent in her own right . She had just come off playing Tuptim on Broadway in The King and I and would soon go back to Broadway in Kismet . Despite that Doretta and Mario made some beautiful music together . Especially with the title song and Doretta sings a beautiful version of Cole Porter's You Do Something to Me . I actually rather liked the premise of this film . Mario Lanza , opera star gets drafted into the army where by the merest of chance he gets an opera loving sergeant James Whitmore who has an aspiring singer for a sister . That would be Ms . Morrow . Put them together with a whole lot of situations that come up in military service comedies and you have Because You're Mine . It's not a bad film , not particularly great . But a rut is a rut is a rut .
The Question Is Will The Angels Sing ?	And The Angels Sing is apparently Paramount's answer to Warner Brothers Lane Sisters and the series of films that they had starting with Four Daughters . The four of them are musical prodigies , but they're really not into singing . What they are into is earning enough money so their father Raymond Walburn can buy a farm . Three of Paramount's best female stars , Dorothy Lamour , Betty Hutton , Diana Lynn played of the Angel sisters , the fourth being given to Mimi Chandler whose father Senator Albert H . Chandler would shortly become baseball commissioner . Betty Hutton is the only one enthused about performing , but given this is Betty Hutton what else would you expect ? They get themselves all tangled up with bandleader Fred MacMurray who's a bit of rat quite frankly taking advantage of Hutton to get some money in order for his band to get traveling money to an engagement in Brooklyn . The sisters are up in arms and trail him to Brooklyn to get their money . At some point MacMurray has to woo all of them more or less to some degree . The whole thing ends rather conventionally though . The plot is really an excuse for the musical numbers and the score here was written by Bing Crosby's favorite writers Jimmy Van Heusen and Johnny Burke . Although Betty Hutton gets the showier numbers on screen , the hit song from And The Angels Sing was sung by Dorothy Lamour , It Could Happen To You . And of course Paramount prevailed upon Der Bingle to record it and by all means get his record of it if you can find it . And The Angels Sing provides a nice showcase for the musical talents of the cast . MacMurray who later played some nasty characters shows a bit of what Billy Wilder saw in casting him as a villain in Double Indemnity and The Apartment . The film is a pleasant enough diversion .
Nice Family Film	I understand that Lou Diamond Phillips did this film and another one entitled Harley before hitting it big in La Bamba and Stand and Deliver . Someone had some good business sense because I'm they made a few dollars in the wake of the release of those other Hollywood made films . Back in the days of the studio system , Dakota would have been a B film and playing the bottom of double bills . Dakota certainly doesn't have the advantages of a Hollywood made product . But the location filming was fine and it is a nice heartwarming story which is the basis of any decent movie . Lou is a kid who accidentally his younger brother and he takes to the road . After a scuffle in a fast food joint with a couple of the locals , he works out his probation at a ranch where he makes good friends with the foreman and his family . Turns out Lou is an ace mechanic and the owner of the ranch has a vintage car he's entering in a cross country race . A hobby that Lou's father also has . Another part of the plot is young Jordan Burton who is a cancer survivor and an amputee . He's the son of the ranch foreman and Lou and he bond and their scenes are special . Things all do work out in the end in this nice family film for young Lou Diamond Phillips . Dakota is good wholesome entertainment even though it hasn't Hollywood production values .
What If Prince Sirki Decided To Hang Out With Some Working Class Folks	The Twenties post World War I saw a great revival in spiritualism of which the play Death Takes A Holiday is most certainly part . It was hard for rational man to fathom the cost of the greatest war yet fought on the planet . People sought answers in things not comprehensible in this world . Death Takes A Holiday occurs in Italy during World War I which had its own front in that war with the Austro-Hungarian Empire . Seeing so much of it with the accompanying fear in men's eyes , Death in the guise of the recently departed Prince Sirki takes a three day holiday and spends it at the estate of Guy Standing and several other guests . Maybe one day someone will write a story where death personified spends time with some poor or working class family on the globe somewhere . I'm sure he'd get quite a different perspective on life . Spending a holiday with Guy Standing or with Anthony Hopkins in Meet Joe Black is not the general rule of things . Fredric March as Prince Sirki cuts a romantic and rather lonely figure and is grateful for the company for those three days . One of the guests , Evelyn Venable is a woman with rather strange ideas . What she does in the end is just a wee bit too weird for my taste . Death Takes A Holiday is a romantic drama with spiritual overtones , directed in a lavish style by Mitchell Leisen . It's an interesting , but I think at this point rather dated film .
People Are All Right , Nations And Causes Make Us Enemies	It's probably a mistake to say that this is Frank Sinatra's only effort at directing . Truth be told , starting with Ocean's 11 , he directed about half the films he was in , whoever's name is in the credits was just a puppet . Frank was also producing as well , probably though he didn't want the public to get the idea he was Orson Welles . Maybe it would have taken an Orson Welles to have made None But the Brave a classic film , but Sinatra in his only formal effort at directing doesn't do a bad job except for his then son-in-law Tommy Sands . In fact he anticipates Clint Eastwood's Iwo Jima films by 40 years . This isn't Iwo Jima exactly , it's a small backwater island in the Pacific where a squad of Japanese soldiers have been cut off and are living off the land so to speak . A Navy transport plane is shot down with a squad of U . S . Marines on board . Pilot Clint Walker crash lands safely on that selfsame island and saves most of them , but they are also cut off . After a lot skirmishing mostly between Walker and Sands with Walker trying to prevent newly commissioned second lieutenant Sands from doing something stupid like charging the Japanese headlong , the two groups agree to opt out of World War II . An interesting thing happens , both find that they have a lot in common . We already know that in seeing the film from the Japanese point also with subtitles . The Japanese players are unknown to we occidentals for the most part , but I looked and found several like , Tatsuya Mihashi as the Japanese commander , Takeshi Kato as their sergeant , and Homere Suguro as the corporal who has his leg amputated by Frank Sinatra had substantial careers in Japanese cinema . The player on that side I liked most however was Ryucho Shunputei as the simple Japanese private who fishes and quite frankly is the key to their survival . I'm betting he wasn't exactly in the Samurai tradition in combat , but his skill at the profession he left behind is keeping his whole group alive . For himself Frank Sinatra took the part of a Navy Corpsman who is the only non-Marine beside Walker on the American side . The part fits him quite well indeed . This was the film where Brad Dexter who's the Marine sergeant in the film saved Frank Sinatra from drowning when old Blue Eyes was swimming and was nearly swept out to sea by the undertow . Bing Crosby's son Phil had a small role as one of the Marines , no doubt a favor from Old Blue Eyes to the Old Groaner . Frank Sinatra could be vindictive however and I had never thought about it before , but another reviewer's comments about Tommy Sands made me reconsider his performance . Maybe Frank was actually trying to mess his career up . Sands as the green second lieutenant is almost a caricature of one . He's so bad in the role , maybe it was lousy directing for him only . Other than that , Frank did not do a half bad job . It's not a great film , but it's not bad either and it does raise some interesting questions about people in combat situations .
Nice Superhero Satire	This is one outrageous satire on all those superhero films Hollywood has been inundating us with over the past decade and a half . On hiatus from his Nickelodeon series Drake and Josh , Drake Bell makes an appealing superhero who just can't quite get his act together . Usually on Drake and Josh , Bell leaves the comic stuff to his stepbrother on the series , Josh Peck . In Superhero Movie , Bell shows he also has a flair for comedy that's not just confined to playing straight man for Peck . It's also the culmination of a remarkable story of recovery . A couple of years ago Bell was seriously injured in an automobile crash and for a while there , flirted with paraplegia . Seeing him in a very physical role is both heartwarming and inspiring . Bell got a nice ensemble group to support him , including Marion Ross and Leslie Nielsen as a pair of frisky senior citizens who are Bell's aunt and uncle . And there was an actor named Miles Fischer who looks like Tom Cruise's doppleganger , I swear I thought Cruise was making an unbilled cameo , Fischer did him so well . And you have to love a film where the villain is given the ' Douchebag of the Year ' Award . Not a great film , but very funny .
Was Sophia a Jinx ?	This is a curious film . A gritty , tough realistic movie during the action sequences at sea , but when the story shifts to land and Sophia Loren and the men her life , it's dull and lifeless . Trevor Howard and Bill Holden are men numbers three and four in refugee Sophia Loren's life . The key is the key to her apartment which the guys make duplicates of and pass on to friends . Right after that's done , the giver is killed at sea . Howard and Holden are tugboat captains assigned to tugs who go out to the open sea and pick up crippled freighters bringing needed war supplies to Great Britain during World War II and tow them in . The tugs are poorly armed and barely sea worthy and are easy marks for theGermans . It's hard tough work and director Carol Reed does a superb job showing that . This is one of the least glamorized war movies I've ever seen . The men are fatalistic to say the least , but especially around Sophia as if the Nazis weren't enough to worry about . Sophia Loren is a lovely thing of beauty and certainly a pleasure to watch , but her scenes with her two male co-stars have absolutely no spark at all . If you watch this I recommend you fast forward the romance and get to the action .
" Faster than a speeding bullet . . . . . . more powerful than a Locomotive "	Seeing Superman as a kid I was pretty enthralled by it as most kids were . I mean , unless he got near some kryptonite there wasn't nothing he couldn't do . But the show has had incredible power in syndication and I don't think it can be attributed to just nostalgia . The first year of black and white episodes with Phyllis Coates as Lois Lane were done very seriously . But when they were done in color starting in 1954 and coincidentally enough with Noel Neill as the new Lois Lane , they became what would be described as camp . Like Batman was in the sixties only not advertised as such . Some of the episodes were strictly comedy . The one where Jimmy Olsen runs afoul of gunslinger Myron Healey out west , the one where that hayseed Sylvester J . Superman played by Chuck Connors delivers a pie to the serviceman stationed in the Arctic only to be chased by Ben Welden up there . Funny to this day . Of course some of the production values from the fifties were laughable . Superman is constantly flying out from that same storage room at the Daily Planet no matter where his location is . Or in that episode that took place in the UK , where they show people using the left handed drive in cars . I saw another reviewer mentions that all John Hamilton did as Perry White was yell , but they calmed him down later on . Hamilton was very funny as the blustery editor of the Daily Planet . He had a lot of responsibility keeping his circulation because people were getting their news from television . But John Hamilton had some real health issues in his last years . That's why you always see him at his desk with minimal dialog later on . His lines were taped right to the desk . He died in fact before George Reeves did . Today Jack Larson and Noel Neill are big hits at nostalgia conventions . I suspect George Reeves had he lived would have been as well . Possibly the biggest tragedy of his career was the featured role he had in From Here to Eternity . A lot of his performance was left on the cutting room floor . He mght have been able to do both Superman and other roles had he gotten acclaim from a major film like that . The production values were from hunger , but the characters and their images live on .
Not A Team That Scored A Success	Between her first film at MGM which was her last with Maurice Chevalier , Merry Widow , and Naughty Marietta which was the debut film of her partnership with Nelson Eddy , Jeanette MacDonald did a film adaption of Jerome Kern's and Otto Harbach's Broadway show The Cat and the Fiddle . She co-starred with Ramon Novarro and while the results were interesting and entertaining there was no demand for more MacDonald / Novarro screen pairings . The Cat and the Fiddle ran for 365 performances during the 1931-1932 season , something of a miracle for a show to run that long . Most of the score remained intact from the Broadway show . Some big hits for the Kern-Harbach team that came out of that show were She Didn't Say Yes , The Night Was Made for Love , I Like to Watch the Love Parade , and Try to Forget all sung nicely enough by Jeanette and / or Ramon . While Jeanette's career was on the rise , Ramon was on the downhill slide being propelled like a toboggan by Louis B . Mayer . He was living as openly gay a life as a star could back in the day . Right around this time another gay star William Haines was being given the heave ho by MGM and the Code was on the horizon . Novarro would soon be leaving the USA for Europe and his native Mexico . The plot concerns two music students in Brussels , American Shirley Sheridan and Victor Florescu presumably Rumanian . Like the usual awkward beginning associated with MacDonald / Eddy movies they are soon at work and in love . However producer / impresario Frank Morgan has designs on Jeanette and Ramon has caught the eye of former diva Vivienne Segal . This was Vivienne Segal's last film in an otherwise disastrous fling in Hollywood . Making her debut in 1915 she was a leading musical comedy star of Broadway and like a whole lot of Broadway players went to Hollywood when pictures began to talk . She didn't fare well at all in her films and in this last film she's supporting Jeanette . But she sings New Love is Old and Well and being The Cat and the Fiddle is out on at least VHS , it is the only way today's fans can see one of Broadway's leading stars . Funny how situations can be played for either drama or comedy . A bum check is played for laughs in the Marx Brothers film Room Service . Here in The Cat and the Fiddle the plot calls for Novarro to write a bum check in order to keep his show going for five days after Segal's husband pulls her out of the show . That could have been real serious . Are you curious as to what happens ?
Celebrity Disguises	Masquerade Party ran for several seasons as a summer replacement show during the Fifties . There were two hosts of it that I can remember , Robert Q . Lewis and Eddie Bracken , both pretty funny guys in their own right . This was a celebrity parlor game in the tradition of I've Got A Secret , To Tell The Truth , and What's My Line . But it was far more elaborate than those shows . You remember the blindfolds that the panelists had on those classic panel shows ? This was different . Various other celebrities were put into elaborate disguises . But something in the disguise or the setting they were in or something the mystery guest was doing was a clue to the identity . For example four guys came out in these hillbilly outfits with overalls , huge fake beards and rifles . They would periodically take aim at the panel to simulate squeezing off a round . The identity would be the Ames Brothers . Don't think that because all four were a group it was easy . Sometimes a group of people would come on for the setting , yet only one would be the celebrity . Masquerade Party was a lot of fun . I'm really surprised no one has picked it up and revived it for today .
Horse With A Heart	In his memoirs Frank Capra gave very short shrift to Broadway Bill . In fact he only mentions it when he starts to talk about the remake of this film Riding High . The remake was in 1950 and Broadway Bill was done immediately after It Happened One Night . In just a couple of paragraphs he mentions that he did a film called Broadway Bill sandwiched between It Happened One Night and Mr . Deeds Goes To Town . He was dissatisfied with it because the leading man , Warner Baxter , was afraid of horses and it showed . Capra then said he resolved to do the film over again with an actor who loved horses . Of course he got Bing Crosby and second to golf Crosby did love horses and horse racing . It was a perfect fit . I didn't notice anything to terribly wrong with Baxter's performance away from the horse playing the title role . Baxter's a footloose sort of guy who's married to the daughter of millionaire Walter Connolly , Helen Vinson . Baxter's heart is at the racetrack , he loves the life and the people there . Vinson's younger sister Myrna Loy understands him though and it does take Baxter a while to figure out he married the wrong sister . Frank Capra filled out his cast with many of the regulars who appeared in his more well known classics and they all look like they were born and bred at the racetrack . In this and in Riding High , my favorite is Raymond Walburn , the larcenous and lovable old ' Colonel ' Pettigrew ready to make the ultimate sacrifice and marry ' Vinegar Puss ' Margaret Hamilton . Broadway Bill is not up there with Capra's more populistic films nor is it as good as Riding High , but it still is a wonderful heartwarming story of a horse who showed us in the higher species , the meaning of courage and heart .
Early And I Mean Early Bing Crosby	The Road to Hollywood is a compilation of bits and songs from the Mack Sennett shorts that Bing Crosby appeared in during the time he was between the Paul Whiteman band and his first feature film starring role in The Big Broadcast . Probably in 1947 Bing Crosby was at the high point of his career . At that time he was number one in films , in record sales , and on the radio and no one has ever duplicated that success , albeit even with radio's successor television . He was probably the best known entertainer in the world at that time , it's first truly international star . There are some Crosby fans who consider his early work during the days of his crooning rivalry with Rudy Vallee and Russ Columbo to be his best and one can make an argument for it . If you feel that way , here is a great opportunity to see some Crosby performances of early solo hits he had like I Surrender Dear , Just One More Chance , Out of Nowhere , etc . In fact it was when William Paley heard Bing's record of I Surrender Dear that he made up his mind to sign him for a 15 minute radio show on CBS . The rest is history . For Crosby fans , a must .
Down Memory Lane	For the third and final film in the William Bendix-Joe Sawyer two guys from Brooklyn series , Hal Roach decided on a trip down memory lane to the Roaring Twenties when our guys were just getting started in the cab business . Back then Bendix and Corbett were not millionaires yet , but blue collar guys in fact as well as attitude . They're splitting driving a cab day and night at that point and one afternoon when Bendix escorts a drunken Jack Norton to the burlesque house he meets the love of his life and falls big for Grace Bradley , strutting herself on the stage . Actually due to some of Norton's antics she falls off the stage and in Bendix's lap . Since gangster Sheldon Leonard is also interested in Bradley , he takes a dim view of Bendix's attentions . But he uses him and nearly gets him framed for having bootleg booze and a tommy gun in his cab which were planted . I think you can tell where this is going and since we've seen the other two previous films the audiences of 1943 already knew how this would turn out . Bendix's native Brooklynisms are scattered throughout the script , we sympathize with him more than Leonard does when the police give him the ' Thoity Thoid ' degree . Frank Faylen and Mike Mazurki are here also as an amiable pair of thugs working for Leonard and Iris Adrian is always good as the smart mouth waitress . This was the end of the series because Bendix was now with Paramount and Hal Roach no longer had his services . But Tim McGuerin lived on as Bendix created Chester A . Riley another lovable Brooklynite for the radio and small screen . A nice low budget comedy from Hal Roach from a two short and forgotten series of films .
An American Success Story	Most of Irving Berlin's shows on Broadway were revues and not book type shows . For that reason they're not frequently revived . All of them contain topical jokes that only history majors like myself would get now . But the extreme topicality of This Is The Army and its World War I predecessor Yip Yap Yaphank guarantee you don't see this one revived too often no matter how many good songs come from it . Even to do This Is The Army we have a threadbare plot of sorts . George Murphy is a song and dance man doing the lead in the Ziegfeld Follies when he gets his draft notice for World War I . Like Irving Berlin in real life , he offers to put his entertainment talents at the army's disposal . Murphy also marries Rosemary DeCamp at the same time he goes in the army . Flash forward to a new World War and Murphy's son Ronald Reagan is going out with Joan Leslie who's the daughter of Charles Butterworth another performer from the Yip Yap Yaphank show back in the day . Reagan gets his draft notice just like dear old dad and he says let's put on a show for the boys . Of course dear old dad volunteers to help as do other veterans of the World War I show . One thing that Warner's was smart about , they didn't give Ronald Reagan any singing or dancing to do . Reagan's talents such as they are were confined to behind the curtain . A lot of Hollywood regulars are mixed with members of the original cast of actual soldiers who put on This Is The Army on Broadway . The score is also a mixed one with Irving Berlin allowing several of his older numbers mixed in with the Broadway score of This Is The Army . Most particularly God Bless America which Kate Smith had introduced in 1939 and sang in the film . It dwarfs all the other numbers in the score by comparison , in fact it's only rival in popularity in this film is Irving Berlin's soldier's lament of Oh How I Hate To Get Up In The Morning . And that originally comes from Yip Yap Yaphank . And of course that other barracks ballad telling what civilians will have to do without , the title song of the show and the film . This Is The Army is dated flag-waving to be sure , but as Irving Berlin said in another song in another show , do you know of a better flag to wave ? Both Yip Yap Yaphank and This Is The Army are the product of an immigrant kid who escaped poverty and persecution in the old world of Europe . If Irving Berlin's life isn't the American success story than I don't know a better example . He was grateful to his adopted country and these shows were his way of payback . I doubt if Bicture actor Ronald Reagan had the remotest conception that he would be sitting in the White House as a tenant one day and that he would be giving the nation's greeting to Irving Berlin on his 100th birthday . But that's an American success story too .
Life's Real Treasure	No longer the debonair and very urban leading man , William Powell was trying to move into roles more in line with his age . Powell turned 60 at the time The Treasure of Lost Canyon and was now playing an eccentric married man who's cousin , Henry Hull has been robbing him blind for years . Into his life comes young Tommy Ivo whose mother died and his father killed in a stage holdup . Though he didn't think so , Powell takes to the young boy and his dog and plans to adopt him . Ivo locates some old bandit loot on Powell's property which seems to be the answer to their financial worries . That's the treasure in the title . But there are still a lot of questions to be answered . The Treasure of Lost Canyon is based on a Robert Louis Stevenson short story , The Treasure of Franchard and is clearly aimed at a family audience . It's a pleasant and rather short film , 82 minutes and is moderately entertaining . Stevenson fans will note the similarity between young Tommy Ivo and a couple of other young Stevenson heroes , David Balfour and Jim Hawkins . Besides those mentioned Rosemary DeCamp is Powell's wife and Charles Drake and Julia Adams play a pair of helpful neighbors . Especially Drake who is most helpful in getting a lot of questions answered . The Treasure of Lost Canyon is not a great film , but entertaining enough . Sad to say movie audiences apparently didn't take to William Powell in a role more suited to Gabby Hayes or Walter Brennan . Still though , Powell as romantic lead was far more ridiculous at his age .
Hughes showing ' em how it's done	Two Tickets to Broadway was to be Howard Hughes's answer to MGM type musicals and in fact he engaged the two leads from MGM , Tony Martin and Janet Leigh . The usual criticism was voiced with Martin being 15 years older than Leigh , but in this case it works because part of the plot is fresh faced Ms . Leigh avoiding being taken in by older Broadway sharpies . No memorable songs were written by composers Jule Styne and Leo Robin for this film and that's a pity because if a hit had come out of it , the film would be better remembered . Martin , I'm sure realized no hits were coming out of this and he probably had two of his own songs put in there . He had hit records around this time of the Prologue from Pagliacci and There's No Tomorrow ( O Sole Mio ) . He performs them well . I would love to know if Janet Leigh was dubbed and by who . I don't believe she ever sang in any other film . For that reason I suspect a dubbing if for no other reason that she wouldn't want to be going up against a singer with as powerful a voice as Tony Martin . Ironic that two of the players in this Ann Miller and Janet Leigh died this year . Nobody had to worry about dubbing Ann Miller in any department . She performs her big number , Let the Worry Bird Worry for You in classic style . Bob Crosby who by that time was known as the afternoon Crosby because his radio and later TV show came on in the afternoon unlike his legendary brother . Being the Bing Crosby fan that I am , I have a soft spot in my heart for his Let's Make Comparison where he's comparing himself to brother Bing . Bob led a pretty good jazz band at that time and had a modest career in B films . Eddie Bracken who was so good in his Paramount films was cloying and annoying in this one . His machinations trying to get his clients on the Bob Crosby show were downright stupid here and not terribly funny . The ending though was an unintentional hoot . Janet Leigh comes from Pelican Falls , Vermont and early in the film she's given a send off by the high school band performing their alma mater song . I thought the ending with the high school band , interrupting Bob Crosby's broadcast to reprise their high school song was ridiculous . Was that Howard Hughes's idea ? Well he didn't do as much damage here as he did on The Outlaw . The film had a lot of potential and it could have been done better even at RKO , but I suspect Howard Hughes meddled a bit too much here .
Not Quite Fred's Shining Hour	Fred Astaire returned to RKO Studios , scene of his classic films with Ginger Rogers for this last film The Sky's The Limit where he plays a a Flying Tiger pilot on a furlough in the USA doing a bond tour . Of course this bond tour isn't exactly his idea of R & R so he goes AWOL on it and quite incognito embarks on a romance with Joan Leslie . She's an entertainer and also works for publisher Robert Benchley who's kind of stuck on her himself . The Sky's The Limit is the one and only time Harold Arlen wrote a score for Fred Astaire and in this case it was in collaboration with Johnny Mercer . My Shining Hour which was sung by Sally Sweetland and lipsynched by Joan Leslie got an Oscar nomination for Best Song , but lost to You'll Never Know . But it took another eleven years for One For My Baby to gain enduring popularity through Frank Sinatra singing it in Young At Heart . The song gained such popularity as a requested Sinatra item that a lot of people forget Fred Astaire introduced it . When Sinatra sang One For My Baby it was in a sequence in Young At Heart that involved him accompanying himself on a piano in a crowded bar where nobody but the movie audience is paying any attention . But in The Sky's The Limit the number serves as the main dance number for Fred Astaire . It involves a real bartender named Joe who's anxious to close played by Victor Potel . It's nicely staged and it's the main reason one should see My Shining Hour . Astaire and Leslie as leads really don't come off that good and I had a hard time believing Fred as an ace pilot . But the music is grand so watch this one once more for the road .
The Pelican Spy	Frankie Avalon off doing his Naval Reserve training in those innocent days before Vietnam is wondering whether Annette is being true to him back at the beach with all those other hunks around . He's stationed on a tropical Pacific Isle with lots of other curvaceous cuties around . He asks one of them to bring him to the local witch doctor for help . The witch doctor sends a pelican out to spy on Annette back at the beach . So help me this is the beginning of the story . But it's not a half bad film , in fact it gets down right satirical at times . In addition to Frankie , Annette and the rest of the beach crew , some Hollywood old timers got some work in this film and they get a chance to overact outrageously . They include Brian Donlevy and Mickey Rooney as a pair of scheming advertising executives along with Dwayne Hickman who's their schemer in training , Harvey Lembeck as a Marlon Brando type motorcycle gang leader and Buster Keaton as the witch doctor . I'd try to see How to Stuff a Wild Bikini if for no other reason than to see all these players ham it up . Though in some spots the pelican gives the best performance in the film .
Twisted	In one of his last silent films , Lon Chaney plays a magician who went into a kind of exile in the Belgian Congo after a fight with a man who stole his wife left him a cripple . He's now known as ' Deadlegs ' and he's used his mastery of prestidigitation to make himself the local kingpin in his neck of the jungle . But even he has to obey certain native customs . He's an embittered and twisted man who has worked out a most carefully engineered scheme involving his late wife's daughter . The man who did steal his wife , Lionel Barrymore is now also in Africa . He contrives to bring the two of them together and both kill and degrade them at the same time at the hands of the cannibals he lives with . Even with this Victorian plot and given the racism of the times , in Victorian Great Britain they would not have had cannibals in Africa because there were no cannibals in Africa . But what did Americans know about Africa ? Still Chaney gives a compelling performance and the role calls for the make up and the contortion that he was known for . In fact in James Cagney's film biography of Chaney there are small portraits of Chaney's various screen roles and West of Zanzibar is one of them . Also look for a good performance by Warner Baxter as the alcoholic doctor who Chaney keeps on a kind of retainer . It's not a great film , far from it , but it is a fascinating look at the life and art of Lon Chaney .
It Was Fascination I Know	Love in the Afternoon was conceived and brought to the screen by Billy Wilder as a homage to his friend and mentor in Hollywood , Ernest Lubitsch . This French novel Ariane had been filmed before in fact , by the Germans just before the Nazis took over and had starred Elizabeth Bergner . Audrey Hepburn proved to be a worthy successor to Bergner . Whatever success Love in the Afternoon has is due to her performance . She radiates beauty and charm and no wonder Gary Cooper is so fascinated by her . Wilder would consider no one else for the lead and waited for Hepburn to be free while she was on a lengthy location shooting for War and Peace . But it's Cooper who's the weak one here . He was not Billy Wilder's first choice . Cary Grant for the third and final time missed out on being in a Billy Wilder film having previously turned down Five Graves to Cairo and Sabrina . The part was offered to Yul Brynner also . But Gary Cooper turned out to be available when Hepburn was and he got the role . Wilder later admitted the bad casting , but he also said that it was his ill luck to get Cooper at the start of the health problems that would eventually kill him . He said Cooper got old overnight . In fact he looks as old as Maurice Chevalier and Chevalier as Hepburn's father was 13 years older than Cooper . Maurice is a detective who specializes in tracking down and confirming spousal infidelities . He's been hired by John McGiver to find out if his wife has been seeing millionaire playboy Cooper . Daughter Hepburn however is crushing out on Gary big time and unbeknownst to Maurice she takes it upon herself to warn him . The old popular standard Fascination is heard through out the film and in the same year it came out , the 20 + year old standard was revived in a million selling hit by Pat Boone . It was not an easy shoot despite those familiar Parisian location . In a recent biography of Wilder , the story is told that he had tremendous difficulty in shooting the picnic and row boat scenes . It seems as though the location was a breeding ground for mosquitoes and they were unmerciful to cast and crew . Wilder took several takes just to get enough usable footage . Audrey Hepburn fans will be mad for Love in the Afternoon , Gary Cooper's though might wince when seeing it .
That's What She Played , A Small Town Girl	For most of her career Janet Gaynor did nothing , but play small town girls , the best known being Esther Blodgett . But I've seen her in films like State Fair and Three Loves Has Nancy and it's the same part , the girl from the tiny hamlet who conquers the big city and the men in it . With a title like this , there was only one casting possibility . Janet's a girl who's thoroughly stuck in a rut in her New England hamlet and yearns for a little adventure . She finds it in the person of Robert Taylor , a young doctor who comes from a wealthy Boston family . After a night's carousing Gaynor and Taylor are married , to the chagrin of his fiancé , Binnie Barnes and her boyfriend James Stewart . Remember this is Boston so Taylor's father Lewis Stone prevails on Taylor to give the marriage a few months trial . Of course this is where the balance of the story comes in . In many ways this plot seems like a harbinger of The Way We Were . Taylor's career was now in full swing as Small Town Girl was the next film after his breakout performance in Magnificent Obsession . Remember in that film he was a playboy who became a doctor . Here's he's a doctor who doubles as a playboy . Never mind though , feminine hearts all over the English speaking world were fluttering over MGM's latest heartthrob . My mother who was a juvenile at this time told me that Taylor's appeal back in these days was just about the same as Elvis's . James Stewart was at the beginning of his career as well as MGM had him in about seven features in 1936 , mostly in support . Interesting though with worse career management , he could have gone on playing hick roles like Elmer the boyfriend . But it was also obvious there was a spark of stardom with him as well . Gaynor would leave the screen a few years later , Taylor was at the beginning of his career . He'd have better acting roles in his future , but for now Small Town Girl is a great example of the screen heartthrob he was at the beginning of his stardom . Fans of both stars will like what they see in Small Town Girl .
Another Cinderella Gets Her Opera Singing Fella	Possibly if Harry Warren and Al Dubin had written a memorable hit song from this film , Sing Me a Love Song would be better remembered today . As it is the film is a pleasant enough typical Thirties story where department store clerk Patricia Ellis meets and wins the man of her dreams . Who happens to be James Melton , possessor of a great tenor voice , and the rich young playboy's who's inherited dad's department store . He's decided to go see why the place is losing money and decided to go incognito to work there . What he doesn't realize is that the lawyers for his father's estate want to see the store keep losing money so they can pick it up for themselves at a bargain . James Melton had a pleasing voice and a good personality . The wonder is why he didn't have a movie career . My guess is he was far more interested in the opera . He starred at the New York Metropolitan Opera for many years and hosted the Bell Telephone Hour on radio as well . As for the songs , Melton included the old standard Your Eyes Have Told Me So which was a staple at his concerts and Carry Me Back to the Lone Prarie which he introduced in his debut film Stars Over Broadway . Better than the subpar stuff he got from Warren and Dubin . Warner Brothers gave Melton good support with Allen Jenkins , Zasu Pitts , Nat Pendleton , and especially Walter Catlett as the officious floorwalker . But the best is Hugh Herbert as the kleptomaniac who keeps robbing the store . Herbert also gets to do an Alec Guinness , Kind Hearts and Coronets number also playing several of his family members . Herbert and his family turn out to be the saviors of the store . Sing Me a Love Song is a pleasant enough film . So typical of the Thirties where working class women always seem to be getting some rich , handsome Prince Charming . And if Charming can clear a high C with no trouble even better .
That Aleutian Hideaway	Sea Spoilers finds John Wayne as the commanding officer of a Coast Guard Cutter on duty in the Pacific Northwest looking for seal poachers . This was the first of six films that Wayne did in 1936-1937 for Universal in an effort to broaden his acting horizons . Not one of these B films for Universal was a western . It gets real personal after Wayne's sweetheart , Nan Grey , witnesses the murder of a drunken playboy on his yacht . The playboy , Ernest Hilliard realizes he's been the dupe of these seal poachers for some time and threatens to spill to the authorities . The head of the outfit , Russell Hicks , has a thing for Grey and instead of just killing the only witness , kidnaps her and takes her to his Aleutian hideaway . In the meantime Wayne also has been superseded in command of his vessel by William Bakewell who is the son of the commanding officer George Irving . Believe it or not Bakewell has a phobia about water and wants to be in the air . He eventually gets his wish , but the villains capture him for his trouble . Sea Spoilers is a competently made action film and the final battle with the Coast Guard and the poachers is very well staged , especially considering this is a B film . Fuzzy Knight fulfills the role of sidekick , just as if this were a western . He and the Duke worked well together , a pity he didn't do any more films with Wayne other than Shepherd of the Hills . I have a hard time though wrapping my mind around the concept of a Coast Guardsman with a water phobia . It's explained , but how did Bakewell get in the service in the first place even with a father that had a lot of pull ? And did Russell Hicks have that bad a thing for Nan Grey ? Sea Spoilers could have used a better story . Still it's not a bad action film and some of the westerns the Duke was doing for Lone Star films were a whole lot worse at this time .
A Desperate Bargain	In Kill Me Tomorrow it was Pat O'Brien's turn to be an American actor who was past his prime as a leading man in the states to turn up in a British feature film . The idea was to give it greater marketability in the States . I well remember seeing a lot of these type of films as the bottom half of doublebills in my neighborhood movie theater . O'Brien who had done a lot of noir type features in America fits comfortably with the genre in the UK . Even his Irish countenance is hardly out of place as so many Irish people from Ulster and from the Republic were living and working in Great Britain . O'Brien is an alcoholic reporter working for a Fleet Street paper run by editor Ronald Adam . Adam's lost patience with O'Brien , a year before Pat's wife was killed in an automobile accident that he caused driving drunk . Now he's got a second piece of bad news , his son is ill with a tumor behind an eye and needs one quick operation from a specialist in Switzerland . A thousand pounds would cover it . Ronald Adam has bigger fish to fry than O'Brien's problems . He's running an expose on some criminal rackets in London headed by George Coulouris . A stoolie after giving information to Adam is murdered and Coulouris and assorted hoods come calling . Adam winds up shot and then O'Brien arrives and Adam gives a dying declaration as to who did it . But Pat's concern is the boy and he makes an unusual bargain with Coulouris . For a thousand pounds , he'll take the fall for him and confess to the murder . I have to say that this was one of the more unusual plot twists in a film I've ever seen and for that reason it rates a cut above your average noir film . The production values were adequate , no more than that , the players gave a good account of themselves . Lois Maxwell soon to be Ms . Moneypenny in a few years is Adam's niece and even though she sees O'Brien with gun in hand leaving the premises and calls Scotland Yard , she still believes in him . In fact the scheme is badly thought out , but it was thought out by a desperate man . A timeline and forensics shoot O'Brien's confession full of holes , but he insists on playing it his way as movie favorites do . Two interesting people have small roles in Kill Me Tomorrow . One is former Light Heavyweight Champion Freddie Mills , a sports hero in the British Isles plays one of Coulouris's thugs . Mills met a tragic end a few years later , a suicide that some think was murder . The other person was Great Britain's first rock and roll star Tommy Steele . He sings one of his early hits Rebel Rock in a coffee bar that Coulouris owns and is the headquarters for his enterprises . Tommy is not one of the crooks however . Having seen a more mature Steele in Half A Sixpence , Finian's Rainbow , and The Happiest Millionaire , it was interesting to see him in his rock and roll roots . I shouldn't actually say that because Steele as a performer would have been right at home in the British Music Hall Theater and has been for most of his career . He's got an infectious personality and style that has made me one of his biggest fans . So while O'Brien is in the film for the American market , I've no doubt that Kill Me Tomorrow did well at the British box office with Tommy Steele performing . Kill Me Tomorrow is a good B noir thriller that could hold its own with America's product .
Very New Dealish for the Duke	Viennese surgeon Charles Coburn and daughter Sigrid Gurie arrive in America and are placed in a rural area of Oklahoma . They stay in a large old house with John Wayne and Spencer Charters . Pretty soon , despite Gurie's homesickness , they are involved in the social and political life in the area . This is the famous Oklahoma dust bowl era when drought and poor cultivation practices brought about a drying up of once fertile farm land . Wayne and the other farmers do their best to save the land , but in the end except a government offer to homestead new farm land created by a dam built in Oregon , I presume on the Columbia River or one of its tributaries . Gurie of course falls big time for the Duke . But she hears that Roland Varno who saved them from the Nazis and who she thought dead is still alive . Wayne of course leads a modern day wagon train to Oregon with automobiles instead of Conestoga wagons . He's got his own problems with Trevor Bardette , another farmer who's constantly trying to undermine his leadership . 23 years later John Wayne made McLintock which is more a serious statement of his conservative political and economic philosophy than one realizes . In Three Faces West we have him accepting a government program's help , albeit a self help type program . The film though is couched in terms good enough to satisfy any free marketeer . One thing I could not understand . Roland Varno purportedly risked his life to save Gurie and Coburn from the Nazis . But when both of them meet up with Varno in San Francisco , he's now a big time Nazi supporter and wants to take them back to Vienna to aid in his new cause . They are taken aback and walk right out on him . I'm somewhat taken aback myself . For the life of me I don't understand Varno's about face . The script gives us no explanation . It's a big hole in the plot . Three Faces West also labors under the handicap of coming out in the same year as The Grapes of Wrath . A much better film about the dust bowl and its economic effects .
Sylvia Scarlett Goes West	This entry in the Tim Holt B western series for RKO takes some inspiration from another gender bending film classic the studio did back in the Thirties , Sylvia Scarlett . Though Jeff Donnell isn't Katharine Hepburn , this film has a few more laughs in it than the normal Holt western where usually the laughs are provided by Richard Martin's amorous intentions . Thurston Hall and daughter Jeff Donnell are traveling to Arizona for him to check on one of his holdings , a ranch there and for Donnell to get away from some fortune hunter who's been romancing her . That's bad news for Joe Sawyer and a couple of hands there who've been stealing the absentee owner blind . Sawyer should have listened to his two henchmen who said it was time to flee the territory . Instead they set up an ambush to murder Hall . Bad luck to do it though within hearing range of the stagecoach station that Holt and Martin operate on their ranch . But does a thwarted stage holdup deter Donnell ? Not a bad , she's determined to get back to San Francisco and marry her guy . While in town she sneaks away and dons the disguise of a boy and gets on the coach . No need to tell the rest of the story , it's set up nicely for quite a few laughs as well as the usual gunfights that are required . Stagecoach Kid is definitely one of the better Tim Holt westerns that RKO did and Donnell is quite a good comedienne .
One Hopeless Marker	Sorrowful Jones is both the first time Bob Hope teamed up with Lucille Ball as a leading lady and it's his first try at a Damon Runyon character . It succeeded , but it's not as good as some of the other of Bob Hope's Forties comedies . This is a remake of Little Miss Marker where Adolphe Menjou played the role of Sorrowful Jones . The problem with this version is that in the first one the main character is the little girl left as a human marker for bookie Sorrowful Jones . The little girl back then was Shirley Temple and it was a Shirley Temple picture . No child was going to steal the spotlight from Bob Hope and this one has the emphasis on Hope's character which is all wrong . Little Mary Jane Saunders is not Shirley Temple , but who is . Anyway she does not steal the film from Hope and that's wrong . On the plus side Hope and Lucille Ball show some really good chemistry and they did far better in their next film together Fancy Pants . Also look for good performances from Bruce Cabot as the gambling kingpin and from William Demarest as Hope's sidekick . But if you want to see Hope and Ball at their best I recommend Fancy Pants .
On Your Marx	The creative talents of George S . Kaufman , Irving Berlin , and the Brothers Marx went into the production of the Broadway musical The Cocoanuts which ran for 216 shows in the 1925-1926 season . Of the talent involved it was the Marx Brothers who came out the winners . George S . Kaufman was one of the great wits of the last century , but so were the Marx Brothers . They ad-libbed and eliminated much of Kaufman's well turned prose and things were pretty tense between him and the brothers on Broadway . He also did not like a certain song that Berlin wanted to use in The Cocoanuts and Berlin took it from the show after Kaufman ragged on him . The song was Always . The Cocoanuts was the first book musical that Irving Berlin ever wrote , he did mostly reviews before The Cocoanuts . It also is the only one without a single hit song from it . But as a Marx Brothers comedy it made the Brothers reputations . The plot such as it is concerns the boom in Florida real estate in which a lot of people got wealthy and a lot lost their shirts , though not quite in the way Basil Ruysdael does when Harpo and Chico take it off his back while he's trying to frisk them in his duties as the house detective . The Cocoanuts was shot at the Paramount Astoria studio in Queens and used a lot of Broadway performers in the roles . Besides the Brothers , only Margaret Dumont and Basil Ruysdael came over from the Broadway cast . But Oscar Shaw and Mary Eaton had well established reputations on Broadway . Kay Francis is in the cast as the bad girl and she certainly went on to a substantial Hollywood career . The main thing The Cocoanuts has going for it besides the Marx Brothers is the fact it is a filmed record of a Twenties era Broadway musical . Paramount made very few concessions in adapting The Cocoanuts to the screen . What we see is filmed play . Historic , but I fear not as entertaining as the later work of the Marx Brothers .
Dudley DooRight versus Wile E . Coyote for Jessica Rabbit	I'm not quite sure why Kirk Douglas took the part of a live Wile E . Coyote in the film villain other than to say that he had now tried the slapstick comedy genre . But in this case the frustrated coyote is not matched up with the beeping road runner . His adversary is Dudley DooRight in the person of Arnold Schwarzneggar , the Handsome Stranger . Yes folks , that's his character name . We've got a third cartoon character in the mix , Ann-Margret doing a prototype of Jessica Rabbit . Annie's really showing off the stuff today with bosoms akimbo , she's got every member of the cast panting after her with the exceptions of Strother Martin who is her father and still sees Daddy's little girl and Arnie whom she pants after , but who doesn't show the slightest interest . The bulk of the film is taken up with Kirk as villainous Cactus Jack and his horse Whiskey , doing their best to stop Arnie and Ann and rob them of a large sum of money from banker Jack Elam to Strother Martin . It's here where all the comparisons to the road runner cartoons take place . I'm sure Kirk Douglas liked the change of pace , burlesquing his own western image . And he had a tough assignment because the majority of his scenes are alone and the dialog was spoken to his horse . Maybe Mr . Ed should have been cast in the role . If anybody noticed the name of the horse Whiskey is the same name that Kirk Douglas used for his horse in his acclaimed Lonely Are The Brave . Lest you think that because this is a road runner film the ending is a road runner ending . Let's just say that Jessica Rabbit has her needs and priorities as well .
A Most Elusive Thing	Look For the Silver Lining is a particular song favorite of mine and it was the theme song of one of Broadway's brightest stars , Marilyn Miller . Her own life , sad to say did not have too many sunny days in it after that fateful night where she lost her first husband . She died young from complications of a sinus operation in 1936 in the year when her producer / benefactor Florenz Ziegfeld had a biographical film about him . There was no mention of Marilyn's name in the film at all . June Haver plays a winning Marilyn whom we see as a girl like Judy Garland , born in a trunk . Remember that Judy played Marilyn in Look for the Silver Lining . She was a child performer in a family of performers like the Gumm sisters . She met and fell in love with Frank Carter , a song and dance man who was killed in a car crash in New Jersey as the film shows . Carter in this film is played by Gordon MacRae in one of his earliest film roles . Marilyn spent an extraordinary amount of money for a tomb for the late Mr . Carter who by all rights on his own would never deserve such a monument . It's one of the grandest in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx where Marilyn eventually joined him . It dwarfs such folks as former Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and Irving Berlin who wrote Easter Parade for her and Clifton Webb in As Thousands Cheer . In this film Marilyn has one other husband , Jack Donohue played by Ray Bolger who has some terrific dance numbers . That and two other marriages in real life didn't work out for her . One of her other husbands was Jack Pickford , brother of Mary Pickford who led quite a life of drink and debauchery and died young . What's not shown is how hearty Marilyn partied in the Roaring Twenties . She was one wild child between marriages indulging in uncountable one night stands . It was said that in shows with her frequent co-star Clifton Webb , they'd split up the chorus boys , she'd take the straight ones and he'd go after the gay ones , many times their paths would cross . One thing Marilyn never did was record . She adamantly refused record contracts , would not consider going to a recording studio to record the songs identified with her like Look For the Silver Lining , Who , and Easter Parade . She felt that sound alone could not capture the magic of a live performance , the dancing as well as the singing . Only those early sound films are the only record of her performing . Marilyn Miller had an R , even an X rated life and Look for the Silver Lining does not remotely do justice to it . Still it's a tastefully done tribute to a very tragic star who found happiness in this world a most elusive thing .
Three Stars Make A Preposterous Story Happen	Sean Connery , Dustin Hoffman , and Matthew Broderick have talent to spare and they manage to make an impossible story jell on the screen in Family Business . The three men play grandfather , father , and son of the McMullen clan . Connery is an unregenerate criminal who offers to apologies for the life he's led . Hoffman is someone who went into that life during his youth due to Dad's influence , but he leaves that life and now works in the wholesale meat business which he hates , but more than pays the rent . Matthew Broderick is his son who absolutely idolizes his grandfather . He's middle class and a Westinghouse scholar to boot , but lives for his time with his grandfather and the criminal tales he tells of his past . Broderick's life as a Westinghouse scholar is about to intersect with Connery's habitual criminal background when Broderick's professor , B . D . Wong offers him a scam . He's to break in to a laboratory in Nassau County and steal the results of his research for a million dollars . Hoffman also goes along for the ride , mainly he says to watch out for his son . These three have tremendous chemistry together and it is what makes this story float . Especially Connery because you have to believe in his character in order to enjoy the film . Family Business is one of those movies that after I come away from it I say this is completely ridiculous . Yet when you watch you feel guilty enjoying it so much . Sidney Lumet did a wonderful job showing the background of the Hell's Kitchen area where Connery resides . I recognize a whole lot of the neighborhood . Interesting that this area a decade later served as the background for the much more serious film Sleepers . Look also for a good performance by Rosanna DeSoto as wife and mother to Hoffman and Broderick . What she puts up with in that family .
Bickering Buds	John Wayne and Eddy Chandler play a strange combination of friends in The Desert Trail . Wayne's a fast living rodeo cowboy and Chandler is gambler / conman . They fight a whole lot about everything , cards , liquor , women . There kind of a western version of James Cagney and Pat O'Brien . When Wayne decides he's not going to get stiffed out of rodeo prize money he won , they take matters into their own hands , taking precisely what's owed Wayne . Of course when two real robbers , Al Ferguson and Paul Fix decide to clean out the rest of the rodeo cash and kill the promoter , our heroes get blamed for it and have to spend nearly the rest of the film on the run . Of course this is a Lone Star cheapie that the Duke stars in here with production values severely limited . This one however had the potential to be something better . At a better studio with a tighter script and their production values , this could have been a Duke classic . As it is it's one of his better B pictures from Monogram .
Jimmy and Pat take to the skies	The real founders of the buddy film James Cagney and Pat O'Brien after making their debut in Here Comes the Navy essentially reprise their roles in Devil Dogs of the Air for the Marines . O'Brien is the no-nonsense flight instructor for the Marines who's written to an old Brooklyn pal James Cagney urging him to join the Corps . Cagney is a circus flier who pretty much knows the flying game inside out . But he's Cagney and of course he KNOWS he knows it . That does not make for good discipline . But it does make for good raffish , knockabout comedy that Cagney / O'Brien films are known for . Of course there's a girl involved , in this case Margaret Lindsay . Need I say who she winds up with . The only jarring note in this film is Frank McHugh . During the hey day of the studios , I think Warner Brothers was incapable of making a film without either Frank McHugh or Alan Hale . I usually enjoy Frank McHugh , but in this film he's downright annoying . He's in the medical corps and frustrated because he feels his training is being wasted because no one is ever injured in a crash or otherwise . McHugh is positively ghoulish in awaiting some accident to befall SOMEONE in the film . However James Cagney is his usual cocksure and charming best and that carried a lot of Warner Brothers films to profit . We the audience profit also by that bouncy Cagney charm .
Funny film with dated cameos .	Bob Hope plays his usual dimwitted cluck who in this film happens to be an insurance salesman . Only Hope , one step from being given the boot and desperate to sell a policy , would sell one to Jesse James . Jesse being the smart guy he is decides this is has potentiality . He can fake his own death and lay low for a while with a nice nest egg . Bank robbery , train robbery , his usual line of work does have some risk attached to it . Now guess who the schnook he figures he'll bump off to be the dead Jesse James ? Why its Hope come west to protect Jesse until the home office figures a way to cancel the policy . I saw this in the movies way back when I was 12 years old and it first came out . As such I appreciated fully the significance of the cameo appearances of all those TV western stars . TV westerns were at their height at that time so anyone who saw this knew for instance that Ward Bond was Major Seth Adams of Wagon Train . Today , I wager , that viewers will recognize Bond as Bert the Cop from It's A Wonderful Life unless Wagon Train is being run on Hallmark at the time . Similarly Gail Davis as Annie Oakley or Hugh O'Brian as Wyatt Earp ( a show I wish some cable channel would pick up ) . Nice gag , but dated now . Nevertheless its a very funny picture with the lovely Rhonda Fleming as Jesse's girl and beneficiary until she falls for Hope . So many smart women keep falling for Hope the schnook in his films . Wendell Corey is a crafty Jesse James with Jim ( Dallas ) Davis as brother Frank . And of course the obligatory appearance by Bing Crosby .
Just Another Agensky Family Outing	I'm willing to bet that Kirk Douglas liked this project so much he decided to do it again with his own son and grandson . Diamonds is a story that finds Kirk in pursuit of some diamonds he hid away in the house of an old hoodlum friend in Reno , Nevada . Back in the day Douglas was a boxer by trade and this was a payoff for throwing a big fight back in the Fifties . To make his pursuit more interesting he takes along one of his two sons Dan Ackroyd and Ackroyd's son , Corbin Allred . So three generations of the Agensky family go in pursuit of some diamonds . Of course the trip is a bonding experience for all concerned . Ackroyd just went through a bitter divorce with Allred's mother and he's been estranged from Douglas for several years . I found Diamonds to be a pleasant film , entertaining and in a few instances quite touching . The Agensky family outing also included a visit to a bordello run by Madam Lauren Bacall . Before she married Humphrey Bogart , Bacall was an acting student in New York with Kirk Douglas and she persuaded him to come to Hollywood . Back in 1951 they co-starred in Young Man With a Horn so 48 years later they're back together on the screen . They're scenes are precious . With Diamonds I think Kirk was trying to send a message that all stroke victims aren't helpless . His scene with fellow former boxer Val Bisoglio as the two old ring enemies meet are a delight and later how he obtains his quest proves that while his speech is impaired he hasn't lost one single marble . Later on Kirk Douglas did It Runs In the Family with son Michael and grandson Cameron . But I kind of like this one better .
Spared No Expense	When MGM acquired the rights to Show Boat for the Arthur Freed unit , no expense was spared in making this one of the most expensive films the studio had ever produced . A whole riverboat was constructed as well as the Natchez landing was completely built on a location on a lake which served as turn of the last century Mississippi river locale . No doubt also that Howard Keel and Kathryn Grayson sang beautifully together . Those three Jerome Kern ballads , Make Believe , Why Do I Love You ? and You Are Love were just written for their voices . Ava Gardner is a beautiful and fetching Julia . Annette Warren's dubbing of Julie LaVerne's songs Can't Help Loving That Man and Bill perfectly matched Ava's speaking voice . The problem I've always felt with this version is that Howard Keel is too strong a character to be playing Gaylord Ravenal who is essentially a weak personality . Allan Jones in the 1937 version perfectly captured Ravenal's frailty . That 1937 version also had two people from the original Broadway production who made those parts all their own , Helen Morgan as Julie and Charles Winninger as Captain Andy . And it had the incomparable Paul Robeson though William Warfield is a fabulous Joe . The singing of the Jerome Kern-Oscar Hammerstein II score is in the major leagues . The rest of the film however is in a minor key when compared with the earlier sound version with Allan Jones and Irene Dunne .
" Paris is All of These Things That They've Left Unsaid . "	One of Jane Powell's best musicals for MGM is Rich , Young and Pretty and Ms . Powell winds up all three and married to boot . She and father Wendell Corey and housekeeper Una Merkel are in Paris where Wendell is on business for the United Nations where he works . But he wasn't always a high powered diplomat . After the first World War he took a French bride , Danielle Darrieux , back to Texas . Texas didn't agree with Danielle and she left Wendell and her infant daughter . Wendell has told Jane her mother had passed away . Of course all this deception by Corey leaves room for more deception by Danielle upon Jane's arrival in Paris . With a little subterfuge Darrieux and Powell meet . And Powell's also got eyes for a young French official , Vic Damone and she's forgetting about the boy she's seeing back home . The story line of Rich , Young , and Pretty gets a little too cute , but there are some talented players here to smooth out the rough spots . And Nicholas Brodzsky and Sammy Cahn wrote some nice songs . One of them , Wonder Why , was nominated for Best Song , but lost to In the Cool Cool Cool of the Evening . Still Wonder Why is a very pretty ballad , sung by both Damone and Powell . My favorite song however is Paris , a city that certainly has inspired some of our best songwriters . Here it's done by Fernando Lamas and sung well . Fans of this talented cast will want to see their stars perform even though the story is a bit silly .
Mad Scientists Use Alien Kids	This is a fine sequel to one of Walt Disney's better family projects Escape from Witch Mountain . The adult stars are Bette Davis and Christopher Lee as an old dowager financing a mad scientist in some nefarious experiments . These two happen on the alien kids from Witch Mountain , Kim Richards and Ike Eisenman , when the kids are on holiday to Earth once again . They kidnap Ike after seeing an example of his powers of levitation and seek to use him and fit him with a mind control device that Lee's been perfecting . Lee's dreaming some big dreams and Davis has some more mundane schemes like a trip to some gambling house or racetrack . Both of them looking like they are having one grand old time hamming it up for the cameras . Of course the film wouldn't work at all if it were not for the winning personalities of Richards and Eisenman . Both come across as real kids , not sure of the extent of their own powers rather than Hollywood juvenile actors . The whole of the film is Richards pursuing and trying to rescue her brother and in the process she recruits a gang of juveniles escaping from a truant officer played by the ever deadpan funny Jack Soo . Eventually Soo joins forces with the kids and proves of some help . Both Escape to Witch Mountain and this sequel are fine family entertainment , some of the best that Disney studio produced .
Mormon Blood Feud	Messenger of Death opens with a pair of assassins murdering nine members of a Mormon family , all of them wives and children of Charles Dierkop . This piques the interest of Charles Bronson who is an investigative reporter for the Denver Tribune . He goes out there to the hinterlands of western Colorado to investigate and turns up some interesting information . A Mormon blood feud might not be the reason for the massacre , the motive shall we say might be more commercial . Bronson's a reporter who carries a licensed weapon . Remember this is Colorado folks , a very red state where they take the right to bear arms seriously . He needs it going out where he's going . This is some real rural area where some Mormons who never accepted the change regarding polygamy . The law of the land is rather tenuously enforced here , these folks make their own laws . John Ireland and Jeff Corey pay a pair of feuding Mormon brothers , these two have some real hate for each other , they make some of those Appalachin mountain people feuds like the Oxford debating society . Bronson has two leading ladies with naught a hint of romance with either , in Denver Marilyn Hassett in the boonies , fellow newspaperperson Trish Van Devere . He and Van Devere nearly get themselves killed by some tractor trailers in a nicely staged car chase . Look for good performances from Daniel Benzali as the ambitious Denver Police Chief and Laurence Luckinbill as the big mover and shaker in Denver politics . It's a good film with a peek into a world few of the rest of us ever get to see .
The Ties That Bind	The Brothers Canfield , Randolph Scott , Peter Thompson , Jerome Courtland , and John Archer ; are all Confederate veterans who get into a brawl with some Union soldiers who were drunk and started it . One of the Union men is killed . The Canfields flee via the Santa Fe railroad going west . Randolph Scott stays to work for the railroad , the other brothers decide to become outlaws for real . For Randolph Scott , Santa Fe is an interesting blend of two of his previous pre-World War II films The Texans and Western Union . In both he's involved in a great enterprise , a cattle drive in The Texans and building the telegraph in Western Union . In The Texans he's a returning Confederate veteran and in Western Union his conflict is with his brother . Santa Fe is a good action packed western , plenty of gun-play by a cast of veterans of many a western . Scott is his usual tight-lipped self . The part is a bit offbeat for him . Randolph Scott is usually a driven man with a mission and sometimes can be ruthless . His Britt Canfield here is a man of honor and a straight arrow , the kind of part Joel McCrea would normally be cast in . But Scott does well with the role . Olin Howland and Billy House provide some good comic relief as an engineer and his fireman . Western fans will not be disappointed .
Better By Halves	Watching the classic MGM version of David Copperfield , I couldn't help but feel that too much was cut out of this film . It would have been better done in two parts with one part strictly dealing with David's childhood up to the point where he comes into the custody of his great aunt Betsy Trotwood . Another film would then pick up the slack and follow him through adulthood . MGM did it that way several years later in their life of Thomas Edison , it should definitely have been done for David Copperfield . Too much of the story is left out and it's assumed since David Copperfield was and is required reading in most high school literature courses that the audience would be familiar with the story . Certainly the fine group of players that George Cukor gathered all do their best and are well cast in their parts . For the one and only time in his career W . C . Fields played someone other than W . C . Fields on screen . Borrowed from Paramount , Fields is cast as the ever expectant Mr . Micawber who proves to be David's salvation both as a child and as an adult . He also indulges in a little bit of Fields like physical comedy , please note that walk on the roof to enter his dwelling . Still in the key moments you do realize he's Micawber and not Fields in the film . Freddie Bartholomew followed up his first noticed screen role in Anna Karenina with a winning portrayal as young David the child . I'm sure that Frank Lawton might not have gotten the part had he had to carry a whole film as an adult . Still he's not bad as the adult David for his half of the film . Dickens's villains are as black as they come in literature and Basil Rathbone and Violet Kemble Cooper as the Murdstone brother and sister are as coldblooded a pair as you'll ever find . And Roland Young as Uriah Heep is one oily insinuating dude . Rathbone as Murdstone is young David's father who was cruel to his mother Elizabeth Allan who was a kindly , but weak soul . When David grows up he remembers what happened and when another kindly , but weak and also airheaded soul in the person of his first wife Dora comes into his life , his protective instincts are aroused and he marries her . Maureen O'Sullivan who would usually be playing upper crust types plays the simple lisping airhead , Dora . It's an unusual turn for her and a good one . Funniest moment in the film when she invites Edna May Oliver as Aunt Betsy and Lennox Pawle as Mr . Dick over and the meal is a disaster . I liked the film , liked everybody in it . But MGM and George Cukor would have been better off doing it in two parts . Still it's a classic , though don't use it as a substitute for reading the book or Cliff's Notes if you have to do a book report .
Rocking Christianity to the Core	So what's all the fuss about ? Tom Hanks is a visiting American professor of Theology in Paris and Audrey Tautou is a cryptologist with the French police . Hanks is accused of murdering Tautou's grandfather and she believes him when he says he's innocent . The investigating detective , Jean Reno , has another agenda going as he's a member of Opus Dei . The DaVinci Code is a murder mystery chase very much in the style of such Hitchcock thrillers as North By Northwest and The 39 Steps . It's not as good as those two , but not bad either . Ron Howard has made an entertaining enough film and should put a lot of money in his pocket with all the protests going on . As is usually the case , they're driving up the box office . You can't buy the kind of publicity that fundamentalist Christians are giving this film . So what's the protest for ? We've got a couple of secret religious societies protecting their secrets and killing a lot of people to do it . One of the secrets is that Jesus was in fact a very human soul who did human things such as get married to Mary Magdalene and have a daughter . Supposedly she went to France with her child and is in fact buried in France . And there are descendants walking around today . The novel by Dan Brown certainly was well received and sold millions of copies . But folks it is when all is said and done , a NOVEL . It's a work of fiction from an imaginative author , nothing more . In fact at the very beginning of the opening credits it says that the movie is taken from the NOVEL by Dan Brown . Ron Howard will need several Brink's Armored cars to haul away all the profits he will make with The DaVinci Code . Ironically the same people who are beating him up over this film were praising him last year over Cinderella Man . That was a good family values film and it was , I liked it a lot . I liked this one too . By the way special mention should go to Audrey Tautou . She conveys an Audrey Hepburn like quality in her role and hopefully this will be a break out film for her .
Hostages Of A Volatile Bunch Of Outlaws	In the film Rawhide things start out like any other day for Tyrone Power who plays the son of the stage line owner spending some time at one of the way stations learning the business from grizzled old timer Edgar Buchanan . A stage stops by and Susan Hayward and toddler are among the passengers . But when a passing cavalry patrol brings news of a crashout by four very desperate criminals , one of whom was scheduled to be hung the next day , the driver decides he's not taking Sue and the little girl if there's going to be trouble . Even with a cavalry escort which you would think would have been enough to discourage any outlaws from robbing the stage . Sue stays at the station until word of capture or a stage going in another direction arrives . The four outlaws do arrive and they are four really lousy specimens of humanity . Led by Hugh Marlowe the candidate for the rope , the others include Jack Elam , George Tobias , and Dean Jagger . They kill Buchanan and stay at the station hoping to holdup a stage carrying a gold shipment . Marlowe is light years away from the nice guy playwright in All About Eve . You can hardly believe this is the same actor . But the guy making his first real mark in the cinema is Jack Elam . One of the most psychotic villains ever put on screen , Elam makes full use of his blind eye for some incredible facial expressions . His unconcealed lust for Hayward is driving Marlowe to his wits end who needs Power alive at least until the robbery is done . Tyrone Power was 37 when he made Rawhide , a bit too old for the part he was playing , still he does a good job . This is a remake of an earlier 20th Century Fox film Show Them No Mercy which had a modern setting and the Power and Hayward roles were played by Rochelle Hudson and Edward Norris who were barely in their twenties . But it's the outlaws here who really make this film . As Marlowe is quick to comment this isn't a crew he'd pick , they just happened to be around when he made his break and they went along for the ride . Tobias and Jagger play a pair of amiable duds , Marlowe is bitter and angry , but Elam is psychotic . Henry Hathaway got good performances in this suspense filled western . Of the outlaws the idiot Jagger in the end has the most sense . See the film to know what I'm talking about .
An Unusual Getaway Animal	One Little Indian is the first of two westerns that James Garner and Vera Miles made for Walt Disney Productions in the middle Seventies , the second being The Castaway Cowboy . Vera has less to do in this film as James Garner spends most of his screen time with the actor playing the title role , young Clay O'Brien . The title is really a misnomer because O'Brien isn't an Indian . He's a white captive who is discovered as such after an army patrol brings in some women and kids . He's used to living with the Cheyenne and runs away . While on the run O'Brien meets up with James Garner who is also on the run from the army . He's been sentenced to hang for mutiny and desertion and Sergeant Morgan Woodward is making it a personal mission to bring Garner in . As it turns out Garner finds O'Brien invaluable because he didn't get away on a horse . His getaway animal was a mother camel named Rosebud and her baby named Thirsty . Part of the remnants of Jefferson Davis's camel corps experiment which even today can be found roaming our deserts in the Southwest . Rosie can outlast any horse on the desert , but she does require some special handling and O'Brien proves to have a way with the beast . Where One Little Indian succeeds is in the chemistry between Garner and O'Brien without which the film couldn't work . Rendering them aid and comfort for a while is widowed mother Vera Miles and her daughter Jodie Foster . Garner being an army deserter and under sentence to hang does complicate things for a romance with Miles . This is a Walt Disney production so you know it will all work out . Pat Hingle a gruff army captain who does not like the routine of his well ordered post disrupted proves to be a savior for all , but Woodward . How that is accomplished is something to watch One Little Indian for . One Little Indian is a pleasant piece of entertainment from Walt Disney with the added pleasure of James Garner .
The Missing Generation	More due to changing times than anything else , The Guns Of Will Sonnett only lasted two seasons . Walter Brennan got to star in his third and final television series and the only one that was dramatic , the previous two being comedies . The premise involved was a simple one . Grandfather and grandson wandered the west looking for the missing generation . Walter Brennan was Will Sonnett , a seminal frontier character , former army scout , buffalo hunter , just about every occupation in the west there was . Of course it took him away from his responsibilities as father and his son , Jason Evers , grew up to be a notorious gunfighter and also an absentee dad . But Brennan's grandson Dack Rambo had the advantage of having Brennan raise him , gave him a strict moral code to live by as well as how to handle a six gun . One thing I never did figure out is where were the Sonnett women ? There was no mention of Brennan's wife and there was one story where a woman claimed to be Evers's wife and Rambo's mother , but she turned out not to be . The show had one catchphrase I always liked . When Brennan said he was going to do something extraordinary to some , he would inevitably say in every show , " no brag , just fact " . And he always backed it up . So every week Will and Jeff Sonnett would arrive in some town looking for James Sonnett and getting involved in some local situation . The show afforded an opportunity for Brennan as producer as well as star to cast some of his old friends in several episodes . It did get to look sometimes like a geriatric western . I wish it had stayed around a bit longer .
Call Out The Wolverines	The scenario depicted in Red Dawn didn't happen as we all know . The Cold War ended with a fadeout instead of a bang , the USA did not get invaded . At first glance Red Dawn seems like a quaint and ancient propaganda piece , but it still raises some interesting issues . Note how the invasion of America happened . Lots and lots of illegal aliens crossed our borders and infiltrated from within . Back in the day Red Dawn was National Rifle Association recruiting material , today however it's the film that the strict immigration people must love the most . Several members of the Eighties Brat Pack gave stand out performances in Red Dawn like Patrick Swayze , C . Thomas Howell , Jennifer Grey , Lea Thompson and Charlie Sheen . Considering what he's peddling now , I wonder if Charlie Sheen likes to be reminded of his participation in Red Dawn . Swayze and Howell are brothers who when the paratroop invasion happens at their high school , they zoom on out of there , take supplies , weapons and ammunition and lead a guerrilla movement in their little corner of Colorado . It's fascinating that the northeast of the United States didn't get invaded and that was the Free Zone . You wonder if the young people in blue state America would fight as these kids do . Kids like Howell and Swayze today are what make up our Armed Forces , they are a precious commodity indeed , blood not to be spent extravagantly or unwisely . Red Dawn is dated in some ways , relevant in others . It's super-patriotic , jingoistic , never explains really but for a brief voice over prologue why all these people don't like us . But at the same time it invokes a fighting spirit in America that I hope never dies , because we will die . It's nice to discuss geopolitics , look for economic solutions to age old problems , try to make people respect each other's differences . When the bombs are dropped though , discussion and reason are over .
Charlie At The Eye Doctor	The greatest man at his art of ventriloquism made a series of shorts with his most popular alter ego during the Thirties . Even now it is amazing the way Edgar Bergen creates in that wooden dummy , a real character in Charlie McCarthy . This very funny short subject has young Charlie McCarthy being sent to the optometrist for glasses . But little Charlie doesn't need any help in viewing shapely optometrist assistant Christina Graver . We have to remember that this short was made before The Code kicked into place , still some of Charlie's leering comments prove his wooden hormones are definitely kicking in . Edgar Bergen was definitely on the way up and gain his greatest popularity on radio where his voices for Charlie McCarthy and Mortimer Snerd would make him a legend . Edgar would set the standard in his art , that no one else could emulate .
Tribute to the Silent Service	I like submarine films , but in watching them one has to realize that there are only so many plot situations and each film seems to cover just about all of them . In fact the officers and men of the U . S . S . Thunderfish during what little spare time they had were watching another Warner Brother submarine adventure , Destination Tokyo . If you remember they exchanged the film with another submarine crew for George Washington Slept Here . Operation Pacific unfortunately suffered with an additional handicap , not foreseen by the Brothers Warner . Another film from Paramount entitled Submarine Command came out right about the same time as Operation Pacific . It starred John Wayne's very good friend and box office rival William Holden . A lot of the same situations are covered in that film , hard to distinguish between the two . That being said Operation Pacific is one of John Wayne's better war films and a good tribute to the men of the Silent Service . I remember back in the day , I had a history professor in college who was a marine in World War II . He said without reservation that for all of what he was doing in places like Tarawa , Saipan , and Iwo Jima , the tipping balance in the Pacific War was the American superiority in submarines . Due in no small part to the Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet Chester W . Nimitz who trained on submarines and appreciated their worth . Cutting supplies to the home islands helped in no small measure to American combat success ultimately . John Wayne is the Executive Officer of the Thunderfish which is commanded by Ward Bond . His former wife Patricia Neal is a navy nurse at Pearl Harbor . He'd like to win her back , but she's now dating Philip Carey , a navy flier and Bond's younger brother . Besides the romantic problems the Thunderfish goes on all kinds of missions . We first see them rescuing some orphan children off a Japanese held island , later they have some real problems with defective torpedoes in which Chief Jack Pennick has a big hand in solving . And of course the usual tangles with the Japanese Navy exploding depth charges around them . In the supporting cast I have to say that my two favorite performances are from Paul Picerni who plays crewman Jonesy . Picerni's best known for being Robert Stack's number 2 guy in The Untouchables , but he's absolutely great as the comic relief in Operation Pacific . Happy-go-lucky sort of guy , if he were Latino , Gilbert Roland would have had the part . The second is Jack Pennick . You can't think of too many John Ford films his horseface presence wasn't in . He plays the Chief Petty Officer on the Thunderfish and he's simply known as the Chief . Ford usually gave him minimal dialog in his films , he speaks a bit more here . One of my favorite John Wayne moments in cinema is when Wayne speaks a heartfelt tribute to young ensign Martin Milner after Pennick has been killed . Talking about the accomplishments that people of his rank make to the U . S . Navy . If your eyes don't moisten you are made of stone . It is in fact one of my favorite John Wayne scenes of all time . Though the Duke and Patricia Neal got a lot more attention fourteen years later in In Harm's Way , I think they do just fine in Operation Pacific and I think you'll feel the same way when you see it .
From The Working Class Studio , A Film For The Working Man	During the Thirties Warner Brothers had the reputation of being the working class studio and it was films like Black Fury that made for Warner Brothers that reputation . It was rare indeed to see another studio take stories about ordinary working people . Mostly they concentrated on the middle and upper classes because film was a form of escapism during the Depression . Black Fury coming out as it did in the middle of the New Deal was a timely reminder of the difficulties organized labor faced . Not coincidentally 1935 was the year that the Wagner Labor Relations Act was passed , an effort finally by the government to give labor some kind of equal footing with management . The need of the Wagner Act was to correct some of the abuses shown in films like Black Fury . Paul Muni plays happy go lucky immigrant coal miner Joe Radek . A man admittedly who works hard and no one thinks of as any kind of brain . He gets used good and proper by the company to stir up the miners so they will strike and give the company an excuse to lock out the union and bring in scabs . What you see with those miners living on subsistent wages in company towns was taken right from current headlines . It may be ancient history to us now , but it was very real for those people back in the day . The Pinkertons as represented by brutal and corrupt company policeman Barton MacLane had an unsavory reputation as strikebreakers and enforcers for management . That too is no exaggeration . Muni , aided and abetted by former girl friend Karen Morley now seeing the error of some of her ways , sees what a chump he's been and takes some real direct action against the employers . It's spectacular I'll tell you that . Though his acting style seems to have not worn well with some , not with me mind you , Muni was given a really rare tribute that year . His performance as Joe Radek was the second time a performer had a sustained write-in campaign for him for an acting Oscar . He finished second in the balloting to Victor McLaglen for The Informer and ahead of Mutiny of the Bounty nominees , Clark Gable , Charles Laughton , and Franchot Tone . The following year the Academy banned write-ins and that's been so ever since . Of course the following year Muni won his Oscar for The Story of Louis Pasteur . We've moved on in America from an industrial to an information based society and films like Black Fury are now part of history . But it's a history we should not forget .
Affirmative Action For Idiots	Police Academy and the subsequent films in the series is a guilty pleasure of mine . The films are puerile , vapid , stupid , gross beyond belief and I laugh my Glutteus Maximus off at them . So apparently did a large part of the American movie going public . The premise for the film is right at the beginning off screen narration where it is explained to the audience that a mayor's executive order in a quaint metropolitan area has said that the police academy will not discriminate on any grounds . Apparently that also includes intelligence as well . So we find that a whole lot of people are now applying to be cops . What a class they are too . They're headed by Steve Guttenberg who is given a choice by another police captain friendly to his late father who is concerned about Guttenberg's lack of direction in life . We've also got Kim Cattrall the rich débutante who's just bored with her life , David Graf who takes the gun / penis dichotomy to the extreme , Bubba Smith the peaceful florist , Bruce Mahler the henpecked husband , and little Marion Ramsey who has voice projection problems and my favorite Michael Winslow the human sound effect machine . Of course we have to have a villain and in this case and in a few subsequent episodes it's G . W . Bailey better known to today's audience as Lieutenant Provenza in Kyra Sedgwick's squad in The Closer . He will stop at nothing to run this group off the police force and they , especially Guttenberg , will stop at nothing to goof on him . Another favorite is George Gaynes the absolutely clueless commandant of the Police Academy . What that man can do with the word ' many . ' Confession is good so embrace your inner grossness that allows you to enjoy the Police Academy series .
Those Tricky Little People	As a lad I well remember the kind of campaigns Walt Disney used to publicize his films . He used all the available outlets he had such as his Mickey Mouse Club show or the Walt Disney Wonderful World of Color television shows . If Walt Disney could have worked it out , he'd have plugged Darby O'Gill and the Little People on Zorro . I remember Disney on one of his shows having a formal meeting with King Brian of Knocknasheega to sign over screen rights to the story of the leprechauns . It was all done with a kind of serious pomp that would impress a kid with Disney and Jimmy O'Dea who played the leprechaun king , Brian Conners . According to the Films of Walt Disney by Leonard Maltin , Disney had it in mind to do an Irish story for over 15 years before Darby O'Gill was released . In fact when he saw the original Broadway production of Finian's Rainbow , he had his leading man in mind in the person of Albert Sharpe . Sharpe's Darby O'Gill is a gamekeeper on the grounds of Lord Fitzpatrick who in his declining years spends more time at the local pub , regaling the patrons with his tales of encounters with the leprechauns . As Walter Fitzgerald who plays Lord Fitzpatrick says , Darby retired a couple of years ago without telling me . So he's hired himself a young new gamekeeper , an outsider from Dublin named Michael McBride played by a pre-James Bond Sean Connery . Connery's a decent chap though and he'll give Sharpe time enough to vacate the gamekeeper's gate cottage . Besides Connery's taken a liking to Darby's daughter Katie in the person of winsome Janet Munro . The film alternates and then blends the story of Connery's courtship of Munro with the person of her other suitor , the town bully played by Kieron Moore and Sharpe's adventures with the leprechauns . King Brian tricks him a couple of times , but Darby captures him by getting him drunk and keeping him out until daylight when he has no powers . If Darby O'Gill had been made by someone other than Disney probably Barry Fitzgerald would have played Darby . Sharpe certainly has the elfin charm of Fitzgerald's Michaeleen O'Flynn from The Quiet Man . And because he was not a movie name , he worked a lot cheaper for Disney , always a consideration in The Magic Kingdom . The special effects are really good here considering this was the age before computer generated graphics . Enough to give even a twelve year old a fright with the appearance of the banshee and the costa bower , the death coach . The answer to a movie trivia question is this film if it is ever asked whether Sean Connery sang in a movie . It's in fact him singing , My Little Irish Girl , both he and Janet Munro sing it alone and duet it for the finale . No dubbing , in fact Sean Connery cut a 45 rpm record of it back in the day . Probably worth a fortune if you could find one . Janet Munro did a few films for Disney . She was a wholesome lass in his films , very appealing and her death at too young and age was a real tragedy . Either Disney didn't spot anything in Sean Connery or Connery was too smart to be tied down to a long term contract to that studio . Connery after Dr . No premiered spent the next dozen years or so trying to prove both artistically and financially that he was capable of more than James Bond . But it sure would be fascinating to speculate on what turn Sean Connery's career would have taken if I had starred in a half a dozen or so Disney features . Can you imagine him trying to escape that kind of typecasting ? Darby O'Gill and the Little People is a children's film and I think it still has charm a-plenty even for today's generation who might be skeptical about leprechauns .
No Winter Wonderland For These People	Day Of The Outlaw casts Robert Ryan as a tough westerner who resents the homesteaders like Alan Marshal fencing off the open range . But in Marshal's case , he's got other resents going as well since he's married to Tina Louise who once had a fling with him . He has every intention of doing something about it legally or illegally and who's to question in this remote rugged high country in a town that's barely twenty or so people . But when Burl Ives and a murderous pack of outlaws ride into town and take it over to provision up because the US Cavalry is chasing them , Ryan , Marshal , Louise and everyone else is in the same boat . Imagine if you will Ives's Rufus Hannessy from The Big Country leading a gang of outlaws and you see what the town is up against . The only one not a killer is young David Nelson of the group . Ives has an additional problem , a bullet in his chest and the only doctor around is a veterinarian , Dabbs Greer . He gets the bullet out , but Ives would need proper medical care in a hospital to recover and to guard against internal bleeding . That's what slowly killing him , despite the morphine Greer is loading him up with . That part of the story is absolutely the true . Around this same period President William McKinley was shot in Buffalo and was thought to be recovering at first . But even he did not get adequate medical care and took a turn for the worse and a week later , died . Andre DeToth who did many good and rugged westerns did this grim tale set in the west during the winter . It looks like good skiing country , but this ain't no winter paradise for anyone concerned .
An English version of Green Acres with uranium .	In one of his last feature films Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . plays American expatriate Donald Drake who has inherited a farm in Sussex where he has brought his new bride to settle . Kind of an English version of Green Acres . His bride is also an American , Yolande Donlon . She's very much like Eva Gabor and there are the English rustic types just like on Green Acres . Yolande goes on a shopping trip to town with their hired hand Jon Pertwee and while waving to him at an auction she accidentally buys five dozen ducks . So far so good , but one of the ducks turns out to lay uranium eggs with a lead shell . In come all the British armed services , quarantining the Fairbanks farm and turning his honeymoon into a nightmare . Adding to their problems the Doug and Yolande are also trapped with Jon Pertwee and their loan officer from the bank , a handyman , and an official from the Agricultural Ministry all of whom happen to be on the premises when the quarantine order is issued . It's an amusing film , nothing terribly spectacular about it . I always enjoy seeing Jon Pertwee in anything . Back when the Doctor Who show was run on American television he was my favorite of all the actors who played the Doctor . Yolande Donlon was competent enough , but if the film had been made five years later , Marilyn Monroe would have been a natural for the part . My only question is , why didn't the British Army just take the ducks instead of quarantining the farm . Because there would have been no film at all .
What Is Best For Everyone ?	The Best of Everything is a high gloss large screen soap opera which follows the careers of four career women , Hope Lange , Suzy Parker , Diane Baker , and Martha Hyer at a New York publishing firm . What's the best for some women is not necessarily the best for all . Presiding over this group of young fillies is wise old mare Joan Crawford who's been around the track a few times on screen and in real life . She looks right at home as the boss lady as well she should have at this point . Around the time she was making The Best of Everything Joan Crawford became a widow when her fourth husband , Alfred Steele died . It was a particularly traumatic event for her , she woke up one morning and found him dead in bed next to her . She inherited all of his stock in Pepsi Cola where he was the board chairman and during the same period as The Best of Everything was being made , she wound up the queen bee at Pepsi Cola . Life does sometimes imitate art . So that authority as she barks out dictation and coffee orders to Hope Lange rings real true . In fact all the women here with the exception of Lange are in for some rough sledding . It's rough for Lange too , but she literally makes the best of everything . What a collection of stinkers the men are in this film . The best of them , Stephen Boyd , is a heavy drinker . The others Louis Jourdan , Robert Evans , and Brett Halsey , are as slimy a collection of rodents as ever gathered for one film . I can't forget Brian Aherne either who's the fanny pinching head of this publishing firm . Half that office would have sexual harassment suits going today . Some nice location shots of New York in the fifties make the film a real treat . Catch it by all means .
Copying DeMille	Unfortunately for The Big Circus , The Greatest Show On Earth by Cecil B . DeMille set the standard for circus films that will be pretty hard to match . One hasn't come out in many years now , probably the market isn't there . Pity too , in this age of computer graphics , the potential to out DeMille DeMille is there . This film can still stand on its own however as good entertainment . As in The Grestest Show On Earth , someone is out trying to sabotage the circus . The villain here isn't doing it for some nefarious scheme to enrich , it's a very psychologically disturbed individual who is not unmasked until the very end . The leads here are Victor Mature in the role of circus boss and he's got financial troubles . Working to help straighten out the circus's finances are Rhonda Fleming and Red Buttons . Both aren't quite used to the culture of the circus , but Vic works the old heavy lidded charm and he's got a sister in Kathryn Crosby who brings the circus out in banker Buttons . In The Greatest Show on Earth James Stewart took a supporting role as a clown because he always wanted to play one . Peter Lorre departs from his usual villainy to play a similar kind of clown , kind of a father confessor to the show . But my favorite in the film is Gilbert Roland . He plays the patriarch of a high wire act and the high point of the film is his walk across Niagara Falls as a publicity stunt for the financially strapped show . Roland is under a lot of pressure , his wife , Adele Mara , having been the only fatality in a planned train wreck . In fact The Big Circus took so much from The Greatest Show on Earth like the train wreck and other things that producer / director Irwin Allen was rightly criticized for a lack of originality . It seems he was just trying he could do the same things on the screen better than DeMille . Nevertheless The Big Circus is a fine film on its own , entertaining and colorful for children of all ages .
Steaming Up The High Seas	In China Seas , Clark Gable and Jean Harlow essentially take their characters from Red Dust off the rubber plantation and transplant them to the high seas . What's wild about this film is that both Gable and Harlow are supposed to be English , but do not even attempt to adopt an accent . In Gable's case he figured the public accepted him in Mutiny on the Bounty so why not . In any case the part called for a rough and tough adventurer and that certainly did fit Gable . Harlow's a girl who's been around the block a few times and she's crazy about Gable . But Gable takes her for granted and he's now pursuing a cultured widow of a friend in Rosalind Russell . That doesn't sit too well with Harlow so she goes after China trader Wallace Beery who's always had a yen for her . The problem is that Beery is hooked up with Malay pirates , a nasty bunch if there ever was . They're looking to steal some gold bullion that Gable's transporting on this voyage . What happens is the rest of the story . This was one of Rosalind Russell's earliest roles and once again there's little trace of the fine comedic actress she became . She worked with Gable again in They Met in Bombay and the results there were excellent . Here she's being a mannered version of Myrna Loy . MGM did that a lot , had back up players in case stars became hard to handle . In this case that's what they envisioned Russell as at this time . She does well in a part , gets more out of the role than I'm sure was originally intended . Actually my favorite in China Seas is Lewis Stone . He's a former captain himself who was beached for cowardice . Gable signs him on as a third officer and Stone makes himself a human bomb and martyrs himself to save the ship . It's a touching and tragic performance . Russell in her memoirs says that at this time she was not terribly friendly with the MGM star roster while she was an up and coming player in the ranks . One exception she did mention was Jean Harlow who she describes as warm , friendly , and helpful . Not that the two would have been up for the same kind of parts , but I got the feeling Russell felt Harlow was a genuinely nice person . The stars and the supporting cast fill out the roles they are normally type cast in . China Seas is still rugged action adventure entertainment .
Wiving It Wealthily In Padua	In this production of The Taming of the Shrew it was Richard Burton's way of letting his wife Elizabeth Taylor in on his world , the world of the classics . He's wonderful as Petruchio and she acquits herself well as the shrewish Katharine . Michael Hordern is the harried father of the lovely Bianca and her older sister , the beautiful , but independent Katherine . The sisters , Natasha Pyne and Elizabeth Taylor are as different as they come . Young Michael York is most interested in Pyne , but Hordern wants to see the older daughter married off at first . But Taylor scares off would be suitors . Enter Richard Burton who's a roguish fortune hunter , but Hordern is quite willing to overlook that if he'll just take Taylor off his hands . The rest of the film concerns both Burton and York's parallel quests for their mates . The Taming of the Shrew is probably best known to today's audience as the basis for Cole Porter's biggest Broadway success , Kiss Me Kate . Yet it's still stands well on its own as William Shakespeare's most rollicking comedy and a medieval treatise on feminism . Yet even when it's over , you're not quite sure just how submissive of a medieval wife Elizabeth Taylor will be . Director Franco Zefirelli recreated medieval Padua with a great eye for detail . In that wedding , I'm sure he must have gotten Richard Burton good and plastered for the scene . Burton was one of the most legendary imbibers in screen history , but that scene was way too real to be just acting . Laurence Olivier supposedly once told Richard Burton that he had a choice of being the greatest classical actor of his generation or a movie star . Too which Burton is supposed to have replied that he wanted both . I think he succeeded with The Taming of the Shrew .
" I Love Ya , Cash , So Help Me , I Love Ya . "	I think with this film John Wayne's casting potential was stretched to its very limit . After his image was established , he could never have been been given a role as a heel like Pittsburgh Markham . Pittsburgh and his buddy Cash Evans ( Randolph Scott ) start out as a pair of happy-go-lucky coalminers who on a night on the town where Wayne tricks Scott into going a round with a heavyweight prizefighter ( almost like the way Crosby used to bamboozle Hope in the Road Pictures ) they meet up with Marlene Dietrich . They got the hots for her , but she has eyes for Wayne and Wayne is now determined to better himself . And he does and his methods are pretty shady . They even include marrying into a wealthy family , but he wants to keep Marlene on the side . That's where she gets off . And at some point in the picture Randolph Scott gets tired of Wayne's arrogance and the way he's treated Marlene and that climaxes in the only screen fight John Wayne ever lost . It's not as long a fight as they had when they duked it out in The Spoilers , but it's exciting and Randy puts him down for the count . The three leads are fine and also watch for a nice comic turn by Shemp Howard . Marlene and the Duke were winding up a long term relationship that began on the set of Seven Sinners . Supposedly she found Wayne something of a philistine in terms of education and tried to get him to read Proust and Zola and other European novelists . Wayne wasn't having any of that and they went their separate ways . Marlene tried the same with George Raft and he too told her that they ought to call it a day . One thing that people do not realize is that back in her native Germany , Marlene Dietrich was considered a traitor for appearing in American films , especially ones like these that started and ended on a patriotic note . Another reviewer said this was a western moved east , maybe because the male leads were so identified with westerns . Personally I think it has elements of Edna Ferber in it . Lot of similarities between this and films made from her novels .
Thelma's Show	Though Gene Tierney and John Lund are the leads in this film , Thelma Ritter steals it completely as Lund's down to earth plebian mother from New Jersey . Thelma got one of her Oscar nominations for Best Supporting Actress , the second of six she was to earn in her career . Mitchell Leisen directs this charming comedy about a pair of sudden newlyweds , she a débutante and him a working stiff reporter . They meet when Lund saves Tierney's life as she goes off the road and drives precariously on to a cliff's edge . Both abandon their respective prospective mates , Lund says goodbye to Jan Sterling and she to James Lorimer who also happens to be the son of Lund's boss Larry Keating . Tierney's one nervous new bride wanting to make sure her first dinner party goes right and when Ritter comes knocking at her door , Tierney mistakes her for the new maid she wanted . God knows Thelma Ritter played enough maids in her career , it was an honest mistake . Then of course Lund can't quite break it to her , even after grand dame Miriam Hopkins as Tierney's mother arrives on the scene . It all sounds real silly , but it actually does work , Leisen's direction and the talent of his cast actually carry this off . Thelma Ritter went six times to the Oscars as a nominee for Best Supporting Actress and she could have won in any of those years . This year of 1951 her nomination and everything else that year had to face up against A Streetcar Named Desire and she lost to Kim Hunter as Stella Kowalski . Maybe she should have been up for Best Actress though I doubt Thelma Ritter would have won against Vivien Leigh . Still she's the main reason to see The Mating Season .
Mrs . O'Hara And Her Three Sons	The Irish in Us has Mary Gordon as a buxom Irish-American mother with three proud sons . Pat O'Brien a cop , Frank McHugh a fireman , and James Cagney a man with big ideas . The O'Hara family is built along the lines of the Beebe family in three years later in Paramount's Sing You Sinners that had Elizabeth Patterson as Mrs . Beebe with her three sons , Fred MacMurray , Donald O'Connor , and Bing Crosby . The only difference between the O'Haras and the Beebes is that the O'Haras aren't musical . But they are a charming bunch even though Olivia DeHavilland comes between Cagney and O'Brien . As in the Crosby and Hope films , guess who she winds up with in the end ? Cagney's latest idea is to be a boxing promoter and he's got this punch drunk fighter played very endearingly by Allen Jenkins on whom he pins his hopes . Cagney's done a little boxing in the past himself , a fact that stands him in good stead at the climax . This is the only time in the Cagney / O'Brien series of films that the two of them ever were blood relations and they even get Frank McHugh in there as well . Olivia DeHavilland has very little to do in this film , but sit around and look pretty . She does that very well , but it was films like this for her that made her fight for better parts that she knew she was capable of . This film while entertaining is strictly a testosterone affair . The Irish In Us if it ever comes out on VHS and / or DVD should be seen back to back with Sing You Sinners if that ever comes out on VHS or DVD . You can't go wrong with either .
Lemon Drops With Silver Bells	The Lemon Drop Kid is the second of two films Bob Hope did from stories based on Damon Runyon's colorful collection of characters , the first being Sorrowful Jones . Sidney Melbourne known to one and all as The Lemon Drop Kid for his inordinate fondness for lemon flavored candy is a fellow who lives by his wits as a race track tout . Sometimes our hero is too clever by a half and when he gives the wrong tip to gambler Fred Clark's girl friend , Andrea King , Clark says that Hope owes him ten thousand dollars , the amount the horse would have paid him . Things move fast and furious as Hope evolves a scheme to raise the money by starting a home for little old ladies named for Jane Darwell . Hope gets everyone in his set involved including his long suffering girl friend , Marilyn Maxwell . Maxwell , who was reputedly involved romantically with Hope during the shooting of this film , plays a part almost identical to Runyon's better known Adelaide from Guys and Dolls . Of course this film is famous for introducing that modern Christmas classic Silver Bells by Bob and Marilyn . And in an act that some might consider charity , that other well known Paramount star , Bing Crosby made a hit record of it with his radio girl singer of the moment Carole Richards . In his musical autobiography record Bing said that he thought the secret of Silver Bells popularity is that it is an urban based song with its images of department stores , kid's rushing , and above all the bustle the sound of bells from street corner Santas . The song fits in real nice in the film with Hope's scheme involving his fellow street people in Santa Claus suits collecting for that little old ladies home . Silver Bells got nominated for Best song , but lost to that other Paramount film song In the Cool Cool Cool of the Evening introduced by Bing Crosby . Still the popularity of Jay Livingston and Ray Evans classic modern holiday ballad will insure people will be watching The Lemon Drop Kid for years to come .
The Greatest Athlete Of All	In a recent biography of Burt Lancaster I read that Lancaster had to learn the sport of football in order to play Jim Thorpe . It wasn't something he played growing up on the streets of East Harlem back in the Teens and Twenties . Of course Burt's natural athleticism stood him in good stead in this part . He got a better biographical treatment than Babe Ruth did who was the runner up in the competition for greatest male athlete of the century . Both Thorpe and Ruth certainly abused their bodies , the difference being that Thorpe did it primarily after his active sports career was over . Both films of their lives have the presence of Charles Bickford in it , playing the real life mentors both men had . In the Babe Ruth Story , Bickford played the real life Brother Matthias who was one of the Catholic brothers that ran St . Mary's School in Baltimore where Ruth grew up . Here in this film , Bickford played legendary football coach Pop Warner , whose own career as a pioneer in the sport began with his discovery of Thorpe while coaching at the Carlisle Indian school . I did a review of We Are Marshall when that film came out and in it remarked about how the NCAA relaxed its arcane rules when the tragedy involving the Marshall varsity football squad happened in order that the team compete the following year . Where was this crowd when Jim Thorpe needed them ? Thorpe came from a poverty stricken background and between semesters at Carlisle , he had to do real physical manual labor just to put food on the table and pay his rent . He took an offer to play semi-professional baseball one summer , thereby causing unforeseen consequences down the road . Those consequences were while as a track and field star and winner of several medals in the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm , Thorpe was stripped of his medals and trophies and his records stricken from the books . Of course it was all reinstated 70 years later in 1982 after intense lobbying of the NCAA . New and somewhat human beings were in charge then . The episode damaged his soul for the rest of his life . It was like Sir Cedric Hardwicke ordering the name Moses stricken from all public records in Egypt . The film ends after Thorpe attends the 1932 Olympics and Pop Warner notes that the guy opening the Olympics held in Los Angeles that year was Vice President Charles Curtis . To date Curtis is the only man to be either President or Vice President to be not completely Caucasian , he was American Indian on his mother's side . It's about the only distinction Curtis had in office as Herbert Hoover's Vice President . The film ends around 1932 and the rest of Thorpe's life after the action in the story is his attempts to make ends meet . Money went through his hands like water , he did a lot of bit roles in films , playing Indians of course in westerns of varying quality . He died in debt in 1953 , living off the income that he got from Warner Brothers selling his life story to them . I'm sure he wished his life had come out the way the film did . Still Jim Thorpe - - All American is a nice tribute to our greatest athlete ever .
The U . S . A . of the Cold War	I doubt if a film like It's A Big Country could be made in and about the America of post Vietnam and Watergate . A whole lot of the clichés presented here just aren't bought any more by large segments of the population . For whatever it's worth the film is a presentation of what we thought about ourselves in 1951 . It's a film with several different segments , some serious some pretty funny about every day Americans in all walks of life , in all parts of the then 48 states . The two I liked best were those that ironically starred the two men who were not MGM contract players , Gary Cooper and Fredric March . Gary Cooper plays a Texas cowboy talking about his state and disillusioning us with a tongue in cheek delivery about the way Texans and Texas are perceived by the other 47 states . Of course Cooper's humor and the whole premise behind this segment was that Texas was our largest state in land mass . That ended in 1959 when Alaska became the 49th state , still it's the highlight of It's A Big Country . Fredric March plays an Italian American father who's opposed to his son , Bobby Hyatt , getting needed glasses even after teacher Nancy Davis tells him it's necessary . He's got some old world ideas that need a bit of adjustment . March plays the role with dignity never do you feel he's a caricature . Another episode that is nicely done involves Gene Kelly , Greek American boy falling for Janet Leigh , Hungarian American girl . They've got a problem though , her father played by Hollywood's number one Hungarian S . Z . Sakall . In the past 20 years we've seen a whole lot of stories about ancient ethnic hatreds coming out of Eastern Europe . Sakall is carrying some old grudges against Greeks though he really isn't sure why . Point being that here in America you're supposed to leave that all behind . That segment is still very much relevant . Could we make It's A Big Country today ? Not at this time , maybe at some future point when we've reached a national consensus that despite all our problems , America's a pretty good place after all .
" He Wore A Cane And Derby Hat , They Called Him Bat , Bat Masterson "	One of the things about this show that lingers in my mind besides the nattily dressed Gene Barry was the fact that this show eschewed any kind of supporting cast . No sidekicks , no permanent love interests , what you got was Gene Barry as Bat Masterson taming the west in his own small way . The real Bat was quite the dude himself , maybe not as noble a character as Barry played him . That cane was as effective as the Irish Shillelagh and he used it more to disarm opponents than kill them . He wasn't always the gentleman , Masterson did make a living as a scout and a buffalo hunter and I doubt he was so stylish on the trail . Barry was a literate and bright western hero , he would have to be because the real Bat Masterson eventually made a living as a newspaper reporter for a quaint metropolitan newspaper . If he didn't always battle for truth , justice , and the American way , he always reported it in a dignified manner . The real Bat Masterson made his living in the last century , died , and is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx . I think he would have liked the way Gene Barry played him .
Shooting Up A Bus	One terrible night in San Francisco in the mid seventies , a man who had a terrible secret to hide and a high position from which to tumble from took a machine gun and massacred everyone on a city bus . Of course this gets all the SFPD Homicide Squad working on it . Partnered together for convenience are Walter Matthau and Bruce Dern . Matthau's partner is one of the dead passengers and he's single minded in his pursuit . Dern and he don't really get along . I've a feeling they wouldn't have under normal circumstances , but they do manage to work together . The Laughing Policeman is as one reviewer said is a nice view of San Francisco in the early seventies . All that seemed to be missing was Candlestick Park . I was in San Francisco in 2000 and I recognized a lot of it myself . Matthau and Dern fill their roles well . Matthau is somewhat against type , a lot of the laconic humor that characterized him on screen is missing here . Dern is not the most admirable character in the world . He's a harbinger of what we later got on NYPD Blue with Andy Sipowicz . One would hope he might have grown in character over the years as Sipowicz did . Anthony Zerbe heads the Homicide Squad and Lou Gossett , Jr . and Val Avery are also detectives working on this . They fit the police roles well . Funny how life does imitate art . In just a few years Harvey Milk and Mayor George Moscone would be assassinated , there would be riots with verdict of that trial , and Jim Jones who had his operation in San Francisco before moving to Guiana and mass suicide . The real happenings for San Francisco made this bus shooting seem like nothing .
A Last Ditch Effort	Taking a look at the screen credits of Ruby Keeler and you'll find that Go Into Your Dance is not only the only film she did with her husband Al Jolson , but after five films , her first away from Dick Powell . She did two more subsequent to Go Into Your Dance with Powell , but after only one more film at Warner Brothers , she only made three more prior to retiring from the screen and settling down as wife and mother . Of course Keeler did make a comeback in the Sixties and I well remember seeing her and Patsy Kelly in that Broadway revival of No No Nanette . What Go Into Your Dance really was meant to do is try to save the Jolsons marriage which was in free fall by then . Al's egomania didn't make him the easiest person to live with and within a few years Keeler called it quits . For the rest of her life she would never answer one question about life with Jolson . Warner Brothers did assemble a good cast for them . Al plays an irresponsible , egomaniacal entertainer , no stretch in the casting department . He's walked out on too many a show as his sister Glenda Farrell tells him , no producer will hire him . Never mind says Jolie , he'll produce his own with a new dancer he's discovered , Ruby Keeler . Producing costs money and that means going to gangster Barton MacLane whose trampy wife wants to resume her show business career . Jolie gets the money and the wife played by Helen Morgan . But his problems are only beginning . Bobby Connolly did the dance direction and I have to say pinch hit admirably for Busby Berkeley . The big hit song of the film was Jolson singing and Keeler dancing to About a Quarter to Nine . It was nicely staged and worthy of Berkeley in every sense of the word as Berkeley gave Jolson that awful Going ' to Heaven on a Mule in Wonder Bar . In this film the chorus of male dancers and Jolson all turn to blackface for a minute . Jolson also does the finale title song in blackface as well . Unfortunately not only does Jolson do blackface , but in this film , not once , but twice he rubs the head of black actor Fred " Snowflake " Toone for good luck . That particular bit of tastelessness kept Go Into Your Dance off the television screens for decades . I remember seeing it on WOR TV's million dollar movie as a lad in the Fifties , but never again until recently . The real pity is that we were also deprived of seeing Helen Morgan sing as well . Her alcoholism had gotten pretty bad at this point , but she was one of Broadway brightest stars . She sings The Little Things You Used to Do in her typical poignant fashion . It would have really been great to see her co-star with Jolson in a film , but that was not to be . Go Into Your Dance is quite a museum piece of a film and if you're not into Jolson , I would urge you to see it for Helen Morgan .
" It All Belongs To Applegate "	My first exposure to the Hardy Boys came courtesy of this serial from the Mickey Mouse Club . It was after seeing this that I bought a load of the Hardy Boys kids novels to read . Those two certainly did have some adventuresome lives . No doubt that later incarnations of the boys with Parker Stevenson and Shaun Cassidy in the Seventies and later for Canadian television Paul Popowich and Colin K . Gray in the Nineties were good in their day , but Tommy Kirk and Tim Considine will be the quintessential Hardy Boys for this former devoted Mouskaviewer . The film is based on the very first of the Franklin K . Dixon novels which came out in the Roaring Twenties , The Tower Treasure . The Disney Studio nicely updated the story to fit into the Fifties . The boys get wind of a secret treasure hidden in the dark secluded mansion of miser Applegate . Somebody's taking very seriously the legend that pirate gold is hidden there . And miser Applegate , played by Florenz Ames isn't a guy to ask for help . In the books the Hardy Boys did have a living mother who was not a really memorable character , just your average good mom . Their father is Fenton Hardy , formerly of the NYPD and now a famous private detective . In this serial , he's played by Russ Conway . But the show made Fenton a widower and had Sarah Selby as their constantly interfering Aunt Gertrude . She was in the books as well , but here she was the female of the house . Half the time Kirk and Considine were trying to outfox her to get to their sleuthing business . Selby was memorable I have to say . However what you will remember best is that Treasure Island pirate theme song of the serial about ' gold doubloons and pieces of eight ' that is guaranteed to rattle around in your brain for weeks upon hearing it . The Disney channel used to run all these old shows , but around 2000 just surrendered and now run their new shows on the cable network . Hopefully stuff like this will see the light of day again .
Tarzan In Central America	David Opatoshu one of the most distinguished actors of the Yiddish Theater back in the day came to Hollywood rather late in his career . In doing so however he created a series of varied and distinguished roles . But none I liked better than his playing of international criminal David Vinaro in Tarzan and the Valley of Gold . Tarzan's been sent for by the Guatamalen government because a mysterious young boy played by Manuel Padilla , Jr . emerges from the jungle saying he's from a lost city that has vast uncounted gold . Of course that interests Opatoshu and he kidnaps the kid and forces him to lead a well armed expedition back to the lost city . Of course they're no match for Tarzan as played in this film by Mike Henry . In addition to his jungle skills , Henry has a good command of both the Queen's English and of modern weaponry which he demonstrates during the film . He also in the end gets Nancy Kovack who is Opatoshu's mistress out of harm's way . Naturally she likes the idea after one look at Henry in a loin cloth . Still Tarzan and the Valley of Gold belongs to David Opatoshu . He clearly loves the part he has and the end he meets in the Lost City is a poetical one to beat all .
A Transitional Cop Show	After his contract with MGM ran its course , Robert Taylor like a lot of the stars of the studio system , was not getting a whole lot of good film offers , mainly because fewer films were being made . What work was to be had was in television for a lot of stars and that trend would become more pronounced as time went on . Taylor tried his hand at the small screen and the result was two very successful television series , The Detectives and Death Valley Days . His work in television in the last decade of his life was probably better than most of the films he was doing . I recently saw a few episodes of The Detectives and it was nice to recollect what a quality show that was . The men on Taylor's squad were three dimensional people , you did get to see them and their immediate families and circle of friends . Tige Andrews and Mark Goddard who later went on to The Mod Squad and Lost in Space respectively were on the squad as was radio actor Russell Thorsen . Taylor was Captain Matt Holbrook , a tough no-nonsense commander , who went by the book . I was fortunate to see some episodes with Ursula Thiess as a reporter who was Taylor's lady friend . They seem to have a Marshal Dillon / Kitty Russell relationship , nice to see a little romance for mature folks . As Mr . & Mrs . Taylor never worked together on the big screen , these episodes of The Detectives were a real treat . The Detectives seemed very much a transitional show between shows like the documentary style Dragnet and a show like NYPD Blue where we got to know all the members of the 15th precinct squad as three dimensional characters . Sad it didn't run longer than three years , but I understand Taylor was tired of the weekly grind of turning out over 30 episodes a season . Half that constitutes a season today . Catch the show if any of the cable channels run it .
A Dangerous Business	The Frogmen is a film based on the exploits of the U . S . Navy's Underwater Demolition Teams during World War II . The primary task of these guys was to go in ahead of any island landing and clear away any obstacles put up by the enemy in the water . That meant going in ahead of the Marines as the Frogmen point out . Today that function is now that of the Navy Seals . The plot is similar to Flying Leathernecks . Richard Widmark is the new commanding officer of the team assigned to Gary Merrill's ship and he's taking the place of a popular commander who was recently killed . He meets with a lot of resentment from the men , some of that resentment fueled by Dana Andrews who is the CPO of the team and very popular also with the crew . How Widmark and Andrews deal with their personal issues as well as get the job done is the basis of the film . Nice underwater photography highlights the dangerous mission of these men . Both Widmark and Andrews despite their differences do get their assignments accomplished , not always in the most expeditious manner . These guys and their team are professionals in the real and the cinematic sense . War films usually aren't chick flicks , but I have a sneaking suspicion that a lot of female fans saw this one for a glimpse of some 20th Century Fox's top young talent topless like Robert Wagner and Jeffrey Hunter . Good an excuse as any to see a well made war film .
Marry for Love or Marry for Money	Hands Across the Table is the first of four films that Paramount teamed Fred MacMurray and Carole Lombard in . It's one of MacMurray's earliest film and he's playing what he would perennially be typecast as , a light leading man . That is until Double Indemnity showed just how dramatic he could be . The hands across the table refer to those hands that a manicurist deals with and Lombard is a manicurist . This is the middle of the Great Depression and Lombard working in a hotel figures she can snag a millionaire . She actually does in the person of Ralph Bellamy . But figuring to trade higher she meets Fred MacMurray who has the nice WASPy rich sounding name of Theodore Drew III . Problem is as he says to Lombard , the family fortune crashed in 1929 . He's set his sights on a rich heiress , Astrid Allwyn , who will be able to support him in the style he was previously accustomed to . Director Mitchell Leisen keeps the proceedings light and airy and its obvious that MacMurray and Lombard are suited for each other on the screen . No accident that they made three successive films , all of them money makers . Funniest scene in the film how MacMurray scares away William Demarest as a prospective suitor for Lombard . Worth the price of the VHS tape alone .
Take Your Best Shot At Joseph Cotten	While returning from a conference munitions expert Joseph Cotten and his wife Ruth Warrick are taken to a nightclub in Istanbul by the mysterious Edward Sloane where Cotten is almost killed . Magician Hans Conreid is a victim of his own slight of hand , but it's Cotten who's the target as Orson Welles as the Turkish police inspector deduces . Welles's solution get Cotten out of the country so if he's killed at least it won't be on his watch . Welles books passage on a tramp freighter for Cotten and the freighter is loaded with highly interesting characters , one of whom at least is a Nazi assassin . This was another Mercury Theater production with most of the regulars from Citizen Kane / The Magnificent Ambersons back again . Welles's police inspector is a small , but crucial part of the story . Welles , for whatever reason is being unduly modest . Journey Into Fear is undoubtedly the greatest film that Orson Welles never took credit for directing . I can find certain touches here from Citizen Kane , The Magnificent Ambersons , and The Stranger . If he didn't officially direct you can take it to the bank that Norman Foster knew exactly what Welles was trying to get out of each and every scene . Look also here for a good performance by Mexican cinema great Dolores Del Rio as a most mysterious femme fatale on the freighter . Journey Into Fear is a short film , slightly less than 70 minutes running time . I'm sure that RKO had it playing at the bottom end of double features . Maybe we'll see a ' director's cut ' of this one day and know what Welles's own perspective was .
Small scale Casablanca	Joan of Paris is best known for the joint debut of both Michelle Morgan and Paul Henreid on the American cinema . Henreid is a member of the Free French flying with the RAF and he and the crew are shot down over occupied France . Henreid and the group including a wounded Alan Ladd make their way to Paris where he tries to contact either the French underground or any British intelligence operatives . When Henreid came , he came to stay in America , becoming a citizen years later . Morgan made a few films and went back to France after the war where she resumed her star status . She and Jean Gabin are probably the two most well known French players who managed to flee the occupation and continue their careers on foreign soil . Henreid displays all the charm later put to full advantage in Casablanca and Now Voyager . Their romance is tender and all too tragically brief . Like Casablanca , Henreid wants to get back in the fight . Morgan , who's patron saint is Joan of Arc , will sacrifice all to aid him . The best performance in this film is that of 20th Century Fox loan out to RKO , Laird Cregar . Cregar , a clever and epicene occupier who's bulk suggests Herman Goering , is the relentless pursuer of the downed fliers . Alan Ladd scored a notable success as the kid flier although he tries at times to affect a British accent . They should have just made him Canadian as they did all the other American actors who played in British locations and situations . It wasn't as bad as Gregory Peck's in The Paradine Case though . Joan of Paris is a good , but routine product from RKO , one of the minor studios . In her next film Morgan would be opposite that American icon making his feature film role debut , Frank Sinatra in Higher and Higher . Still she and Henreid acquit themselves well , albeit in a minor key .
A ' Scathingly Brilliant ' and Very Funny Film	Rosalind Russell , Loretta Young , and Irene Dunne were the Catholic triple threat of Hollywood stardom . All of these women were prominent Catholic lay individuals and later on in their careers got to do a little outreach for their religion . I don't think Roz ever served the Catholic cause better than by playing a Mother Superior whose convent runs a Catholic Girl's High School . The kids board there , it's a place for rich men of the Catholic persuasion to dump their teenage daughters . No one of the students is more aware of it than Hayley Mills and she's one rebellious child . She and her friend June Harding become the Lucille Ball and Vivian Vance of the student body , giving no end of grief to Rosalind Russell and the rest of the sisters . It is true that Rosalind Russell stated in her memoirs that she and Hayley Mills did not get along in the making of The Trouble With Angels . Quite different from what Maureen O'Hara said about Hayley during the making of The Parent Trap . What a difference six years can make . But in teenage years it's a lifetime of change . Hayley Mills even after finishing her contract with Disney could not escape that image and her youthful appearance worked against her getting really adult parts . Later that year she finally broke the mold with The Family Way back in her native Great Britain . Russell attributed it to hormonal change as well in her life . This film has some touches of sadness as well unlike the sequel Where Angels Go Troubles Follow . One of the sisters dies unexpectedly and Hayley's life takes an unexpected turn that she would have told you that you were nuts if you didn't see it . Russell's an old fashioned Mother Superior , but wise and patient with her charges . She's most definitely not Auntie Mame in a habit . Given all that the Catholic church has recently dealt with you could not make a film like this today . So when this one is run , enjoy it and think of more innocent times .
Sadie Was A Lady	I'd have to describe Sadie McKee as both the typical Joan Crawford vehicle and the typical Franchot Tone vehicle . The two of them who were husband and wife when the film was made are perfectly cast in roles that typified their images in the Thirties . Crawford is the daughter of a cook on the sumptuous palatial Long Island estate where Tone is the young heir and a lawyer by trade . To earn a few extra bucks Crawford occasionally helps mom out serving at formal meals . At one of those meals she hears Tone disparaging her sweetheart Gene Raymond who was caught in a petty theft . Tone makes a big point in saying we can't give people like these help because they're no good . Crawford throws a fit and runs to Raymond . She almost marries Raymond , but he runs out on her for Esther Ralston . In New York working as a nightclub cigarette girl she runs into Edward Arnold who is a millionaire with a severe drinking problem . No doubt caused by drinking a lot of rotgut liquor during recently repealed Prohibition . And wouldn't you know it , Tone is his lawyer . So Sadie has her three men , give you one guess who she winds up with in the end . You'd probably guess right , but let's say it's a character altering experience for all . Sadie McKee is probably a good example of the Joan Crawford shop girl before she became a hardened creature like Crystal Allen in The Women . As for Franchot Tone , MGM just loved casting him as rich men in a tuxedo , probably because he looked so darn good in them . The only way either of them escaped type casting was as they got older they varied their parts due to age . Crawford was ever the film star , even in some of the horror flicks she did in the sixties . Tone went right into television and worked steady right up to his death . Sadie McKee however is a good opportunity to see them both young and at the height of their fame . Also note the Nacio Herb Brown-Arthur Freed ballad All I Do Is Dream Of You comes from Sadie McKee .
Dealing With Warlords With Warrants	Never So Few finds Frank Sinatra as co-commander with Britisher Richard Johnson of a behind the lines detachment of Kachin native tribesmen , conducting harassing actions against the Japanese in the China-Burma - India Theater of World War II . Sinatra is working out of the Office of Strategic Services which in this case is run by General Brian Donlevy playing William J . Donovan in all , but name . Sinatra keeps the hipster persona down to a minimum and delivers a good performance as the rather unorthodox commander of native troops . Of course he's confronted with a rather unorthodox situation when warlords with warrants from the Chinese Nationalist government in Chungking massacre Americans and Kachins for their supplies . Purportedly these were our allies . In all of this Sinatra finds time to romance Gina Lollabrigida the kept woman of Paul Henreid a most mysterious person of influence and nurse Kipp Hamilton . Gina is a most entertaining diversion , but the real story is about the Chinese actions in World War II . During the Fifties Chiang Kai-Shek was a godlike creature , a noble exile from Communism on Taiwan running the government we still recognized . Never So Few was a daring film for its time , fresh from the McCarthy years for daring to suggest the Nationalist Chinese were less than noble . Actually what is described in Never So Few , independent warlords making deals with both sides is old business in the Orient . It was something our culture couldn't grasp , still can't in many ways . Never So Few boosted the careers of three men in Sinatra's and Johnson's command . Charles Bronson , Steve McQueen , and Dean Jones all of whom went on to substantial careers . For McQueen it was his first role of substance in a major motion picture . I recall reading years ago that Hedda Hopper who always boosted Steve McQueen's career when she could in her column , claiming that while this was a good career move , he should avoid dependence on Frank Sinatra for his employment . McQueen being an independent sort of fellow anyway , probably would have come to that same conclusion on his own . Nevertheless he certainly did carve his own legend out in film history . Never So Few is a decent war film of a little known theater of war for Americans and should be seen .
The Summertime Blues	As I write this review the Walt Disney Studio has High School Musical 3 ready for its debut shortly and plans are on the boards for a High School Musical 4 in 2009 . Their demographics must be telling the Magic Kingdom that the High School Musical phenomenon is not disappearing any time soon . The main characters from the first film are in this one and the film begins with the last few minutes of the school year ticking down to summer vacation . All six of the main characters have decided to go to an exclusive country club . But not quite in the same capacities . The Evans siblings Ryan and Charpay are going to be guests as always while the other four are going to get jobs there . You thought in the original High School Musical that Ashley Tisdale was bad . She really comes into her own as one devious spoiled schemer , the rich girl used to getting everything she wants . And what she wants is to win the talent contest once again at the country club . Interesting that that is her life's focus , but the rich do have value systems us ordinary folks don't have . The way Zac Efron and Vanessa Hudgens was able to cream her and brother in the school musical has made an impression . The lesson she draws on it is get rid of brother Lucas Grabeel and team up with Efron in the talent show . Tisdale enlists her family in her campaign to win Efron over and she really messes with his head , but good . But as it will happen in all these films , Efron has an epiphany and all ends right . Lucas Grabeel comes more into his own in this film as well . My favorite number was a choreographed baseball game in which he's the pitcher . And I love that Frank Sinatra hat he wears . Ring a Ding Ding . I'm still amazed though at the difference between good girl Maddie Fitzpatrick in The Suite Life of Zack and Cody and Charpay Evans from the High School Musical films . You can hardly believe it's the same young performer . It's more like Tisdale was playing her rival from Suite Life , London Tipton , on steroids . High School Musical 2 as in the original is light and entertaining and who knows when the phenomenon will cease .
Country Values	The big serial for the Mickey Mouse Club in its final year was Annette , starring of course Annette Funicello . The young men of America watched Annette have a rather public puberty so Walt Disney no doubt figured in the last season of the club it was altogether fitting and proper to recognize this . Funicello plays a role somewhat akin to something Janet Gaynor might have done back in her day . Gaynor was always a girl fresh off the farm who comes to the big city and wins the heart of whomever the leading man was . She was always down to earth and full of common sense . And that's exactly what Funicello plays in Annette . She's lived in a rural background until her teens when she's orphaned . Her rich uncle Richard Deacon and aunt Sylvia Field take her in . These people are pretty rich , but Annette doesn't gravitate at first to the kids in her aunt and uncle economic class . She likes young Judy Nugent who delivers milk and eggs from her farm and young David Stollery who has to work after school . Gradually though she not only becomes accepted with the cool kids , but they actually start developing some nice values of their own . Except for one that is , Roberta Shore who played a lot of teen queen roles that Annette didn't get is the villainess of the piece . She gets insanely jealous of this country bumpkin's new found popularity and schemes for her downfall . This series ran 19 episodes and granted they're only 15 minutes in length each chapter , still it's one of the longest if not the longest serial Disney had on the Mickey Mouse Club . It was a picture of the Fifties and the values we had at the time . Note the lack of any minority faces in Annette . Still it wasn't a bad show . Annette Funicello was launched on her way to teen and adult stardom . She established her image that carries on right up to today in Annette . And it's not a bad image for a very brave lady to have .
The Racket That Pays Best	Although the star of the film in terms of first billed in The Enforcer is Humphrey Bogart , the film's main character is Ted DeCorsia in what is probably his best screen performance . Taking a lot of inspiration from Citizen Kane , District Attorney Humphrey Bogart and his two police investigators , Roy Roberts and King Donovan try and piece back together a case against Everette Sloane who has started a new racket , murder for profit . The chief witness is Ted DeCorsia who after an attempt on his life , falls to his death while trying to escape from a window . After DeCorsia's demise the night before the trial was to commence , Bogart and Sloane start listening to hours of tape from several witnesses to see if they can salvage the case . Like Charles Foster Kane's life , the story of the racket is told in flashback through the tapes . DeCorsia is the main character because all roads lead to him as the number two guy , but only he can finger Sloane . DeCorsia is seen as the frightened witness and also as the tough racketeer . It's almost two characters in the same film , but DeCorsia delivers on both . Everette Sloane is one chillingly evil villain . He's decided to sell the services of killers to those who need them . To other racketeers and to outsiders as well . No motive , the police can't track down the ] perpetrators . The words of this racket , like ' contract ' and ' hit ' are all familiar terms now , but then it was something fairly new . Bogart's function is like the reporter { s } who pieced together the life of Charles Foster Kane . It's essentially passive , he's one of the few people whoever played a District Attorney in films who never got a courtroom scene . But in the end , frantically trying to find and protect a crucial witness , he becomes quite proactive to say the least . Of course this is all borrowed from the stories about Murder , Inc . and it was familiar to the movie going public . But The Enforcer is a really taut crime drama that never lets your interest flag . It's so good that I can almost forgive a major plot flaw . Through some gross stupidity on Bogart's part , Sloane realizes there's a witness out there who can nail him and he takes appropriate steps . I can't see in real life how that could have happened . Still The Enforcer is a personal favorite of mine for Humphrey Bogart films and I think you'll like it too although when you see it you will see what Bogey did that almost blew the whole case .
Bringing Down Old Satan	I'm in complete agreement with another reviewer in that this Paramount production might well have been done by the Disney Studio . It certainly has that look and feel about it . But that doesn't mean that The Night of the Grizzly can't be enjoyed by adults as well . Clint Walker and Martha Hyer are a pair of marrieds with children , one of them being a teenage niece . He's a sheriff who's now retired and they've inherited a ranch from his late brother . Unfortunately the ranch is also loaded down with a financial obligations they've inherited as well . They have a rapacious neighbor in Keenan Wynn who'd like the property with a pair of lunkhead sons , Ron Ely and Sammy Jackson . But that's not all facing Clint and Martha . There's a local grizzly named Old Satan who's terrorizing the ranches and farms in the area . He's doing far more damage to them than anything Keenan Wynn and his sons are doing . Actually Wynn for a screen villain is a rather mild one , he much prefers working with finances to get what he wants than any violence . There's one more in the mix here . Leo Gordon has one of his best screen roles in this film , in fact he steals the film whenever he's on screen . He plays a bounty hunter and former deputy to Walker who served two years in prison due to his killing an innocent man and Walker's testimony of same . He's been hired to kill Old Satan by Wynn , setting the stage for the climax . The Night of the Grizzly does have some very nice outdoor camera work , no studio shots at all in this one of a dwindling group of B westerns . It's unfortunate that there is no market for films like The Night of the Grizzly any more .
Coach This One From The Sidelines	In the made for television film Legalese you will find for the only time in his career James Garner playing a villain . His Norman Keane is who they had in mind when they make all the lawyer jokes . Not that he isn't good . He's worth every penny of what a client , especially a guilty one can pay him . Garner's good although in this film he does his best lawyering without setting foot in the courtroom . Gina Gershon plays this sexpot actress who shoots and kills her brother - in-law with whom she's been having a torrid affair . When she's arrested Gershon claims that she did it to protect her sister from a violent and brutal husband . But can she make this stick ? In the meantime Gershon goes to Garner the lawyer to the stars . But as Garner sees the problem , he's just come off a controversial OJ Simpson like case where he got off a client most people thought was guilty as sin . Point being that the public that makes up the jury pool might just take it out on his next client . What to do ? What Garner decides to do is put in a ringer , an idealistic fresh faced young attorney , someone like Matt Damon in The Rainmaker with Garner coaching from the sidelines . He even gives his stooge , Edward Kerr , an earpiece transmitter so he can put the words right in his mouth . Just how manipulative Garner is the audience has no idea , but the full scope of it will be revealed by the end of the film . If Legalese has a weakness it's in Kerr . Not that the man didn't do a good job , he did as good a job as he could with a character I can't believe was all that naive . Both he and Mary Louise Parker from Garner's office really get hung out to dry when show business reporter Kathleen Turner breaks into Garner's office and films them doing the horizontal mambo . Turner has a juicy role she makes the most of . But the film belongs to Garner . He was nominated for an Emmy for Best Actor in a TV movie and too bad he didn't win it . Kudos should also go to Gina Gershon , this is not a lady to cross . Legalese is why they make lawyer jokes , but when you need one Garner's the guy to get .
Their Well Ordered Lives	Probably were it not for the American Film Theater , that noble project which ultimately did fail of bringing productions of classical American works to film , we might never have seen A Delicate Balance . It's like a lot of O'Neill's work , it's all in the creation of the characters . Certainly a play which consists of six characters sitting around and talking would not be considered anything film-able today . A Delicate Balance for me seems to take off in the same directions as Edward Albee's other classic , Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf and also bears no small resemblance to O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night . Both of those films however had bigger budgets and were made more cinematic by having the players move into various locations . The one set technique just doesn't work here . This is not for instance a story as gripping as Alfred Hitchcock's Rope or Rear Window . My guess is that the budget was blown on getting the high priced stars . Paul Scofield and Katharine Hepburn play a pair of sixty somethings married and living in a posh Connecticut suburb , the kind of place Hepburn grew up in and knew well . Living with them is Hepburn's leach of a sister Kate Reid who they keep well supplied with alcohol and who lives there at Hepburn's insistence . Otherwise Scofield would have tossed this one out with the trash years ago . But he bows to Hepburn's wishes to keep peace and order , a delicate balance if you will . They get two intruders in their well ordered lives one day . Their neighbors and long time friends , Joseph Cotten and Betsy Blair just ring the bell and announce that something unknown has frightened them in their home and they need to move out and move in with them . Scofield offers them his daughter's room . But then daughter announces she's moving back after failed marriage number four . Needless to say that causes the balance to go out of whack . Lee Remick is the daughter and she's a selfish and spoiled suburban princess . After this everybody grates on each other's nerves . Short and on plot , but deep on characterization is A Delicate Balance . It explores the problems of old age and loneliness . Cotten and Blair have no children and Scofield and Hepburn take little comfort in Remick . Perhaps if there were grandchildren things might be different for both couples . There was a son who died for Hepburn and Scofield and that seems to have cast a permanent pall over both of them . Though Remick is blood kin , Hepburn and especially Scofield have more in common with their neighbors . How it all works out is for you to see A Delicate Balance for . The film's saving grace is the wonderful performances by the cast . The original Broadway production ran for 132 performances in 1966-1967 and starred Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy in the Scofield-Hepburn roles . But certainly Kate and Paul were going to sell more tickets than either of the other two worthy players . Not that A Delicate Balance did much business back in the day . These films were for limited release in any event and if it's making money it's now in video sales and rentals . Still we can thank the American Film Theater for its preservation with some of the best preservers around .
From The Days of the Miners and Forty Niners	If the rather quirky and unique screen personality of Christian Slater is not your cup of tea , than I'd stay away from Kuffs . Reading the film credits before writing this review I learned that Kuffs was written specifically for Slater . I can't see anyone else this role of George Kuffs , amiable high school dropout who can't get his life together and is sponging off his big brother Bruce Boxleitner . Boxleitner is a patrol specialist , an institution dating from the days of the Forty Niners and unique unto San Francisco . There were not enough police to enforce any semblance of law and order in a town that just mushroomed over night . The city fathers assigned specific areas to people to enforce law and order and Boxleitner has one of those districts . But in his area , the merchants are being harassed and extorted and he's being offered a huge bribe to sell his district to some really nasty people . When he doesn't Boxleitner is killed and Christian Slater inherits his job . Despite some really gaping holes in the plot , the film is really carried along quite nicely by Christian Slater . Others in the cast of note are Milla Jovavich as his pregnant girlfriend , Leon Rippy as the hood who murdered Boxleitner and Tony Goldwyn as the SFPD officer assigned to Slater to keep him from getting killed . Still Kuffs is strictly a Christian Slater show and his fans will absolutely love it .
Not who you'd first suspect	With Cry Danger , Dick Powell said good bye to the noir genre that had served him well since his electrifying Philip Marlowe in Murder My Sweet . Hard to believe the applecheeked tenor of all those sappy Warner Brothers musicals was the tough guy in some of the best noir films ever done . His few remaining films were not noir and pretty soon Powell was strictly on the small screen . Powell in this case is a bookie who was sent up for a robbery that he didn't commit . He's out now due to an alibi provided by Richard Erdman who says Powell had been drinking with him the night the robbery had taken place . With five years of his life taken from him , Powell's out to find who framed him and he hunts with only the determination Dick Powell can muster . He nearly gets framed again when he's given some of the hot money from the robbery to make a bet . Usually in noir films , cops are usually a bit on the slow side unless the protagonist is a cop . Regis Toomey who plays the cop who arrested Powell five years before is an exception . He has Powell trailed from the moment he leaves prison and that pays off for him and for Powell . This is a nicely done crisp little crime thriller . Good photography of the seamy side of Los Angeles , especially the trailer park where Powell is residing with Erdman , Rhonda Fleming who's the wife of his partner who's still in prison and Erdman's gal Jean Porter . The trailer park is pretty seedy , but with Rhonda Fleming there it does have its compensations .
The Most Useless Spot in the US	Lil Abner ran as a comic strip for over 20 years before being converted into a long running Broadway musical . The original production had Peter Palmer in the lead with Edie Adams instead of Leslie Parrish being Daisy Mae . It debuted in 1956 and ran for two years . Our government has determined Nevada with its contribution of Las Vegas to our culture should no longer be a site of atomic testing . Dogpatch with its 100 % unemployment should be . So everyone's to pack up and leave in a week . Needless to say the residents of Dogpatch who Al Capp created are not ready to leave , but they are blindly patriotic . They have to find some thing worth salvaging in Dogpatch . They hit on it with Mammy Yoakum's Yoakumberry tonic which she has been feeding a spoonful of to Lil Abner since his birth . He's grown up big and strong with a soloflex physique . Let's just say that there's a problem with Yoakumberry tonic . Mammy Yoakum may have hit upon steroid abuse 30 years ahead of time . That leads to all the complications , matrimonial and political , contained in the plot . I liked the production and the surreal sets , very much like Warren Beatty's production of Dick Tracy later on , another cartoon character . I didn't like the fact that the best song of the Gene DePaul-Johnny Mercer score was left out of the film . It's called Love in a Home and Bing Crosby did a fine record of it back in 1956 . Peter Palmer had he come along even 10 years earlier might have given folks like Howard Keel and Gordon MacRae competition for musical leads in film . As it was , musicals were slowly dying out as they became to expensive to produce . The one who got the most attention on Broadway and Hollywood was Stubby Kaye as Marrying Sam . DePaul and Mercer wrote a wonderful satirical song called Jubilation T . Cornpone about a less than able southern general who was proud to call Dogpatch his hometown . Kaye was a great performer and fortunate are we that in Guys and Dolls and Lil Abner we have his two best known performances preserved . By the way , the character General Bullmoose who Howard St . John played , is a spoof of Eisenhower's flannelmouth Defense Secretary Charles E . Wilson . He was the President of General Motors and during his confirmation made that comment that came out " what was good for General Motors was good for the USA . " He was the perfect living caricature of a blowhard businessman and Al Capp had a field day with him . Hence the choral song What's good for General Bullmoose is good for the USA . Dogpatch may have been useless , but it's sure a nice place to visit .
What a Fellow Does For a Friend	Randolph Scott and Glenn Ford were once outlaw pals together , but now Scott's a sheriff and young Ford is still hiring his gun out . He gets hired to pull a bank job , but is delayed getting to town and those that hired him get someone else . That leads to all kinds of complications , a lot for a film that's not even 90 minutes long . Randy and Glenn both got girls here . Claire Trevor plays her usual good time gal with a heart of gold . And Evelyn Keyes is the daughter of Edgar Buchanan who falls for Ford big time without realizing who he is or why he came to the town that Scott is the sheriff in . It's B western , but unusual for the time and for Columbia Pictures it was given the full technicolor treatment . The Desperadoes marked Glenn Ford's first film in technicolor , a process reserved only for some of the more expensive films from bigger studios . Harry Cohn was certainly not one to shell out for it . And definitely not during war time . The plot gets a bit convoluted as both Ford and Scott are put to the test of friendship versus expediency / duty . The plot also involves some high class hypocritical skunks in Randy's town who are the real outlaws as far as the film is concerned . The four leads do a fine job and the best supporting performance is Guinn Williams as Ford's lovable explosive lunkhead of a sidekick . The climax involves a cattle stampede and a shootout in the town saloon and is one of the best ever done in a western film . Fans of the four leads and westerns in general will enjoy this one .
Tuneful Jerome Kern classic	Sweet Adeline was presented on the Broadway stage back in 1929 and was primarily a vehicle for Helen Morgan . Morgan had just made a big hit in Kern's greatest musical , Showboat , in the supporting part of Julie LaVerne . She got such raves for that part that a whole show was built around her . I tend to think that she was deep into alcoholism at the time this was done and was not asked to do the film version . Sweet Adeline unfortunately during its run , ran headlong into the Great Depression and had to close . Irene Dunne carries the film version here and does a remarkable job . She was one of the great Hollywood talents of her time with an exquisite soprano voice for films like these and a good sense of comedy for some of the non-musical parts she did . She performs the standards that Morgan introduced on Broadway as good as Morgan did . Sweet Adeline had two big hit numbers Why Was I Born and Don't Ever Leave Me which are two of the best Jerome Kern ever wrote . Otto Harbach wrote the lyrics . Unfortunately and I think that this was because Sweet Adeline was a star vehicle for Helen Morgan when originally done , Ms . Dunne was not given a strong leading man . Donald Woods was a competent actor , with all the charisma of dishwater . His best known part in films was in A Tale of Two Cities where he played Charles Darnay where essentially all he had to do was look handsome and earnest . More was required here and Irene could have used Allan Jones who she did Showboat with or if you wanted a non-singer , Cary Grant , Melvyn Douglas , or Spencer Tracy all of whom she did some classic films with . The rest of the cast was good . Louis Calhern played the villain in the best Snidely Whiplash tradition . His proposition to Irene that he was not interested in marriage to her , just in living together was generations ahead of its time . Ned Sparks and Hugh Herbert perform their usual parts in Warner Brothers musicals and there were some nice turns by Nydia Westman and Joseph Cawthorn as Dunne's sister and father respectively . Mervyn LeRoy did succeed nicely in capturing the old fashioned flavor of life at the turn of the last century . If you're an Irene Dunne fan this is a must .
Thy Will Be Done	I've always believed that David and Bathsheba was a film originally intended for Tyrone Power at 20th Century Fox , although Gregory Peck does give a good account of himself as King David , the monarch with a wandering eye . A whole lot of biblical subjects get covered in this film , adultery , redemption , sin , punishment and generally what God expects from his followers . When you're a king , even king in a biblically prophesied kingdom you certainly do have a lot perogatives not open to the rest of us . King David has many wives , including one really vicious one in Jayne Meadows who was the daughter of Saul , David's predecessor . But his eyes catch sight of Bathsheba out in her garden one evening . Turns out she's as unhappily married to Uriah the Hittite as David is to quite a few women . Uriah is one of David's army captains . David sends for Bathsheba and him being the King , she comes a runnin ' because she's had her eye on him too . What happens , an affair , a pregnancy , and a carefully arranged death for Uriah in a battle . But an all seeing and knowing Deity has caught all of this and is not only punishing David and Bathsheba , but the entire Kingdom of Israel is being punished with drought , disease , and pestilence . The sexist law of the day calls for Bathsheba to have a stoning death . David shows weakness in his previous actions , but here he steps up to the plate and asks that the whole thing be put on him . He even lays hands on the Ark of the Covenant which was an instant death as seen in the film . My interpretation of it is that God admires guts even if you're wrong and he lets up on David and forgives them both . Bathsheba becomes the mother of Solomon and she and David are the ancestors of several successors in the divided kingdoms of Israel and Judah until they're both conquered . Susan Hayward is a fetching Bathsheba caught in a loveless marriage with Uriah played by Kieron Moore . The only thing that gets Moore aroused is a good battle . I liked Kieron Moore's performance as a brave and rather stupid horse's rear . No one can lay the law down like Raymond Massey . His Nathan the Prophet is in keeping with the John Brown character he played in two films , same intensity . So when His own law called for death , why did God spare Bathsheba and keep David on the throne . Maybe it was the fact He just didn't want to train a third guy for the job . He'd replaced Saul with David already . But I think the Christian interpretation might be that this was a hint of the New Testament forthcoming , that one might sin and receive mercy if one asks for it penitently . I'll leave it to the biblical scholars to submit interpretations . Watch the film and you might come up with an entirely new theory .
The Cavalry Is Looking For A Few Good Men	Tim Conway and Don Knotts proved to be so popular in the first Apple Dumpling Gang movie that the Magic Kingdom felt they had to be reteamed for The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again . Leaving behind the two children they were involved with in the first film , our two outlaw wannabes find themselves enlisting in the cavalry after unwittingly helping in a bank robbery . Conway and Knotts's fiddlefooted fumblings are happening at the same time that army supplies are being systematically robbed from Fort Concho with commandant Harry Morgan having no clue why . And Morgan's got other things on his mind as well . His daughter Elyssa Davalos is arriving to marry her fiancé , Lieutenant Robert Pine . But a most amorous private played by Tim Matheson keeps getting in the way . It was a stroke of genius at the Magic Kingdom when someone got the idea to team Don Knotts and Tim Conway . Like Bing Crosby and Bob Hope who had very successful careers as solos , when they teamed they really clicked . I only imagine that the individual projects both men were involved in kept them from doing even more films together . Each had a really good feel for the timing of the other and the comedy styles blended well . Disney Studios gave them a good cast in support as they always did . Ruth Buzzi has a nice turn as a blind lady who keeps trying to raise the town alarm about a bank robbery . But the absolute best was Kenneth Mars as Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock , a man who can't stand to lose . A feared legend of the west , he can't close the deal on Knotts and Conway , because strange fate keeps intervening . He gets driven to madness the same way Inspector Dreyfus is with Clousseau . Best scene in the film are Conway and Knotts as they bungle their way into burning the whole fort down , a bit taken from the Gary Cooper comedy , Cassanova Brown . Second best scene is Knotts and Conway in drag as saloon entertainers , taken of course from Some Like It Hot . Reused material or not , the stuff is very funny and more than kids will get laughs from two comic geniuses in The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again .
Walking A Million Miles For One Of Your Smiles	For a mawkishly sentimental play that was outdated even when it first was presented on Broadway , The Jazz Singer has had a remarkable life with now three movie versions and possibly more to come . Of course it being considered the first sound film probably has a whole lot to do with it . I doubt it would have been remade twice already if it wasn't a historical moment . But for trying to hold up the Brothers Warner for some extra salary for doing that first sound feature , Georgie Jessel might have been able to repeat the role he created on Broadway as Jakie Rabinowitz aka Jack Robin , cantor's son who runs away from home as a juvenile and comes back home in time to sing Kol Nidre at Yom Kippur services in place of his dying father . Jessel's greed was Al Jolson's gain as America's greatest live entertainer at the time got to inaugurate the era of movie sound . As Al Jolson was wont to do in his stage shows , he interpolated material from all sources in his first film that he felt was suitable for him . Toot Toot Tootsie and interestingly enough My Mammy were songs he'd done on stage before and were proved material his audience would respond to . The first song he actually does sing is Dirty Hands , Dirty Face which was something he had not done before . Blue Skies which he sings to his mother after returning home as a Broadway star was in fact a current hit on Broadway at the time Jolson was singing it . People from that era say that you cannot appreciate Jolson on the screen , that to really get the full impact of his dynamic stage presence you had to see him live . Maybe so , but since that isn't possible , there's enough of him in The Jazz Singer and other of his films to realize what a great entertainer he was , black-face or not . Warner Oland , later to be the first Charlie Chan , plays Cantor Rabinowitz and Eugenie Besserer is touching as Jolson's mother caught hopelessly between her husband and son . In that first scene of a grownup Jolson in a café before he sings Dirty Hands , Dirty Face you will note that is William Demarest who he's dining with . Myrna Loy has a small role as a chorus girl . Still both the play and the personality dictate that this film is owned exclusively by Al Jolson . Despite later versions with Danny Thomas and Neil Diamond in the lead , the story will always be identified with the man who said we ain't heard nothing yet . Though The Jazz Singer is exponentially sentimental and mawkish , it does have a very nice depiction of Jewish life and neighborhood in the Teens and Twenties of the last century . And of course The Jazz Singer is a historic first .
" something's dicey about this set up . "	That was Burt Lancaster's assessment of the situation as he and Lee Marvin , Woody Strode , and Robert Ryan were almost at their destination . These four soldiers of fortune have taken a job to bring back the kidnapped wife of Ralph Bellamy . And when that wife is Claudia Cardinale , well that certainly is understandable . Who's taken her is Mexican revolutionary Jack Palance . He wants a one hundred thousand dollars from Ralph Bellamy . That will buy a lot of guns and ammunition and keep that revolution going . This is pre World War I Mexico and revolution is a cottage industry in that poor country in those years . One thing about Bellamy , he does hire the best . Let's just say that Palance is definitely going to have to replace a lot of his hardware after our intrepid heroes get done . But there is a big joker in this card deck of a movie . For that you will have to watch it . Nice performances by all concerned and Richard Brooks as director keeps the action going . And this film is worthwhile just to see Lee Marvin give that last line to an epithet thrown at him .
Under Joel's Tutelage	Young Dean Stockwell is one spoiled kid , but with his father Leon Ames running a railroad , he's hardly got time for the kid . After Dean gets lost on the New Mexico desert when his father's train stops to take on water , he's found by Joel McCrea who's the top hand of a Cattle Drive going to Sante Fe . That Cattle Drive is the making of young Dean . Under the tutelage of Joel , the kid turns out to be quite a good hand . If the story sounds familiar like everyone else who reviewed this film , we all noted the obvious similarity between Cattle Drive and Captains Courageous . McCrea and Stockwell had worked well together before in Stars in My Crown for MGM the year before . Though Cattle Drive is a good film , I can't recommend Stars in My Crown highly enough . Look also for a nice performance by Chill Wills as the cook on the drive . A man definitely good to stand in with as we learned in Monte Walsh . There's no violence in Cattle Drive , there's no women in it either . We do learn Joel does have a girl friend as he shows a picture of Frances Dee to all who will look . It's a shame that Cattle Drive is not out on VHS or DVD it's a perfect family film to rent .
Convoying Lend Lease	Raymond Massey and Humphrey Bogart as captain and first mate of a merchant marine ship , see their first ship sunk by a German U-boat . They get a second ship and with some of their surviving crew from the first ship join an international convoy taking supplies to the Soviet Union . From Halifax to Murmansk quite a flotilla of merchant ships from a whole lot of countries that had declared war on the Axis . The convoy was something like a sea going wagon train which was developed because individual ships were easy prey for submarines . The seagoing wagon train got a destroyer escort and they were armed now as well . The merchant seaman were not technically part of the armed forces . But that didn't mean they weren't seeing a lot of action as Action in the North Atlantic so clearly demonstrates . Bad enough when the Lend lease was to Great Britain , but when we became allies with the Soviets the only places it could go were the ports of Murmansk and Archangel when they were ice free . That meant a voyage along the long Norwegian coast line which was occupied by Germany . Bogart and Massey give strong portrayals of dedicated merchant seaman whose life is tough enough in peace time . But they certainly have the right stuff in time of war . Some of the crew of their ship is Dane Clark , Sam Levene , Peter Whitney , and Alan Hale who really steals every scene he's in . Action in the North Atlantic is filled with a lot of the flag waving that characterized Hollywood era World War II films . The derring do heroics are kept to a minimum . The situations the seaman encounter are quite real for the perilous undertaking they were involved in . It could probably be remade today and maybe with some of today's stars showing a new generation what it was like to be a merchant seaman in World War II >
A Good Sea Yarn , Two Of Them In Fact	I don't think the good citizens of the United Kingdom with their proud tradition of sea power could complain too much about the American leads in a film about one of their popular fictional heroes . You can't get too much more heroic than Gregory Peck on screen and he certainly does fit C . S . Forrester's conception of Captain Horatio Hornblower , R . N . In fact even recently with Russell Crowe's Master and Commander kind of reinvigorating this genre of literature , I still kind of like what Gregory Peck did with the role . The age of Napoleon where Great Britain stood for a time very much alone against his domination of Europe was another their finest hours . The film is taken from two of the Hornblower novels and sad to say the film's weakness is that the first part of it is much the superior of the second . Personally I think they should have padded out the first part and dealt with it alone . Recurring characters from the Hornblower novels appear here such as the Duke of Wellington's fictional sister Lady Barbara Wellesley played by Virginia Mayo and members of Hornblowers crew played by Robert Beatty , James Robertson Justice , and Terence Morgan among others . There's also a very touching performance by young James Kenney as the midshipman on board the HMS Lydia . The first part of the film deals with Hornblower sailing the Lydia to the western coast of Central America in secret to reach a potential rebel ally against Spain which has joined with France . Hornblower makes contact with Don Julian Alvarado , the self-styled El Supremo . Hornblower captures a Spanish ship of the line and gives it to his new ally . Then he learns that Spain has switched sides in the Napoleonic War while he's been at sea and now this heavily armed vessel is in the hands of a real psycho . Now he has to undo what he did . If you don't see Captain Horatio Hornblower , R . N . for any other reason , than see it for Alec Mango's over the top performance as the psychotic El Supremo . It's a piece of scenery chewing for the ages and it fits with the character . You take your allies in war where you find them and Spain was not the first or the last country that ever switched sides during a conflict . The second half concerns Peck and the crew in action off the Bay of Biscay and the vessel Lydia runs aground . Peck and the crew are taken prisoner and the rest of the film concerns with their escape . These are in fact two different Hornblower stories and the first is much the superior of the second . Of course another viewer might feel differently and the film is recommended for all of you who like a good sea yarn .
Will The Real Don Juan Stand Up Or Stand Out ?	In Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . ' s memoirs , he and his father decided in 1933 to go over to Great Britain together for work . Fairbanks the younger wasn't satisfied with his film career at Warner Brothers and his father was falling head over heels with the British Lady Sylvia Ashley . She became his third and last wife . Doug Jr . said that they bonded while there closer than they did while he was a child . Doug Jr . did a bunch of films and some stage work in London , his best known film in his British period was Catherine the Great with Elizabeth Bergner . Doug , Sr . did this one film , The Private Life of Don Juan and it's as tailor made a farewell to the screen as The Shootist was for John Wayne . We all of us get older and even such sex symbols as Don Juan does . He's wearying of the life and I suspect has not the stamina any more for what he was known for . When rumor goes around he's been killed finally by an irate husband , Fairbanks decides with his faithful man Friday , Leporello , played by Melville Cooper to take a long needed rest . The problem comes when he decides to make a comeback and no one believes this 51 year old man is the real Don Juan . Fairbanks was 51 when he made The Private Life of Don Juan and he did look pretty good for a 51 year old man . At least I didn't look as good when I hit that age . What will the outcome be for the aged Lothario ? For that you'll have to see the film and I will say that Alexander Korda provided a nice bevy of British beauties for Fairbanks to choose from . Such beautiful and talented folks as Merle Oberon , Benita Hume , Binnie Barnes , and Diana Napier all vie for Fairbanks's attention at one point in the film . Best in the film however is Athene Seyler and her proposition to Fairbanks . Her scene with him is a delight . I don't know if Fairbanks had it in his head that The Private Life of Don Juan would be his farewell picture . It needn't have been , his speaking voice registered well for sound and by 1934 he wasn't overacting as many of his silent contemporaries did and ruined their careers thereby . But The Private Life of Don Juan was perfect as a farewell performance for a man who was an American icon in his day , as much as John Wayne was in his .
Vindicating a Muley Bull	The Rare Breed is the second of four films James Stewart did with director Andrew V . McLaglen . This is a fictionalized account about how Hereford cattle came to the great state of Texas . In this film Stewart brought a breeding bull together with his owners , Maureen O'Hara and Juliet Mills . The question of course is whether the breed can stand up to a harsh and cruel Texas winter and breed calves . I guess since in real life there are a whole lot of Hertford cattle all over the USA now , the answer is they could . Of course in the film it involved some sacrifice in regard to some notions the women had , especially Juliet Mills who regards the bull Vindicator as a family pet . Stewart's character , Sam ' Bulldog ' Burnett has a bit of the rogue to him , but he certainly turns out to be the decent reliable Jimmy Stewart that movie audiences for three generations loved . Irish born Maureen is a proper English lady and Juliet Mills does very well as the daughter . In her memoirs Maureen O'Hara said that some scenes she states she stole from Jimmy Stewart got cut from the final print . In watching The Rare Breed tonight , there were some illusions to some banter and a horse race that we just see the finish of . I'm sure that was what she was referring to although it's pure speculation as to the reason for the edit . But if Maureen was worried about scene stealing , the guy who stole the film completely is Brian Keith . He plays the Scotch Texas cattle baron with proper brogue and a wild appearance . When we first see him , he's a real frontier character with a possible aversion to soap and water . Maureen has a civilizing affect on him and Keith becomes a rival to Stewart for her affections . He's quite a sight in the uniform of his former Highland regiment playing the bagpipes . The Rare Breed doesn't rank up there with most of the Anthony Mann westerns of the Fifties . But it's entertaining enough and nothing anyone in the cast need be ashamed of .
There Must Be A Pillow Talking Rock For Doris , THERE MUST	Pillow Talk was the first of three films Rock Hudson and Doris Day teamed on . Personally , I don't think it was their best , but it's entertaining enough . Though for the life of me I can't understand what Doris did in this particular comedy to warrant an Oscar nomination . Pillow Talk doesn't stand out in that way . Doris was passed over for such things as Love Me Or Leave Me , The Man Who Knew Too Much and Midnight Lace where she really did do some good acting . The premise is dated , party lines are certainly a thing of the past now with text messaging cell phones . I do recall back around the same time my grandparents still having a party line . In that sense Pillow Talk is dated . Still the film is funny enough . Virginal interior decorator Doris Day happens to get the same party line as wolfish songwriter Rock Hudson . Rock with his non-stop love life is constantly cutting in on Doris's business calls . When he accidentally learns who she is when at a bar she's fending off the advances of young Nick Adams , Rock embarks on an all out campaign to nail her as another trophy . Of course the imponderable of love always gets in the way in these films . Doris Day in all of her comedy films , be they with Rock Hudson or others always got a good group of supporting players . It seemed obligatory that Tony Randall before finding fame as Felix Unger , was always cast as the hero's best if goofy friend . It's either him or Gig Young in these roles . He creates his perennial character in Pillow Talk . On the female side Thelma Ritter as Doris's perpetually hung over maid is her deadpan best . My favorite scene in Pillow Talk is her drinking Rock Hudson under the table . Though audiences today might not get the whole party line premise , Pillow Talk is still funny enough for even the younger viewers .
No Givenchy Gowns In This One	The Nun's Story is the spiritual discovery that Audrey Hepburn makes to find out if she's got the right stuff to become a nun . Born in Brussels in a Belgian Catholic family headed by renowned doctor Dean Jagger , young Audrey decides to become a nun and hopes eventually to serve as a nursing sister in the Belgian Congo where her dad is a specialist on tropical diseases . This is where the spiritual comes into no small conflict with the requirements of the Catholic church to become a nun . Hepburn has both the religious fervor and the medical qualifications for the job . She's lived and worked beside her father and is as familiar as you can get with the medical aspects of the job . Even if she wasn't , Jagger's own influence would assure her of a position in her chosen medical field . But because the requirements of the nunnery are different she doesn't get to the Congo right away . Audrey's got a great deal of difficulty in getting humility down . I have to confess that as presented to me in the audience , I had a lot of problems with that one myself . At one point one of the reverend mothers tells her to deliberately flunk her examination . I think that was going a bit too far and so did Edith Evans who plays the reverend mother at the abbey Audrey is doing her novice training at . Audrey Hepburn and gowns by Givenchy are synonymous on the screen and it's different seeing her in unglamorous nun's habit . But Hepburn's performance got her an Oscar nomination , a well deserved one . I'll bet the critics couldn't grasp the humility test , but they and I know an Oscar caliber performance when we see one . Dames Edith Evans and Peggy Ashcroft who plays the reverend mother at the Congo hospital got nominations for Best Supporting Actress . Peter Finch who it would have been nice to see a bit more of plays the unbelieving medical doctor at that hospital . Good thing he didn't have to pass a humility test to get his job . This is the Belgian Congo of the Thirties , a mere quarter of a century after Roger Casement exposed the barbarity of the rule of King Leopold over that colony which was his personal domain as opposed to a government colony . It became a government run colony after Leopold died and was one when this story takes place . The legacy of hatred and barbarism was still there and in another quarter of a century would explode when Africa shed its colonial past . There's an incident in the film where one of the natives kills one of the nuns because a witch doctor told him it would rid the evil spirits . If The Nun's Story was made today , that aspect might not be glorified , but it would be explored more fully from the native's point of view . As it is they have two racially segregated hospitals there . The climax of the film has Hepburn back in Belgium when the Nazis overrun it in World War II . Things that happen to her country and her family force a lot of soul searching upon her . Part of her problem then is she's a role model for some of the newer postulants . To see what she does by all mean's catch The Nun's Story .
An Erotic Technique That Can't Be Beat	Though the acting from the Royal Shakespeare company is first rate , this version of Antony and Cleopatra is little more than a photographed stage play . And a bit long for the cinema at that . The title roles are played well by Richard Johnson and Janet Suzman . The story has been told three times in contemporary verse in the cinema by Theda Bara , Claudette Colbert , and Elizabeth Taylor as the seductive Queen of Egypt who tried to bend one too many conquerors to her will by use of her legendary charms . William Shakespeare's Mark Antony was a principal character in two of his plays , Julius Caesar where he skillfully picked up the leadership of his late patriarch Caesar and routed the conspirators who assassinated the legendary conqueror . To give legitimacy to his enterprise , Antony was forced into partnership with Octavian Caesar , Julius's grandnephew and a legion commander Lepidus made the triumvir of three . This play is a story of the dissolution of that partnership caused in no small part by Cleopatra . Sex may have more a part in Antony and Cleopatra than in any other work of Shakespeare . Historians might very well argue that Mark Antony was using Cleopatra as his entrée to gaining alliances with various Roman dependencies in a power play against Octavian . But Shakespeare was no doubt titillating his 16th century audience with the tales of Cleopatra's erotic technique . Ahenobarbus , Antony's good friend played here by Patrick Stewart , says that while Octavia's sister's a pretty thing , when you get entangled with Cleopatra , she's so good that men are never satisfied , they keep hungering for more . So that's the reason why Antony instead of tending to business and keeping an eye on Octavian gradually loses support in Rome where it really counts . The guy who was so shrewd in Julius Caesar in Antony and Cleopatra is just a love struck fool . It's the basis for his tragedy . As for Cleopatra , three times wasn't the charm . Julius Caesar and Mark Antony may have succumbed although there is debate about who was using who . But in Octavian as played here by Corin Redgrave is all about business . I was interested in the difference between Ahenobarbus in Cecil B . DeMille's Cleopatra which starred Claudette Colbert and the way Shakespeare writes him and Stewart plays him . In the DeMille film , Ahenobarbus is played by C . Aubrey Smith as a stout old soldier who finds it a matter of conscience to leave Antony and support his beloved Roman Empire which he sees embodied now in Octavian . Patrick Stewart's Ahenobarbus is far more of an opportunist who makes a calculated move at the right time . The money here was spent on talent with the people mentioned and the others in the cast from the Royal Shakespeare Company . Down the cast list you'll find Ben Kingsley in a minor role . Look also for a very touching performance by Rosemary McHale as Charmian , Cleopatra's faithful handmaiden who makes the last journey with her . This version of Antony and Cleopatra is not a movie per se , it lacks the production values of one . The Elizabeth Taylor Cleopatra had the spectacle to go with the acting . This one succeeds on talent alone .
Gee , Now Who Didn't Think They Were Talking About Barbara Hutton ?	The Richest Girl in the World in 1934 meant Barbara Hutton . Her exploits made her the Paris Hilton of the day . Did anyone seriously think that by titling the lead character Dorothy Hunter that RKO wasn't trying to cash in on Hutton's reputation ? Miriam Hopkins as Dorothy Hunter is naturally concerned with both privacy and wanting to know if she would really be marrying someone for love . She's hatched a scheme with her secretary Fay Wray to in public exchange identities . But that may come to an end soon as Fay is looking to marry Reginald Denny . But along comes Joel McCrea who's got his own ideas about supporting himself in the true McCrea tradition . Hopkins crushes out on him big time and he falls for her thinking she's the secretary . I can't say more , but any movie fan can take this plot from here . Still the leads are at their best and the film is good entertainment . But who was RKO kidding ?
The Original Slaughter On Tenth Avenue	This Bell Telephone Hour show is a salute to the music of Richard Rodgers and it was hosted by Ray Bolger , a performer for whom Richard Rodgers was key in his rise . Other guests included Howard Keel and Dolores Gray , each of whom did a medley of Rodgers songs . Keel in fact was in road company productions of Oklahoma and Carousel before he started his Hollywood career . The highlight though is Bolger who got his first big break in 1936 doing On Your Toes . Unfortunately he didn't do any of his numbers from By Jupiter which was the last Rodgers & Hart collaboration which he also starred in on Broadway . Bolger did not get to do the screen adaption when Warner Brothers purchased the property . It was a tepid film that starred Eddie Albert . The show is best known for integrating the ballet within the book of the musical . Prima Ballerina Vera Zorina co-starred with Bolger on Broadway . The highlight of the show is the ballet Slaughter On Tenth Avenue . In the film Words and Music , Gene Kelly and Vera-Ellen did their version of the number . I wish Bolger had done it in partnership with someone , maybe even Vera Zorina who was still dancing at the time . Still it was nice to see him perform the dance that was written for him . It might be the only filmed record of it . For that reason , if you can find a tape of this Bell Telephone Hour show , catch it by all means .
Making Up For The Year Of Silence	Released two months before his demise , For The First Time proved to be Mario Lanza's last film . While it's not the young Lanza in his prime , booming out Be My Love , it's still a good film to go out on . It's a Cinderella type fairy tale of a concert singer / Prince Charming who meets and falls for a deaf girl and spends his time looking to cure her affliction . One thing For The First Time has going for it are those European locations , especially the fabulous Isle of Capri . Capri is one of those places in the world where you cannot film anything that won't be beautiful . Ranks right up there with the Grecian Isles and Hawaii in that regard . Paramount would also use Capri around the same time for the Clark Gable-Sophia Loren film , It Started In Naples also with gratifying results . The deaf girl who Lanza falls for precisely because she can't hear him and isn't groupie material is played by German actress Johanna Von Koczian who's had a distinguished career in German cinema to this day . She's billed as ' introducing Johanna Von Koczian ' but she's only being introduced here to American audiences . Walter Rilla as the hearing specialist who operates and cures her and Hans Bohnker as Von Koczian's uncle , are also from the German film industry . Most of the rest of the cast is Italian . Of course with the exceptions of Kurt Kaszner as Lanza's manager and Zsa Zsa Gabor as Zsa Zsa under any name . Mario too is Mario under any name . He always was himself because the audiences came to hear him sing , they didn't expect Hamlet from him . For The First Time has a good mix of classical and popular songs . Highlights are Come Prima which Lanza introduced and which sold a few records for him on RCA Victor Red Seal label and O Sole Mio which he sings at Sandra Giglio's wedding . Lanza was in training at the time of his death on October 7 , 1959 to finally go into grand opera . A hint of what he could have done is in the arias he does from Otello and the triumphal march from Aida which is a great piece of DeMille like spectacle in opera . He's just fabulous in both . Back in the days of The Odd Couple I remember an episode where Felix says to Oscar he wants the triumphal march from Aida played at his funeral as his casket is paraded seven times around the cemetery before the planting . As an opera lover , I'm sure Felix must have seen For The First Time and was influenced . If he heard Mario Lanza sing it , it sounds like a plan .
Vladimir , Answer the Phone	Just think that if Doris Day had not for some reason named her dog , Vladimir there might have been no plot at all for this Frank Tashlin comedy . That might have been bad because this was the best of Doris Day's films in the late sixties as she was beginning a downward drop in her box office appeal . The Glass Bottom Boat was the second film she did with Rod Taylor as co-star and the first of two she did with Frank Tashlin as director . And this one was the best product in both associations . Doris works in public relations at a space lab in California where scientist Rod Taylor is developing new stuff for the Defense Department and NASA . She also doubles and helps her dad Arthur Godfrey on his glass bottom boat tourist vehicle . One of the things I like best about The Glass Bottom Boat is Doris sings again on screen , once in a nice duet with Arthur Godfrey on his ever present ukulele . She also sings her most famous song , Que Sera Sera once again for a new generations of film fans . One thing about Doris's later films , she always had excellent supporting casts and this one is loaded with some very funny people like , Edward Andrews , John McGiver , Paul Lynde , Dom DeLuise , Dick Martin , George Tobias , and Alice Pearce . They all fill roles that you would expect from them . The Glass Bottom Boat has Rod Taylor concerned with plant security in regard to his top secret work . An overzealous security guard played by Paul Lynde overhears Doris call her dog on the phone . What she does is that in order to give the pooch some exercise during the day she calls her own number , counts the rings and then says something to the unanswered phone . It's for the dog to get exercise because he runs around like a maniac when the phone rings . From that we deduce that Doris is a Soviet spy and the real CIA in the person of Eric Fleming is called in . This was Fleming's last big screen appearance before he was drowned on location in Peru . A very sad end to a career that might have been the equal of his Rawhide co-star , Clint Eastwood . Seeing Paul Lynde in drag , questioning an inept spy played by Dom DeLuise is worth seeing this film alone .
Torturer In Chief	In 1984 the film The Evil That Men Do was very relevant because of the news coming out of El Salvador . During the Cold War the USA supported some pretty nauseating folks , El Salvador's regime was one of them . The unnamed Central American country where the action takes place is El Salvador . Charles Bronson is a retired hit-man who takes a commission to avenge the death of Theresa Saldana's husband , a journalist critical of the regime . The guy she holds responsible is Joseph Maher , known as ' El Doctor ' a bloodless sadist of distinctly non-Latin origin who apparently holds the rank of torturer in chief . It's Maher's performance which you will remember from The Evil That Men Do . He's a man who apparently studied under Joseph Mengele and learned the trade well . He has but one weakness , for his lesbian sister , Antoinette Bower . Bronson plays on that to get his man . Also note some good work from Raymond St . Jacques as Maher's number one assistant and from John Glover a sleazy CIA station chief in Central America who apparently Maher and company can call on for help . Jose Ferrer is in the film all too briefly at the beginning as he hires Bronson on Saldana's behalf . He's always been a favorite of mine , I wish there was more of him here . As for the climax , Director J . Lee Thompson took his inspiration from Tennessee Williams's Suddenly Last Summer . Some very eerie parallels to what happens to Sebastian in that film . I like The Evil That Men Do because it deals with evil as an entity unto itself . We just have to remember to realize that . The Doctor is pure evil and we rejoice in bringing him down .
Hitting That Elusive Note	As I write this review we are fortunate to have all three stars from Young Man With a Horn still with us . All three of them give magnificent performances . Too bad the story was such a cop out . The novel that this is based on has the character of Rick Martin die in the end just like Bix Beiderbecke on whom he was based does at the tender age of 28 . It would have been so much more powerful and more effective had the film had that ending . It's such a let down after a great trio of players give their all . Doris Day gets to sing three great standards , With A Song In My Heart , The Very Thought of You and Too Marvelous for Words . I believe this is the first film in which she shows real dramatic potential as the band vocalist in love with the cornetist who can't find inner peace . Kirk Douglas is in a role that could have been written just for him on the screen . I can't imagine anyone doing it better . It's just his kind of part , all the rage inside him because of the lousy childhood and unable to articulate it except through his horn . His heights and his downfall are believable and real , but no one could have made the audience except the tacked on happy ending . Lauren Bacall was a friend of Kirk Douglas's from New York when they were both struggling drama students . She encouraged him to come to Hollywood after she made it big . This is their only film together . It's also the first time she played a bad girl . She's a self indulgent heiress who looks at life as a series of kicks to be had . She makes Douglas fall for her big time and then treats him shabbily when they're married . This is one of the earliest examples of lesbianism portrayed on the screen . She leaves him to go off to Europe with a woman who she met in school and check out the glances Bacall gives her new flame . I don't think Bacall is a lesbian however . To her an affair with a female is just another thing to indulge herself with . My guess is when the novelty wears off , this woman will get the Douglas treatment . To give it a real jazz flavor Young Man With a Horn also features Hoagy Carmichael who knew Bix Beiderbecke in real life and it is he who narrates the story from his perspective . Look also for good performances by Jerome Cowan as a character based on Paul Whiteman and Juano Hernandez as the jazz cornetist who teaches young Rick Martin as played by Orley Lindgren to play . Hernandez's character is based on a lot of people , most probably King Oliver is the closest model . Young Man in a Horn is a stand up double of a film . It would have been an exciting in the park home run if they had kept the ending as is .
Little Sure Shot Gets Her Man	Annie Oakley ( 1860-1926 ) born in dire poverty and without spending one day in a school room , became one of the great feminist icons of all time . Talk about taking a man on in his game and beating him . It was not press agent ballyhoo about her prowess as a rifle shot . This romanticized biographical film captures the essence of her character and her love for the guy she dethroned as shooting champion . In some spots of the film you can practically drop the songs that Irving Berlin was later to write for his hit show about Annie . But we get a different picture of Frank Butler than in Annie Get Your Gun . Butler is not even Butler , he's Toby Wheeler as played by Preston Foster . He's a kid from the mean streets of New York City who learned his sharpshooting in the shooting galleries on the Bowery . He doesn't near and endear himself to the westerners working at Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show . In fact they hate Foster so much that whatever qualms they had about Annie being a member of the female sex the crew gets over real fast . Barbara Stanwyck captures the real Annie if not in height in spirit . The real Ms . Oakley was barely five feet tall , but by all accounts she was a modest retiring type who never forgot where she came from . She was not as raucous as Ethel Merman on stage and later Betty Hutton on screen portrayed her . She let her shooting speak for her . Melvyn Douglas has the third lead as William F . Cody's business partner Jeff Hogarth . Melvyn usually lost the girl to bigger name players though he was always a gentleman as he is here . Personally I wish he had done better in this film especially . Annie Oakley is a nice film , not as well known as the musical later derived from her life , but still easy to take with good players at their best .
The FBI For Richer Or Poorer	In the tradition of G-Men , The House On 92nd Street , The Street With No Name , now comes The FBI Story one of those carefully supervised films that showed the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the best possible light . While it's 48 year director J . Edgar Hoover was alive , it would be showed in no other kind of light . The book by Don Whitehead that this film is based on is a straight forward history of the bureau from it's founding in 1907 until roughly the time the film The FBI Story came out . It's important sometimes to remember there WAS an FBI before J . Edgar Hoover headed it . Some of that time is covered in the film as well . But Warner Brothers was not making a documentary so to give the FBI flesh and blood the fictional character of John ' Chip ' Hardesty was created . Hardesty as played by James Stewart is a career FBI man who graduated law school and rather than go in practice took a job with the bureau in the early twenties . In real life the Bureau was headed by William J . Burns of the Burns Private Detective Agency . It was in fact a grossly political operation then as is showed in the film . Burns was on the periphery of the scandals of the Harding administration . When Hoover was appointed in 1924 to bring professional law enforcement techniques and rigorous standards of competence in , he did just that . Through the Hardesty family which is Stewart and wife Vera Miles we see the history of the FBI unfold . In addition we see a lot of their personal family history which is completely integrated into the FBI's story itself . Stewart and Miles are most assuredly an all American couple . We follow the FBI through some of the cases Stewart is involved with , arresting Ku Klux Klan members , a plot to murder oil rich Indians , bringing down the notorious criminals of the thirties , their involvement with apprehending Nazi sympathizers in World War II and against Communist espionage in the Cold War . There is a kind of prologue portion where Stewart tells a class at the FBI Academy before going into the history of the bureau as it intertwines with his own . That involves a bomb placed on an airline by a son who purchased a lot of life insurance on his mother before the flight . Nick Adams will give you the creeps as the perpetrator and the story is sadly relevant today . Of course if The FBI Story were written and produced today it would reflect something different and not so all American . Still the FBI does have a story to tell and it is by no means a negative one . The FBI Story is not one of Jimmy Stewart's best films , but it's the first one I ever saw with my favorite actor in it so it has a special fondness for me . If the whole FBI were made up Jimmy Stewarts , I'd feel a lot better about it . There's also a good performance by Murray Hamilton as his friend and fellow agent who is killed in a shootout with Baby Face Nelson . Vera Miles didn't just marry Stewart , she in fact married the FBI as the film demonstrates . It's dated mostly , but still has a good and interesting story to tell .
Y'all Ain't Just . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	Whistling in Dixie finds Red Skelton as radio detective the Fox and gal pal Ann Rutherford away in Georgia where Red's kind of faked an illness so he and Rutherford can get away and maybe get married down there . Rutherford has another agenda as well . Her old sorority sister Diana Lewis has sent her a pre-arranged signal that the sisters have in one needs help . Finding out that there is a five day waiting period in Georgia , the two of them get involved in a mystery where Lewis has witnessed a murder , but no body can be found . It all leads to some buried Confederate treasure in an old arsenal guarded by Civil War veteran Lucien Littlefield who's a might addled . Rags Ragland appears here as twins , both are convicts , one quite a bit nastier than the other . This film marked the farewell performance of George Bancroft as the sheriff who retired right after Whistling In Dixie was in the can . And of course unless you got Raymond Walburn , no film like this would be complete without Guy Kibbee as an expansive , mint julep drinking , son of the South colonel . With that kind of cast , this film can't miss being funny and the comedy is eternal .
That Windmill Windup	Alibi Ike is a mildly amusing baseball comedy based on Ring Lardner's character of a pitcher with an excuse for everything . It's a pretty good example of Joe E . Brown's hayseed type character at the height of his popularity . And of course because A Midsummer Night's Dream was held up in release , Alibi Ike marks the debut of Olivia DeHavilland on the silver screen . Although Olivia has little enough to do in this film which is strictly a Joe E . Brown show , she's one pretty thing here . She was only 19 when she made this film and would have to wait through another film besides this one and the Max Reinhardt extravaganza before settling into her Warner Brothers niche as crinolined heroine , yearning for Errol Flynn to win her as he did in Captain Blood . Joe E . Brown took naturally to this role , possibly because he was known as a very big baseball fan in real life . Playing his ever harried manager in Alibi Ike is William Frawley who in real life was also known as a baseball aficionado . Brown's son , Joe L . Brown didn't follow his father into show business , he became a well respected baseball executive best known as general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates world championship team of 1960 . It's worth seeing the film alone to see how Joe E . Brown does that exaggerated windmill windup when he pitches . Funny as all get out , but in real life , a runner with the speed of Ernie Lombardi would have stolen two bases on him . Who's Ernie Lombardi , a Hall of Fame catcher with the Cincinnati Reds during this same period who was a legend for his lack of speed . For baseball fans , and baseball film fans , make sure you don't miss this .
What do Hawaii and Poland have in common ?	From the day Captain Cook arrived on those beautiful islands , Hawaii like Poland was cursed because of geography . Poland situated between two gigantic European powers just became a pawn in the eternal military and diplomatic chess game . Hawaii located where it is between North America and the Orient , when sea travel improved it was only a matter of time before the big powers came a-callin ' . And they came from both directions . Not shown in the time frame this film covers , but soon after , waves of Japanese and Chinese immigrants landed on the shore . Hawaii was coveted by all and America got it . Max Von Sydow plays a young New England minister out to bring the gospel to the heathen as he sees them and has been taught to see them . His church won't send him out to the south seas without a wife , lest he be tempted by sins of the flesh , so on a short acquaintance he marries Julie Andrews . She in turn has been home pining away for whaling captain Richard Harris . When Von Sydow and Andrews get to Hawaii over the course of their story Harris would reappear . Naturally its quite a culture shock for the New Englanders when they get to Hawaii . The film's story covers about a quarter of a century of Hawaiian history and the history of the changing attitudes of Andrews and Von Sydow . James Michener's original novel was of War and Peace duration and I suppose the final script was as best they could get it and cover what he was trying to convey . Despite the obvious racist feelings that Von Sydow has , he's a basically decent man who does do some positive good . His problem is that everything with him has to be filtered through the Bible . There's a lot of incest going on in Hawaii when he lands there . Reason being is that these are islands with a limited number of mating partners . Now incest is bad as we know because it does eventually weaken the gene pool . But Von Sydow hardly takes a scientific approach , how could he , he doesn't know it , he hasn't been taught it . Julie Andrews is a far cry from the perky Mary Poppins . She develops quite an attachment to Hawaii and its people and her approach with them is fundamentally different than her husband's . It's not a bad performance . Richard Harris is the lusty whaling captain of Andrews previous affections . I tend to think his part might have been edited down . In a recent biography of Harris , it was stated he and Andrews did not get along at all on the set . Harris in those days was a whole lot like the characters he played like this one in Hawaii . Of course when you've got Hawaii as a subject for a camera , the photography could not be anything but gorgeous . Hawaii covers a period not well known to most Americans except Hawaiians . And indeed they are Americans and have been since 1959 . I think people could learn something from this film even with the script flaws .
Alice Tries To Get A Fellow	Showing her versatility Katharine Hepburn gets her best part since her Oscar winning Morning Glory in the title role of Alice Adams . Alice and Eva Lovelace are worlds apart . Eva leaves her small town in search of fame and fortune in the theater . But poor Alice just wants to compete with the rest of the girls in her midwest Indiana small town that Booth Tarkington wrote about and land a real Prince Charming of a fellow . The Prince shows up at a dance she goes to in the person of Fred MacMurray . She's taken with him , but she's ashamed of her family's rather humble living condition . When MacMurray does come calling they have a family dinner that turns into a real disaster . Kate got one of her Oscar nominations for her role and MacMurray also gets one of his best early film parts as well . Kate's family is also nicely cast with Ann Shoemaker , Frank Albertson , and especially Fred Stone filling out the roles of mother , brother , and father . I do kind of feel sorry for Stone , he's really put upon by his family . In today's world Ann Shoemaker would have gone out and gotten a second job for another income , back then that would have been unthinkable . Alice Adams is a nice nostalgic trip by Booth Tarkington into the lives and mores of small town Indiana . This film was also George Stevens's first major film and he'd work with Kate again in Woman of the Year .
To Become A Painter	Back when I was 14 I saw A Dog of Flanders and viewing it today showed it is a fresh and appealing as I remember it . Young David Ladd is Nello Daas the aspiring young artist who lives with his elderly infirm grandfather , Donald Crisp . The two of them take in a cruelly treated dog and name it Patrasche after the dog that famed artist Peter Paul Rubens had . Life's pretty hard for the Daases , becomes doubly so after Crisp dies and young Nello can no longer care for Patrasche . Life also has a funny way of resolving things as well . Besides Ladd and Crisp the only other English speaking player in the film is Theodore Bikel . The continental locations in Belgium and the Netherlands which were one country back at the time this story takes place are well photographed . Ladd , Crisp , Bikel as the artist who recognizes the talent in Ladd give wonderful performances . There was another version of A Dog of Flanders done by RKO studios in the Thirties . It might be nice to see for comparison , but I doubt it matches this one . For this A Dog of Flanders is a timeless family classic .
The Psycho / Phantom of Union Station	Union Station is the locale of a kidnapping and in its labyrinth of tunnels that bare no accidental resemblance to the catacombs of Rome , the victim , Allene Roberts , is snatched and held captive by Lyle Bettger . Allene is the blind daughter of wealthy industrialist Herbert Hayes and since the crime happened on railroad property William Holden as the chief railroad detective has the case . Of course the LAPD is brought in in the person of Barry Fitzgerald . Holden is alerted to the kidnap by Nancy Olson who is traveling with Roberts . She's Hayes's secretary , but Bettger eludes them . It's a race against time to apprehend him before a payoff is made . This was Lyle Bettger's third film and the one where he first got notice . During his career , Mr . Bettger played some of the loveliest psychotics ever put on film . This one is one of his best and in his little hideaway where he keeps the terrified Ms . Roberts , Bettger bares no small resemblance to the Phantom of the Opera . Bettger really steals the film from the good guy stars . Union Station is one tightly constructed film with not a second of wasted footage in it . I wish it were out on VHS or DVD . Don't miss it if TCM ever broadcasts it .
Why Won't They Let Those Kids Grow Up ?	One of Jane Powell's more popular musicals was this turn of the last century classic , Two Weeks With Love . With music and atmosphere set in the Theodore Roosevelt era , Two Weeks With Love is good entertainment and marked Debbie Reynolds's breakthrough film . The Robinson family headed by Louis Calhern and Ann Harding are taking their annual two weeks outing in the Catskills , circa 1905 . Apparent to all , but Ann Harding , her daughter Jane Powell is developing a figure . However we've got a firm rule in this family , no corset until her 18th birthday . Another person stymied by the 18th birthday rule is Carleton Carpenter who is 17 and still in knickers . Father Clinton Sundberg owns the hotel that Robinsons stay at and will not give him long pants . Though Powell and Reynolds can still play as teenagers , Carleton Carpenter is positively ridiculous playing a 17 year old . He's quite a bit over 6 feet tall , but that's good in a way , because that's part of his gawkiness . Where in the name of the Deity were they finding knickers back in the first decade of the last century for someone over 6 feet tall beggars the imagination . There's a nice mixture of period , public domain music that MGM didn't have to shell out for the rights that Powell , Reynolds and Carpenter perform . Debbie Reynolds as Powell's younger sister sang Abba Dabba Honeymoon with Carpenter here and it became the hit and the song had a revival in popularity in 1950 . Powell's best number is in an imaginary sequence singing Come , Hero Mine from The Chocolate Soldier . Again , MGM owned the rights by dint of purchasing that property for their Chocolate Soldier film from nine years before where Rise Stevens and Nelson Eddy duet ed this one . Powell also dances a mean tango with Ricardo Montalban the object of her youthful crush and why she's so anxious to show her figure off . Ann Harding as a mom is nice and loving and doesn't have a clue . She dresses her boys , Tommy Rettig and Gary Gray , in Reynolds's and Powell's old hand me down nighties . Mom , get real . Two Weeks With Love is a nice trip down memory lane and back when it was released people actually did have memories of the turn of the last century .
Cagney the Cadet	James Cagney wrote in his autobiography that the only films he watched in his retirement years continually were the musical ones . He regretted he didn't do more of them . So do I , so should we all . While The West Point Story isn't the greatest film Cagney ever did at Warner Brothers , it's far from the worst and I find it charming and entertaining . This was his second film with Virginia Mayo and quite a contrast it was after White Heat . The lovely Ms . Mayo also got to show what a good dancer she was both with Cagney and Gene Nelson . The singing is carried in this film by Doris Day and Gordon MacRae . Usually folks don't think of Gordon MacRae as Doris's most frequent leading man , but in fact he did four films with her . He had a wonderful baritone voice and he could easily adapt to light musical fare like The West Point Story or do operetta like The Desert Song which he did a few years later . It's too bad for MacRae that he did not come along 20 years earlier and could have done a few of those operettas the way Nelson Eddy did . Gene Nelson was a fine dancer who when musicals went out of vogue , turned to directing . Another talented performer who came along a little too late . He never got the credit for being the fine dancer he was . The plot is simple , James Cagney and Virginia Mayo once a good pair of top choreographers are reduced to seedy nightclub work . Cagney gets an opportunity to go to West Point to help put on the annual 100th night show the graduating class does . The catch is he has to try to lure Gordon MacRae to the bright lights of Broadway for his producer uncle Roland Winters . From there the plot evolves . And it's a nice story with good musical numbers even though Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn got no hits out of the score . Still the songs are well integrated into the plot . I think people will enjoy watching The West Point Story .
Battling the Osama Bin-Laden of his day	American screen icon Charlton Heston heads an otherwise all British cast in this recreation of the battle of Khartoum in early 1885 . Heston plays General Charles Gordon known to the British public as Chinese Gordon for his years of service in the Orient before arriving in the Middle East . Gordon never married , devoted his entire life to two things , Christianity and the military . He was an idealist and he saw the expansion of British power in Africa as a leavening civilizing influence among the heathen . Unfortunately Heston was faced with an opponent who was as fanatically religious in his own way as Heston was . Laurence Olivier used the same makeup and accent from Othello to play Muhammed Ahmed , the self styled Mahdi who gathered an army and was busy conquering the Sudan and laying waste to those who didn't think of him as an Islamic Messiah . The Prime minister of the UK at the time was William Gladstone who did not want any British commitment any more than was necessary to defend the new Suez Canal which his predecessor Benjamin Disraeli had acquired after the French company that built it went belly up . Gordon was ordered to go to Khartoum and get the Egyptians and Europeans out of there . But Gordon had other ideas , seeing himself as the either the victor in an apocalyptic clash with Islam or a martyr to his faith . Either way that man had a spectacular finish for his career planned . He stays and organizes a defense of Khartoum and wages a media campaign to get the British public on his side . I hope all this sounds familiar because it should . Some valuable lessons could be learned by today's political strategists of several nations . Charlton Heston does a very good job in portraying Gordon on all levels of his personality . His Gordon is idealistic and shrewd and also sometimes a bit of a fathead as well . There's a scene where Gordon goes with Sir Evelyn Baring the British viceroy in Egypt played by Alexander Knox to visit a former big shot in the Sudan played by Pakistani actor Zia Moyheddin . Mind you Gordon a few years back had executed Moyheddin's son for slave trading . Now he thinks he can cut a deal with him . This was his first option in bringing order back to the Sudan . Moyheddin tells him to take his offer and stick it where the sun doesn't shine . In watching that I was thinking of George Bush summoning Saddam Hussein to the White House saying all was forgiven , could he please go back and help get a handle on Iraq . Ralph Richardson is Gladstone and he's pretty much as I have conceived Gladstone . Michael Hordern as Foreign Secretary Lord Granville and Nigel Green as General Garnet Wolesley are also true to historical type . Richard Johnson played Gordon's aide Colonel John Stewart and Charlton Heston says that this was the start of a long friendship with Johnson . He and Heston did many joint projects on film and on stage after Khartoum . The movie is magnificently filmed , should be seen in theaters really or in letterbox for television . The Mahdi and Gordon never met , just like Mary Stuart and Elizabeth Tudor never met , but it had to be for dramatic effect . No one knows exactly what happened in Khartoum , but it could have happened as the film portrays it . See it for yourself and judge if you think it could be accurate .
" The Footprints Of A Gigantic Hound "	Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee took a break from their usual horror cycle at Hammer Films to do the most famous of the Arthur Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes series , The Hound Of The Baskervilles . It's not as big a leap as one might think because an integral part of the plot has Sherlock Holmes investigating a legendary hound from hell that has cursed the Baskerville family for many generations . Which brings us to the last of the Baskervilles , a rakish sort of fellow named Henry Baskerville played in the best lord of the manor style by Christopher Lee . He's not the usual Lee like villain , but he is a man to the manor born and conscious of all the privileges attached therein . Peter Cushing and Andre Morrell play Holmes and Watson who are brought in to the case after some mysterious deaths that show signs of a brutal animal attack . The legend of the Hound Of The Baskervilles would dampen normal investigations , but we're dealing with Sherlock Holmes and Sherlock Holmes only deals in facts . I'm surprised Cushing did not do more Sherlock Holmes films , he fit quite comfortably in the part and Andre Morrell was not reduced to comic relief the way Nigel Bruce was earlier on as Doctor Watson . It took him 25 years , but Cushing did get a second crack at Holmes in a TV film , The Masks of Death , his next to last film . There's a good performance by Marla Landi as Cecile , the half gypsy woman who gets Christopher Lee's mojo going . She's part of what constitutes the Baskerville Estate and he's exercising his prerogatives with her . Cushing and Morrell fit in nicely the roles that Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce are so identified with and Lee is far more of what Conan Doyle had in mind than nice guy Richard Greene was in the RAthbone / Bruce version . That's elementary .
A Labour Of Love	I waited until I watched Private's Progress to get a feel for these characters from where they originated before writing about I'm All Right Jack . The only question was how did at least two of the repeating characters get out of the jackpot they were left in the previous film in order to be characters here . By all rights Dennis Price and Richard Attenborough should have been doing some time in Her Majesty's jail . Price and Attenborough , along with Terry-Thomas and Ian Carmichael repeat their characters from Private's Progress . World War II is over and somehow everybody's back to where they were before , Price and Attenborough up to some nefarious scheme , Ian Carmichael still a polished , but mindless upper class twit who can't even fit in at university and Terry-Thomas just being Terry-Thomas . Carmichael is almost Stan Laurel like in his innocence about all that goes on around him . He joins the working class work force and he muddles into a situation that has the potential to destroy labor / management relations built up from World War II and the Labour government that took power . Especially if radical union leader Peter Sellers has his way , who joins this cast and fits right into the fun . A lot of the same themes are repeated from the Alec Guinness classic The Man In The White Suit and really both ought to be seen back to back unless one wants to view I'm All Right Jack with Private's Progress . Either way it's a fun filled evening you're in store for .
" To Sing My Love Songs To "	Twenty Million Sweethearts is out of that era of wonderful musical entertainment that Warner Brothers did the very best of in the Thirties . It's a musical about radio during that quarter of a century when it was the most popular entertainment medium . Dick Powell and Ginger Rogers play a pair of young hopefuls eager to break into radio and Pat O'Brien is Powell's discoverer / manager whose machinations get Powell in the door and almost out of the industry before he's started . O'Brien played this part so often in those years he could have phoned in the performance , but it's what you expect of him . He finds Powell as a singing waiter doing a boffo version of The Man On The Flying Trapeze , a very popular song in 1934 with it getting a prominent place in It Happened One Night . Pat may be a little too sharp for his own good , but he does know talent and he brings him to radio station owner Grant Mitchell and sponsor Joseph Cawthorn . They've got a girl singer in Ginger Rogers already , but Ginger and Dick hit it off . But there are complications and they make up the rest of this film . Harry Warren and Al Dubin wrote most of the original score for this film and the best song in the film is one of my personal favorite Dick Powell number , I'll String Along With You . It's sung both solo and as a duet with Rogers . Powell recorded it and Fair and Warmer for Brunswick records and it enjoyed a good sale during the Depression . It was recycled for Doris Day for her film My Dream Is Your's where it's done as a lullaby to her small son . But when you hear Powell do it , you will hear him at his best as a singer . Interestingly enough Doris's film is also about the radio industry . Powell also does a nice scat version with the Mills Brothers of Out For No Good which is also done by Rogers as a solo . Twenty Million Sweethearts was done by Ginger on loan out from RKO where she had just signed a long term contract . She had just done Flying Down To Rio , her first with Fred Astaire . Previously she had worked with Powell though not opposite him in 42nd Street and Golddiggers of 1933 . Jack Warner thought they'd make a good team together and they did make some beautiful music and beautiful box office . But she made even bigger box office with Flying Down To Rio over at RKO with Astaire and RKO wasn't about to give her up . So the screen team of Powell and Rogers never made another film . Take note of the performance of Allen Jenkins as the grouchy host of a kid's radio program , he's got some very nice lines . When you hear talk of a Hooper rating , back in the day that referred to the barometer of popularity , like the Nielsen is for today's television . I liked hearing the Radio Rogues , only hearing them mind you , at the beginning of the movie where you hear them do their imitations of the current radio stars . They had appeared in Bing Crosby's We're Not Dressing earlier in the year at Paramount and now that they were not in his film , his imitation is added to their repertoire . Twenty Million Sweethearts is charming and entertaining with a nice cast going through their usual paces on screen . It may not be the best film ever made about radio , but until the day that one comes along , I'll string along with Twenty Million Sweethearts .
A Knave Certainly , A Traitor Very Likely	Concealed Enemies is a fine PBS docudrama about the Alger Hiss case and the first nationwide notice of a freshman Republican Congressman from California named Richard M . Nixon . Had it not been for the Hiss case and the surrounding publicity , Nixon said himself he probably would never have run for president . He might very well have remained one of many obscure members of Congress who history has forgotten . On the other hand , knowing Nixon if the Hiss case had never happened , he would have found another way to rise . If there was a poster boy for the New Deal it was Alger Hiss who served throughout the Roosevelt Administration in various capacities in the Agriculture , Justice , and State Department . By 1945 he was part of the delegation with FDR at Yalta , he was also part of the American delegation at the opening of the United Nations which he work0ed to found . When accusations from Whittaker Chambers came about his being a Communist , Hiss had been chosen as President of the Carnegie Endowment for World Peace . Chambers was an editor at Time Magazine who made the accusation in testimony before the House Un American Activities Committee of which Nixon was a member . He was not judged to be a creditable witness , changing parts of his story several times . When Hiss appeared he did not claim the Fifth Amendment which he could have , but issued a firm denial that he was not a Communist and in fact never even knew this Chambers person despite the fact that Chambers claimed they were in the same Communist cell and the families were social with each other . And that's where he made his big mistake because whether Hiss was a spy or not and he still has his supporters on that question , he plain out lied in saying he never knew Chambers . One ' I don't recall ' or ' my memory is vague ' and he would have been home free . It was established beyond question that Chambers knew him back in the day . That was the perjury that he was convicted on after two trials . Chambers is played by a profusely sweating John Harkins capturing the real Chambers as he gave his testimony at HUAC . You can see why Chambers was not considered a creditable witness . The contrast is Alger Hiss striped pants and all played by a confident Edward Herrman . Looking every inch the elegant diplomat , he defended himself with a clarity and sincerity that no doubt served him well in negotiations . The problem is he overdid and did himself in . The one member on the committee who did believe Chambers after a while was Peter Riegert as young Nixon . Oddly enough both Nixon and Hiss came from poor backgrounds , Hiss lost a father , brother , and sister , Nixon lost two brothers as kids . Both were bright kids who won scholarships in academics . And yet they went opposite directions politically and if you believe it , Alger Hiss went a lot further to the left than he dare admit . Riegert is great as Nixon , you can see the genesis of the people who Anthony Hopkins and Frank Langella later played in their maturity . Hopefully PBS will either show this film again or get it out on DVD and / or VHS and soon .
" When You Work For Mother Nature , You Get Paid By Father Time "	Summer Stock was the third and last pairing of Gene Kelly and Judy Garland by MGM . It's sad to think that there were no others because of Judy's personal problems . She would have a breakdown and would not be before the cameras again until four year later with A Star Is Born . Judy barely got through Summer Stock . She had been replaced in Annie Get Your Gun by Betty Hutton and had not started Royal Wedding yet , but was also replaced there by Jane Powell . It was Gene Kelly's patience with her that got her through this film . Interesting also because Kelly was not known as the world's most patient man when working . It was worth it because Summer Stock contains some of Judy's best musical moments . Most of the score was written by Harry Warren and Mack Gordon , but someone was inspired at MGM to give Judy Get Happy by Harold Arlen and Ted Koehler . That is half of the team that wrote Over the Rainbow for her . Get Happy became another song identified with Judy Garland the rest of her life and into her legend . But a favorite of mine is Howdy Neighbor . I do so love how that number is staged with Judy riding on a tractor through the fields and on the road near her farm . Catch her at the very end of the song and you can visibly see her breathing heavy . She was obviously under a strain doing this number and in fact the whole film . Kelly doesn't do too bad either with a song that became identified with him , You Wonderful You . I still remember him singing it to Miss Piggy when guesting on the Muppets . Summer Stock is another variation on a backstage romance and the discovery of hidden talent . Judy's sister Gloria DeHaven invites the cast and crew of her show to stay at their farm in Connecticut . But Judy's not happy with it . Of course Kelly charms her and discovers along the way who has the real talent in the family . The film holds up well today and the talent of Judy Garland and Gene Kelly is absolutely eternal .
Fighting The Christmas Tree Cartel	The title of this film is completely misleading . Ain't nobody robbing from the poor to give to the rich in this Roy Rogers western . Instead Roy plays a U . S . Forestry Inspector ( they never say Forest Ranger because Roy is not in the regulation Smoky the Bear outfit ) who is guarding the evergreen forests and preventing those who want to cut those trees down before its time at Christmas season . Oldtime movie star Jack Holt plays himself and he's got a lot of evergreens on his land which adjoins the big spread of tycoon Emory Parnell . Parnell wants to corner the Christmas tree market while Holt wants to give his trees away almost at cost and probably get a nice tax write-off thought that isn't mentioned . Parnell has a daughter , Penny Edwards , who goes down to look after Dad's interests , but when Roy sings a few songs , she melts . Parnell goes down himself and finds his foreman Clifton Young working a whole racket unto himself to cheat both Holt and Parnell . You might remember Young as the skel who tries to blackmail Humphrey Bogart in Dark Passage . He's just as much a skunk in Trail of Robin Hood . He died tragically however the following year in a hotel fire , the same year as Jack Holt . Gordon Jones , later Mike the Cop on the Abbott and Costello show , did a few films with Roy as an amiable oaf of a sidekick named Splinters at this time . He has a little sister in this film , Carol Nugent , who is quite the tomboy and constantly showing Jones up . It turns out Roy needs a lot of help in this film and he gets it from a whole flock of cowboy heroes of several generations . Herbert J . Yates of Republic got Monte Hale , Rex Allen , Rocky Lane , and Ray Corrigan who were all with his studio and a few from past generations like Kermit Maynard , Tom Keene , Tom Tyler , and William Farnum all pitched in to help old friend Holt rout the bag guys . I kind of liked seeing all these guys on the screen together as wildly improbable though it was . Then again it was B western from Republic so it can only go one way . We've seen many a racket operate in the west , but cornering the Christmas Tree trade . How low can you sink ?
Bearding	It's too bad that director Mitchell Leisen wasn't working today and making Take A Letter Darling . If he did there would be a whole lot more explicit gender bending in this one . Not that this film isn't good . In fact it's witty and bright and shows Rosalind Russell at her best . In her autobiography Russell describes this film as the first in her career woman roles . I'm supposing she isn't counting His Girl Friday , I guess Russell thought that Hildy Johnson had a job as a reporter as opposed to a career . After all she was trying all through the film to get away on her elopement and honeymoon with Ralph Bellamy . But in Take A Letter Darling , Russell is a partner with Robert Benchley in an advertising agency . She can't keep a secretary and for good reason , she's got some specific night work requirements for a secretary and she demands the male gender as requirement number one . In the gay world that Mitchell Leisen was part of , it's called hiring a beard . So many did it back in the day when the closet ruled . Many of the gay stars were always paired with public female dates lest there be any whispers about their sexuality . I'm sure it was the same in the business world . Russell hires free spirited artist Fred MacMurray to squire her around and keep jealous wives at bay and to deter husbands from getting any ideas about some after office frolicking . In fact she sends MacMurray out to a favorite men's shop of hers where she gets him outfitted the same way Gloria Swanson took care of William Holden in Sunset Boulevard . In real life Russell would have hired a gay man for her purposes , but since the mere mention of gay was out of the question , the heterosexist MacMurray is hired . They double team husband and wife George Reed and Margaret Hayes to land one account . But an even bigger challenge presents itself with brother and sister tobacco heirs , Macdonald Carey and Constance Moore . Carey's been married four times already and Moore is a mint julep sucking southern belle who looks at MacMurray like a Virginia ham . Take A Letter Darling holds up very well today although a knowledge of the mores of the times would certainly help younger viewers . This is definitely a film that could stand a remake , a more honest and explicit film about the practice of bearding .
Your Presence Is Requested With Top Hat , White Tie , and Tails	Tales of Manhattan follows the story of a formal cutaway coat as it passes from owner to owner and the consequences to all that come into possession . The original owner , Charles Boyer , is an actor having an affair with Rita Hayworth and husband Thomas Mitchell finds out about it with some dire consequences for Boyer . Is it cursed , well the stories of the various owners would range the gamut of circumstances . All the episodes are pretty good quality although if Tales of Manhattan were made today the last one about the southern sharecroppers with Paul Robeson and Ethel Waters and a whole bunch of black players would be done a lot different now . For years a story with W . C . Fields and Margaret Dumont with Phil Silvers in it was cut from the original release . It's now restored to Tales of Manhattan and I'm not sure why it was done . It's a very funny episode in which Fields gets the cutaway to use in delivering a temperance lecture to Margaret Dumont and friends . Ms . Dumont proves to be just as good a foil for Fields as she was for the Brothers Marx . Especially when the coconut milk being served is spiked with some spirits . Fields , one of the celebrated inebriates of show business , reveled in his identity and that temperance lecture was a routine he did going back to his vaudeville days . We should be thankful it was preserved and restored . The other comic episode involved Cesar Romero palming off the tails on Henry Fonda who is to be best man at his wedding to Ginger Rogers . He put a love letter from another woman in the pocket and Rogers finds it . Romero has Fonda claim the cutaway was his and the contents thereof . It works only too well . Edward G . Robinson has a nice episode as a disbarred lawyer living in a mission shelter who uses the cutaway to go to a class reunion where he and his former classmates get a lesson in humility . The other episode concerns how the tails nearly undid Charles Laughton's big break in the music world . Elsa Lanchester who is playing his wife here , buys the tails for her husband who is a piano player in a honky tonk dive . But Laughton is a serious composer and with a certain amount of wile and chutzpah he gets to see an Arturo Toscanini type conductor , Victor Francen . Francen loves Laughton's concerto and arranges to have him conduct it . Sad to say that the cutaway is to small and starts tearing as the composer is conducting . The gales of laughter threaten to steal Laughton's big moment , but Francen who was a pretty egocentric character steps up and finishes the concerto and the applause is for him and Laughton . This particular episode had minimal dialog , but Charles Laughton's closeups run the whole gamut of emotions from resignation to triumph to despair and back to triumph again . The film is from French director Julian Duvivier who was in exile in America while the Nazis occupied his country . It probably could be remade , but formal cutaways just aren't worn any more .
The Drowned Wife	Perry Mason : The Case of the Lady in the Lake finds America's most formidable defense attorney taking on David Hasselhoff as a client who is being accused of the murder of his wife . Hasselhoff is a retired tennis player now just hanging on in the tennis circles and is thought to have just married wife Doran Clark for her money . Everyone that is but family attorney John Ireland who retains Perry on behalf of Hasselhoff . There's another part to this story , when they were teenagers Clark and her sister were kidnapped and thrown in the lake by the suspect just before a shootout with the local sheriff and his posse . The suspect was killed , the sister drowned and her body never recovered , and Clark was traumatized . It took her years to resume a normal life . And now her body is thought to be in the same lake . The cases are indeed connected in a complicated scheme worked out by the murderer and an accomplice . The ending is a bit of a variation on the Perry Mason format . But Mason fans can rest assured that Hasselhoff didn't kill his wife . Perry just doesn't defend the guilty . With an intricate twist in the plot and outcome , The Case of the Lady in the Lake is one of the better Mason films . Good , but don't expect Raymond Chandler either .
Ya Got Trouble , Right Here In Gatlin City	Maybe if those kids in Gatlin , Nebraska had gotten a visit from Professor Harold Hill and a boys band out of it , maybe they might not have killed all their parents . This Stephen King view of the mid-west sure makes one nostalgic for The Music Man . It's one strange place that married couple Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton have come on their cross country journey . It reminded me of driving through Pennsylvania and the Amish country where you cannot get off the Pennsylvania Turnpike for ages , but on either side of the roads , nothing but woods and on the overpasses , Amish carts . Here it's nothing but corn and when Peter Horton thinks he's hit a child on the road he goes for help and there's none . The town has been taken over by the devil himself working his evil through a young child preacher played by John Franklin . All the adults have been killed and the children are his disciples . Of course some of the older ones are reaching puberty and the guy who was the high school bully Courtney Gains chafes under Franklin's leadership . He tries a palace coup d'etat , something along the lines of what old Lucifer himself did in heaven and everybody pays . Children of the Corn is a good adaption of the Stephen King novel , it will please his legion of fans and maybe convert a few others .
Too Beautiful For Words	Maybe Wake Up and Dream is not that . But that is the title of one of three songs Russ Columbo both sung and had a hand in writing for this film that was to launch his career as a musical film star with Universal Pictures . In his other feature film lead , Broadway Through a Keyhole , Columbo was not called on to act much , but sing beautifully . He does again here , but also begins to show traces of a nice film personality . No doubt he would have been a fine romantic lead . Russ , together with June Knight and Roger Pryor are a vaudeville trio act where Russ is clearly the lead and the talented one . The film is a story of their misadventures to get to stardom for at least one of them and the romantic triangle that was complicating things . At the time Wake Up and Dream was being shot Columbo was doing a fifteen minute weekly radio show with Hollywood columnist Jimmy Fidler . I happen to have a bootleg recording of that broadcast where Fidler plugs his co-star's upcoming film . It was in July of 1934 and on September 2 , 1934 , Russ Columbo was shot accidentally with an antique dueling pistol by friend and companion Lansing Brown . Even more ironically on August 31 , 1934 Columbo entered a recording studio for the first time in a year and a half . He had a dispute with RCA Victor which kept him contractually from recording anything . He did four sides in that session , the three songs from Wake Up and Dream : Too Beautiful for Words , Let's Pretend There's A Moon , and When You're In Love together with I See Two Lovers from the Rudy Vallee / Helen Morgan film , Sweet Music . This was to be the start of a long term deal with Brunswick Records who had just lost the services of Bing Crosby who had gone to that new company Decca , that year . As you can see this man's career was entering into high gear . In fact Universal planned to star him in what would be their big budget musical film , Showboat as Gaylord Ravenal . Eventually of course Allan Jones played the part opposite Irene Dunne . Jones was great in the role , but Russ would have made a fine Ravenal . Wake Up and Dream also features Henry Armetta as Columbo's foster father who is being chased by lovesick fortune teller Catherine Doucet . They do a fine obbligato version of When You're In Love after Columbo and June Knight sing it as a duet . When Russ Columbo died before the film was released , Universal of course took a great loss . Columbo was intended to be their musical star opposite Bing Crosby at Paramount or Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers at RKO or even Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald at MGM or Dick Powell and Ruby Keeler at Warner Brothers . Universal had to wait a few more years before getting a box office bankable musical performer in Deanna Durbin . It was a great loss monetarily for Universal Pictures , but an even bigger loss to cinema that Russ Columbo died so tragically at the age of 26 . I think you'll agree with me if you ever see Wake Up and Dream .
Haul Out the Bathtowels	Madame X is one of the great soap opera films of all time , popular back in the day , but by the sixties that genre had really run its course . But it is given one handsomely mounted production by Ross Hunter who was the last great Hollywood producer of such drama . This film has a long pedigree . It is based on a play by Alexandre Bisson entitled La Femme X and in France it has been filmed quite a few times . In America Madame X was filmed twice . The original film was an early talkie and won an Oscar nomination for its star Ruth Chatterton . But that one was essentially a photographed stage play . Come 1966 if nothing else Ross Hunter made this film move . All kinds of location shooting done here , from Fairfield County , Connecticut to Switzerland , to Mexico and back to New York . It's the 20 year saga of Holly Anderson who paid big time for a bad mistake . Lana Turner played Anderson who when we meet here has just married Clayton Anderson from a very old line WASP family with a pedigree back to the pilgrims . John Forsythe is Clayton and in her last film , Constance Bennett is his mother Estelle . They have a son , but Forsythe's political career takes him away for long stretches and she begins an affair with playboy Ricardo Montalban . When Forsythe returns , Turner attempts to break it off with Montalban , but Montalban won't hear of it . During a struggle Montalban falls down a flight of stairs and is killed . Bennett who's been keeping tabs on this whole business confronts Turner and tells her to fake her death and leave before scandal ruins the good Anderson name which now includes another generation . For the sake of her husband and son , Turner sacrifices and leaves . The rest of the film is her wanderings until she gets involved with a petty crook played by Burgess Meredith and she kills him . She signs a written confession with an X hence the title . I won't tell the rest but make sure the bathtowel is handy while watching this film . Lana Turner who knew plenty about scandal and sacrifice in her life , does pretty well by this role . The rest of the players are in support of her , almost in awe . By this time soap opera had found its way on to the small screen , both in the afternoon and evening prime time . Films like Madame X just didn't do that well any more at the box office . A pity too , because you won't forget Turner's climatic scene with her grown son , played by Keir Dullea .
Guarding An Inheritance	Sunset Serenade finds Roy Rogers and the Sons of the Pioneers lending a hand to Helen Parrish who is the guardian of an infant who inherits a ranch . Joan Woodbury was the housekeeper in the Gale Sondergaard tradition to the previous owner and she's disappointed that she got left out of the will . Onslow Stevens is a neighbor who had designs on the place and he conspires with Woodbury to get the place by fair means or foul . Roy gets quite a few cowboy ballads to warble and in one sequence after a saloon brawl with Stevens and his chief henchman Roy Barcroft , Gabby Hayes takes the lead as the Sons of the Pioneers accompany him in that delightful western ballad Mavourneen O'Shea . Since Gabby got his start in vaudeville , this was probably something he did back in the day . Rule of thumb , kids watching cowboy matinées can always tell who the bad girl is if she lights up a cigarette . Since Woodbury does it in the first five minutes , we already know all we need . Sunset Serenade has some good action moments in it , especially when Roy and Trigger save cattle buyer Frank M . Thomas from a flash flood . Add to that an avalanche that starts a cattle stampede , you can be sure the kids loved it back in the day . So did a few grownups , I'm sure .
Roz Joins The Army	Never Wave At A WAC is the apparently weird combination of Buck Privates and Woman of the Year . The odd thing about it is that it actually works and still will get a few laughs from today's audience . This might have been a script offered to Katharine Hepburn , but Hepburn never really got as physical in her comedy films as Rosalind Russell does here . Still the part of socialite daughter of a United States Senator would normally have been something Hepburn might have done . Yet Russell makes the part all her own . Russell's a bit of a snob and her father Charles Dingle well knows it . During a party where her ex-husband , Paul Douglas , crashes she meets another socialite friend who has just got a commission in the Woman's Army Corps . Russell's current boyfriend is another commissioned officer from public relations , William Ching , borrowed from an Ad agency . He's been assigned to NATO headquarters in Paris . Of course dear old dad will pull some strings and make her an officer and a lady . Except Charles Dingle doesn't want to do it . He says let her in as a buck private and it takes a bit of getting used to before Russell realizes she's not a VIP on the base . And when Douglas who is a scientist doing work for the army arrives on her base the fun really starts . Roz has some good physical scenes , check out the one where she and other WACS are part of a Douglas experiment in arctic conditions . They're not as physical as the ones in Private Benjamin , still Russell gets ample opportunity to display her comic timing . There's also a nice subplot involving Marie Wilson , a stripper who joins the WACs and falls for Sergeant Leif Erickson . Charles Dingle is always one of my favorite character actors and it was really nice to see him as a good guy for a change . He's either a nasty villain like in Edge of Darkness or he's a pompous horse's rear like in Welcome Stranger . He's neither in this film , just a nice down to earth man who happens to be a United States Senator and not pleased with the snobbish ways of his daughter . Obviously because he believed in getting more women in the Armed Services , the then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Omar N . Bradley made a guest appearance as himself . He has a moment when calls about Russell's status reach his ears and he refers them to his good friend Senator Dingle who's on a fishing trip . Never Wave At A WAC though eclipsed somewhat for the current past two generations by Private Benjamin still has a lot of laughs . And it's a great introduction to one of the best and most versatile stars from the age of studio Hollywood , Rosalind Russell .
How Charley Succeeds	It Happened One Day finds young Charley Chase , a veritable Sammy Glick of the Thirties , getting hired by a firm headed by Oscar Apfel . Two problems with that , Apfel had some unpleasant run ins with the bumptious Chase . Chase even makes an offhanded comment about marrying the boss's daughter and the other employees immediately take it in their minds to put the upstart in his place . Popular Chase leading lady Betty Mack is Apfel's daughter and on a train trip back from Long Beach the two of them meet and do fall for each other . Life does take some funny turns . Chase was perfectly cast as a bumptious type . Thirty years later I could have seen him doing How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying . This was one short which depended more on character than gags for laughs and Chase succeeded admirably .
Charley Loses His Good Humor	I'll Take Vanilla refers to young Tommy Bond's preference for ice cream flavor and the spoiled young man is driving his aunt Betty Mack to her wit's end trying to please him while she's babysitting . Into their lives drives Charley Chase with his ice cream truck and while the tow of them hit it off , the hapless Charley gets sucked into their lives as another babysitter while Mack goes off to get a prescription filled . While Charley is babysitting Tommy he happens to swallow a whistle which gives his voice a rather peculiar quality that's good for several laughs . When Mack doesn't come back , they go off in Charley's truck looking for her . But when she does come back , she panics when she finds Chase and Tommy not home and calls the cop . The cop she gets is Harry Bowen who must have graduated from The Police Academy back in the day and might have been David Graf's great grandfather . Bowen gets almost as many laughs as Chase does in their scenes together . It was not a good day for Charley Chase on his ice cream route that day , but it was a great day for the Hal Roach studio when they turned out a very good comedy short .
Updating a classic	I'm sure that the reason for Billy Wilder to do a remake of The Front Page is the fact that around the time this was made , politicians running for office on ' law and order ' platforms was suddenly coming into vogue . The chief example among these was Richard Nixon and we all know what happened to him in 1974 . Seemed like a case of perfect timing to me . The original material that Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur wrote in the Twenties was perfect for Billy Wilder's cynical mind . Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau were born to play the roles of Hildy Johnson and Walter Burns . Of course other things now that the Code was lifted could also be made more explicit . David Wayne's character of Benzinger is quite openly gay in the film . It's an interesting characterization he does . Of course he's the butt of all the jokes in the pressroom , but I thought it rather funny when at the end when title cards show what happened to all the principal characters , he was the only one with a happily ever after ending . He settled down with a life partner and ran an antique store . A rather subtle comment on the sanctity of heterosexual marriage decades before gay marriage was an issue . Carol Burnett was a big fan of Billy Wilder and it is mentioned in a recent biography of Wilder that she wanted very much to be in one of his films . Carol got her wish and did very well as Molly the prostitute who befriends poor Earl Williams , the anarchist who accidentally killed a policeman and is sentenced to be hung . Austin Pendleton is all right as Williams , but no one ever played the role quite like John Qualen in His Girl Friday . Qualen had a patent on those little men up against the system parts . Speaking of His Girl Friday , my favorite part in all versions of The Front Page is that of the messenger from the governor carrying Earl Williams reprieve . No one will ever top Billy Gilbert in His Girl Friday though Paul Benedict of The Jeffersons gives a good account of himself as well . Sad to say that demagogic politicians who bray about law and order are still among us . Maybe it's time for another remake of The Front Page .
A Nice Entertaining Western	I'm not sure , but has there ever been a film made with a less than sympathetic treatment of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police ? The Mounties have done very well cinema wise and Pony Soldier is not setting any new patterns . It doesn't have to because it's a very entertaining film . The plot has a lot of similarities to Broken Arrow which 20th Century Fox also produced . Tyrone Power is playing Constable Duncan MacDonald , newly arrived at Fort Walsh and sent out on a mission to negotiate a peace with Cree Indians who've left their reserve and tangled with U . S . Cavalry south of the border . On the way back they've taken two white prisoners in a raid and Power is looking to get them back . One is Penny Edwards who catches the eye of Cameron Mitchell and he decides she'd make a good squaw for his little brother . The other is Robert Horton who's an escaped outlaw . So intrepid Mountie Power along with his Indian guide Thomas Gomez go to the camp of the Crees . Gomez is a most reluctant guide , in fact he's kind of blackmailed into making the journey . Thomas Gomez is an underrated and capable actor who deadpans some very funny lines . Two others in the cast really make this work . Little Anthony Numkena plays the Cree Indian boy who Power adopts and that turns out to be a great negotiating technique . But their affection is genuine and the scenes between Power and Numkena are some of the best in the film . Stuart Randall plays the Cree Chief Standing Bear . His portrayal is very similar to Jeff Chandler's more heralded portrayal of Cochise in Broken Arrow . In fact the Indians are not stereotyped , they are three dimensional characters here . Randall does a fine job as Standing Bear , negotiating with Power and having to contend with militants in his own camp led by Cameron Mitchell . Since Jeff Chandler had already broken the same ground with Cochise , Randall's performance has been overlooked , unfortunately so for him . Tyrone Power is a whole cloth hero here and does a fine job . One of the things that Americans don't appreciate is that the Mounties were there in large measure to protect the native Indians from white depredation . Canadians have always loved contrasting that to how the U . S . Cavalry treated the native population . Our cavalry was there on the settler's behalf . The contrast is certainly a matter of historical record , but I wonder if Canada had seen the immigration westward that America did , would their Mounties have been more like our blue coats .
" So Dream On For Love Is Bound To See Us Through "	Not only did Dick Powell get a hit film from Warner Brothers with Happiness Ahead , but he got a radio theme song as long as he was concentrating on musicals . Breaking tradition somewhat , the film opens with Powell singing the title song Happiness Ahead . For the next several years until Powell was doing the dramatic parts he wanted , the song Happiness Ahead served as his theme song in the same way that Where The Blue Of The Night was Bing Crosby's theme . But the film didn't end here . Happiness Ahead is a typical Depression Era film with either a poor shop girl falling for some young millionaire playboy or in this case the other way around . Josephine Hutchinson plays the young débutante who is bored to tears with her society peers and goes out with maid Ruth Donnelly and chauffeur Allen Jenkins one night . At a night club she meets Dick Powell who charms her with a couple of other songs Beauty Must Be Loved and Pop Goes Your Heart . He's a dispatcher for a window washing company and looking to form a company of his own with pal Frank McHugh . Powell doesn't know about Josephine's big bucks and she wants to keep it that way for the moment , but maybe help him on the sly . Of course this leads to all kinds of complications , business and romantic , but in true Hollywood style it all gets resolved in the end . One role I found especially interesting is that of Russell Hicks who plays a grafting politician who has the necessary contacts to get Powell the jobs he needs . We pay him off first before anything else happens . It was an extremely true and insightful role coming from a film that the workingman's studio of Warner Brothers made . John Halliday also has a good part as Hutchinson's father . He made it the hard way himself and secretly appreciates what Josephine wants in a man . So if you like Dick Powell the singer as well as Dick Powell the hardboiled noir star , Happiness Ahead will make you very happy indeed .
Dodsworth With A Comedy Twist	Known primarily today as the debut film of Robert Taylor , Handy Andy was one of Will Rogers's typical roles as small-town druggist and cracker-barrel philosopher . But he's facing a Dodsworth like midlife crisis with wife Peggy Wood . Unlike Dodsworth , Handy Andy is played strictly for laughs . Rogers is a man in love with his life , his profession , and his wife and probably in that order . Peggy Wood as his wife wants him to retire and take it easy and towards that end she's encouraging a relationship with drugstore chain owner Paul Harvey and is even practically throwing Harvey's son Frank Melton and her daughter Mary Carlisle together . Mary however prefers town doctor Roger Imhoff's son , Robert Taylor . The film comes close to the edge of the plot of Dodsworth when on a trip to New Orleans for Mardi Gras that Rogers has to be dragged to , kicking and screaming , Wood starts falling for the charms of gigolo Gregory Gaye . Will does a Tarzan act to rescue his woman caveman style and he's pretty funny . Taylor doesn't have much to do , but look good and be in solid support of Rogers and his homespun view of life . In the Films of Robert Taylor Citadel film series , Taylor said that Rogers was nothing , but kindness itself and very supportive of a new kid just starting in the picture business . Handy Andy is a good way to be introduced to that American institution known as Will Rogers . Would we had someone of his common sense and common touch today .
The Eyes Of Texas Are Upon You	As his film career slowed down , martial arts action hero Chuck Norris decided for a weekly television series and for nine years he had a pretty good one . It certainly helped the Texas film industry and kept employed a lot of thespian and backstage talent from the Lone Star State . The title role in Walker , Texas Ranger was played by Chuck Norris as Cordell Walker , a half Cherokee Indian Vietnam veteran who witnessed his parents being killed by racist thugs and was then raised on the Cherokee reservation by his Uncle Ray , played in the first two seasons by Floyd Crow Westerman . Indian , Vietnam Veteran , Texas Ranger , Martial Artist , all those elements got woven into any and all the episodes of the series . Walker was ably assisted by Clarence Gilyard , fresh from the Matlock series , as a former Dallas Cowboys football star . One thing I swear I never got , injuries cut short his football career , but still he passed the Texas Ranger physical . Norris's love interest was Assistant District Attorney Sheree Wilson in Dallas and occasionally he called on Noble Willingham , a former Texas Ranger now owner of a popular Dallas rib joint for a little assistance . Willingham was Norris's first partner on the job and the two had a deep affection . Eventually he married ADA Wilson . Willingham was written out of the series so he could make an unsuccessful run for Congress and Walker got another pair of Texas Rangers with martial arts skills , Nia Peeples and Judson Mills . They were in the series in its last two years . Norris knew he had a family show and he kept it action filled , but G rated . Take away the martial arts and it's not too different from the Roy Rogers Show in the Fifties . Like Rogers , Norris became a born again Christian and his shows gradually started containing a more Christian message in them . Norris always knew his base was in red state America and played to that audience more and more as the years went by . Though I hate some of the politics implied , I confess I still do like to see reruns . We could use a few more Cordell Walkers out there , but let's get him some more enlightened opinions on a few issues .
The Definition of Class	At the beginning of The Young Lions Marlon Brando tells Barbara Rush how difficult it is to rise in class in Europe as opposed to America . It's one of the reasons he's thinking that Adolph Hitler and the Nazis will be a good thing for Germany . George Peppard plays a more ruthless version of the Brando character in the previous generation in The Blue Max . He's a survivor of the trenches who gets an opportunity to learn to fly and transfer in the Air Corps . What comes with it is a commission and while Peppard is now an officer he's no gentleman . There's a whole different ethic operating in the Air Corps . The pilots see themselves as an updated version of the Teutonic Knights of old . A view by the way shared by both sides . The fliers on both sides see themselves as old fashioned chivalrous sorts who glory in single combat . They are also upper middle class and aristocratic types and Peppard doesn't quite fit in . You can put him in a biplane and give him rank , but his outlook doesn't change . What Peppard does see is that if he makes 20 confirmed kills he gets awarded the Blue Max decoration and his future and respectability is secure . James Mason who commands the Flying Corps takes an interest in Peppard's rise . His political instinct tells him revolution is in the body politic . Make heroes out of someone like Peppard who would be part of the proletarian masses will help give those masses a vested interest in the Wilhelmine regime and would forestall revolution . Of course wife Ursula Andress has some different ideas about Peppard . I like The Blue Max because it is a film about more than aviation . It is about what was happening in Germany during those last days of World War I when Germany was desperately trying to break the stalemate on the western front and pull out a victory before American troops were in sufficient numbers . They almost pulled it out in fact . It's about attitudes , old , new and changing . All three of the leads suit their roles perfectly . As a veteran of World War I if he didn't gain the respectability out of the war he craved , Peppard would have been ripe for the Nazi propaganda that filled Germany and was finally heeded during the Depression . The Nazis filled their ranks with Peppards up and down Germany . Which is why The Blue Max should be seen and learned from because it is not just about World War I aviators as good as the aerial footage is here .
Chickens Home To Roost	I have to say I was pleasantly surprised viewing this film in the early AM and finding out how good this 48 minute feature film was for something done on a sandal string by Hal Roach , Jr . Jimmy Rogers ( who was the younger son of Will ) and Noah Beery , Jr . are a pair of down on their luck cowboys that I don't think we saw anything close to until Burt Kennedy's The Rounders over 20 years later . These two galoots don't even have horses , they're getting around the country in an old clunker that one still has to start with a crank . They get themselves hit by a chauffeur driven car with Jack Norton as the perpetually soused multi-millionaire who's visiting one of his properties , a ranch that Joe Sawyer has been running for him and skimming the profits off . Norton may very well have been the inspiration for Dudley Moore's Arthur . No use to go any further in describing this film , but it's a lot of laughs as only Hal Roach studios knew how to manufacture them on a dime . It's also notable for the fact that Noah Beery , Jr . ' s character name in the film is Pidge which was a nickname he was known by among his friends . This film is really quite a scream .
. . . . . and Fala , playing himself	Seeing Princess O'Rourke last night on TCM , it was interesting to learn that interiors at the White House were shot at the real location . And while the current president was occupied by something called World War II , he found time to have his well known Scot's terrier Fala make a guest appearance . That is the real Fala you see playing message courier between Princess Olivia DeHavilland and the pilot from Brooklyn , Robert Cummings . She's a princess from some unnamed European country that is currently occupied by some jackbooted uninvited guests . Most of the royalty in exile settled in the United Kingdom during war time , but some actually did make it here . In fact Olivia's father the king is in London as the story goes . And this is a Cinderella story in reverse with the boy from Brooklyn , meeting , wooing and winning a princess . Cummings is an airline pilot scheduled to go in the Army Air Corps who meets princess DeHavilland on a flight that gets canceled back to New York . A slight overdose of sleeping pills leaves her in his unwanted hands . The unwanted part changes soon enough as it does in all films of this type . The ironic thing is while some royalty did make it back to their countries , a lot were dispossessed permanently by those other totalitarian occupiers from the East after World War II . They didn't exactly live in the diminished circumstances that Olivia was heading for . Some of Charles Coburn's concerns as her uncle are quite real . Princess O'Rourke is a charming comedy though dated by its topical wartime references . Look also for nice performances by Jack Carson as Cummings's co-pilot and Jane Wyman as Carson's girl friend .
Saw the premiere with Kitty Carlisle and Scott Barton	This film had been thought of as lost for about half a century when apparently Kathryn Crosby must have been rummaging through some closets and announced that Bing had a copy of this formerly lost film of his . It was restored and back in the early 1990s I saw the newly restored version with my friend Scott Barton and hosting the film was its co-star , Kitty Carlisle . It was a great afternoon . And the film was well worth saving . Songwriters Leo Robin and Ralph Rainger gave Crosby , It's June In January and With Every Breath I Take to sing and Robin teamed up with Lewis Gensler for Love Is Just Around the Corner . All three songs were good selling records for Bing and a particular favorite of mine has always been With Every Breath I Take . He sang these a few times during the film both solo and as duets with Carlisle . The records incidentally were the first movie songs and almost the first songs Crosby recorded for the brand new Decca record label . Although Decca signed many artists , Crosby was their number one artist for 20 years . Decca and Crosby were virtually synonymous . No acting stretch here in terms of character . Crosby plays a rich crooner . Jokes about his wealth were a staple in Bob Hope's repertoire , although Hope did pretty good in that department as well . In 1934 Crosby was accumulating his fortune , but he wasn't near the point where as Hope once said , " he doesn't pay taxes , he just calls up the Treasury and asks how much they need . " Like many rich people and some not so rich Bing was collecting his toys in this film and he had one pistol in a matched set of dueling pistols that once belonged to John Paul Jones . Bing wants to get the set and donate them to the Naval Academy . Problem is that the other one belongs to Kitty Carlisle who is an exiled Russian princess living in Monte Carlo with her retinue which consists of Roland Young , Alison Skipworth and Reginald Owen . Essentially these people live off her selling her possessions and they're getting fewer and fewer . So Bing goes off to Monte Carlo meets Carlisle and the fun begins . A standard criticism I have of Crosby's films is that Paramount shot them on the cheap , especially his musical numbers . It would have been great if Paramount had actually shot the thing in Monte Carlo , but to be fair , no studio in Hollywood would have gone those lengths in 1934 . Twenty years later Paramount did go to Monte Carlo for a movie and the result was To Catch A Thief . Here Is My Hear would have been as special as that film had they done that and with color to boot . This was also the first film Crosby did with William Frawley who appeared in several of his films . Frawley was one of film land's great misanthropic alcoholics and by all accounts not a nice man to know . Crosby and a lot of Hollywood gave up on him , until Desi Arnaz saved him from oblivion and gave him a fresh career as Fred Mertz . Kitty Carlisle said that Crosby was a difficult man to know for her . He came to the studio , did his business and left . If he had his druthers , Bing would have been out on the golf course . But she enjoyed the two films she did with him . When I saw Here Is My Heart it was playing with Murder At the Vanities and she had not much good to say about her leading man Carl Brisson in that one . One ironic tragedy . The film centered around Crosby trying to acquire antique dueling pistols . Crosby's crooning rival Russ Columbo was killed by an antique dueling pistol that summer around the time Here Is My Heart would have been in the theaters . A year before Columbo had visited Bing on the set of We're Not Dressing where Crosby's co - star was Carole Lombard who was linked to Columbo at the time . Here Is My Heart was well worth saving . I guess we should all be grateful to Kathryn Crosby for doing her spring cleaning .
Tricky Lawyers	This particular Bonanza episode deals with a very sharp defense attorney getting a coldblooded killer off . The attorney is John Archer and the killer is Perry Lopez . Lopez and two sidekicks are a trio of nasty thugs who murder Alex Montoya in a barbershop on some really slight pretext . There's no doubt about that Lopez did it . Two eyewitnesses , the barber and another customer saw it . Little Joe Cartwright was in the barbershop , but one of the henchmen cold cocked him before the evil deed was done . At trial , Archer discredits Michael Landon's testimony and then with a bit of skulduggery , discredits the other two witnesses and Lopez is free . This was around the time the Supreme Court was starting to reign in our police and our courts in making sure defendants got their due process . People like Lopez were starting to go free as a result . The real story is how young Rafael Lopez deals with the death of his father . The Cartwrights , especially Little Joe , help the young man do just that . The real story is not the legal skulduggery , but how life sometimes hands you senseless tragedy and you just have to move on . Of course this is a western so bad guys do get punished . Lopez does get punishment of a sort for that barbershop homicide . The episode was one of Bonanza's best and seeing it today reminded me of how good it was .
Utterly Charming Musical	Even with Ruby Keeler's tinny voice and the fact she doesn't dance a step , Flirtation Walk is an utterly charming musical from the Thirties with Dick Powell at the height of his lyric tenor period . West Point's image has done very well by Hollywood . The West Point Story and The Long Gray Line are the other two big films about the U . S . Military Academy on the Hudson . But this was the first film of a grand tradition . Dick Powell is an army private stationed out in Hawaii who's assigned by his sergeant Pat O'Brien to be a driver for Ruby Keeler , daughter of General Henry O'Neill . She's got a boyfriend in her Dad's aide John Eldredge . But on a moonlight night in Hawaii , the old boy / girl thing happens . Powell receives a rude awakening the next day when he's made to realize the difference in class between officers and enlisted men . Something like the rude awakening John Agar got in Fort Apache when he was courting Shirley Temple even though he was an officer , albeit a newly minted one from an enlisted man's family . So Powell decided he's going to become an officer and sets about applying for West Point . The next half of the film is set in West Point and in Powell's final year , Henry O'Neill becomes the Academy Superintendent bring of course Keeler and Eldredge come with him . Here we have the same plot device that was later used in The West Point Story , breaking precedent in having a woman in the Hundred Nights show for the graduating class . Who do you think the woman that the cadets want ? Allie Wrubel and Mort Dixon wrote two nice numbers that are used in the musical show , Mr . and Mrs . Is the Name and Flirtation Walk . Powell sings them well although he didn't need Ruby's thin voice doing the reprise . During the Hawaiian portion of the film Powell sang Aloha Oe . Why Ruby wasn't given any dance numbers is beyond me since that was her strength as a performer . I should also mention Ross Alexander , who came to a tragic early end three years later , as Powell's roommate at the Point . He was a funny guy and had a nice career going in playing best friends to the hero in film . A sad waste . I think you'll like the characters created and directed by Frank Borzage in this very charming film .
Walden Family Values	For whatever reason the producer's decided that God's Little Acre should be set in no specific time rather than in the dust-bowl thirties where and when it belongs , it kept the film from being a great film . It's still a good film to watch , but it misses greatness by a length . Erskine Caldwell wrote this and set in firmly the Depression . And for rural America , the Depression did not begin when the stock market crashed . It began after World War I when the demand for our farm produce dropped with the coming of peace . Agriculture had no price support system then , it was the beginning of the end of the family farm , be it corn or cotton . The stock market crash just exacerbated the situation . But this Walden family has its own set of problems starting with the head of the family , Robert Ryan . As Ty Ty Walden , he's digging up the farm rather than working it , looking for some buried gold left from Civil War days . He's got three sons and two daughters and one fetching daughter-in-law , Tina Louise who is married to one son , Jack Lord , but has her heart set on her sister Helen Westcott's husband Aldo Ray . Before she was movie star Ginger Grant and a castaway , Tina Louise was quite the sex object , she's also got another son , Lance Fuller all hot and bothered over her . He's gotten away from his family of rustics , he married a wealthy widow who up and died and left him well fixed . Of course he has the least amount of character among the whole bunch . Jack Lord and Vic Morrow are the other sons . Lord in his days before he was telling Danno to book ' em played a lot of nasty types on screen . Here he's not nasty , but he's one powerfully jealous fellow . Fay Spain had a brief career as a young sex pot due to this film as the youngest in the family and one flirtatious young thing . This film was loaded with TV stars in the making . Michael Landon has a very nice part as an albino these rustics believe has special powers that can divine where gold is . He's captured by them and put to work tramping all over Ryan's acres looking for the buried gold . He's a true innocent that Fay Spain seeks to seduce while she's still being courted by Buddy Hackett who's a local politician running for sheriff . Michael Landon or Buddy Hackett ? I mean , really , who would you choose ? Though some of the left-wing polemics were drained from the film , this was the fifties , Anthony Mann still managed to get his cast to deliver a powerful and entertaining film . I will say this about the ending , the audience gets the message for sure about what's important in life , but it looks Ryan never will .
The Fountain Of Youth In Your Water-cooler	Monkey Business Cary Grant's second film with Ginger Rogers and his fourth and final film for director Howard Hawks has him reaching back into some of the lunacy of his previous work like Arsenic and Old Lace . Not since that madcap piece was Grant ever so frantic on the screen . Ginger Rogers doesn't yield one inch of screen ground to him in that department though . In The Major and The Minor she faked being a teenage girl very convincingly and in this film she and Cary go back even farther in their return to adolescence . Cary is a research scientist who is working on that eternal quest for the fountain of youth . A chimpanzee gets loose from her cage and mixes some chemicals and dumps the result in the water-cooler . Everyone thinks it's what Cary's concocted and the company bigwigs led by Charles Coburn and Larry Keating try to get it from him , but in his adolescent state it's no avail . Monkey Business does meander over into just plain outright silliness , but with Cary and Ginger you don't really mind . I do so love the way Cary with a gang of kids he's playing Indians with leave poor Hugh Marlowe tied to a tree ready for a scalping because the wolfish Marlowe's been making moves on Ginger . Second to that is Charles Coburn and Ginger Rogers trying to talk to an infant who they think Cary has morphed into . Coburn may have been one of the screen's greatest actors , he'd have to have been to hold his own with that baby . Note the dignified expression on his face never leaves . Of course Monkey Business is also known for having one of Marilyn Monroe's early screen roles in it on her way up . She's Coburn's secretary and note the expression on Coburn's face as she is showing Grant the result of his work on a no run stocking . Monkey Business is second tier stuff for Grant , Rogers , and Hawks , but fans of all three will like it and quite a few more than those people .
Old Mother Riley Drags The Robot	Mother Riley Meets the Vampire was the last of a series of films in which actor Arthur Lucan starred in drag as Old Mother Riley . Lucan's character was an endearingly funny one and popular in the British Isles for a couple of generations . Only his death the following year prevented more films from being made . For this final one Bela Lugosi plays the old woman's adversary , he's a mad scientist in this one who also fancies himself a vampire , he actually does sleep in a coffin for effect . Bela as Count Dracula in Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein dabbled in some black science as well , but Bela played it quite serious there . He said though that A & C's spoof on horror films though it made a ton of money killed the classic horror genre which did not get revived until Hammer films started doing those again with a lot more gore . Realizing it and also realizing that Arthur Lucan would probably dominate the whole film as he always did in his film , Lugosi hams it up to the hilt as the scientist . Bela really got into the spirit of the comedy , just like Charles Laughton did in Abbott & Costello Meet Captain Kidd . It's sad though because Lugosi showed a good gift for comedy and did not have to end his career with Ed Wood films . Anyway the robot he was working on was shipped to Old Mother Riley's address in London and with his remote control device Lugosi attempts to get it back . Of course he gets Old Mother Riley with the robot and a couple of handfuls of trouble with the old biddy . By the way watch what the old woman does to defeat this prototype of an invincible mechanical warrior . Pretty funny stuff . As is the film .
A Question of Honor	My vote has always been that of all the great stars identified as western heroes , none was more upright than Joel McCrea . In fact whenever he tried to vary that character , the results usually weren't that good . Even in comedy parts like his films with Preston Sturges , he's still an honorable man , albeit caught up in some lunacy . McCrea never crossed the line into making himself look ridiculous like Dudley Doo-Right and The Gunfight at Dodge City is a case in point . Here he's playing Bat Masterson who has come into Dodge City after a killing in another town and buys an interest in the Lady Gay Saloon owned by widow Nancy Gates . Brother Ed Masterson , played by Harry Lauter is the town marshal and he's keeping company with preacher's daughter played by Julie Adams . Brother Ed is shot in the back during a cowboy hurrahing of Dodge City and Bat steps in to take his place . He brings some law and order back to Dodge City and makes both friends and enemies in the process . And he's got both the women mentioned before interested in him . Fate would have it , a friend from another town comes back in his life . He wants him to bust his brother , who's mentally retarded , out of custody . The brother has killed a man who was making fun of him . He owes this guy big time and he has a responsibility to his badge in Dodge City . I won't say anything , but Joel McCrea never took the less honorable route in his cinematic career . And as for which woman he winds up with ? See the film . Also look for an unusual performance against type from Richard Anderson . Anderson usually plays nice guys and he's best known for being Lee Majors boss in the Six Million Dollar Man . He's a serpentine villain here and a good one . I saw this when I was 12 years old when it was the second feature of a double bill . That's what McCrea westerns were relegated to at that time . But Joel McCrea was a real cowboy hero to this 12 year old . Still is .
The Herbie Mystique	From the racing circuit to the streets of San Francisco was the second stop on Walt Disney's Herbie odyssey . And the Magic Kingdom recruited an old villain from another some other films to be the fall guy in Herbie Rides Again . Our magical Volkswagen is now in the care of Mrs . Steinmetz played by Helen Hayes . As its explained Dean Jones has gone off to Europe to race and his mechanic Buddy Hackett got control of Herbie and he went off to Tibet , leaving Herbie in the hands of his aunt Helen Hayes . Helen Hayes and Buddy Hackett as blood relations is an interesting concept to wrap your mind around . Helen lives a quiet life in a converted old firehouse with Herbie guarding her . She needs guarding because Keenan Wynn who played Alonzo Hawk in the Absent Minded Professor and Son Of Flubber is after her property which stands in the way of him building the world's biggest 130 story skyscraper to uglify San Francisco's scenery . Wynn's the guy who on a tour of Rome looks at the Colosseum and decides it would make a great location for a shopping mall . Wynn sends his young nephew Ken Berry who still thinks his uncle is not a rat to negotiate thinking his naiveté will disarm Helen Hayes . It might disarm her , but there's no fooling the smartest car in the world . And definitely no fooling Hayes's granddaughter Stefanie Powers . But Berry smartens up and soon he's with Hayes , Powers , and Herbie . While Alonzo Hawk was a major character in the two Flubber films , in Herbie Rides Again , Keenan Wynn gets an opportunity to become one full blown ham and he makes the most of it . It's a pleasure to see him feasting on a diet of scenery . Watching him I couldn't help thinking was the same guy flummoxed by Fred MacMurray and Flubber . It seems when he's up against the supernatural , Alonzo Hawk just ain't at his best . Berry and Powers make a nice young couple and Hayes is given a bit of a romantic interest in visiting cattle rancher John McIntire who's in town on a toot and gets captivated by the whole Herbie mystique . Herbie Rides Again is a nice successor to the original and gives an opportunity for some of the best players around to strut their stuff .
Vagabond Crusader	This curious film is one of the James Cagney films I like the best . For a Cagney film it's slow . I think Cagney was nostalgic for the period in time when he was growing up and Johnny Come Lately captures that slower pace of life people enjoyed before World War I . Cagney plays Tom Richards who was a newspaperman before the life of the open road suddenly appealed to him . We first meet him , seedy and unshaven , sitting on a bench in the town square reading the Pickwick Papers . The town is in the grip of Boss Daugherty played by Edward McNamara . Daugherty has whittled whatever opposition he faced down to Vinnie McLeod who is a widow and owns a badly in debt town newspaper . Daugherty got the mortgage and he's about to close in the best tradition of 19th century villainy . Vinnie meets Richards and brings him to her home . One of her charitable traditions is to give passing hobos a decent meal and Cagney gets one and in turn learns about the town politics . By the end of the film all's right and Cagney moves on , having changed a whole number of lives in the process . Vinnie McLeod is played by Grace George , a prominent stage actress who makes her one and only movie here . She's very good and other supporting players who acquit themselves well are Hattie McDaniel , Marjorie Lord , Robert Barrat and most of all Marjorie Main playing Gashouse Mary . This film was obviously a labor of love for James Cagney and it shows .
The Kids Stand Their Ground	The Monroes was an unfortunately short lived series that never found its audience in the year it was on television . My guess is the expense of shooting the show completely on location in Wyoming was a factor in its cancellation . The Monroe family had homesteaded a piece of ground that was in the middle of a pair of feuding cattle barons . This is reminiscent of the plot of the classic William Wyler western , The Big Country . The barons were the British Liam Sullivan , a very proper English gentleman , but who was rich and employed people who made sure he got his way . And the other group was headed by Robert Middleton who was a self righteous fellow a whole lot like Burl Ives from The Big Country . There was no organized law around , these two guys made the law wherever their territory was . Adding to that was that The Monroes were orphans . Eldest son Michael Anderson , Jr . and eldest daughter Barbara Hershey barely teens themselves try to keep their younger siblings Keith and Kevin Schultz and Tammy Locke together as a unit . If this was civilization , they'd have been dumped on some relative or sent off to an orphanage . Both Sullivan and Middleton would love to buy them out , but the kids stand their ground and attempt to make a home in the wilderness . The Monroes was a beautifully photographed family show and it was unfortunate it wasn't given more of a chance .
The Duke Goes Wildcatting	Spanish American War Veteran John Wayne hitches a ride on oil magnate Albert Dekker's private railroad car just as he's putting the moves on traveling school teacher Martha Scott . That sets off a rivalry between them both professional and personal as Wayne gets under Dekker's skin . Dekker's the big kahuna in Oklahoma territory which would soon be admitted under President Theodore Roosevelt to the union . He's crowding a lot of the small operators out of the field and they see in Wayne a leader and savior . Later on when Wayne and Dekker compete with the rival proposals for leasing Indian oil lands they go to the White House where Dekker thinks he's got an inside track with the Interior Department . This leads to one of the three best scenes in the film . It turns out that the Duke served in the Rough Riders . The reunion of Wayne and Sidney Blackmer as Theodore Roosevelt is pretty good , who'd have thought Wayne would have had the ultimate inside track . Dale Evans is in the film , she has a brief role as a saloon entertainer and sings a couple of period songs . She had not yet met her future husband Roy Rogers on the Republic lot , but in fact she was more the westerner than he in real life . He was from a rural Ohio town and she was from Uvalde , Texas . Dale also sang with Anson Weeks band before coming west both literally and figuratively . Martha Scott is a good crinolined heroine wooed by both Wayne and Dekker . You will also see Grant Withers in one of his few roles in which he wasn't a villain . Second best scene in the film , John Wayne emptying his pistol into Paul Fix who played one of Dekker's henchmen who actually goes a bit too far because of his personal hatred for Wayne . Third best scene , the climatic rush to deliver oil by covered wagons and tankers when Dekker buys the pipeline to fulfill the contract . The normally parsimonious Republic studio and its boss Herbert J . Yates broke the piggy bank to stage this one in what was obviously their big budget film of the year . Still plays quite well today . This is one of John Wayne's better films of the forties . He's given good production values in this western and a perfect role for him . Fans of the eternal Duke should not miss this one .
Who Is Killing The Great Ladies of Burlesque ?	Barbara Stanwyck got to really show her versatility in Lady of Burlesque doing a couple of numbers that did make me wonder why she didn't try to do a full blown musical . Of course she had the best of inspiration in a book that was partially written by the one and only Gypsy Rose Lee . Gypsy needed a ghostwriter , but she certainly knew the world of burlesque as none other . So with Craig Rice's ghostwriting they fashioned a murder mystery set in the burlesque world . Somebody is killing the strippers at a burlesque theater and Barbara isn't sitting around waiting to be the next victim . With the help of comic Michael O'Shea she's going to find the perpetrator before she gets done in with her G String . A lovely group of movie queens help Barbara out in this film . Playing some of her peers are Iris Adrian , Gloria Dickson , Marion Martin , Janis Carter , Stephanie Bachelor , and Victoria Faust . Some of these don't make it to the end of the picture . Playing another of the comics is Pinky Lee who I well remember because I used to watch his kid's television show back in my salad days . Pinky was as frantic as I remember him and he does a mean jitterbug with Stanwyck . William Wellman as director keeps the pace of things going pretty nicely . And if you're a leg man , this picture will leave you nothing to complain about . As for the murderer , here's a hint , it's roughly the equivalent of the butler doing it .
Cattle Come to Kaui	Having been to Hawaii and actually going through the famous Parker ranch on the big island , I'm in a better position to comment on this film now than before . The Castaway Cowboy is one of two films James Garner made for the Disney studio in the Seventies . He's a Texas cowboy who got himself shanghaied in San Francisco and jumped ship and washed ashore on Kaui . Right into the arms of widow Vera Miles and her son Eric Shea who are struggling to make a living as farmers . A lot of wild cattle keep trampling up their crops . So Garner gets the idea that they ought to start cattle ranching instead . Of course the Hawaiian farm hands don't readily take to the American cowboy culture . Of course they eventually do in the end . Cattle came to Hawaii courtesy of British explorer George Vancouver who left them on the big island . It was the descendants of those cattle with which John Parker founded his ranch . No doubt some of them made it to the smaller islands in the chain . Of course there's a villain in the piece and it's Robert Culp . He's a banker with eyes to grab Vera Miles land and maybe Vera herself . Culp does resist the tendency to model his performance on Snidely Whiplash and he's a worthy rival of the resourceful Garner . Of course there are paternalistic attitudes towards the native Hawaiians . But if you want to see a serious film about those attitudes than watch the film made of James Michener's novel Hawaii . This is a Disney family product and doesn't pretend to be social commentary . The Castaway Cowboy is a good entertainment . How could it be anything else with James Garner starring .
Measuring the Speed of Light	In the entire run of the Bonanza series twice the Cartwright clan ran into true life human beings who when they were running the Ponderosa , who resided in Virginia City . One was an episode about Mark Twain where Howard Duff played the legendary American writer in his early years . The other was this episode which involved Albert Michaelson the first American to win a Nobel Prize . He was born in Prussia in what is now part of Poland and did in fact come to America with his parents where they were merchants in Virginia City . In 1869 young Michaelson won a presidential appointment to the Naval Academy in Annapolis from President Ulysses S . Grant where he stayed on as an instructor after graduating . It was the start of his career . This Bonanza episode offers a fictional account of how Michaelson got that appointment . The key figure here is schoolmaster William Schallert who won't recommend him and his recommendation carries a lot of weight . The Cartwrights in this episode force Schallert to confront his own prejudices which include anti-Semitism . Joe DeSantis and Penny Santon play the older Michaelsons and young Douglas Lambert winningly plays Albert . It was one of Bonanza's best episodes . The only gunfire was that of Hoss firing his pistol in the air so that young Albert could measure the speed of the sound at which it traveled . What made Bonanza so endearingly popular to the public then and in syndication ever since was the family and the relationships the Cartwright sons had with each other and with their father . Three half brothers and their father facing all kinds of problems every week . We all got to know the Cartwrights , know them better than some of our relatives . And we cared about them . In this episode the Cartwrights interacted with the Michaelsons to help them realize their own vision of the American dream . Hopefully Bonanza fans and others won't miss this one if it's broadcast again .
Who Is Killing The Bobbies of London ?	There's a guy in between the World Wars London who's going around knocking off London bobbies with a sword cane . Henry Stephenson and Lewis Stone can't figure it out at all . One of the murders happens at a time when cracksman Robert Montgomery has stolen a very valuable diamond and Scotland Yard links the two crimes mistakenly . And they also link upper middle class society twit Ralph Forbes to the next one . Montgomery realizes he can't fence that valuable jewel with the heat on so he tries by subterfuge to aid Scotland Yard . Of course this tangles him up with Elizabeth Allan who is Henry Stephenson's daughter in the film and Mrs . Robert Montgomery in real life . Robert Montgomery is poaching a bit on Ronald Colman's territory , but he does a fine job as the thief . Henry Stephenson as always is THE quintessential English gentleman and Lewis Stone is a hard and driven inspector trying to catch the maniac . The police do make mistakes here , but the mistakes are completely understandable and really the fault of both Forbes and Montgomery who step into it themselves . By the way you know that this picture is before the Code because it is by no means clear that Montgomery will ever give up a life of crime .
" The Lawman Came When The West Was Young . . . . . . . . . . . "	At the same time John Russell was playing ranch owner Nathan Burdette , trying to free his no good brother Claude Akins from sheriff John Wayne in Rio Bravo he was working the other side of the law on television . These years were probably the high point of Russell's career , his most noted screen role and his most famous television role , Marshal Dan Troop of Laramie in Lawman . Russell kept law and order in Laramie the same way that James Arness did it in Dodge City on Gunsmoke . Unlike Gunsmoke , Laramie never developed the all the minor characters that gave you the feel of Dodge City at the time . Instead it concentrated on Russell taking care of business and learning the business of law to his eager young deputy Peter Brown . Brown played deputy Johnny McKay who was a most respectful young man , constantly referring to his boss as Mr . Troop . He was pretty handy with a shooting iron , but was inclined to be impulsive . Good thing Marshal Troop was around . The other series regular was the Kitty Russell of Laramie , Lily played by Peggie Castle . This is where Lawman most resembled Gunsmoke . There was an unspoken understanding between Russell and Castle that even the smallest of children couldn't have missed . And I wasn't the smallest of children when Lawman was in first run . Sadly Peggie Castle developed substance abuse problems after Lawman's run ended . I remember a small obituary marked her passing in the first half of the Seventies . She was one beautiful woman . Lawman was good no nonsense western from that golden era of the adult television western . It was one of the best .
A Tempestuous Leader Changed Generals Like Socks	Winston Churchill who rallied his nation and may very well have saved civilization by keeping the UK fighting against Nazism until the Soviet Union and the USA entered the war , had some serious flaws as a military strategist . There was only one way of beating Hitler , go right through the front door of Western Europe . Churchill however wanted to nibble at the sides , hence the Mediterranean campaign , the attempt to take Norway back . The fear was understandable . Everyone on both sides in Europe feared the four year stalemate that was World War I with the trench warfare in France . Anything to avoid that again , so the British shied away from a cross channel invasion and a campaign in France . Timothy West captures the mercurial part of Churchill's nature as well as the inspiring one . In his long career , Churchill was both First Lord of the Admiralty and Secretary of State for War , the former post he held twice . He was educated at Sandhurst though he left the army for politics , he fancied himself a military strategist . This made for TV docudrama shows a Churchill who hired and fired generals in much the same manner that Abraham Lincoln did in the Civil War . But Lincoln was more result oriented , the Churchill we see here is someone who got rid of people basically because they didn't kiss up to him . He got rid of generals like Wavell who defeated the Italians at Addis Ababa and Auchinleck who slowed the Nazi advance at the first battle of El Alamein for pretty much that reason . The man who replaced Auchinleck in North Africa , Bernard Montgomery took Auchinleck's battle plan and turned the Nazis at the second El Alamein . After that , the direction of war planning came more and more from the American military . In fact one of the reasons I like Churchill and the Generals is it shows just how much different things were with FDR and his generals and Churchill and his . Roosevelt was smart enough to know when he was not in his element and he left strategic planning to George C . Marshall and Ernest J . King in the Navy . Next to West as Churchill , I liked Joseph Cotten as Marshall . A great inspirational leader , but one who his generals wished had just confined himself to making speeches in Parliament .
Connie And Connie	Don't be misled by the title of the film . Moulin Rouge does not take place in Paris at all . It's a pleasant backstage musical comedy story though no one will mistake it for 42nd Street . It gives Constance Bennett a chance to imitate Fifi d'Orsay and play a dual role as twin sisters . Once upon a time Connie and Connie were a sister act . But one Connie went to France and became a big musical French star like a Caucasian Josephine Baker and the other Connie stayed in America and married Franchot Tone . But no one knows American Connie has a twin sister with a decided French accent like Fifi d'Orsay . French Connie's been imported by producer Tullio Carminati to star in his Broadway revue . American Connie wants to get back into show business , but husband Tone isn't having that at all . Anyway French Connie wants a break , so the sisters agree to switch . Of course this causes complications as Franchot is much taken with who he thinks is a French star that bears a fascinating resemblance to his wife and Carminati is on the make himself for her . I think most of you can see where this is going . Like the Busby Berkeley films which Moulin Rouge tries so hard to imitate , the plot is just a flimsy device for the final numbers in the show . The film has two things going for it that make it slightly better than some ersatz Berkeley . The first is the song writing team of Harry Warren and Al Dubin , imported from Warner Brothers and some Berkeley films they were writing . The second is choreographer Robert Muskert who has only two film credits , Moulin Rouge and the Paul Whiteman revue , The King of Jazz . But he's more importantly known as the founder and first choreographer of the New York City Radio Hall Rockettes . Look in that chorus line and you might spot a young Lucille Ball . Bennett gets to sing two great Harry Warren songs . The first is a duet with Russ Columbo later re-prised by the Boswell Sisters , Coffee in the Morning . And the second is that famous torch ballad Boulevard of Broken Dreams . Two decades later Boulevard of Broken Dreams was revived and became a big mega-hit for a young and up and coming singer named Tony Bennett . I have to say Constance Bennett did quite well with both numbers . She also turned in a fine performance . And Franchot Tone got to wear tails again . And you thought he'd get a break from that just cause he was on a loan out from MGM .
Bing Under The Live Oak Tree	This is the second of two films Bing Crosby partnered with Jane Wyman after their stunning success in Here Comes The Groom . This time Paramount gave them color and Ethel Barrymore and the results are a treat . Bing's a successful stage actor who's about to marry his leading lady , Jane Wyman , when he discovers he's got a communication problem with his two kids . Daughter Natalie Wood wants to get into an exclusive girl's school and son Robert Arthur misreads some signals and starts crushing big time on Wyman . Ethel Barrymore is headmistress of the school and she helps Crosby solve his daughter's problems . His son , after writing a love ballad for Wyman , is rebuffed and joins the Air Force . All is righted in the end and in the usual Crosby charming way . Paramount gave Bing some good production numbers out of the Harry Warren-Leo Robin score . Bing sings I'll Si Si You In Bahia as a number from the show he's rehearsing and later sings The Live Oak Tree with the girls from the St . Hilary's School at their picnic . He also does a nice vaudeville patter number with character actor Ben Lessy called On the 10-10 from Ten-Ten-Tennessee . The big hit is a duet with Crosby and Wyman called Zing a Little Zong which is a complete ripoff of the number he and Wyman did for Frank Capra in Here Comes The Groom . Well if they can't ripoff from themselves who can Bing and Jane ripoff from ? The song was nominated for an Oscar , but lost to Do Not Forsake Me from High Noon . Just For You is the title song and it's the one that Arthur writes for Wyman . A couple of numbers that Crosby recorded failed to make the cut , Spring Fever and A Flight of Fancy . The latter is heard as an instrumental background . It's one of my favorite Crosby songs and I wish it had been done in the film .
Role Model For Pleasantville ?	Like a lot of stars of the big screen as their careers wound down , so many turned to television where probably they secured their reputations for posterity . Donna Reed is a case in point . I don't think Donna Reed ever thought that Donna Stone was anything challenging , not to a woman who had won an Oscar for playing a very different type in From Here to Eternity . She was certainly better prepared to play wife , mother , and homemaker Donna Stone after having played Mary Bailey in It's A Wonderful Life . Donna was always beautiful and wise and ever helpful with the problems of her kids and her husband . Carl Betz was not an idiot , he was a pediatrician who had his office attached to the house . Talk about the man being ever ready in a crisis . Though this was the Donna Reed Show because Donna's husband at the time , Tony Owen produced it . Yet it lasted as long as did because of the popularity of the two children , Shelley Fabares and Paul Petersen . Fabares had that best selling teen record Johnny Angel which she introduced on the show . She successfully made the transition to adult star , most known for her role in Coach as Craig T . Nelson's wife . But Petersen was a bubblegum teen idol back in the day . The Donna Reed Show dare I say got most of its viewers because of him . It's forgotten now , but Petersen also had a best selling record , My Dad . Didn't do half as well as Johnny Angel . Now Paul Petersen runs a support group for former child stars like himself . So many of them end so tragically , it's good work that he's doing . The Stone family was the quintessence of Middle America . They lived in a suburb near Chicago , they led wholesome lives . Mom and Dad were always there for the kids . Of course the problems they had usually were nothing more than breaking curfew . It's this series I believe was the model for the TV town of Pleasantville where Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are sucked into . I have pleasant memories of The Donna Reed Show . Easy to take , but not too seriously .
Dino & Jerry Go Airborne	With more of an accent on comedy than romance , Jumping Jacks turns out to be more of a Jerry Lewis than a Dean Martin picture . Usually Dean got one or two good songs in one of their films , here he got none and didn't even bother to record any of the material written by Mack David and Jerry Livingston . But Jerry got a ton of laughs as the former comedy partner of Dino who's been drafted into the army and is now a paratrooper . Dino's got himself a nice lush assignment there , he's got to put on a talent show and maybe get himself a permanent berth doing that sort of thing if he can only impress General Ray Teal . But the amateur talent Dino has from the army pool has its limits . What to do but trick is hapless former partner into visiting him on the base at Fort Benning and take the place of one of the other soldiers and be in the show . It works only too well as Teal singles out Lewis and really loves the idea of the show traveling to other bases as is . Now the Airborne Rangers are stuck with Jerry Lewis . And Dino and the rest of the guys are stuck with keeping the con up , to the extent of fooling their new sergeant Robert Strauss . Watching Strauss we get an idea of what his character the Animal must have been like before he became a prisoner at Stalag 17 . He and Lewis form a curious bond . Speaking of Stalag 17 another cast member from that great film that would be coming from Paramount a year after Jumping Jacks is Richard Erdman . Erdman if you'll remember played barracks chief Sergeant Hoffman in Billy Wilder's classic . In Jumping Jacks if Jerry Lewis is the Schlemiel , Erdman is the Schlamazel as Dogface Dolan , the soldier who Jerry takes the identity of . Erdman cuts himself in for quite a few laughs himself . The service comedy stuff is reworked a lot from previous films , Buck Privates and Keep ' Em Flying from Abbott & Costello come to mind . The finale is straight from Keep ' Em Flying . But I do like the way Lewis distinguishes himself in the war games which has some really good moments for Jerry . Still the weakness of Jumping Jacks is Martin is relegated almost to the side . You know that when the best number in the film is done by Mona Freeman and Jerry Lewis at the beginning , A Boy In A Uniform . Paramount and Hal Wallis brought Dean and Jerry and the whole crew to Fort Benning , Georgia , the army's Airborne Headquarters to shoot the film . I'm sure the troops we see here who were no doubt on the way to Korea liked getting in the movies . Jumping Jacks is a good Martin & Lewis comedy , but definitely more Lewis than Martin .
" He Shinnied Up The Stalk To Slay A Giant In His Den "	Bud Abbott and Lou Costello always had a good following among children , but in their careers I think you could say that they only made one film that could be designated for kids . Jack and the Beanstalk was that one film . It was part of a two picture independent deal from Warner Brothers , the second film being Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd . These were the only two films the boys made in color . The two of them , out of work as usual , take a job for a very precocious and obnoxious young David Stollery as a babysitter . Although it starts out with Costello wanting to read the kid , Jack and the Beanstalk as a bedtime story , the young lad winds up reading it to Costello . Lou falls asleep and in his dreams he fantasizes he's indeed Jack the Giant Killer . Buddy Baer who menaced the boys in Africa Screams plays the giant and he's got a giant size Dorothy Ford as his housekeeper . Dorothy was a big girl , 6'2 " , and you can imagine she had some difficulty being cast except when her height was used as a joke . One of the only players who ever looked down at her was John Wayne in Three Godfathers at 6'4 " . Henry Fonda and James Stewart in On Our Merry Way also stood barely above her , but again her height was part of a gag . Shaye Cogan and James Alexander were the princess and prince of the fantasy and they sang beautifully , but couldn't act worth anything . This was the last film of William Farnum who's career dated from the early silent screen days and even to the turn of the last century on stage . He played princess Shaye's father the king . Some not terribly memorable musical numbers came from Jack and the Beanstalk , save the title song . I well remember as a kid having the 78 record of Bud and Lou singing the song and reciting the story . I was in my early single digit years , but became a lifelong fan of their's through that and their television series . Jack and the Beanstalk is still a good children's picture for the very young , though I would warn parents to warn their little urchins not to imitate young master Stollery .
Springboard of a Legend	Wanted , Dead or Alive was a star vehicle in the truest sense of the term . It was a western calculated to exhibit the talent and charisma of its star , Steve McQueen . It lasted for three seasons before McQueen decided to devote full time to the big screen . McQueen was after some of the most dangerous fellows in the old west , plenty who could shoot a lot better than he . His character Josh Randall needed an equalizer . In John Wayne's classic western El Dorado , you remember that Duke discovers that James Caan can't hit the broad side of a mountain with a regular six shooter . Before going to El Dorado to aid Robert Mitchum , they stop off and see a gunsmith who fixes Caan up with a Josh Randall special . After that Caan's of considerable help to Wayne and Mitchum . Of course the sawed off shotgun was also an evil weapon in the wrong hands . Take note of the Dan Duryea western , The Bounty Killer , a very Freudian piece where Duryea becomes hated and feared as a bounty hunter until an innocent bystander gets shot with it . But with McQueen you knew the weapon was on the side of law and order . As for his Josh Randall character , you can see a bit of him in all the people Steve McQueen brought to the screen like Virgil Hilts , Nevada Smith , all the way to his last two films , Tom Horn and Pappa Thorsen . Wanted , Dead or Alive was most folks first exposure to a screen legend . I wish that westerns like that were made today .
The Reel Jim Bowie	After a decade at Paramount Sue Carol negotiated a new studio contract for Alan Ladd at Warner Brothers . Sad to because her husband's greatest film was ready for release at Paramount and they had no great urgency to feature him in the publicity . But that's another story . Alan Ladd became another one of a good list of players to take on the role of Jim Bowie . He plays him as heroic as Richard Widmark , MacDonald Carey , Sterling Hayden or Jim Arness did . Problem was of all the legends of the American frontier , Jim Bowie was probably the one who got the biggest whitewash in history . The man was a thoroughgoing scoundrel . As a merchant he was as unscrupulous as a latter day robber baron . He was involved in several land swindle scams . He also bought and sold slaves as well . And he wasn't even honest in that . He and Jean Lafitte had a fine racket for a while in Lafitte capturing runaways in Texas and bringing them back to the U . S . for Bowie to sell , not necessarily back to their original masters . He did have a knife built to his specifications as per the film and with his activities he did tend to get into a lot of violent disagreements . That's the Bowie knife , the Arkansas toothpick , the Iron Mistress of the title . But Ladd plays Bowie as heroically as the legends have him and as the novel by Paul Wellman has him . He's caught between two women , the selfish French creole aristocrat Virginia Mayo and the daughter of the Governor of the province of Coahuila in Mexico which included Texas , Phyllis Kirk . Bowie was a violent man in a violent era . Ladd plays him like he was Shane and he was being faithful to the novel if not the real Bowie . But then we've never seen the real one on screen any time . Still for those who liked Ladd's portrayal of Shane , The Iron Mistress is a good film for you .
That Gabby's a Drag	Unlike with most major film stars , John Wayne spent such a long apprenticeship in B westerns that you can't really put his pre-Stagecoach work with Stagecoach and beyond . It's like two different players altogether . Bearing in mind that you can't apply the same standards of Lucky Texan with that of The Searchers , Lucky Texan was good Saturday afternoon matinée fair for the kiddies of 1934 . John Wayne and Gabby Hayes are partners in a blacksmith shop and they discover gold . Panning for it turns out to be quite profitable and they follow the advice of Walter Huston in Treasure of the Sierra Madre about not filing any claims . At least not too soon . But the bad guys want to get their hands on the gold source and they dry gulch Gabby and they think they've killed him . Unbeknownst to them , Gabby back in the day was an actor and did a turn in Charley's Aunt . Wayne and Gabby devise a plan to expose the villains and save the day . Bear in mind that it was the lead in Charley's Aunt that Gabby played and you'll understand what Gabby does . That bit put Lucky Texan a cut above the usual stuff John Wayne was doing before Stagecoach . It's still pretty amusing .
Gritty War Drama	Producer Stanley Kramer and Director Edward Dmytryk deliberately chose a cast of unknowns who later did move on to varying degrees of success in the film industry , most notably Lee Marvin , for the cast of Eight Iron Men . It's a tense situation for this squad in some small town on the Italian front in World War II . One of their number is pinned down by a machine gun and it's wearing on the nerves of the other seven . Especially when they get orders to pull back and leave him until replacements come . The film shows the tension on all of them . Lee Marvin with his war experience in the Pacific Theater is a natural as the concerned sergeant . Other good performances are from Arthur Franz , Richard Kiley , Nick Dennis , and most of all Bonar Colleano whose career was mostly in the United Kingdom . This was one of the few American made films for the New York City expatriate . Eight Iron Men is based on a flop play on Broadway by Harry Brown which ran only 23 performances in 1945 and featured Sam Levene and a most unknown Burt Lancaster . Obviously someone named Harry Cohn didn't want to pay Lancaster's going rate in 1952 to get him for the screen version . Even without Burt , Eight Iron Men is a well made war drama and should not be missed .
Sending Hitch on his way	Although Alfred Hitchcock made several better films than this , including the 1956 remake , The Man Who Knew Too Much is a milestone film for the rotund master of suspense . It was the first film that got him noticed outside the United Kingdom , it led to bigger budgets for Hithcock to work with in British film industry and eventually to his departure for America . Leslie Banks and Edna Best , Mr . and Mrs . upper class British couple on holiday in Switzerland with their adolescent daughter Neva Pilbeam . A Frenchman they befriend , Pierre Fresnay , is killed right in front of them on a dance floor and he whispers something to Banks about a planned assassination in London to occur shortly . The spies suspect what the dying Fresnay has said to Banks and grab Pilbeam to insure the silence of her parents . The rest of this short ( 75 minute ) feature is Banks and Best trying to both foil the assassination and get their daughter back . At the climax Best's skill at skeet shooting becomes a critical factor in the final confrontation with the villains . Peter Lorre made his English language debut in The Man Who Knew Too Much and was very effective with the limited dialog he had . I've often wondered why Hitchcock never used Lorre more in some of his later features . Although the 1956 version has far better production values , this version still holds up quite well and is worth a look .
Movie Star On the Faculty	Imagine the surprise when the faculty and students of a small college discover that a prim and proper English professor was in fact a silent screen star . It's discovered when Clifton Webb's old co-star , Ginger Rogers is hosting a program showing some of their old films . The man she calls her Dreamboat . I suppose it's hard to imagine for today's audience a television in its infancy . But in 1952 it still was and a good way to fill up a lot of programming time was to broadcast old films . Even the silent ones . In my youth WOR TV in New York City was an RKO station and had the entire RKO library available to it . In the infant days of that station their programming was mostly old films as I remember . Anyway Clifton Webb is quite content to be out of the Hollywood scene and he's quite annoyed that his past has been resurrected . He and daughter Anne Francis have law suit on their minds . It's a dated story , but the script is quite good with some nice witty lines for Webb and Rogers to toss back and forth at each other . Among the supporting cast , the biggest kudos should go to Elsa Lanchester the prim and proper college president who discovers she's got a genuine sex object on her faculty and wants to do something about it .
Stan And Ollie On The Barbary Coast	The Live Ghost finds Stan and Ollie back in the days of the Barbary Coast where having a crew shanghaied was a matter of course . But gruff captain Walter Long is having an especially hard time because of the rumors his ship is haunted . He gets Stan and Ollie to help him sucker a crew into being shanghaied and for good measure , shanghais the two of them . That I often wondered about . Would you really want to sail on a clipper ship with Laurel and Hardy ? At this point Stan and Ollie get some real competition from actor Arthur Houseman whose portrayal of a drunken sailor almost steals this short subject from the stars . Stan in his usual fashion finds a pistol and discharges it and he thinks he's killed Houseman . Now he and Ollie contrive to get rid of the body , but in the meantime Houseman has slipped in a vat of whitewash and when he reemerges from the briny deep , he's white and shiny . The predictable results do follow . Stan and Ollie will please their legion of fans . But I wonder what they thought when they Houseman's performance nearly stealing the film from them . Stan especially put on a little extra shtick in the end .
Never Look A Gift Horse In The Mouth	This is the only film I know that dealt with Anglo-American destroyers for naval base leases trade that Roosevelt and Churchill made before America entered World War II . Monetary transactions were forbidden by the Neutrality Act so FDR came up with the idea to give up 50 aged American destroyers in turn for leases on naval bases the British had in the Western Hemisphere . This was the precursor of Lend Lease . Trevor Howard plays the captain of a crew taking over one of these ships and remember the ships are old . But as he said addressing his crew it was good to remember that old expression about never looking a gift horse in the mouth . He plays the part well in the best stiff upper lip tradition . Supporting Howard are James Donald , Richard Attenborough and over from America , Sonny Tufts . Good easy to take war film about a little remembered historical event and the old gift horse does meet a gallant end .
" If Capone Puts One Of Your's In The Hospital , You Put One Of His In The Morgue "	Not that I'm complaining mind you because The Untouchables is a quality motion picture that got Sean Connery an Oscar for a lifetime of work , but one fine day we just might get the real story of Eliot Ness and his Untouchable squad of Treasury agents . For those who are fans of Brian DePalma's film it's no more accurate than the famous Untouchable series in the Fifties or its counterpart in the Nineties . The plain truth is that Eliot Ness's operations against Al Capone's liquor supply did hurt him economically somewhat , but hardly slowed down his operation in Chicago . As for the income tax conviction that eventually did land Capone in Alcatraz , it was accomplished by the hard working accountants in US Attorney George W . Johnson's office . In the film that is the Clifton James character and Ness and his squad did work for him , but Charles Martin Smith's character would not have been an Untouchable . Whatever else Ness was , he was a master of generating good publicity for his work , the same way J . Edgar Hoover was , or Thomas E . Dewey , right down to Rudolph Giuliani in our time . That is in fact , part of a good crime fighter's job , the more people know of your successful good work , the more cooperation you get from the public . When Ness who went on to become the Chief of Police in Cleveland and then unsuccessful Republican candidate for Mayor of same , his career and finances took a nose dive . Just before he died he worked with writer Oscar Fraley on a memoir of his work and this became the cornerstone of The Untouchables franchise . Very much like what Wyatt Earp did just before he died , giving interviews for an authorized biography by Stuart Lake which became the basis for all the Wyatt Earp films done since the Thirties . Unlike the original TV series The Untouchables , Eliot Ness's Scandinavian background as versus the Italian Al Capone is made much of in this film . Kevin Costner is your basic good guy and Robert DeNiro joins a great list of actors like Rod Steiger , Neville Brand , and Jason Robards , Jr . in interpreting the volatile crime boss of Chicago who has come down in legend himself . Costner's a Boy Scout in this business and as Sean Connery says to him , those kind of rules are out the window in dealing with people like Al Capone . His bit of philosophy given to Costner when Costner recruits him for The Untouchables is the title of the review . Connery plays an honest patrolman of Irish descent who hates dishonesty , but also don't think a little prejudice against the Italian Capone isn't involved in his thinking as well . Jimmy Malone is a broad and expansive part that Sean Connery can work wonders with . To be honest I don't think The Untouchables is Connery's best work , one friend has told me The Name of The Rose is his favorite , another has said Woman Of Straw is his favorite . My personal favorite among Sean Connery's performances is the incredibly neglected The Molly Maguires . But like John Wayne's True Grit , Sean Connery's Oscar is for the work of a lifetime for a man who may be the most well known international film star we've ever had . Now Billy Drago's Frank Nitti is a performance that will leave you chilled for days and susceptible to pneumonia . That it's far from the real Frank Nitti and that Nitti did not end the way Drago does in the film is irrelevant . But that's just another inaccuracy of the film . Brian DePalma wasn't trying for accuracy , he was trying to make an entertaining film . In that he succeeded .
If Erich Von Stroheim didn't exist Hollywood would have had to invent him	This 1943 World War II film is Billy Wilder's second directorial effort and it's a pretty good outing . According to a recent biography of Wilder , Cary Grant was offered the lead and turned it down , saying he didn't feel like going on location in the desert near Yuma , Arizona in August . The part then fell to Franchot Tone who gave a good account of himself as did Anne Baxter and Akim Tamiroff . The film though really revolves around Von Stroheim and his portrayal of Erwin Rommel . In 1943 all that was known of Rommel was his military prowess in the desert . After the war we learned about his part in the plot to assassinate Hitler and the real story of his death . That's all covered in The Desert Fox and in James Mason's outstanding portrayal there . What we get here is a portrayal of a cold , merciless , military machine Hun and no one did that better than Erich Von Stroheim . You watch this as did so many in the theaters in 1943 after the North African campaign was over and he became the man you love to hate . Because of what later came out about Rommel this film became immediately dated . Yet it's still a curiosity and worth a look .
Frenchman's Creek In Cornwall ?	The absolutely gorgeous color cinematography and the Academy Award winning sets are the main reason that you should Frenchman's Creek today . The players definitely take second place to those outstanding features . The plot at least as it has been altered by the Code is handled with as much skill as the cast can muster covering up some glaring holes . Joan Fontaine is one unhappily married lady of the manor with two small children and a husband who seems more intent on advancing his career in Restoration Great Britain than in her . As was the fashion of that bawdy era husband Ralph Forbes even encourages his wife to pay attention to the courting of his rakish friend Basil Rathbone to Fontaine . When at court many men even pimped their wives for Charles II , this behavior in that era isn't surprising . Well Fontaine can't stand Rathbone so she and the kids take off for the summer place on the Cornwall coast . There's a servant there with a French accent , Cecil Kellaway and later she learns it's been inhabited discreetly by French pirate Arturo De Cordova . He's quite the charmer , if the film were done at Warner Brothers Errol Flynn would have had the part . Joan and Arturo as a couple look like they come right out of one of those romance novels . She even takes up the cutlass with him and she proves to be every bit the swordsman he is . The title of the film comes from a hidden cove near Fontaine's manor where De Cordova's ship lays anchor . Other more recent versions of the story by Daphne Du Maurier have been made that are closer to the original . I can't reveal it , but the ending makes absolutely no sense at all . And it is NOT as Du Maurier wrote it originally . Maybe that was part of the reason that Mexican film idol Arturo De Cordova never got stardom north of the border . He appeared in this film , in a supporting role in For Whom the Bell Tolls and another Paramount feature and then went back to Mexico where he was a leading figure in Latino cinema for the next quarter of a century . De Cordova reminds me a lot of his fellow countryman , Gilbert Roland . Rathbone is a nasty villain and there's also a nice performance by Nigel Bruce as a fatheaded earl who is a Cornwall neighbor . It's the only time that Basil and Nigel did a film together not as Holmes and Watson . Mitchell Leisen directed this film and did a good job given the Code restrictions he operated under . Leisen early in his career worked on several Cecil B . DeMille films and his photography and sets definitely have a DeMille look to them . If you like romantic tales , despite the problems , Frenchman's Creek is one for you .
GI Fantasy	Four Jills in a Jeep was inspired by a book that Carole Landis wrote about the tours she made with USO overseas at the beginning of American participation in World War II . Besides Carole , the other three performing with her on this tour were Kay Francis , Mitzi Mayfair and Martha Raye . When 20th Century Fox did this film they appealed to the fantasy of every GI in the field as well those potentially going overseas . Not only do the stars entertain the boys over there , but they get romantically involved with a few of them . Talk about a morale booster . Besides the four stars playing themselves , Alice Faye , Betty Grable and Carmen Miranda came on via radio broadcast from the Armed Forces Radio broadcast show Command Performance USA . All of them reprised numbers that they had sung in Fox musicals . In addition to the female film stars Four Jills in a Jeep was the feature film debut of singer Dick Haymes . After Crosby and Sinatra , Haymes was probably the best known male singer of the Forties . He had a smooth baritone and really knew his way around a lyric . He introduced a song How Blue the Night that became a hit for him and just in time to record as the famous musicians strike against the record companies was just concluding . Seeing Dick Haymes in an army uniform is quite ironic indeed as it was later brought out about how he had claimed Argentine citizenship in order to avoid the draft . Haymes was born in Argentina of visiting American parents . His career sank like an anchor after that one . Phil Silvers did a version of the character he later perfected as Sergeant Bilko in the Fifties on television . Martha Raye who also made it big on television in the Fifties , complements Silvers well in the comedy department . Phil's a funny guy all right , but he should only be taken in moderation . Martha of course entertained our troops in World War II , Korea , and Vietnam with the same enthusiasm that you see here on the screen . With Jimmy Dorsey and his band in the cast for some up to date Forties swing , what more could you get in a Forties musical . A nice film , I'm sure appreciated both at home by the Rosie the Riveteer crowd and the troops abroad .
The Eternal Jungle Man	Casper Van Dien joins a long list of actors / athletes to essay the part of Edgar Rice Burroughs famous man of the jungle . As far as looks go he certainly fits the role , loincloth and all . Tarzan is as eternal on the screen in his history as Sherlock Holmes . Both of them if you remember were brought up to date during World War II to aid the Allied effort . And Tarzan had several modern adventures through his many films and television roles right up through the nineties . But on the cusp of a new millennium the Ape Man is returned to the period in time where Edgar Rice Burroughs set him in , clearly in British colonial Africa . Tarzan in fact has returned home to claim the title of the Earl of Greystoke and he's going to marry Jane March as Jane Porter . But Van Dien gets one of those instinctive feelings , the kind that Chuck Norris gets when his Cherokee people are in trouble on Walker , Texas Ranger . He postpones the wedding to an exasperated Jane and heads to Africa . Some of his native friends are indeed in trouble . A scientist who's hired a bunch of what would be called trailer park trash now is on the verge of discovering a lost city with untold wealth . It will make things worse than ever for the natives under colonialism if this archaeological Holy Grail is discovered . Casper tries to reason with the scientist and then takes the more Tarzan like approach to the problem . But things do get real complicated when Jane follows him to Africa . Tarzan and the Lost City is an old style adventure story with the benefit of 90s computer graphics . It's also politically sensitive , not portraying the natives as they were in those old Tarzan films from the studio days . And of course it's filmed entirely in Africa , certainly not done by MGM or RKO back in the day . In the jungle Casper's great to look at and a wonder to behold . But why did he try to adopt that English accent . He sounded silly when he used it . You notice Johnny Weissmuller never even attempted one . Of course they did keep his dialog to a minimum . Despite the accent , this latest big screen Tarzan is a good film and Casper Van Dien is a worthy successor to Johnny Weissmuller , Lex Barker , Gordon Scott , etc .
Lord Olivier's mid-life crisis	This filming of Theodore Dreiser's Sister Carrie focuses more on Laurence Olivier's character of George Hurstwood more than on the title character that Jennifer Jones portrays . In the novel , Carrie is not quite as good a girl as Jennifer portrays her . But that is probably due to 1950s conventions and David O . Selznick's svengali-like influence on his wife's career . It's not a film that ranks high with Olivier fans . In fact he did it to keep himself busy while current wife Vivien Leigh was doing A Streetcar Named Desire . But his portrayal of George Hurstwood may rank as the most tragic character Olivier ever brought to the screen . Poor Hurstwood . On the outside a most respectable individual , good job wife and two kids , money in the bank . He's the manager of a fancy Chicago eatery named Fitzgerald's . And one day accompanied by Eddie Albert , walks Jennifer Jones into his place and he flips for her . Carrie's a young girl from the farm gone to Chicago to seek life . But women were rather restricted in their employment and their options for living . She runs up against Victorian morality which was what Dresier was really writing about in his book . To today's audiences those conventions seem ridiculous , but William Wyler does do a good job in portraying the era . He also does another clever thing in the film . Mary Murphy has a brief part as Olivier's daughter . She bears a striking resemblance to Jennifer Jones . She has a couple of lines of inconsequential dialog with Olivier , but your image of her stays throughout the film and you understand why Olivier tumbles for Jones . Freud would approve . Kudos also for Miriam Hopkins who plays Mrs . Hurstwood . She's a vindicative shrew in this film , but she's also a wronged party and Hopkins does convey a fine balance in her portrayal . Eddie Albert is also a wronged party . Jones meets him on the train to Chicago and he falls for her also . Due to circumstances in the film , she has to accept his hospitality . Albert also falls for her big time , but she can't see him when Olivier's around . There is also a nice bit by Ray Teal as an insurance investigator . I can't tell you about him without giving some of the plot away , but he's a very cynical fellow and kind of gives both Jones and Olivier a reality check . It's a nicely done film , fans of the stars will love it .
I Got The Sheriff	White Lightning is the first of two appearances Burt Reynolds made as Gator McKlusky , moonshiner with a mission . He's got a year to go on a rap for running illegal whiskey , but gets word of the death of his kid brother , arrested and later found drowned in a lake in another county . He decides to help the Feds get the corrupt good old boy sheriff who runs that county , Ned Beatty . Of course that means going against tradition that southern folks have about cooperating with revenuers . One of Beatty's sideline enterprises is a nice partnership with R . G . Armstrong who's a crazy sadistic old shiner from the piney woods . Beatty and Armstrong play a pair that was rapidly disappearing from the south because of the Civil Rights and Voting Rights Acts of the Sixties . They don't like the fact their world is changing one little bit . Long haired hippie types like Reynolds's brother apparently was , arouse their murderous ire as surely as Goodman , Schwerner and Chaney did . White Lightning did a respectable business in the red state area of the USA and certainly was a nice boost to Burt Reynolds career . More than his fans will be pleased with it .
" Me Nanu . . . . . . . You Jane "	When Coach John Amos and his assistant Tim Conway go looking for athletic talent for Merryvale College , they say they'll travel anywhere . And in The World's Greatest Athlete they go to East Africa in search of a legendary jungle boy raised in the wild whose athletic prowess is beyond belief . The subject of their search is Jan-Michael Vincent who plays the young Tarzan like man and he's every inch the athlete that former Tarzans like Johnny Weissmuller , Glenn Morris , and Buster Crabbe were . They have to use a little trickery to get him out of the jungle and away from his foster father , witch doctor Roscoe Lee Browne . Browne knows all the jungle remedies , but he's lived in the world outside the Kenyan veld and he's up to its challenges . But he's still got concern for his foster son who ain't used to civilization and all the things that entails . Among which include women in the person of shapely Dayle Haddon who covers him on the academic end of things at college . Talk about remedial education though , this is really stretching it . She's also got a jealous suitor in Danny Goldman . Goldman's a little ferret of a schemer , the would be Iago sends for Browne from Kenya to work his voodoo magic to get Vincent back to the woodland wilds and a clear path for Goldman back to Haddon . If that means him losing the big NCAA track meet where Vincent is going to represent Maryvale in all events like Jim Thorpe did years ago for Carlisle , so be it . Jan-Michael Vincent looks just fabulous in a loin cloth . I'm surprised he never was cast in a straight out Tarzan film . He actually did appear in one years later when he was much older and the bad guy in that one . Of course he just had to utter " Me Nanu . . . . . . . You Jane " to Haddon whose character name of course was Jane . Vincent and Haddon get great support from the whole cast , especially Tim Conway who has to deal with being shrunk to three inches in height by Browne in a bar . Conway gets a nice fifteen minute sequence trying to deal with his unfamiliar surroundings . Nancy Walker has a fine bit as a Mrs . Magoo landlady who can't recognize a tiger that Vincent has brought from Africa as a pet . He must have gotten him from the zoo in Mombasa because as most kids know , tigers aren't native to Africa . This was the final feature film appearance of Billy DeWolfe who plays the dean of the college and Goldman's uncle . I suspect he would have had more of a role had health permitted it . The World's Greatest Athlete is one of Disney's better screen comedies for the Seventies . And as we learn in the end , Jan-Michael Vincent might not just be The World's Greatest Athlete .
Mob Lawyer Redeemed	Party Girl marked the last film Robert Taylor did under contract for MGM . He did two more on option to them after this , but this one finished his studio contract . Taylor went out on a good nostalgic note with Party Girl . This film must have had some nostalgic appeal for Taylor . It is set back when he would have been first getting the acting bug in Pomona University in the early thirties . Taylor is a gangland mouthpiece Tommy Farrell , who like that other Irish attorney mouthpiece played by Robert Duvall in The Godfather , has only one client . That client is Lee J . Cobb playing Rico Angelo , boss of the Chicago rackets , and a man not to be trifled with . We meet Taylor first as he's getting Cobb's chief gunsill John Ireland off on a murder rap . Also meeting him for the first time is dancer Cyd Charisse who works at a club that Cobb owns . Despite Taylor being crippled with a distinct limp ( which he accents when he addresses a jury ) she falls for him and Taylor goes to Europe for a year of surgeries to repair his legs and hip . Without Taylor around , Cobb makes some bad choices and with Charisse around Taylor starts to question his own ethics . To see how this all gets resolved you'll have to watch a good film with the lead players settling into roles they're comfortable with . With MGM getting out of the musical business parts were fewer and fewer for players like Cyd Charisse . Still because of her role her , she does get to do a few nice dance numbers that fit well with the story told .
Who Says Trigger's the Smartest Horse in the West	At this point in his career John Wayne was doing B films for Warner Brothers and it was decided to give him a smart horse like Roy Rogers's Trigger . And what do they name the horse ? Duke . That's something Wayne must have had a hand in . Here John Wayne is an army scout and he gets Frank McHugh as an army corporal / telegrapher as sidekick . When a good friend of their's is killed while sending a message for help by wire during an Indian attack , these two are sent to take personal charge of the construction of the last leg of the telegraph . There's a nasty villain played by Frank Hagney who runs a shipping outfit and with his Indian friends wants to keep the telegraph out . How the telegraph would affect his business is never quite made clear , but this is a B western so plot holes back then were a pretty common occurrence . Wayne and McHugh are very effective together , too bad they never got to work together again . For those who've never seen the entire film , the last minute of The Telegraph Trail are seen in Footlight Parade in a scene where James Cagney is in a movie theater observing his competition as he's a director of stage musicals . Ironically enough Frank McHugh is also in the cast of Footlight Parade which makes one wonder how the Warner Brothers slipped up there . By the way , for the only time I can recall in any of his films , John Wayne sports a two gun holster . Butts reversed in the manner of Wild Bill Elliott . If anyone can recall another film he did like that , I'll correct this review . I would recommend The Telegraph Trail for Wayne fans to see how well he and Frank McHugh connect . Another twist in his career and Frank McHugh could have had a grand career as western sidekicks .
That Albanian Scoundrel	Up till recently I had never seen 5 Fingers , for some reason it is rarely shown on television . But in watching it I knew why Alfred Hitchcock had cast James Mason as villainous Philip Van Damm in North By Northwest . His role as Diello in 5 Fingers , the Albanian spy for profit , is apparently what Hitchcock saw before casting his film . The setting of this is Ankara , capital of neutral Turkey in World War II . Mason is the valet of the British ambassador there and an Albanian national . He's hit upon a scheme to enrich himself with a little espionage . Mason hits the jackpot with the secret plans for Overlord , the location and operation of the Allied invasion of Europe . He pulls off the caper of all time , but things go quite awry after that . Former employer Countess Danielle Darrieux does him wrong in a very big way . Michael Rennie is fine as the intrepid British counter intelligence agent and the other outstanding performance is John Weingraf as Franz Von Papen the German Ambassador to Turkey at the time . He wasn't called the Fox for nothing . If you enjoyed James Mason in that Hitchcock classic , you will not want to miss 5 Fingers .
Introducing David Ladd	Although young David Ladd had actually made a brief appearance in his father's western The Big Land the year before , it was decided that David would make a featured debut in this family picture about a father and son roughing it in post Civil War America . Alan Ladd , late of the Confederate Army , and a widower has searched for and found his son in an orphanage in Pennsylvania . The Yankee soldiers took him and other kids left without homes to northern orphanages . In David's case he's lost his voice due to the traumatic shock of barely escaping the fire from a Union Army shell that burned down his home and killed his mother while Dad was in the army . They're together now and working their way west . They run afoul of Dean Jagger and his roughneck sons in Illinois , but make friends of spinster farm lady Olivia DeHavilland and Quaker doctor Cecil Kellaway . David has a sheepdog who could be valuable . And his father has some critical decisions to make about how to pay for an operation that might cure his son's vocal paralysis . The casting by Alan Ladd of his son David was a stroke of good fortune as the chemistry between the real father and son proved to be a winner . Also Dean Jagger as the one armed sheepherder who has designs on Olivia's land was also very good and against type . Playing Jagger's two sons are Tom Pittman and Harry Dean Stanton . Stanton , God Bless Him , is still around today , a very highly respected character actor who never seemed to lack for work . As for Tom Pittman , he was killed in a car crash while this film was out in theaters . John Mitchum in his memoirs Them Ornery Mitchum Boys , spoke very highly of Pittman , said he had a solid career ahead of him . He also described a harrowing experience where Pittman was missing for several days before police found him and his car and the bottom of a ravine where they had gone off the road . This film marked a reunion of Olivia DeHavilland with Michael Curtiz who directed a whole bunch of her films at Warner Brothers back when she was a young leading lady and favorite leading lady of Errol Flynn . Olivia is older now and delivers a good performance as the wise and compassionate farm woman who takes in the Ladds . With Ladd also producing and starring in this with his younger son , The Proud Rebel is a good family film in every sense of the word .
Sticks to the Personal	The actual development of the atomic bomb was documented in films like The Beginning or the End and in Fat Man and Little Boy . Above and Beyond concentrates on the pilot of the B-29 that actually did the deed . Robert Taylor and Eleanor Parker play Colonel and Mrs . Paul Tibbetts who's marriage was put under an incredible strain due to the security surrounding his assignment . Taylor was between his marriages to Barbara Stanwyck and Ursula Thiess and was involved with Parker at the time Above and Beyond was being filmed . Probably that helped a lot during the romantic interludes in the film . Because this film sticks to the personal story of the Tibbetts marriage and avoids all the debate about the use of the atomic bomb , it still holds up well for today's audience . In the supporting cast I would have to single out James Whitmore who plays the security head at Wendover field where Tibbetts is training the potential crew for the mission as the most outstanding . He's virtually the only one Taylor can bare his stoic soul to with the assignment he has . Even with the debate over Hiroshima still raging I would still recommend viewing this film .
Backstage Bing	This was Bing Crosby's third feature film on his new Paramount contract and by now Paramount discovered that they didn't have to put much production values into his films . Just give Bing some good songs to sing and the picture sells itself . That was definitely the case here . Crosby was supplied with a nice score by Arthur Johnston and Sam Coslow that contained two of his early film hits , Thanks and The Day You Came Along . For Crosby fans that's enough recommendation right there . However what makes the film sad is that this is a backstage story with enough opportunities to do some really nice production numbers . When you consider what Busby Berkeley was doing at Warner Brothers at the same time Paramount was making Too Much Harmony , this film comes off much the worse by comparison to any of Berkeley's work . They gave Bing a nice supporting cast with Jack Oakie , Skeets Gallagher , Ned Sparks and Harry Green . Bing is caught between two girls in this one Judith Allen and Lilyan Tashman . Lilyan is the bad girl and gold digger that she is , you kind of wonder why Bing is bothering with good girl Judith Allen . Judith Allen , I understand was the current inamorata of one of the Paramount studio bigwigs and he foisted her on this film . She's so bad she makes Ruby Keeler look talented . Her singing was as bad as Ruby and her acting was insipid . She didn't last long at Paramount , she was doing B westerns at Republic with Gene Autry by the end of the decade and dropped out of sight after that . My favorite number in this takes place in a train boxcar where Bing , Ms . Allen and the rest of the cast gradually join in as Bing kids his image by singing All the World is Singing Buh boo boo boo . It has that very impromptu look that a lot of Crosby's best movie numbers have . Too bad he didn't make a record of it . He did however make a record of another song from the film that he didn't sing in Too Much Harmony . An actress named Kiity Kelly does a lovely torch number called Black Moonlight . However Crosby did record it for Brunswick records like the other two numbers mentioned and it did enjoy a good sale considering this was Depression America . He always liked it and said so on his Musical Autobiography for Decca that came out a generation later . He said he hoped some of the newer generation of singers revived it . No one else has ever sang it to my knowledge . For Crosby fans this is a must , others take it for what its worth .
" You'll Get The Iron Cross For This , Von Ryan "	Von Ryan's Express which was a best selling action adventure novel in the sixties combines some of the best elements of The Great Escape and Bridge Over the River Kwai . Culture clashes abound in Von Ryan's Express , Britsh versus American , Italian versus German . Sometimes the participants seem to forget just who was the enemy . Frank Sinatra is an American Army Air Corps flier shot down near Rome before the invasion of Italy . The Italians grab him and take him to an Italian prisoner of war camp run by a strutting Mussolini wannabe in Adolfo Celi . The prisoners are mostly British and in fact members of a single regiment , the 9th Fusiliers . Command has now devolved to Major Trevor Howard with the death of their colonel . Sinatra becomes the ranking POW when he arrives . Sinatra and Howard clash over several issues . Watching the film you'll see I believe that Howard was right . But Sinatra has the rank . When the Italians switch sides as the landing at Salerno commences , the Italian soldiers desert and Sinatra and Howard have to make some hard decisions . They opt to move towards the sea , but are captured by the Germans and put on a train north . They recapture the prison train from the Germans and decide to keep going north to Switzerland . It'a pretty impossible tale , but that doesn't mean it ain't entertaining . Sinatra keeps his swinging hipster persona in check and Trevor Howard was born to play those British military roles . Of the rest of the cast my favorite performance is that of the British regimental chaplain Edward Mulhare . The fact that he went to graduate study in Germany and speaks it fluently is of inestimable help to the escaping prisoners . For those who like action war films , this is your cup of British tea .
A Man Placed In The Right Position	The Silent Enemy is a tribute to controversial British war hero Lionel Crabb who later got to be known as Buster after the American swimming champion . It wasn't medals that Crabb did his swimming for , he swam for the very survival of king and country . Laurence Harvey plays the sometimes irascible Crabb who gets assigned to Gibraltar , a key point on the lifeline of the British Empire in the Near and Far East . Holding the mouth of the Mediterranean as it does and still does , Gibraltar by its location has been a non-negotiable item since the British got it 1704 . Neutral Spain with its nest of spies on both sides of the rock was giving British shipping fits at the time . The Italians developed the technique of planting limpet stealth mines on British ships so they sink later on , when not in port . Crabb discovers this and applies that old maxim , if you can't beat them , join them . And above all make yourselves than the enemy . Crabb's original assignment is simply to find and dispose of the mines , but he puts together a team of frogmen and they become better than the Italians . Crabb's war on Gibraltar is a personal one because he knows who the Italians are operating over in Spain , he can almost reach out and touch them . But Spanish neutrality was a vexing problem for both the USA and the UK during World War II . MI5 who you would think would be dealing with such matters isn't doing it . It gets to be a personal war with Harvey and Arnoldo Foa playing the Italian frogman team head . Some of Harvey's crew are played by such British cinema veterans as Sid James , Nigel Stock , Alec McCowen , Ian Whittaker , and Michael Craig . John Clements is the Royal Navy Admiral in charge at Gibraltar and the beautiful Dawn Addams plays his efficient WREN secretary . I think she'd like to have gotten something going with Harvey , but in this case Harvey has his mind strictly on the business at hand . Lionel Crabb mysteriously disappeared in Portsmouth harbor in 1956 and a headless , legless , armless trunk was later recovered that could have been him . His disappearance has led to speculation for years that even in the post Soviet Union world hasn't been answered . The only one who's disappearance has gotten more speculation in my lifetime was the Australian Prime Minister Harold Holt . This film which made two years after Crabb's disappearance goes into none of that . It concludes with the landings of the Allied army in Morocco and with Crabb and his small team , literally frustrating the plans of several nations at war with their country . It's that Lionel Crabb that the British people prefer to remember and he's remembered well in this accurately told tale of his exploits . One man in the right spot really can make a difference .
The Great Examiner Holds Court Again	Sutton Vane's play Outward Bound was expanded and souped up considerably in this second screen version of the play , Between Two Worlds . The basic ideas of the play and first film have been extended and accommodated to World War II . Several new characters were introduced into the screenplay . Paul Henreid and Eleanor Parker play a young couple who decide to take their own lives via a gas stove . Earlier in the day they saw several people killed when a bomb hits a bus during the Blitz . Parker and Henreid then find themselves on a fog enclosed ship with those same people they saw and a steward played by Edmund Gwenn . In the original play these people were all British , but because of the wartime alliance some Americans got in on the act . Cynical reporter John Garfield , charwoman Sara Allgood , millionaire George Coulouris and his traveling companion Faye Emerson who used to have a thing with Garfield , vicar Dennis King , merchant sailor George Tobias , and a proper middle class British couple Gilbert Emery and Isobel Elsom . It takes a while , but soon the others catch on to what Parker and Henreid know already that they're dead . Gwenn informs them that at the end of the voyage they will meet The Great Examiner . Taking the place of Dudley Digges who played The Great Examiner on stage and in the first film version of Outward Bound is Sydney Greenstreet . The one guy who's relieved at this turns out to be King who recognizes him as an old chum from seminary . Apparently this is how clergy people are used in the next life . Leslie Howard played the role John Garfield has on stage and in the first version . It was interesting seeing both films back to back to see how two very different actors interpreted and how the screenplay was adapted to fill John Garfield's rebel persona . George Couloris's character is fleshed out a great deal more in this than in the original version . On screen Montagu Love played it and the man's sins were strictly mercenary . Here he's accompanied by his tootsie Faye Emerson and there's carnal lust in the mix as well as avarice . Alison Skipworth played Isobel Elsom's part on screen first and in that version , Mrs . Cliveden-Banks is already a widow . Here her husband is brought into the plot , played by Gilbert Emery and her eternal fate is different from the original . Daniel Fuchs in adapting and expanding the screenplay did manage to still preserve Sutton Vane's message about your eternal fate hanging in the balance of how you live life . Between Two Worlds is still an entertaining fantasy with a strong moral to it .
" Up , Down , Flying Around , Looping The Loop And Defying The Ground "	I'm one of the biggest fans of old newsreels and I don't think there are too many of us who haven't seen some of that ancient footage with all those odd contraptions showing man's attempt to fly in the early 20th century . I guess it was only a matter of time before someone got the bright idea to do a comedy from those attempts . Some of them weren't all that funny , people did in fact get killed , a lot of them in trying to master the air . But by 1910 there were all kinds of airplanes and even some early helicopters and a lot are shown in Those Magnificent Men . The plot centers about an international race from London to Paris sponsored by one of the English press lords played in true John Bull style by Robert Morley . He's got a spirited suffragette daughter in Sarah Miles and a most proper member of the King's Coldstream Guards in James Fox courting her . But along comes another flier , an American cowboy , Stuart Whitman who becomes Fox's air and romantic rival . But the film's got more than that . It's got Italian hopeful Alberto Sordi who can impregnate his wife with a dirty look . It's got Frenchman Jean Pierre-Cassel who keeps running into Irina Demick every place he goes . It's even got another English contestant in Terry-Thomas who's busy trying to sabotage everyone else . However my favorite is the German entry , Gert Frobe . Poor Frobe has to pinch hit for the original German flier who partied too hardy . But as he tries to prove as long as you follow the instruction book , the German Army can accomplish anything . Seeing him try to fly his airplane while reading the instruction book is my favorite memory of Those Magnificent Men . That and that incredibly catchy title song . I defy anyone to watch this film and not come away humming that tune for weeks . It will embed itself in your subconscious forever . Those Magnificent Men is good entertainment and a gentle tribute to those early air pioneers .
Shirley steals the show	In any other year Shirley MacLaine would have walked off with the Best Actress Oscar , but NO ONE was going to take it from Susan Hayward in 1958 . In fact the film is filled with nominations , Arthur Kennedy for Best Supporting Actor , Martha Hyer for Best Supporting Actress and these were great performances . Dean Martin does a great follow-up to The Young Lions in playing Bama Dillert here . This was no stretch for Dino however . This is exactly the kind of background he came from , so the part fit him like a comfortable old shoe . The flaw is Sinatra . To his credit , he really tries hard and succeeds in spots . But he's miscast in a part that either Paul Newman or Montgomery Clift might have taken an Oscar home for . But the acting honors go to MacLaine . The high point of the movie is her scene with Martha Hyer in Martha's classroom at the college . This poor pathetic Ginny Moorehead trying to assess her situation vis a vis Dave Hirsch pulls all the stops out . You have to be made of stone not to be moved by her pleas to Martha Hyer and Hyer's reactions in this scene probably got her , her nomination . If you can get past a miscast Frank Sinatra , then this film is a gem .
Good action , ridiculous romance	Victor McLaglen's last feature film found him trying to romance Luciana Paluzzi . McLaglen's a salvage tug captain and he's going through an end life crisis romancing young Luciana Paluzzi who's young enough to be his granddaughter . Seems that her father Roger Delgado , an innkeeper in a North Spain sea village , would like to get his daughter fixed up with a comfortable situation for both of them . He encourages her flirtations with McLaglen . But she's got eyes for Stanley Baker who's a member of McLaglen's crew . What saves this film is the action sequences on the high seas , especially Stanley Baker risking life and limb to dump a steel drum of lethal sodium during a storm , on board a listing freighter . Reason enough to see this film . There's also a bit of rivalry between Baker and another member of McLaglen's crew , Robert Shaw . Shaw and Baker both went on to solid careers as tough leading men . Baker never got quite the acclaim that Shaw did internationally , but he was good box office in Great Britain . Roger Delgado was best known in the British TV series Doctor Who for originating the role of the Doctor's number one nemesis , the Master . Death in an automobile crash in 1973 cut short a very good career . Watch it for the action sequences .
She's In Product , He's In Sales	Risky Business and All The Right Moves are the two films that launched Tom Cruise's career as brat pack film star . Unlike so many of his contemporaries from the Eighties , he's proved to have staying power and will no doubt continue to do so . All The Right Moves established Cruise as a dramatic actor , but Risky Business is a fun comedy about a hormone driven teenager who when the folks go away from his Chicago suburban home and he's left to play , he gets himself in all kinds of problems . First dialing up call girl , Rebecca DeMornay and then not having enough coin of the realm to pay her . Then getting mom's treasured glass egg stolen . And then getting the family car driven into Lake Michigan . But Cruise and DeMornay , who is having trouble with her pimp Joe Pantoliano , hit on the brilliant idea that there's a market out there for his group of eager overachievers . And Tom's house becomes quite the swinging brothel . Risky Business turns out to be pretty funny business . Best scene in the film involves Tom with Princeton interviewer Richard Mazur . You've got to love the way this boy gets into the Ivy League . Second best scene involves Tom and the family car as it plunges into the lake and then gets hoisted out . Tom's definitely proved to have staying power in show business . I can see his character in Risky Business growing up to be Jerry Maguire .
When You Need A Temporary General	Glenn Ford and Red Buttons take a mighty big chance trying to impersonate a general . It's a court martial offense if they're caught . Although the film goes overboard in silliness at times , Imitation General is a pretty good comedy from the talented director / actor team of George Marshall and Glenn Ford who also did the riotously funny The Sheepman that same year . Sergeant Ford and Corpoal Buttons are assigned and driving General Kent Smith in a forward area that gets a bit too forward and cut off from the main allied lines . They're surrounded and Smith is killed . Deciding that leadership is needed in the area Ford takes off his master sergeant stripes and puts on the late general's stars and pretends to be him . He and Buttons manage to pull it off all the time trying to avoid Private Tige Andrews who has a grudge against Ford . The action in Imitation General is fast and furious and Ford deadpans his way through another comedy triumph . Though I have to say that it should only have been so easy to take out German tanks as is shown here . Look for good performances by Dean Jones as a combat fatigue suffering soldier that Ford due to his ersatz rank gets back into shape . Also Kent Smith is very good even though he's killed off in the first twenty minutes . His performance is quite moving and it does explain why he was a beloved figure and why Ford and Buttons are doing the crazy things they are . Imitation General , a good comedy not to be missed when shown on TCM because it's not out on VHS or DVD .
Straight From . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	A year after winning the Oscar for Best Actor in The Bridge on the River Kwai , Alec Guinness was back to doing comedy , but with a lot bigger budgets than he was used to . His classic parts in Kind Hearts and Coronets and The Lavendar Hill Mob were done without color for instance , which was a much bigger premium for films in the United Kingdom . Guinness has not played such a disreputable character as Cully Jimson since playing Fagin in Oliver Twist . Yet even as he's fleecing all around him including his girl friend Kay Walsh and devoted acolyte Mike Morgan , he still retains that likability . You do end up rooting for him even as he pulls some outrageous scams . Kay Walsh who as David Lean's ex-wife was friends with Guinness and his wife Merula . Lean of course was responsible for Guinness's breakout roles in Great Expectations and Oliver Twist . Guinness got her cast in the role of his long suffering girlfriend and owner of a pub . Sadly young Mike Morgan died right before shooting ended on The Horse's Mouth . Guinness had worked with him previously on Morgan's only other film credit , Barnacle Bill . He gives a nice winsome performance as the young man who just wants to bask in the glow of Guinness's talent and glosses over all the chicanery . I don't think The Horse's Mouth is as good as Kind Hearts and Coronets or The Lavendar Hill Mob . Still Guinness obviously saw the film as a labor of love and the results do show .
Was Philo Vance Getting Into The Realm of Science Fiction ?	At one of those closed gatherings of suspects so popular in murder mysteries where a whole lot of the guests have good enough reason to do the victim in , George Meeker dives into a swimming pool and does not emerge . The disappearance is enough to call in the District Attorney , Robert McWade who just happens to be out on the town with famous private detective Philo Vance in this film played by Warren William . One thing about the Philo Vance series that I always found amusing was that the District Attorney and the police in the person of Sergeant Heath , Eugene Palette , never are too proud to accept and be grateful for the help that super sleuth Vance gives them . They were anticipating Adrian Monk by a couple of generations . Of course the body is found later on with the appearance that he may have been done in by something terrifying and unknown . The pool is not a pool in the usual sense , it's a dammed up stream and legends have it that a monster lived down there back in the days when the Indians were the only ones around . Philo Vance was getting into science fiction it seemed . But of course he does solve the case and the culprit is quite human with some very human motives for the crime . S . S . Van Dine for reasons I can't explain sold his various novels piecemeal to different studios . Which is why there are so many Vances on the screen . Warren William is one of the best of them . This particular Vance is not one of the best , but it's still a pretty good mystery though fans of mystery films I think will figure out early on who the murderer is .
True Love On The Train	Two years after the Andrews Sisters introduced You're A Lucky Fellow Mr . Smith in Buck Privates some bright fellow at Universal Studios thought it would make a nice catchy title for a film . The result was this very nice screwball comedy with songs about yet another Hollywood heiress , this one marries a soldier . Romance is not in the picture when Evelyn Ankers marries Allan Jones whom she meets aboard a train . In fact she's going west to marry David Bruce because by the terms of her uncle's will she has to be married by her 24th birthday . Ankers and her sister Patsy O'Connor are the Hilton sisters of the day , but even Patsy can't see Evelyn marrying a drip like David Bruce who is in the Ralph Bellamy role . Thinking quick on her feet she fakes an illness and gets the train quarantined and Ankers out of desperation marries Jones mainly because he looks and sings real nice . After that for the rest of the film the entire cast is pulling for Ankers to realize she really did find true love on the train . As apparently was the fashion , Universal interpolated a couple of really good ballads for Allan Jones to sing , supplementing the usual jive scores of their wartime quickie musicals . Jones is in great voice as he sings What Is This Thing Called Love and Your Eyes Have Told Me So in his campaign to woo and win Evelyn . As for Ankers it must have been a pleasant change not to be chased by various ghouls and monsters as she normally was over at Universal . For some reason Carl Laemmle , Jr . decided that Evelyn Ankers could scream better than anyone and she was constantly being cast in various werewolf and Frankenstein films the studio put out . You're A Lucky Fellow Mr . Smith is a dated , but really well done war time comedy with song . As for Jones's character of Tony Smith it takes him the entire run of the film to convince Ankers what a lucky girl she actually was .
Classical Cleo	Claudette Colbert certainly had one banner year in 1934 . An Oscar for It Happened One Night for Harry Cohn and Columbia Pictures and back at her home studio , she starred and got great reviews for Paramount's big budget item of the year , Cleopatra . As the slinky siren Queen of the Nile who got Julius Caesar's and Mark Antony's hormones into exponential overdrive , Claudette is one sly little minx . The traditional story is told in the classic DeMille style , eye-filling spectacle , plenty of sex , and Victorian type dialog . Because in 1963 Joe Mankiewicz released his version of Cleopatra with Elizabeth Taylor , Richard Burton and Rex Harrison , DeMille's version has become dated . Because Mankiewicz's cast talk like real people instead of classical figures of antiquity , DeMille's version now suffers by comparison . Warren William who in profile looks and acts like John Barrymore makes a classical Caesar who always gets shortchanged because his character in all versions gets killed off halfway into the story . Antony is played by Henry Wilcoxon who became very close friends with DeMille . DeMille tried to make him a star in this and in The Crusades , but the public didn't buy . Wilcoxon's greatest screen success was away from DeMille over at MGM as the vicar in Mrs . Miniver . DeMille relates a story in his autobiography about how Claudette was deathly afraid of snakes and was in horror of shooting her death scene . That scene was shot last in Cleopatra . And DeMille relates how before the scene he approached a terrified Colbert with a 10 foot python draped over his shoulders . As he got closer and closer Colbert was getting more and more anxious . When he got within three feet of her , he disgarded the python and had one of his retainers produce a small 8 inch garter snake for the asp . Colbert gave a sigh of relief and did the scene . Though it's outdated in every way by Mankiewicz's film including the spectacle DeMille loved , Cleopatra is still an interesting film to watch .
" Shake It To The Left , Shake It To The Right "	God only knows in my lifetime I've dealt with a lot of bartenders , I still do now when I go in a place and only order non-alcoholic beverage . But unless it was a topless joint where the bartenders were required to do more than pour and converse and maybe toss out an occasional drunk , I never did see one do the Hippy Hippy Shake . And here Tom Cruise does it tandem with Bryan Brown . Still Cocktail is an entertaining enough film with Tom Cruise now settled into the parts he usually plays as an all American social climber . Tom's fresh out of the army and his first stop is his uncle Ron Dean's bar in Queens . He probably could get a job with his uncle , but Tom aims for higher things . The problem Tom has in looking for a job is that old adage , what kind of work are you out of ? He tries in all kinds of places , but he has no experience . An exhausted Tom arrives at an upscale bar presided over by Bryan Brown and the two of them hit it off . Brown teaches Tom all the tricks of the trade in bartending and hustling . Bartending on the Upper East Side is a whole different world than the working class of Queens . In fact right around the same time Cocktail was out the tragic murder of Jennifer Levin by preppie killer Robert Chambers was introducing via the tabloids of the world of the yuppie bars of that vicinity . It was the world of Cocktail brought to a gruesome reality . The women come and go for both Cruise and Brown . Success turns out to be ephemeral . The key scene in the film for me is that where Brown after marrying East Side princess Kelly Lynch and her father's money has backed him in opening the most posh establishment on the East Side , he confesses that he doesn't know the first thing about really running a business . Running a bar / restaurant is a lot more than pouring drinks and dispensing wisdom . Turns out Brown hasn't got that much wisdom and his realization of that leads to tragedy . It's a beautifully played scene , the best I've ever seen from Bryan Brown . Elizabeth Shue as Tom's East Side princess is very appealing , but I also like Ron Dean as Cruise's uncle who really does have a lot of wisdom and he doesn't think that he has it simply because he pours drinks . Brian Flannagan in Cocktail became one of Tom Cruise's staple roles and further endeared him as our number one superstar . Still I've yet to see a real bartender do the Hippy Hippy Shake .
The LA Gang Wars And The Cops Who Respond	After viewing Colors you have got to wonder about what our Founding Fathers had in mind when that Second Bill of Rights was passed to amend the Constitution . I don't think this is what they had in mind concerning the right to bear arms . Colors is a film about gang wars in Los Angeles and it's seen through the eyes of two police officers on the gang task force . Older officer Robert Duvall and his young new partner Sean Penn . Penn's a young man in a big hurry looking to make an impression . Duvall is just trying to live through the day and make retirement . Penn gets quite a lesson in police work and in life from Duvall and from his days on the gang task force . His involvement with Maria Conchita Alonso who's seeing it from both sides helps a bit too for Sean , though not how he'd have liked it . Don Cheadle and Trinidad Silva lead a good supporting cast of gang bangers . If you don't recognize him because he hasn't bulked up yet , see Mario Lopez in a small role as a kid who Sean Penn sprays with a can of spray paint to give him an object lesson on the evils of tagging . Duvall and Penn do a fine job each . I doubt this film is on the National Rifle Association recommended list .
For $1000 . 00 A Day	You can see the roots both in the plot and the special effects in Michael Crichton's Westworld that can later be found in the incredibly popular Jurassic Park series . Like Jurassic Park the protagonists of Westworld are a pair of wealthy American yuppies who are going to a futuristic vacation resort . The place is called Delos and like Disneyland with its separate theme parks of Fantasyland , Adventureland , Frontierland , and the World of Tomorrow , Delos has three different resort type places to visit , Romanworld , Medievalworld and Westworld . Our two intrepids have chosen the Westworld experience . They get to mix and mingle in an old west frontier town , or at least a Hollywood type version of same and get the feel of western life . Included are gunfights and bar brawls such as you see in any good Hollywood western . This is what Richard Benjamin and James Brolin have chosen for themselves . For reasons unexplained in the story , the whole thing breaks down in all three theme worlds and in the case of Westworld , a very nasty gunslinger robot has shaken loose from his programming and is on the hunt for human targets . Will man with all of his weaknesses defeat an apparently indestructible machine ? You can also see some of the themes in the later Terminator films that Arnold Schwarzneggar popularized . Here the relentless hunter is played by Yul Brynner in the familiar black western garb that he made popular in The Magnificent Seven . The VHS copy of Westworld advertises itself as the very first use of computer graphics . If that's the case this is one unique experience for that reason alone and should not be missed .
" I'm Too Good For This Joint "	Bolero , the film named after Maurice Ravel's classic instrumental orchestral composition is one of George Raft's very few non-gangster successes . That's because it takes advantage of Raft's other great talent , that of a dancer . It's how he started out in show business and like James Cagney , got to display that aspect of his talent way too little . Raft is perfectly cast as the stop at nothing to get to the top man who uses and discards women partners like Kleenex . The only one who really understands him is his down to earth brother William Frawley who serves as his manager . But when Carole Lombard comes into his life , it throws his game plan off kilter . But just a little bit . The film is set in the years before , during , and just after World War I . Just as he's really got it made with the opening of his own club in Paris , the war breaks out which Raft considers something done to hurt him personally . But he decides unlike Gene Kelly in For Me And My Gal to turn things to his advantage . The war will be over in a few weeks he reasons , why not enlist and get great publicity as the biggest patriot in show business . That enlistment sets off a chain of events that ends in tragedy . Speaking of Gene Kelly , if Bolero had been done at MGM instead of Paramount a decade or two later this film would have been great for him . Raft was a good dancer , but he was not a creative individual the way Kelly was . Look at what he did with An American In Paris , this could have been another film like that . Still it's not bad , Raft and Lombard , make an exciting couple on the dance floor , especially doing that dance to an abbreviated version of Ravel's Bolero . There's also good performances by Frances Drake and Sally Rand as a couple of Raft's discarded dames and by up and coming Ray Milland as the English lord also interested in Lombard . In other hands though , Bolero could have been a classic .
Bill Holden Had To Wait For Another War	The problem that Submarine Command had from the start is that it came out in the same year as Operation Pacific which had similar plot situations . It might be better known today if that were not the case . As it is it's not a bad action adventure film and no disgrace to its star William Holden or any of the supporting cast . When I reviewed Operation Pacific I said that I like submarine films , but inevitably the same situations and clichés follow into each film . In this case William Holden was a newly assigned Executive Officer to the USS Tiger Shark and he was a recent Annapolis graduate who had just done a few shakedown cruises and had never seen any real combat . And it's the summer of 1945 . In action Holden like John Wayne in Operation Pacific is forced to leave his wounded captain , John Gregson on top and dive the submarine and take command . This gains the enmity of CPO William Bendix who was devoted to captain Gregson . Wouldn't you know it , the day this happens , Holden's only experience under fire during World War II is the day the Japanese surrender and news of it comes when the Japanese suddenly break off an engagement with the Tiger Shark . Unlike the Duke who got an opportunity in this war to redeem himself in a few eyes , Holden had to wait until Korea for his chance . In the meantime he marries Nancy Olson . Submarine Command was their fourth and final film together , the two had been teamed for Sunset Boulevard , Union Station , Force Of Arms , and now Submarine Command . Three good films and one classic isn't a bad record . Olson seemed to be Paramount's answer to MGM's June Allyson in those good girl next door roles . She and Holden clicked very well on screen . Of course the incomparable William Bendix is here as well . That man never gave a bad performance in anything he was in . He and Holden worked together at Paramount in Blaze At Noon and Streets Of Laredo . They would not be teamed again as well . Although I liked Operation Pacific better , Submarine Command is a fine film on its own that just suffered from bad timing . Fans of William Holden will like it .
The Stars Come To Travis	Starlift is a pleasant and interesting throwback to those all star musical pictures that every studio was putting out during the World War II years . When you've got such stars as Gary Cooper , James Cagney , Doris Day , Gordon MacRae , and Randolph Scott , etc . , in the film and with such people as the Gershwin Brothers , Cole Porter , Jule Styne and Sammy Cahn supplying the music , it's an easy to take film . And the plot isn't even in the way . What plot there is involves two Air Force enlisted men , Dick Wesson and Ron Hagerthy , trying to meet Warner Brothers starlet Janice Rule using as a gimmick the fact that both come from Youngstown , Ohio and Hagerthy's father was Rule's dentist as well as half of the town's . The scheme works too well as Louella Parsons is soon putting them as an item in her column . Yes , Louella's in the film as well . She must have liked Warner Brothers or Jack Warner catered to her more than the other studio bosses because she also used this studio to publicize her Hollywood Hotel radio program back in the day . But the rest of the plot also touched on the real life efforts of Ruth Roman also playing herself to get her studio and others to do shows at the Air Force bases for the servicemen and women going to Korea . Some of the names I've mentioned and others sing and perform in a show at Travis Air Force Base where a lot of this film was shot . One specialty number was shot for the talents of Phil Harris who sing / narrates a ballad Look Out Stranger , I'm A Texas Ranger aided and assisted by Virginia Gibson , Frank Lovejoy and Gary Cooper . Yup , Cooper looked like he was having a great old time kidding his image . This is the oldest of clichés when you say they don't make them like this any more , but they really don't because you don't have a studio system that has all this talent under contract . That's one thing about the demise of the old studio system we can mourn .
A Fighting Machine	Realizing that this is made for TV movie without a whole lot of the production values that a theatrical release would have , the performance of Tony Lo Bianco as Rocky Marciano is a dead-on accurate portrayal of the two real live Rockys that dominated their divisions back in the day . Paul Newman cut his teeth on playing Rocky Graziano former middleweight champion in the late Forties in a big budget theatrical release . Rocky Marciano undefeated heavyweight champion from 1952 to 1956 gets a made for TV biopic that is not as good as the other one , but it's not due to any of the players . Rocky Marciano , the Brockton mauler from Brockton , Massachusetts did not want to spend the rest of his life in one of the many shoe factories in the area . Like for so many others boxing was a way out for him . And he took it all the way . The man was undefeated , his record stands at 49 fights 49 wins and 43 of those by knockout . Only 6 men took him to the distance . A figure to stagger the imagination today . Rocky had a 68 inch reach , the shortest of any heavyweight champion . That meant you had to keep well clear of him . But he could lay you out with one punch if it connected . Too many inched in closer and regretted it . I guess the temptation was too much . A great example would be his fight to win the heavyweight championship . Rocky as challenger was favored over champion Jersey Joe Walcott . Walcott was in his late thirties and his younger aggressive challenger had beaten all comers . But Walcott boxed beautifully and was ahead on points up to the 12th round . Came the 13th round and Rocky Marciano summoned up what it took and when Walcott moved in too close Marciano connected and Walcott lost the title . Marciano was not about the night life at all . Boxing was his business and he knew he had to keep in shape . He was a fanatic about training , was almost continuously in some kind of training all year round . Very few have that kind of dedication today , few ever have at all . Other good performances in this film are Belinda Montgomery as Rocky's wife , Simmy Bow as trainer and confidante Charlie Goldman and Al Weill , Marciano's shrewd manager . My memories of Rocky Marciano back in the day was a syndicated show he hosted in the early sixties called main event . He ran old fight films , sometimes of his fights , and analyzed them with a guest star . He even managed to keep some kind of cool perspective when Zsa Zsa Gabor guested on one of his shows . That was a bout to remember . When he died in a plane crash in 1969 the sports world lost a real champion and to use that overused word a role model for the work ethic . This film is a good tribute to a great fighter .
Clint Eastwood's Directorial Debut ?	If the creators of Mister Ed could only have realized just what they were prophesying in this episode , they'd have gotten in on the ground floor of Malpaso films . When Clint Eastwood was just known as the star of Rawhide , in fact at the height of that series run , he made a guest appearance on Mister Ed . It was a rocky road for Mister Ed and Clint . Clint moves into the neighborhood where the Posts and Addisons are and he's got a horse that Mister Ed doesn't get along with . Ed's campaign to get rid of Eastwood and the horse nearly gets Alan Young a beating . But later on Eastwood gets a young filly instead and Mister Ed of course now is all in favor of him . By that time though Eastwood has been in the spirit of good neighborliness , inveigled into directing a western sketch of his own creation starring the Mister Ed regulars . We never did see the finished product just the rehearsals with Alan Young , Larry Keating , Connie Hines and Edna Skinner in western attire . Almost fifty years and two Oscars later for Best Director , can we say that Clint Eastwood's career as a director started with this ? An interesting thing to turn over in your mind . This is a very good episode of a series I really liked back in the day and I'm glad the THIS network has picked up these shows .
The Shakedown of the U . S . S . Warren	Standby For Action finds the two co-stars of Billy the Kid , Robert Taylor and Brian Donlevy thrown together due to wartime circumstances as executive officer and captain of the recommissioned U . S . S . Warren . Apparently the Warren was one of the old vintage World War I destroyers that didn't get traded to the United Kingdom in the Destroyers for Naval Bases Deal that we did with them . She's a worn out old tub as her caretaker , retired Chief Yeoman Walter Brennan will tell you , but she has plenty of heart and a lot of fight left in her . It's a lesson Taylor has to learn . Had Standby For Action been filmed at 20th Century Fox , Tyrone Power would have had the role , in fact he did have a similar part in Crash Dive . Taylor's a rich kid whose family connections got him a commission and a job with Admiral Charles Laughton . Donlevy's a career Navy man who rose through the ranks to become a captain , also similar to the role Dana Andrews had in Crash Dive . The crusty , but wise Admiral Laughton decides that his junior aide could use a bit of real sea duty and assigns him to the Warren to serve under Donlevy . It turns out to be a learning experience for both men . Taylor and Donlevy give strong and capable performances . Taylor looks the part and in fact the following year he was wearing the uniform of Uncle Sam's Navy and seeing action in the real Pacific Theater . But both these guys had to fight against a pair of veteran scene stealers in Charles Laughton and Walter Brennan . Laughton dominates every scene he's in and uses every trick in his considerable command to capture and hold the audience's attention . This is not Captain Bligh by any means , yet Bligh was as much a seaman as he was a sadist . This admiral is no such thing , but he knows and loves the Navy he serves with . No more so than Walter Brennan and the high point of the film is Brennan telling Taylor and Donlevy how much the Navy means to him and how much he wants to serve his country in her hour of peril . At least it's my favorite scene . The Warren runs into all kinds of problems from rescuing a lifeboat filled with infants to action against a Japanese battleship . Taylor and Donlevy and the crew meet all challenges . Standby For Action is a good wartime action adventure . Robert Taylor would soon enough be dealing with the real thing .
Child Labor	The title role in The Missouri Traveler is played by young Brandon DeWilde , his last role essentially as a child star . Soon he'd be doing such adult stuff as Blue Denim , Hud , and In Harm's Way . It's a nostalgic look at life at the turn of the last century in a small Missouri town where orphan kid Brandon DeWilde stops and decides to stay a while . This is a nice easy to take film , moving along at a leisurely pace , but actually it has some serious issues . This is an orphan kid making his own way in the world , a world I might add without child labor laws . Young DeWilde is working for his keep , both as a sharecropper and as a horse trainer , well at least an assistant trainer . Paul Ford gets a preparatory performance in this film for his later role as the mayor of River City in The Music Man . DeWilde has a couple of adult role models , the cynical Lee Marvin the guy who worked his way up to the top and the loquacious Gary Merrill who is the town newspaper editor . Both give DeWilde some good lessons about life . In fact both Merrill and Marvin get into a knock down drag out fight that was copied , but lovingly from John Ford's The Quiet Man . The Missouri Traveler was released through Buena Vista Productions in the beginning years of that company before it exclusively was the distributor for Walt Disney . It's a nice film , especially for family viewing with a lot of good lessons in it .
Meet the Morgensterns	If you grew up in a Jewish home or even a mixed household as I did there were two books in every domicile . One would have been Leon Uris's Exodus and the second was Herman Wouk's Marjorie Morningstar . I guess I can appreciate the film more than most since I saw a lot of the characters in my youth and afterwards . Everett Sloane and Claire Trevor , formerly of the Bronx , now reside in a doorman building in Manhattan . Everett is a self-made man who's now living the American dream , albeit Jewish style . And Claire , if she's gone a bit high hat , is still a very concerned mother and a pretty shrewd judge of character or the lack thereof . In fact Claire Trevor has the best performance in the film . The Morgensterns have two children , daughter Marjorie and son Seth . It's Seth's bar mitzvah that the story opens with , but it's Marjorie who the film is about . Remember this is post World War II America and Claire wants for her daughter a man as successful as the one she married . No great thoughts about alternative avenues for women . But Marjorie is determined to explore alternatives . With best friend Carolyn Jones , who's very into alternatives , Marjorie takes a job as a counselor in a summer camp . And in a neighboring camp she meets Noel Airman , the camp theater director . Now Marjorie's smitten and wants a show business career . Though Natalie Wood plays Marjorie and the title role , the most complex part is Gene Kelly as Noel Airman . Kelly as a dancer has just the right theatrical background to understand an underachiever like Noel Airman . He's all surface charm , and even talented . But there are a lot of people in the theater who never become successful at it in monetary terms . The few that do are lucky , they might get the right breaks , but they all work hard at what they love . Noel won't commit to work . He wants it all , but he doesn't want to work for it . He also doesn't realize that show business is a business and there are a lot of people out there as talented as he without his issues . In fact the key scene in the film is when Claire Trevor on meeting him , sizes him up correctly in five minutes . Kelly sizes Trevor up as well that she's a bit of a snob , but at least she has her's . This film brought Natalie Wood real star status . It was her break out role from what was essentially brat pack pictures from the 1950s . She's so beautiful here it's hard to imagine the tragedy that awaited her . A perfect Jewish princess , in the nicest sense of the term . Ed Wynn who never was able to translate his vaudeville and radio success to Hollywood until late in life also shines here as Everett Sloane's Uncle Samson . He's the happy go lucky contented man , but not terribly successful of the previous generation . He represents as much as the family loves him , what they've escaped from . In life and more so in Hollywood life , things do have a funny way of resolving themselves . And Marjorie in a way she and we don't expect gets her real heart's desire . But for what and how you have to watch this very nostalgic re-creation of upper middle class Jewish life in New York City .
Matchmaker , Match Thyself	After a lifetime of arranging couplings for others Dolly Levi has decided it's time that she settle down with somebody . Her target in her sights is merchant Horace Vandergelder in turn of the last century Yonkers , New York . Of course Horace the old goat is looking at young Irene Molloy . What to do , especially since his young clerk Cornelius Hackl has eyes for her also . Shirley Booth who originated many parts on the Broadway stage , but had few screen credits up to that time takes over the role that Ruth Gordon played on stage in the 1955-1957 season for 481 performances . Another Shirley named MacLaine with few screen credits at that point to her name plays young Irene . And the object of all this fuss is potbellied old Paul Ford giving one of his patented bellowing performances . It was interesting to read how Ford had come to the acting profession rather late in life . He certainly is ham enough that you wonder why didn't do this all of his life . Ford had just completed a four year run as the harried and harassed Colonel Hall , object of many of Sergeant Bilko's con games in the Phil Silvers Show . For most of his career Ford was a blusterer whether here or in The Music Man or Never Too Late . He looked a lot like Edgar Kennedy , but his boiling point was always quickly reached . Anthony Perkins who really did other things besides Norman Bates in Psycho is just fine as the wistful young clerk at Ford's mercantile and he's partnered in his adventures by young Robert Morse who repeated his stage role as Barnaby Tucker . Of course most know The Matchmaker as the basis for Hello Dolly and seeing it now is like seeing Shaw's Pygmalion which for better or worse is now known as My Fair Lady without the songs . Still The Matchmaker is fun to watch for the nostalgically inclined .
NOT Another run of DeMille Picture	By the time the 1940s were rolling around , Cecil B . DeMille was doing a lot less work , but the work was getting more expensive . DeMille took off a couple of years now between films to create the opulent splendor that typifies his work . Well Samson and Delilah abounds in opulence . The color cinematography is first rate and reason enough to see the film . Of course it has the usual stilted dialog that is common in DeMille's costume work . But one has to remember that DeMille made his show business bones with David Belasco in the Edwardian era . And that's how folks talked in those Belasco plays . Acting honors in this go to George Sanders as the Saran of Gaza , Philistine ruler and sophisticated cad . This was the height of Sanders career , he received a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for All About Eve the same year . I think the Saran and Addison DeWitt would have understood each other very well . Angela Lansbury is the original object of Samson's lust and she does okay , but personally if you had the choice between Jessica Fletcher and Tondelayo , who would you choose ? Is that ever a no-brainer . DeMille got a couple of loan-outs to play the leads . Hedy Lamarr could easily lay claim to be the most beautiful woman in the cinema . She never had much acting skill , but all she has to do is be seductive and that no one could do better . And Victor Mature away from his home studio of 20th Century Fox where he was languishing , Samson and Delilah provided a whole new vista for him with roles in spectacle pictures where he could truly be that beautiful hunk of man . Fay Holden is good as Samson's mother . In modern times I can just hear her telling him about settling down with a good Jewish girl .
Legend of Old California	Two later versions of the story of Joaquin Murietta with Jeffrey Hunter and Ricardo Montalban stuck closer to the truth about the famous bandit from the California Gold Rush Days . But certainly Warner Baxter , dusting off his Cisco Kid accent certainly made a dashing Murietta . I'm not certain why Gilbert Roland who was always a personal favorite of mine didn't play this part , it seems like something he was born to do . Though Baxter's portrayal is honest and sincere I doubt that Latino groups today would let a Warner Baxter play Murietta any more than they would have him play Cisco Kid . California was the most heavily populated of the area that was known as the Mexican Cession which came into the United States as a result of the Mexican War . Even at that American immigration was gradually overwhelming the Mexican population just as their ancestors overwhelmed the largely peaceful Indians in California . But when gold was discovered in 1849 that was it . By the next year California was admitted to the union it had grown that exponentially . Such depredations as depicted that turned Murietta into a bandit were a fact and interesting that in 1936 that was shown on screen . Ann Loring and Margo do well as the women in Murietta's life and J . Carrol Naish was just starting on that colorful career of his that had him play every kind of ethnic type on the screen . He made a great Three Finger Jack whose small band of outlaws Murietta takes over by leadership and charisma . Perhaps Murietta's story such that can be verified is due for a more modern retelling . Still this is a fine version of the story .
Updating Of The Squaw Man	The very first film usually dubbed a Hollywood western was Cecil B . DeMille's The Squaw Man which came out in 1913 . The plot involved an English earl going west to America after one of those Victorian affairs of honor and settling down with an American Indian wife . A lot of the plot elements of The Squaw Man are in Showdown at Williams Creek . In this Tom Burlinson is not an earl , far from it he's a British officer who sees a chance for promotion in the 1860s in the army of Great Britain slim because of the custom of purchasing a commission . Ironically enough right at the time he was deciding to head to North America to seek his fortune , the Gladstone ministry and its Secretary for War Lord Cardwell was finally addressing just such abuses . In any event Burlinson goes to America , falls in with some bad companions and one of them leaves him to die with an Indian arrow wound . But he's rescued by a band of Metis , mixed racial descendants of fur trappers and Indians and falls in love with Michelle Thrush one of the women who he has a son by . The story is told in flashback by Burlinson on the stand during a murder trial where he's accused of shooting down Donnelly Rhodes that bad companion he fell in with . As the story unfolds Burlinson being left to die is only part of the reason for the homicide . I first saw Burlinson in his native Australian production of The Man From Snowy River . He gave a good account of himself here as he did there . In that other film , I managed to learn what a ' brumbie ' is , we call them mustangs in the USA . Playing the judge in the courtroom is Raymond Burr who in fact is a native Canadian . I'm sure he was there to encourage independent Canadian film making and lend a little Perry Mason box office to the effort . The film is nicely photographed in British Columbia and if it's broadcast in Canada or in the USA or at the North Pole for Santa Claus , I urge you catch it .
Local Tyranny	With the debate over illegal immigration and the concern that it is mostly coming from south of the American border , Man in the Shadow is a film that has assumed a serious relevance for us today . Jeff Chandler is the sheriff of a small southwestern town and a Mexican migrant worker , Martin Garralaga , has brought news of a homicide committed by white ranch hands on the property of his employer Orson Welles . It seems that a young Mexican was paying to much attention to Welles's daughter , Colleen Miller , and Welles wanted to teach him the error of his ways . Of course Leo Gordon and John Larch go too far and now a murder has to be covered up . It becomes two murders when witness Garralaga also turns up dead . Though Welles and his Golden Empire Ranch have a stranglehold on the local economy and the town's leading citizens beg Chandler not to pursue the case , Chandler doggedly goes ahead anyway . He's the sheriff and it's his duty . Chandler in this modern western is a standup straight arrow sheriff in the mold of Gary Cooper or John Wayne . He takes his oath of office quite seriously . And what happens to him during the course of the investigation makes the townspeople want to re-examine just how much they want to kowtow to Welles and his hired thugs . Mario Siletti , the town barber and one of the few who backs Chandler without reservation , puts it best in that his father fled from a guy who was running Italy in the Twenties the same way Welles was running this corner of the USA . Orson Welles just by his appearance in what is a B picture lent enormous prestige to it . This was one of those acting jobs he did trying to earn money to finance his own projects . But Welles never gave less than 100 % of himself in anything he did . His portrait of a malevolent Ben Cartwright is a great piece of work . Man in the Shadow played the bottom of double features in the Fifties , but those who saw it were not disappointed .
Bing's Home On The Range .	Another source of recording material for Bing Crosby were western songs . He recorded a good many of them in his career . About the time Rhythm on the Range was being made the singing cowboy was just getting started as a movie staple . When Bing's 78s were being compiled into vinyl albums in the 1950s he had recorded enough for several albums . Lots of the songs of Gene Autry and Roy Rogers are in the Crosby catalog in fact a young Roy Rogers can be spotted in the I'm An Old Cowhand number . Runaway heiresses were another movie staple especially in the 1930s and that's Frances Farmer's part . She's running away from a marriage she's not terribly thrilled about and stowing away on a freight boxcar she finds Bing Crosby who unbeknownst to her works as a ranchhand on her aunt's Frying Pan Ranch out in Arizona . Bing is nursemaiding a bull named Cuddles and Bing , Frances and Cuddles make their way west with several adventures . Trailing them are a trio of hoboes played very well by James Burke , Warren Hymer , and George E . Stone who have found out who Frances is and are looking to make a quick buck . Their machinations go for naught of course . In Frances Farmer's book , Will There Ever Be A Morning , she describes a not very happy life in Hollywood . However she liked this film , as it had no pretensions and similarly her leading man . She described Bing Crosby as a pleasant unassuming fellow who she liked , but didn't get to know real well . Frances had a best friend , a matron of honor to be , for the wedding that didn't come off . She was played by Martha Sleeper and I think a lot of her part was edited out . Sleeper gave some hints of a really juicy Eve Arden type character that could have been used more . The second leads were played by Bob Burns and Martha Raye . Burns , the Arkansas Traveler and regular on Crosby's Kraft Music Hall , played his usual rustic type and in this film introduced his patented musical instrument , the bazooka . Made out of two gas pipes and a funnel , the bazooka was a kind of countrified bassoon . The army's anti-tank device in World War II looked something like it and it was named as such . Martha Raye made her debut in this film and would go on to do two other films with Crosby . She sings her famous Mr . Paganini number here and her bumptious character complement Burns quite nicely . Crosby sings A Cowboy's Lullaby to Cuddles trying to calm him down during the train ride and the famous Empty Saddles during a scene at the Madison Square Garden Rodeo . He gets a ballad entitled I Can't Escape From You to sing while on the road with Farmer . But the most famous song to come out of this film is I'm An Old Cowhand which was a big seller for him . It's an ensemble number with just about everyone in the cast participating including as I said before , Roy Rogers and also a young Louis Prima . Now there's an interesting combination . I'm An Old Cowhand was written with words and music by Crosby's good friend and sometime singing partner Johnny Mercer . IT's a good film and I'm surprised Paramount didn't come up with any more Western type material for Bing considering he did a lot of recording of that material . The only other western type ballads he ever sung on the screen were The Funny Old Hills from Paris Honeymoon and When The Moon Comes Over Madison Square from Rhythm on the River . Crosby would have to wait until he essayed Thomas Mitchell's part in the remake of Stagecoach during the 1960s to be in another western . And there he sang no songs at all . One song that was cut out from the film was a duet by Crosby and Farmer called The House Jack Built for Jill . Crosby did record it for Decca as a solo and it is heard towards the end of the film in background . I was lucky to get a bootleg recording from the cut soundtrack . Frances talk / sings a la Rex Harrison and Bing sings it in his inimitable style . I think this was supposed to be a finale and it was cut at the last minute . The film does end somewhat abruptly and you can tell there was more shot . Maybe one day it will be restored . Rhythm on the Range was remade by Paramount with Martin and Lewis as Pardners . Dean and Jerry are good , but it ain't a patch to the original .
Transferred From Milford , The Hoods From Hell	The film Sometimes They Come Back explores the proposition that if you got a big enough grudge against someone , especially if they helped aid your leaving this mortal coil rather abruptly , you can come back for payback . Doesn't matter if you've been good or if you've been bad and these three were definitely bad . Tim Matheson comes back to his hometown with wife Brooke Adams and their son Robert Hy Gorman for a teaching job at the local high school . Tim's got some anger management issues which is why he left the last school he taught at in Chicago . He's got no great attachments to his hometown with his parents gone and his older brother killed back in 1963 . That's what this story is all about . He and his brother were stopped by some hoods in a train tunnel and the brother killed , but so were three of the hoods when young Matheson played by Zachary Ball stole their car keys as he ran . It's these three who kill three of Matheson's students with him having some peripheral involvement even if its premonitions and take their place . The three hoods from hell are malevolently played by Robert Rusler , Bentley Mitchum , and Nicholas Sadler . All transfered from Milford , Milford Cemetery that is . Tim Matheson and the rest of the cast give good performances in this film adapted from a Stephen King short story . Fans of Stephen King and the horror genre should really like this one .
HAL Comes To Washington	Shia LaBoeuf plays two parts in Eagle Eye , very briefly he's a young Air Force Man working at a very top secret room on the 36th sub level of the Pentagon basement . He gets killed in a traffic accident and the scene shifts now to his underachieving twin brother who works at a copy store . After the funeral of the Air Force Shia , strange things happen to copy boy Shia . He gets of a million dollars in his bank account and his apartment gets filled with all kinds of things that make him look like terrorist suspect number one in the USA . At the same time a young mother , Michelle Monaghan gets some threatening phone calls about bodily harm happening to her son . The two of them , total strangers , get forced to work together on some convoluted scheme . What Air Force Shia was working on is a Hal like computer which monitors everything and knows everything about anyone . The latest in technology in the war on terror . And this HAL like creature named ARIA does not like to be told ' no ' . Like HAL , ARIA has decided to dispense with the human element of running our government . Stephen Spielberg produced and D . J . Caruso directed a nice cast of players supporting LaBoeuf and Monaghan . Shia is certainly shedding his Disney Channel image from his Even Stevens days . Best in the supporting cast is Air Force Intelligence Officer Rosario Dawson , formerly B'Elanna Torres on Star Trek Voyager . If this is our future , God Help Us unless we're in the process of creating God with silicon .
Repatriating the Red Refugees	Russian colonel Louis Calhern is looking for prima ballerina Janet Leigh to take her back to the Soviet Union in post World War II Vienna in 1946 . His quest is the heart of The Red Danube . The Red Danube came out in 1949 and is set at the time when people thought it possible to keep the wartime Allies on the same page . That was not to be due to the differences in the two political systems that combined to defeat Hitler . Walter Pidgeon is recently transferred to Vienna and gets an order to find her and turn her over to the Russians . He doesn't count on three things , his aide Peter Lawford falling for Janet , the formidable presence of Mother Superior Ethel Barrymore who is sheltering Leigh , and his own growing conscience about what he sees around him . People would rather die than return to the worker's paradise that Communism has created . I mean literally , both here in the film and in real life back in the day . It's easy to dismiss The Red Danube as a Cold War inspired film . But the situations are way too real . Best performance in the film is Ethel Barrymore , followed closely by Pidgeon as the British Colonel with a conscience . Pidgeon is a nonbeliever and his debates with Barrymore about religion are the best thing in the film . Part of the film has Pidgeon getting Barrymore on a military plane to see the Pope in Rome during a conference concerning refugees . Now mind you this is Pius XII we are talking about who before and as Pope never quite saw the danger Hitler was to the church that Stalin was . But I'm willing to bet that seeing Ethel Barrymore delineate the character of the Mother Superior this was a woman who walked the Christian walk as well . I'm even willing to bet she probably sheltered a few Jews during the holocaust as well .
The Angel of Devil's Island	The Strange Cargo referred to in the title is in the person of Ian Hunter who is a mysterious other world convict who comes upon a group of them planning to escape from Devil's Island . It's a strange film , Strange Cargo with Clark Gable and Joan Crawford in the very last of eight films they were paired in by MGM . Crawford dusts off her Sadie Thompson role for her character here . Even with the Code firmly in place it's rather obvious that Crawford is a working girl . She's free , but stranded on that notorious convict island . Gable is essentially the same cynical tough guy he played in so many MGM features at that time . Ian Hunter is the mysterious stranger among them . These aren't a group of choir boys he comes among . Yet one by one as they die he brings a peace that passeth all understanding as the Good Book says . The escapees all don't die , but all but one come under his influence . I'm surprised that TCM did choose this one for its theme this June of gays in the cinema . Prison films even during the days of the Code were a bit more open in treatment of homosexuality . The relationship of Albert Dekker and young John Arledge is rather obvious . Dekker in fact chooses a gruesome suicide rather than live without Arledge after he dies . In fact what's really startling to me was that the heavenly figure that Ian Hunter represents neither condemns suicide or homosexuality . I'm really wondering how the censors of the day let that one slip through . Paul Lukas has a very interesting part . He's today what we would consider a serial killer , he's married and killed many women for their money . He's cool and cynical and rejects Hunter's entreaties . When Hunter says they will never meet again , the line is loaded with implications . Strange Cargo is a strange film . It's not bad , but could have been a lot better without code restrictions .
For Bonnie Annie Laurie	MGM had Dennis Morgan under contract for the first few years of his career under his real name Stanley Morner . His most famous " role " was that of the singer in the A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody number of The Great Ziegfeld . Unfortunately somebody decided to dub Allan Jones's voice instead of Morgan's and poor Dennis was out in the cold until he got to Warner Brothers . They did make use of him here in this short subject about the origins of the song Annie Laurie and his pleasant tenor was just the voice for this old Scot's melody . Dennis had to wait for stardom at another studio , but this short subject does show the potential he had .
A Bow and Arrow Wedding	When Universal found they had a gold mine in two burlesque comedians named Bud Abbott and Lou Costello they rushed them into film after film . In the early years of their Unviersal contract the boys did film after film . Since Universal did most of it's product on the cheap for a major studio Bud and Lou became major moneymakers . Have you ever noticed that in their earliest films while they are top billed , Bud and Lou are extraneous to the plot . There's usually some romantic story plot and always some musical entertainment . Ride ' Em Cowboy fits this formula perfectly . Dick Foran who appeared in three Abbott and Costello films in this period is a western story writer who's publicity agent has made him a western superhero . Foran sings real nice , but he can barely ride a horse . Anne Gwynne , daughter of a dude ranch owner , learns the truth and spurns him . But the smitten Foran is determined to make himself all the cowboy she expects of him . Dick Foran who had done some singing cowboy films at Warner Brothers in the Thirties was now at Universal and he had a pleasant singing voice and an easy manner that never intruded on the comedy of Bud and Lou . A big hit song for the World War II years , I'll Remember April , was introduced by him in this film . And if Foran introducing a hit song wasn't enough , Universal got the Merry Macs to perform a few numbers and Ella Fitzgerald reprised her A Tisket A Tasket hit from the mid thirties . Something for everyone . But after all this is Bud and Lou's film and they have some good moments themselves . Funniest I think is Costello trying to break a horse and he literally ropes Abbott along for the ride . Douglass Dumbrille plays an Indian chief . For me , just the sight of the polished villainous Mr . Cedar of Mr . Deeds Goes to Town in an Indian suit is funny enough . But Costello shoots an arrow through the painted heart of his daughter's tepee which in that tribe is a marriage proposal . Costello is going to be wed to an Indian princess who looks like Rosie O'Donnell . He balks at the prospect and a running gag throughout the film is Dumbrille and the tribe chasing Costello to get him to the altar in a bow and arrow wedding . This same gag with the same principal players is used in their later film Lost in a Harem for MGM . This is one of my favorite Abbott and Costello films and when you get to see it , it will be a favorite of your's as well .
Just Add on a Color and a half hour	The recent demise of Jack Warden put me in mind of this good , but forgotten show . I well remember it from the late sixties . It was a tough and rather realistic look at the life in the precinct squad of the NYPD . All three of the regulars here went on to have good careers and other television series . Frank Converse and Robert Hooks as the two detectives and their supervisor Jack Warden belong on anyone's A list of players . NYPD ran for two seasons , got so-so ratings and got the axe . My guess is that it was a generation ahead of its time . It also suffered from the half an hour format . When shows like Hill Street Blues and NYPD Blue came on the scene , they were an hour length and there was more time to develop the characters . But those shows and many others owe a debt to NYPD . Hopefully some cable channel will pick it for reruns .
A Universal Police Story	The Offence came out in 1972 as Sean Connery was desperately trying to break away from his James Bond image . It became sadly one of long list of critically acclaimed performances that flopped badly at the box office . That's a pity because he's really quite a marvel in this role as detective sergeant Johnson one of a number of investigators on the trail of a serial rapist . When the perpetrator is caught Connery interrogates him alone and so loses it he ends up beating the suspect to death . The rest of the film explains the reason for his mental breakdown . Although Connery received the critical acclaim here , my favorite in this film is Ian Bannen as the perpetrator . The best scenes in the film are Connery interrogating Bannen and even though it costs him his life , Bannen manages to lay Connery's soul open to the bone . Sidney Lumet did many films with Sean Connery with greater and lesser success critically and commercially . Though the location is in the United Kingdom , this could have been set in any large municipal police department . In fact The Offence bears no small resemblance to William Wyler's classic The Detective Story . In another way this resembles Nightmare Alley which Tyrone Power begged Darryl Zanuck to let him do so he could expand his range and get away from the image of the caped swashbuckling hero . Zanuck let him do it , but like with Connery in The Offence , the public stayed away in droves . Sad because they missed something really good . But then again Connery was trying to break from his identification with James Bond .
Whither Thou Goest	Quo Vadis , based on the late nineteenth century novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz , has been filmed many times in many lands for the cinema and for television . It was done as a Broadway play at the turn of the last century . But this is the version that most people remember and talk about . It's also the first of the big budget sand and scandal epics that the movies made to try and compete with that little home entertainment machine that was popping up in more and more homes . MGM built the magnificent sets the film was done on and sent Robert Taylor , Deborah Kerr and the whole cast over to Italy to shoot it . Those sets later popped up in Ben-Hur , The Fall of the Roman Empire and dozens of Italian gladiator films . Supposedly somewhere in the cast of thousands both Elizabeth Taylor and Sophia Loren appeared as extras . Spot them if you can . Another extra was Lia DiLeo and gossip about her and Robert Taylor led to the break up of the Robert Taylor-Barbara Stanwyck marriage . The story is about Robert Taylor as Marcus Vinicius , Roman soldier and his lust then love for Christian girl Lygia played by Deborah Kerr . Their story is set against the background of the early Christian church in Rome and the persecution of it by the Emperor Nero . Taylor and Kerr are fine in the leads , but in this case the supporting cast really overshadowed the stars . Peter Ustinov as Nero and Leo Genn as Petronius were both nominated for Best Supporting Actor of 1951 , but lost to Karl Malden in Streetcar Named Desire . Peter Ustinov got a once in a lifetime part as Nero . It's the kind of role that one can overact outrageously and still convey all the sinister impulses that this villain possessed . Ustinov was compared with Charles Laughton as Nero in The Sign of the Cross and I wouldn't dare say who was better . My favorite part in this film has always been Leo Genn as Gaius Petronius . He's the only actor in the film who's holding his own with Ustinov . He's a pretty smart guy this Petronius , keeping his place at the court by flattery and guile . It's a bitter pill for him to swallow when after Nero burns Rome , the Rome he loves and has dedicated his life to . He could have prevented it by taking a righteous stand against the tyrant . But instead he played the cynic once too often and decides what he deems to be the only course of action open to him . Finlay Currie is a strong and hearty , but aged St . Peter . My conception of St . Peter has always been that of Finlay Currie and in his youth that of Howard Keel in The Big Fisherman . Peter's a hands on kind of pastor used to hard work . After all he was a fisherman in his younger days and that certainly is outdoor work . Whether people are confirmed Christians or not will depend on how they take this film . We all can certainly admire the spectacle and the talent of the players . And nobody questions the atrocities committed by Emperor Nero against the early Christians . But at one point after Taylor realizes his love for Kerr , he makes what I consider a quite reasonable offer to allow her to continue in her faith and he'll even put up whatever kind of chapel on the house grounds for that purpose . Not so says Kerr , it's going to be all or nothing . That all or nothing attitude today has got a few people upset with organized religion for various reasons . But that's in the distant future from the First Century AD .
Summoned Up His Memories	Although John Huston's The Red Badge of Courage has stood the test of time critically , back then it lost lots of money in its first release . The film was a bone of contention between Louis B . Mayer and Dore Schary who were locked in a power struggle for control at Metro-Goldwyn - Mayer . Schary wanted to make the film , Mayer said it would flop and he was proved right . He also got ousted anyway . The Red Badge of Courage refers to the blood that gets spilled should you sustain a battle wound . If you remember in Oliver Stone's Platoon , the men don't treat new arrival Charlie Sheen until he's gotten one of those . Here the Red Badge is something to be avoided if possible . By a piece of serendipity when Audie Murphy returned from World War II and was deciding on a career , he chose the movies . He certainly was loaded down with offers , but I guess he sensed in himself an inner gift for being an actor . Not Marlon Brando or Laurence Olivier , but someone in the hands of the right director could get a good performance out of him . In John Huston he found that director , twice in fact as he later worked with him in The Unforgiven . There was no need for research because our most decorated soldier in history lived the research in North Africa and Europe . There's a dimension to Audie's performance and that of GI cartoonist Willard Mullin that no training at the Actor's Studio could have given them . Murphy just summoned his memories of what it was like to be a kid from Texas whisked off to Europe the way young Henry Fleming is facing the Confederates in their backyard . Murphy gets good support from an able cast of people like Arthur Hunnicutt , Royal Dano , John Dierkes , and Andy Devine as various other soldiers in the Union Army , all citizens serving their country . No career people in this crowd . Also James Whitmore , reading the narrative of Stephen Crane's novel serves almost like another cast member and moves the film's story line along . Though it lost money for MGM , The Red Badge of Courage is still a fine film with some great insights into the meaning of battlefield bravery .
The Camera Betrays	Almost fifty years before Dream Girls made its Broadway debut , Paramount put out this film about a band-leader and a trio of singers whom he takes under his wing and then gets a little too bossy about their private lives . One wonders if someone at Paramount noticed the resemblance . Every Night At Eight is the title of the film and also the title of a radio show that the trio and the band-leader wind up with . The trio consists of Alice Faye , Frances Langford , and Patsy Kelly who are three girls with humdrum jobs , Faye and Kelly at a switchboard and Langford as a secretary . One day they wait for the boss to leave and decide to make a record on his Dictaphone machine . Unfortunately they're caught and fired . Luckily they get a break on an amateur hour radio show with Walter Catlett in a spoof of the famous Major Edward Bowes Amateur Hour . On the bill that night is band-leader George Raft and his orchestra of unemployed musicians from the New Deal Civil Works Administration . By the way , Catlett's performance is devastating . Raft won the Amateur Hour contest by default because Langford faints from lack of food . Still he recognizes a good thing when he sees it and signs the girls and gives them a name , The Swanee Sisters . Unfortunately just like in Dream Girls he interferes a little too much in their personal lives . Still it all works out in the end , but I won't tell which of them he winds up with . This is Alice Faye's first of two films that she did on loan out from Fox when she was with that studio . Alice gets a good song to sing entitled Speaking Confidentially , but in this film , she's overshadowed vocally by Frances Langford . Jimmy McHugh and Dorothy Fields wrote most of the score for this film including the aforementioned song that Faye sang , but also from this score is I Feel A Song Coming On which the trio does and later Frances Langford sings the song most identified with her , I'm In The Mood For Love . As you can see McHugh and Fields really out did themselves in the writing of the score of this film . Langford also sings another gem , this one written by Ted Fio Riot , Sam Lewis and Joseph Young entitled Then You've Never Been Blue . Were it not for the other two songs , this one would have been the hit of the film . George Raft does nicely in a role that for once doesn't call for him to slug somebody . But the camera betrayed the poor man in this . Watch during the sequence of I Feel A Song Coming On as Raft is conducting the orchestra . He must have been wearing boots with Cuban heels that were two to two and half inches to give him extra height . I'm surprised neither he nor director Raoul Walsh noticed in the rushes and had it edited out . Also in that number is an obbligato version by a black singer named James Miller who is in his one and only film . It's a good rendition and I do wonder what ever happened to him . The best thing that Every Night At Eight has going for it is one of the best musical scores from the Thirties . And the wonderful stars who perform these numbers .
Did the producers know what they were putting out ?	Way back in the day Jay North , having become too big to be Dennis the Menace any more , he went to India with Clint Walker and did a very nice film named Maya . Kind of confusing because Maya is an elephant , not a group of native Americans from the Yucatan . The film did a good box office and North got a TV series out of it . Well the so-so ratings and the huge expense of location shooting in India proved to be prohibitive and Maya the TV series got cancelled . The movie had Jay North searching for his father in India and doing it with another kid , an orphan Indian boy played by Sajid Khan . In the movie they had a kind of Huck Finn / Tom Sawyer relationship which was cute . The TV series eliminated Clint Walker , but the premise was the same , North's search for his father accompanied by Maya the elephant and Sajid Khan . But now both kids were well into puberty and they had eyes only for each other . I mean these two now about 15 or 16 acted very much like they were in love . No one and I mean NO ONE except the elephant was a part of their world . I remember an episode where Sajid Khan was reduced to tears at the thought of North going back to America . Both Khan and North enjoyed a burst of bubblegum popularity . Sajid Khan had a short lived singing career . But in those pre-Stonewall days I wonder how many young gay males identified with those two kids and felt kind of validated in their feelings . I really hope TV Land channel gets those episodes and runs them . There weren't many , but I'll bet they become a bit gay hit now .
Business And Romance	James Garner makes a dashing young entrepreneur of the business world in Cash McCall , the second of two films made from Cameron Hawley's business world novels , the other being the acclaimed Executive Suite . Hawley certainly knew how to capture the business world well and put a proper face on it . Usually it's not a real good idea to mix business with pleasure , but in Cash McCall , Garner succeeds quite well . I now know where some of the plot of Grease came from . If you'll remember John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John have a summer fling which ends , but then find themselves in the same school in different social circles . Cash McCall begins with Garner already having had that fling with Natalie Wood on vacation in Maine and he discovers she's the daughter of Dean Jagger , president of a plastics firm he's looking to acquire . When he discovers who she is it does complicate matters , but Garner is a most resourceful man . In the end it all works out to everyone's satisfaction , but there are a few bumps in the road . Those bumps are what the film is all about . James Garner has played so many con men on the big and small screen it would have been an easy matter for him to slip into that familiar characterization for him . But he plays this one absolutely straight and does quite well with the part . Of course if he had been anything less than up front he wouldn't have gotten Wood . Natalie was just radiant in her role as the Philadelphia Main Line princess , a bit more human than Tracy Samantha Lord of The Philadelphia Story . Besides Dean Jagger , the leads are backed by an established group of players portraying various business types as Edward Platt , E . G . Marshall , Otto Kruger , Parley Baer , and Roland Winters . Two performances that are really outstanding are Nina Foch as the hotel chief housekeeper at the place where Garner resides occupying an entire floor and part of another and Henry Jones as an efficiency expert who Garner recruits . I'm surprised that Cash McCall was not taken up as material for a prime time soap opera in the Eighties , the decade of such . It certainly has all the ingredients . Still it remains as one of James Garner's best early film performances and usually on the top 10 list for his fans .
" Headlines don't sell papers , Newsies sell papers "	Although Newsies did not bring back the musical film into wide favor , it certainly was a noble effort . In a way , it's director Kenny Ortega did accomplish it in another way . He's the creative genius behind Disney Productions incredible money making franchise , the High School Musical films which as I write another one is in the planning stage . You can certainly see no small resemblance in this production to either of the two High School Musical films . Leads Christian Bale and David Moscow do a great job as the two newspaper kids who lead a strike against all the ' Papes ' as Joseph Pulitzer of the World tries to gouge the Newsies to increase his profits . Christian Bale is an absolute wonder to me . A kid born in Wales speaking like a native New Yorker back then and he'd still pass for one today . No surprise he's had the career he's had . Ann-Margret in case we all forgot is a great musical performer who plays an entertainer and friend of the Newsies . She gets a nice number just to remind us . Robert Duvall has a once in a lifetime part as the press lord Joseph Pulitzer . Back at the turn of the last century with no internet , no radio , no television those papers ruled . When I was a lad in New York there were still seven daily papers in the city . Back in Pulitzer's day there were about 20 all competing with each other and nothing else . Pulitzer is not a man who got where he was by exercising scruples and he's not about to give in to a gang of ragamuffin kids . The songs by Alan Menken fit well into the story though none of them became any kind of hit . And the atmosphere of 1900 New York City is captured well in the sets and costumes . 1900 was a time my grandparents were children and I think they might have appreciated Newsies as good entertainment with a nice moral to it . What's the moral ? The Newsies united will never be defeated .
Giving the British Some Hope	My Favorite Blonde has in the title role Madeleine Carroll a most beautiful blond player , who is a British secret agent trying to get some microfilm about air routes for American planes to go to Great Britain as part of lend lease . But just as her boat is docking in New York , some nasty Nazi spies shoot her male companion . The microfilm is hidden in a pin that she's wearing and with the Nazis hot on her trail . she ducks into a vaudeville house which has Bob Hope and a roller skating penguin on the bill . I'm sure back in the day Hope played in vaudeville with many type acts like these . Vaudeville was moribund in those days and Hope wasn't helping to revive it . In fact he's got to get to Hollywood because some movie company wants to star the penguin in a film . That fits in real nice with Carroll's plans and as it usually goes , the bumbling Mr . Hope is in the clutches of a beautiful who actually falls for old ski nose as he tries to help her when she levels with him . My Favorite Blonde is a fast paced 78 minute film , one of the shortest of Hope's feature films . Carroll looks like she's enjoying spoofing a part she did in Alfred Hitchcock's 39 Steps across the pond . Of course she's the one dragooned into help . But it's Hope's show all the way . My favorite two sequences is both trying to sleep and feed the penguin in an upper on a train and when Hope and Carroll are at an Irish picnic in Chicago . James Burke and Edward Gargan are very funny as a pair of thick headed Irish teamsters . Though My Favorite Blonde is terribly dated with the World War II background the laughs still hold up very well .
Man's Best Friend	The last time Clark Gable got loaned out for a film was the year before and he won an Academy Award . This time Louis B . Mayer got a good price for him from Fox for Call of the Wild . Fox also did something unusual in that the film was shot on location with the mountains of Washington state serving as the Canadian Rockies . Some really stunning cinematography is done for this film , especially in the river scenes . Too bad color was not in use back then . Watching Gable , Loretta Young , and Jack Oakie on a raft pulling it to shore in what must have been freezing water reminded me so much of the stunts Gable did for The Misfits . Of course back then he had the youth and vim and vigor to do such things . The film served as the meeting place for Gable and Young they carried on a torrid affair that resulted in Loretta Young giving birth . Back then it would have been a career death sentence for a star to give birth to an out of wedlock daughter , especially for the very Catholic Ms . Young . A whole elaborate charade was concocted with Loretta adopting her own daughter as a single mom . No Oscars this time for Gable , but a good strong performance as a rugged prospector up in the Klondike during the gold rush . Of course being involved with Loretta sure helped in the love scenes . Young plays a woman apparently abandoned in the snow by her husband who's presumed dead . Jack Oakie as Gable's sidekick and Reginald Owen as the English villain engaged in some claim jumping are the best two of the supporting actors . Of the human variety . Then there's Buck , Gable's trusty St . Bernard who he rescues from Reginald Owen . In that rugged country good sled dogs can come in mighty handy and Buck sure proves his worth . Up there , they are indeed man's best friend .
By Yon Bonnie Banks And By Yon Bonnie Braes , The Sun Shines High On MacLaurel	Stan and Ollie travel all the way to Bonnie Scotland to collect on an inheritance left by Stan MacLaurel's late grandfather . Both he and his cousin June Lang are provided , but she's not of age and she's under the firm guardianship of Colonel Vernon Steele and his scheming Mrs . , Anne Grey . William Janney , the clerk in lawyer David Torrence's office is in love with June Lang , but she's spirited off to India during the British Raj . Never mind , Stan and Ollie and poor young Janney also find their way there as the scene of the plot shifts from Bonnie Scotland to India with the Highlanders . It's all a pretty thin plot , but good enough to hang some of Stan and Ollie's best screen moments on . One of my all time favorites is when Ollie has an encounter with a snuff box which was half of Laurel's inheritance the other half being a set of bagpipes . Another is when Stan and Ollie try to use the bedsprings in their hotel to grill some fish and nearly burn poor Mary Gordon's establishment down . After the boys go into the Indian Army they become the bane of the existence of their old nemesis , Sergeant James Finlayson . In the end Janney , Finlayson , and the boys provide a hilarious ending to a tribal rebellion . Films like Lives of a Bengal Lancer and Charge of the Light Brigade about the British Raj take one good beating from producer Hal Roach and his intrepid and incomparable stars . For fans of Stan and Ollie the world over .
The Sherwood Sisters Take New York	Rosalind Russell got her first trip to the Oscars via her performance as the sensible Ruth Sherwood who wants a career as a writer , but has to worry about looking after that other sibling of her's who moved with her to New York from Columbus , Ohio , My Sister Eileen . Imagine if you will a story where the heroine's wise and wisecracking best friend is the lead character and you've got My Sister Eileen . In most films Russell's character would be played by Eve Arden , but here what makes the film original is that the normal supporting role is the lead . As good a job as Russell does , I kind of wish Harry Cohn had thought of Arden for the lead . The Sherwood sisters move from Columbus to make their mark in the big city and in one respect New York hasn't changed . Housing is pretty tough to come by and the sisters have to settle for a basement apartment in Greenwich Village . The apartment is owned by George Tobias , part time artist , and full time lech . But with Janet Blair as Eileen , he's just one of many . Most of the action takes place in the Sherwood apartment where people just seem to come and go like it was Grand Central Station . Russell's wit and intelligence might scare off some people , she interests Brian Aherne however who works at a magazine she's trying to land a job with . As for Blair she wants to be an actress and her obvious charm and naive sex appeal have the men swarming around her . This part was Janet Blair's first big break on screen and made her career . Rosalind Russell in getting a nomination for Best Actress got the only Oscar recognition the film received . Roz was up against one tough field . Her's was the only comedy performance in a field that included such heavy dramas as Katharine Hepburn in Keeper Of The Flame , Bette Davis in Now Voyager , and Teresa Wright in Pride Of The Yankees . The winner due to the times as well as her acting was Greer Garson for Mrs . Miniver . Given the war , I don't think any of these other ladies had a chance . In her memoirs Rosalind Russell said that Ruth Sherwood was the first of her career woman roles , parts by the way she loved to play . I think she might have forgotten Hildy Johnson from His Girl Friday , but it's possible she thought of Hildy as an anti-career woman because what she wanted to do was leave the newspaper business and marry Ralph Bellamy . Ruth Sherwood on the other hand wants to get a career going . My Sister Eileen is a timeless classic , it could probably be remade today with few enough changes . Russell in fact did it on Broadway in the musical Wonderful Town . She may have failed an Oscar , but she got a Tony Award for the part . Can't you see Jessica Simpson as Eileen Sherwood ? I wonder why no one's thought of it .
You've Got That Something In Your Voice So Right For Selling Cheese	While Dick Powell was at Warner Brothers , he would be hat in hand to Jack Warner pleading for him to occasionally be cast in something serious . Of course Warner heard that wonderful tenor and saw nothing else in Powell . And certainly when he wrapped those vocal cords around songs like what Harry Warren and Al Dubin wrote for Broadway Gondolier neither could anyone else . Life does certainly imitate art . The following year the Kraft Cheese Company was in fact looking for a singer to host a rather daring hour long radio variety show , an hour show on radio was quite an innovation back in the day . Unlike Broadway Gondolier the sponsor didn't go to Italy for a crooner . They and NBC found him doing a show for Woodbury Soap , so Bing Crosby got to do in real life what Powell did in the film , host a show selling cheese , as Bob Hope remarked in The Road to Utopia . Powell himself was not exactly unknown to radio audiences . He appeared on the Hollywood Hotel program , named after one of his other films in Louella Parsons dished out the latest Hollywood gossip . Of course her Hearst connection and his due to the fact he did two films with Marion Davies made Louella and Dick a natural radio team . In many ways Broadway Gondolier is a continuation of Goldiggers of 1935 which also starred Powell and had Adolphe Menjou with foreign accent . You could never get away with the performance Menjou gave in Broadway Gondolier with that outrageous Italian accent and characterization . The Italian Anti-Defamation League would be picketing the film . But just like in Goldiggers of 1935 , Menjou's hammy performance is enjoyable , especially when he tries to fool radio executive Grant Mitchell and sponsor Louise Fazenda , owner of Flagenheimer's Odorless Cheese , and tries to sing like Powell . Joan Blondell is Mitchell's girl Friday and Fazenda's keeper in the film who falls big time for the cabdriver , would be crooner Powell . Of course she's got another guy knocking on her romantic door , William Gargan who stars on the network as futuristic space hero Buck Gordon . And Fazenda after Powell pretends to be Italian starts getting designs on him . The look in her eye would be grounds enough for a suit for sexual harassment . Powell recorded for Brunswick records the four songs he sang that Harry Warren and Al Dubin wrote for the film , Outside of You , Lonely Gondolier , The Rose in Her Hair and Lulu's Back in Town . The last two enjoyed some enduring popularity and Powell sang Lulu solo and in a nice scat version with the Mills Brothers . After some hilarious errors when cabdriver Powell and his voice teacher Menjou try to get him a radio audition , they get the idea to go over to Italy where Fazenda is vacationing and have her ' discover ' him in Venice . They bill him as the Italian Gondolier and of course they have to keep up the masquerade . Anyone who's seen a few films like this knows exactly how it will end . Warner Brothers and Hollywood in general did a grand job in packaging a lot of wonderful nonsense like this as grand escapist entertainment from the Depression . Even after over 70 years Broadway Gondolier is still wonderfully entertaining . Should not be missed the next time TCM runs it .
" The British Soldier Can Stand up to anything , except the British War Office . "	Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas , both players who chose rather successfully to chart their own careers , decided on their third co-starring film to jointly produce it as well . The property chosen was George Bernard Shaw's The Devil's Disciple which takes place in the northern theater of operations in the American Revolution . Shaw's wit is going full tilt here as he's having a great old time blasting upper and middle class pretensions of British society . The vehicle he uses is General John Burgoyne who lost the Battle of Saratoga to the rebel army which guaranteed French recognition and European aid for the colonists . Both Lancaster as Parson Anthony Anderson and Kirk Douglas as committed non-believer Dick Dudgeon play larger than life characters here as they usually do and both have their moments . But in fact this film is stolen completely out from under them by Sir Laurence Olivier as General Burgoyne . As a previous reviewer noted , Shaw wrote the best lines in the play for the Burgoyne character . But it takes the skill of a player like Olivier to bring them off . Burgoyne was very much a product of Georgian Great Britain , a cynical man in a very cynical business . By the way Harry Andrews as Major Swinton does an excellent job essentially as Burgoyne's straight man . Andrews is a pompous sort of character and Olivier tosses the bon mots off him like a handball player . The story involves Dudgeon being mistaken for Anderson and being sentenced to hang for rebel activity . Anderson arouses the populace and sheds his parson's collar for rebel activity and saves Dudgeon from the noose . Burgoyne quits the town he was occupying and goes off to his destiny at Saratoga . But in this case as in a lot of Shaw plays , the story isn't as important as the commentary . And when the commentary is delivered by Olivier , it's being brought to you by the best .
Nothing Like Becoming Part of Your Own Experiment	No Highway marks both the reunion film of James Stewart and Marlene Dietrich and Stewart's second film with Henry Koster as director . Stewart never played an intellectual before , but he's quite convincing here as the absent minded aeronautical scientist . Stewart is a widower who is Rhodes Scholar , an American who decided to stay in Great Britain . He married and had a daughter , but his wife was killed in the blitz and he's raising his daughter in the off-time between his scientific projects . His interpretation of a man who in his grief has just buried himself in his work is very well handled . We first see the way he lives after his new boss Jack Hawkins gives him a lift home . His daughter Janette Scott is a bright little girl , approaching her puberty though and not real well equipped to handle it . Stewart is convinced that a new type metal alloy used on a new line of aircraft passenger planes will weaken after so many hours of flight and cause crashes . Hawkins urges him to report his suspicions , but the ivory towered Stewart refuses until his scientific calculations have been thoroughly checked out . All of a sudden he gets good and personally involved in his own experiment . He's flying to Newfoundland and learns he's on one of those planes he considers defective . He is a respected scientist and people listen to him , like stewardess Glynis Johns and traveling film star Marlene Dietrich . Of course when the tail section does not fall off in the time he thought , Stewart is made the object of ridicule . He disables the same plane he was on which was making a further stop in Montreal . I think you can guess where this one is going , but it's a pleasant journey nonetheless . Stewart did in fact another variation of this same character in Dear Brigitte for Henry Koster and with Glynis Johns as his leading lady . Of course that film isn't as good . Janette Scott said that during the filming of No Highway , Marlene Dietrich was kind and gracious to her and gave her innumerable pointers on how to act and react before the camera . Stood her in very good stead in Scott's later career . Poor Marlene , two films with James Stewart and she didn't get him in either . Of course during Destry Rides Again they were in the midst of a torrid affair and it was a more important film for both of them . For the film is about aircraft design without any derring do heroics , No Highway has no pretensions . Stewart since his service in the Army Air Corps in World War II was a well known advocate of air power and this maybe the best of his films concerning that subject .
A Little Reverse Psychology	I'm amazed at the bad reception that Once Upon a Honeymoon got from other reviewers here . It's not the greatest film from either the stars or the director , but far from the worst . See Satan Never Sleeps or My Son John for Leo McCarey's worst . And it's one of Walter Slezak's best roles . Slezak plays the fictional Baron Von Luber who like the Fuehrer was Austrian born and played a big hand in the Anschluss . After that he became a Nazi ambassador of good will . But in his wake countries seem to fall to the Germans after every one of his missions . He's a rising star in the Nazi movement . He's also married a show business American wife in the person of Ginger Rogers . That and his activities arouse the curiosity of editor Harry Shannon and commentator Cary Grant . Once Upon a Honeymoon is very similar to that other Cary Grant film from Alfred Hitchcock , Notorious . Of course the Hitchcock film has Grant as an FBI agent who gets Ingrid Bergman to marry Claude Rains to spy on his postwar activities in a country with no extradition . Rains actually becomes an object of some audience sympathy even as a Nazi , but Slezak never does . In fact his role is similar to that other exhibit of the master race found in that other Hitchcock film , Lifeboat . But he's gotten in a way that the gauleiter of the lifeboat never is . Cary Grant damns him with faint praise and a shrewd use of reverse psychology on the Nazi mind . Slezak's reactions to Grant's broadcast are worth seeing the film alone . Leo McCarey makes some very serious points about the Nazis mixed in with the humor . When Grant and Rogers are caught when they think they're Jewish , it's a very harrowing predicament indeed until they are providentially rescued . Once Upon A Honeymoon though firmly dated to World War II , holds up very well in the laugh and propaganda departments both .
Can You Imagine Dickens in Hollywood ?	Beloved Infidel is based on the memoirs of Hollywood columnist Sheilah Graham , specifically her three year affair with F . Scott Fitzgerald , who is still a legend in American literature , and a genuine legend in his own time . That's the key to the film . Can you imagine in the previous century Charles Dickens whose works in the United Kingdom were also acclaimed in his time getting a contract and asked to turn out potboiler drama three or four times a year for the London stage ? In the late 1930s F . Scott Fitzgerald was in Hollywood having to pay mounting bills for his wife Zelda's care and his daughter schooling and the way to quick cash was in Hollywood writing screenplays . But the studios don't want genius , they want entertainment churned out quickly on a mass scale . That isn't how Fitzgerald operates . So he's fired and returns to the alcoholism that was his lifestyle during his literary hey day in the Roaring Twenties . As Fitzgerald , Gregory Peck's one consolation in his final years is the love affair with Hollywood columnist Sheilah Graham . I have to disagree with the other reviewers who say this film is too rosy a portrayal . Remember this is Sheilah Graham's work this is based on and it's through her eyes we see Peck's disintegration . Deborah Kerr is once again a prim and proper Sheilah Graham whose slum background she's worked like a demon to overcome . Peck and Kerr work well together , but as this is a Henry King film from 20th Century Fox , I wouldn't be surprised if the film might have been intended for Tyrone Power at one point . If it had been Power would have been well cast in the part of Fitzgerald . This is also Henry King's next to last film and take a look at his film credits and the astonishing list of classic films that he did over 50 years in Hollywood . I guess as a followup to Beloved Infidel , King chose to do a film adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald's Tender is the Night . That one for some reason is never shown . Beloved is a classic old fashioned romantic drama the kind that sadly is not being made any more .
Joining The Herd	The short lived American Film Theater in its few years of existence produced and preserved so many good theatrical works that might never have gotten filmed they deserve the gratitude of all who appreciate the best in plays . One of the best and most interesting preserved work is French playwright Eugene Ionesco's absurdest work , Rhinoceros . It's a very funny work with a strong moral message about individualism . Ionesco knew a little something about zoology in that he picked of all the creatures in the animal kingdom , the Rhinoceros is the one he chose . Rhinoceros is an animal with a thick hide , a small brain relative to its body , good hearing , great sense of smell , but absolutely limited vision . Their tempers are quick to arouse when they perceive a threat and once charging they're hard creature to stop . It's a good thing they're herbivores , if they were carnivores , they not the lion would be king of the jungle . And they travel in herds , when not in their usual mud habitat , chewing on their cud . And Rhinos are what people are gradually turning into in this small town which was set in France , but could easily be any small town in the world . They are a great deal more provincial and the chances of finding folks who are individualistic are slimmer . My guess is that Ionesco lived in small towns in his formative years and hated it . Rhinoceros ran for 240 performances on Broadway in 1961 and starred Zero Mostel and Eli Wallach in the part that Gene Wilder plays in the film . The casting of Wilder was obviously done to exploit the chemistry Mostel and he demonstrated in Mel Brooks's The Producers . Mostel like in The Producers by dint of his stronger personality tries to get Gene Wilder to change his ways . Wilder is a mousy little man who has a dead end job in a newspaper , can't get to first base with the object of his affection , Karen Black , and likes to drink a little too much more than is good for him . But while Zero is giving Gene his spiel about straightening out , the first of many Rhinoceros make their appearance outside the café they are lunching at . Gradually one by one the whole cast turns into these creatures , the whole town does except poor Wilder who is left sheepishly alone . Mostel won a Tony Award for his role in the original Broadway production , but it really is Wilder's film , he definitely has more screen time . Wilder definitely should have gotten more acclaim for what he did in Rhinoceros . The theater of the absurd is not to everyone's taste , but for those that do appreciate it , this production of Rhinoceros should fill your bill .
Oh Give Me a Home , Where the Frangipani Bloom	Until the VHS of Pardon My Sarong was released I had never seen the complete film . When I was a lad and WPIX television in New York City used to show Abbott and Costello films every Sunday morning , the film always began with Costello crashing that bus into the harbor . I used to wonder why as prominent an actor like William Demarest had such a brief part . So when I was a kid I missed the Ink Spots do a number and I missed cop Bill Demarest get bamboozled by A & C . Both Abbott and Costello disguise themselves as a magician and make Demarest the fall guy for some gags . This might be the only time Abbott was ever a comic in any of their films and he was good . I guess the Chicago Transit company didn't want to put two buses in jeopardy which was why both boys were on the same bus . Millionaire Yachtsman Robert Paige has some how talked these two into leaving their Michigan Avenue route and driving him and a bevy of beauties to Los Angeles for the start of a boat race . Of course having lost their jobs as bus drivers with this harebrained move the boys sign on with Paige as a yacht crew along with Virginia Bruce who is the sister of one of Paige's rivals and they get blown off course and wind up on an island Dorothy Lamour would be found on if the film had been made at Paramount . Don't ask me how , but the natives make Costello some kind of Deity and he gets to be the big man on campus there . Of course we also have resident villain Lionel Atwill looking to loot some treasure . Like Douglass Dumbrille in a few Abbott and Costello films , Atwill looked like he was having a great old time burlesquing his own sinister image , especially in the chase sequence at the end . One of the best from Abbott and Costello's early Universal days .
" Are You As Good As You Look "	During his career Rob Lowe has been compared as the Brat Pack throwback to some of the matinée idols of the Studio era . That comparison was sealed when he did Oxford Blues a more suggestive remake of the MGM classic A Yank At Oxford which did so well for Robert Taylor back in the day . The same basic plot is retained for Oxford Blues from the original film . Rob with a little help from computer hacker brother Chad in an unbilled part , gets himself a transfer from the University of Nevada to matriculate . Funds for the trip and the tuition is won at the Las Vegas crap tables . And Rob even gets a Ferrari , courtesy of divorcée Gail Strickland , most satisfied with the extras that Rob provides for her when he's not parking cars . Stuff back in the day MGM would not show with Robert Taylor . If you thought Taylor was a fish out of water at Oxford back in the Thirties , he's nothing compared to Lowe here . Oxford is a place steeped in tradition and Lowe's casual attitude really irks a lot of people from head man Michael Gough on down . Worse than that he's got a casual attitude towards his sport of rowing . There even in their suits and gowns , the rowers are the jocks that rule in that place . Though there are certain things that don't change . When Lowe is challenged to a ' sconcing ' contest , he knows what chugfest is all about . Like in the original Rob's caught between two women , matriculating student Ally Sheedy , fellow brat packer from America and Lady Amanda Pays who's well known nobility who occasionally winds up on the gossip pages . She's got a fiancé in the person of Julian Sands , but that doesn't deter Lowe one bit . Another good role in Oxford Blues is that of Julian Firth who plays Lowe's roommate and a person who is in some wonder of Lowe's casual American ways . Farther down the cast list in a minor part as another Oxford student is Cary Elwes who would be a movie name in a couple of years . Like the previous film when MGM filmed A Yank At Oxford on location there , Oxford Blues is also filmed at Oxford and I must say the place doesn't look like it changed much in almost fifty years . Then again a place steeped in tradition like Oxford isn't expected to change . Not even for Rob Lowe . As for Rob himself , he carries off the part of Nick DeAngelo in the best hero / heel tradition of that other matinée idol of yore , Tyrone Power .
The Hellboy Cottage Industry	If Mike Mignola isn't careful he's going to have a whole cottage industry devoted to his comic strip creation Hellboy . Having just come from Hellboy II : The Golden Army and seeing his credits at this website makes me think about what a gold mine Mignola has found . I saw the original Hellboy and I was struck by the fact at the time I could enjoy this film as an action / adventure and the tongue in cheek humor that is prevalent throughout . A lot of that is due to the fact that Mignola was apparently given a free hand to bring his comic book creation to life on the big screen . A lot is also due to Ron Perlman and the marvelous character he creates beneath all that demon makeup . Hellboy is brought to life by the son of Rasputin the Mad Monk in the final days of World War II . Rasputin being the good royalist he is , finds work with the Nazis who are now down to using black magic to pull out a victory . Adolph Hitler was known in fact to delve into the occult . Anyway their experiments produce an infant demon plucked from the spirit world , but he's rescued by John Hurt who raises him like a son and he grows up to be butt-kicking demon Ron Perlman who's grown to like such earthly pleasures as beer and cigars . Hurt functions as the Obi Won Kenobe of this piece and when he's killed , there ain't no stopping Perlman . Hellboy is rollicking good fun , Hellboy II is even better and I'm sure we've got a Hellboy , III in our future .
A Forgotten Pioneer	I'm sure it didn't hurt in the resolve of the British film industry to honor one of its pioneers and one who some claim to have been the actual inventor of motion pictures , William Friese-Greene , to have one of his grandchildren , Richard Greene as a film star in his own right . The Magic Box is a fine tribute to someone generally forgotten if known at all to American audiences especially . Robert Donat brings his Mr . Chips character and weaves it into the character of William Friese-Greene . The story is told in flashback and in reverse order , first by his second wife Margaret Johnston from their first meeting in 1897 through their marriages and then later by Donat himself as he remembers his first wife Maria Schell . But in both remembrances , the thing that stands out is his driving obsession to capture movement on some medium . As Donat eloquently puts it , ' movement is life ' . It costs him dear , he does not get the credit he feels due him , it goes to that upstart Thomas Edison from the USA . Actually fellow Britishers George Alfred Smith and Charles Urban and Frenchmen Auguste and Louis Lumiere and Emile Reynaud all could claim pioneering contributions to the motion picture as well . Friese-Greene was a fine portrait photographer , but spent all his money on his experiments , even selling the patent he took out on his early motion picture camera . Donat , Johnston and Schell are supported by a massive cast of the best British players doing small parts in tribute and belated recognition to the guy who now is considered if not THE inventor motion pictures , the founder of British cinema . From Laurence Olivier in the role of an astonished policeman who is the first to see Robert Donat's breakthrough , to Bernard Miles as Donat's stuffy cousin who's worried about having the bite put on him , to young John Howard Davies as the youngest of Friese-Greene's sons , you'll recognize lots of familiar faces . Still the film belongs to Donat as the obsessed , but touching Friese - Greene who helped give the world a universal medium of entertainment . Donat never gave a bad performance on the screen and Friese-Greene ranks among his best .
A Flannelmouth Fool	I don't doubt that Victor McLaglen won his Best Actor Oscar for this film by dint of a three way split among the Mutiny on the Bounty leads of Clark Gable , Charles Laughton , and Franchot Tone who were all in the same race . But The Informer is still a fine film because John Ford wouldn't have gotten his first Best Director Oscar if it wasn't . No split involved in his award . The movie and the story by Liam O'Flaherty that it is based on involves a poor simpleton of a man named Gypo Nolan who was once a member of the Irish Republican Army . He was cashiered out of it for some imbecilic stunt he pulled and wants back in . He's down to his last pence and if he can't get back in , wants enough for passage to America . There's a twenty pound reward for information leading to the arrest of a former comrade named Frankie McPhillip played by Wallace Ford . In a moment of weakness he goes to the Black and Tan constabulary and informs on McPhillip . The IRA is pretty anxious to find out who ratted McPhillip out and they're pretty certain it was McLaglen . He hasn't the wit to really cover his own tracks . He does make a feeble effort to implicate another man named Peter Mulligan played by Donald Meek . He also picks up a hanger-on played by J . M . Kerrigan . The whole action of The Informer takes place in 1922 in Dublin from about six in the evening to early the following morning . Of a necessity it is shot in darkness and shadows , making it possibly the first noir thriller . Had it been done post World War II The Informer would have ranked as a great noir classic , like Odd Man Out or the The Third Man which it bares a lot of resemblance to . John Ford knew this world very well . He took some time off during the Rebellion and was in Ireland at the time and had a brother who was in the IRA . His real name before having it anglicized was Sean O'Fiernan . Preston Foster plays the IRA commandant Dan Gallagher . In the book Gallagher is a harder and meaner man than Foster has him here . My guess is that John Ford wanted him as a sympathetic character to give movie fans some rooting interest . He makes it clear that Foster has to eliminate the informer because the Black and Tans will grab him and get quite a bit more out of him and put the whole organization in peril . The IRA trial scene is the highlight of the film . When Foster asks Donald Meek whether he recognizes the authority of their court , Meek ain't in a position to say no . The King's justice and writ does not run here . It graphically illustrates at that point despite occupation by army troops and constabulary , the British are indeed losing their grip on the population . Of course The Informer a rather grim story has its John Ford touches , but rather fewer than you would expect . Even as McLaglen is spending his money on a drunken spree , the IRA is constantly in the shadows watching him and counting every farthing . The Informer is a tale well told about Ireland in a grim and dismal time .
Word Of Mouth Into A New Life	In Seconds life's become pretty boring for John Randolph , no interest in the little woman any more , a dead end job , all the money in the world , but no interest in spending it anywhere . So when he gets a call from an old friend who he's heard has died , the possibilities are intriguing . Start over with a newly reconstructed body and a little more spring in your step so to speak . As you can gather this is a service that only the people that Robin Leach talks about can afford . It's kind of hush / hush and news of it is passed on by word of mouth . We just don't want any slug out there being able to have something like this . Imagine going in for some heavy duty surgery going in John Randolph and coming out Rock Hudson ? Of course not everyone quite takes to the new life , but The Company that provides this new life and identity has their ways of dealing with unsatisfied customers . John Randolph / Rock Hudson plays the man seduced by the promise of eternal youth and health and pleasure . It's one of Rock Hudson's most highly rated performances and deservedly so . Production wise , Seconds does resemble a rather long episode of the Twilight Zone , but that's not a derogatory comment . The Company provides some people to help newbies transition . Two of the best performances are Wesley Addy as a rather creepy factotum assigned to Hudson and Salome Jens as a woman who evinces interest in the new man that is Hudson . Seconds is not a feel good movie , but it's a great horror story told without any of the usual monsters , blood , and gore associated with the genre . If you see Seconds , it will raise some disturbing questions .
In Love With A Wonderful Guy	Though it is only the second longest running of Rodgers & Hammerstein's musical shows , South Pacific I believe contains the best score with The King and I running a close second . On Broadway it opened in 1949 and closed 1925 shows later in 1954 . It gave Mary Martin her career role on Broadway and made a pop star out of Metropolitan Opera basso Ezio Pinza . Opening on Broadway only four years after VE Day , South Pacific found a ready made audience with the American public who believed in the rightness of the cause just fought for . The show is based on two short stories from an anthology of stories entitled Tales of the South Pacific by James Michener . The success of South Pacific boosted Michener's reputation as a novelist in no small way . It's only too bad that South Pacific was not made with the original Broadway leads because it took so long to come to the screen . Ezio Pinza had died in 1956 . He had done a couple of films in Hollywood that didn't do that good , but Pinza scored another great success on Broadway in Fanny . Too bad he didn't get to do that film either . Mary Martin was also getting a bit long in the tooth by 1958 to be playing young Ensign Nellie Forbush . Also in a previous sojourn in Hollywood she hadn't done that good for some inexplicable reason . Mitzi Gaynor stepped very nicely into Mary's shoes and being more of a dancer than Martin , Gaynor's part had more dancing than on Broadway . Check the routine she has when she sings and dances about that wonderful guy she's just fell in love with . It's a shame that Mitzi Gaynor did not come along when musicals were at their height . How great she would have been in some Busby Berkeley epics . Pinch hitting for Pinza is Rossano Brazzi and for Pinza's voice , Giorgio Tozzi . The big hit of South Pacific , probably the greatest hit from Rodgers & Hammerstein is Some Enchanted Evening . The popularity of that song made the South Pacific original cast album a big seller . And a whole slew of singers recorded it . Bing Crosby and Perry Como had big selling records in 1949 and Al Jolson as well . The comedy is supplied by Ray Walston who was fresh from Broadway and Hollywood playing Mr . Applegate in Damn Yankees . He plays Luther Billis , sailor and conman extraordinaire . On Broadway the part was done by Myron McCormick . In fact Walston's big scene is a reminder of how film can do things that on stage you can only imagine . He accidentally falls out of a plane with a parachute fortunately just off a Japanese held island . He's thrown a rubber life raft and has to paddle like mad to get out of range of the enemy weapons . And then sits back and enjoys the show as a whole slew of fighters pound the Japanese on that island . It's described on stage , but here you can enjoy it first hand . The primary story is the romance between nurse Nellie Forbush from Little Rock , Arkansas and French expatriate planter Emile DeBecque , Brazzi's character . The secondary story line concerns marine lieutenant Joseph Cable , nicely played by John Kerr with dubbed singing voice . Juanita Hall who is from the original cast is Bloody Mary is trying to match Cable with her daughter Liat played by France Nuyen in one of her first screen roles . She's quite the operator herself , Bloody Mary and more than a match for Walston . Three young players who made it big later and had bit parts in South Pacific were James Stacy , Doug McClure and featured prominently is Tom Laughlin , the future Billy Jack . It's too bad that we don't have a nice technicolor version of Mary Martin and Ezio Pinza , but this is a pretty good group of players who worked hard and made a wonderful movie .
" I Gotta Burnin ' Yearnin ' To Learn "	Now that musicals were unfortunately fading away , Doris Day was slowly finding a new niche in screen comedy . She was busy being leading lady to some of Hollywood's biggest male stars and they didn't come bigger than the king , Clark Gable . Also her new hit songs were the title tunes of her films and very few sold as big as Teacher's Pet . It's one of her million selling singles and it definitely contributed mightily to the box office for this film . In the story line it's whole lot like some of the films she'd be doing in the future with Rock Hudson . Doris is a professor of journalism who arouses the ire of Walter Burns like city editor Clark Gable . He writes her a nasty letter and then when he's ordered to apologize to her he goes to one of her night school classes where she reads the letter out loud and trashes him in front of the class . Not taking this lying down , Clark enrolls in her class under an alias and if you don't know where this one is going you haven't seen any of her films with Rock Hudson . Gable does very well in the city editor's role . In fact in mentioning Walter Burns , I'm surprised Gable was never cast in The Front Page . He would have been perfect casting either as Burns or Hildy Johnson the reporter . Doris is an idealistic professor who's the daughter of a William Allen White type figure as a previous reviewer mentioned . She's got a lot to learn from Gable as well with his practical approach to journalism and romance . Gig Young is in a Gig Young part . Gig plays a psychologist boy friend of Doris's and his rivalry with Gable is pretty funny . He got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for having one of the great screen hangovers of all time . He lost to Burl Ives however for It's A Big Country . My favorite scene in the film is with Gable and Vivian Nathan who plays Nick Adams's mother . Adams is a young high school dropout who idolizes Gable as a guy who made it the hard way . When Gable fires Adams after being exposed to Doris's ideas , Nathan's scene with Gable thanking him is for me the best in the film . Teacher's Pet is sadly dated because of the way the media has evolved . Just as Broadcast News updated The Front Page , Teacher's Pet would be a great film involving the internet now for someone like Julia Roberts to do . Till then though , this one is entertaining enough .
Parlor Games At Sea	Sheila , the wife of James Coburn , was rundown in a hit and run accident that no one stepped up to the plate to claim responsibility for . Never mind , Coburn's pretty sure he knows who did the awful deed . As Coburn is a wealthy and eccentric producer and his suspects are all movie people , he invites the six of them on to his yacht which is in the south of France and the six , James Mason , Dyan Cannon , Raquel Welch , Ian McShane , Joan Hackett , and Richard Benjamin all jump and dance like puppets on a string . Of course that's not all the jumping and dancing they do . As part of the weekend Coburn suggests an elaborate parlor game which involves them getting an envelope with a card accusing the addressee of a past crime or indiscretion . And they are given clues as to where the proof of same might lie . Watching The Last Of Sheila I kept thinking what a craven bunch this crowd is . All this so that Coburn will use them in his next project . But when after two hunts , Coburn winds up dead we've got a real mystery to solve . A couple of guys known for their creativity in different artistic fields , Stephen Sondheim and Anthony Perkins , wrote a very witty and sophisticated screenplay . I'm surprised Perkins didn't cast himself in one of the roles , but the cast performs well . If you think you see traces of Agatha Christie , I'm bound to definitely agree with you . No hints , but a tease . One guest gets murdered , one does the deeds , and one puts it all together . If you care to find out who's who , I recommend watching The Last Of Sheila and keep attuned to the dialog lest you miss a good line .
" Though He Be No Bigger Than My Thumb "	Unfortunately for the career of Russ Tamblyn he came along just as musicals were being phased out along with the big studio system . But MGM did have Russ under long term contract and there was the fact he had to be used . Tamblyn went to the United Kingdom in 1958 to film tom thumb , one of the Brothers Grimm more interesting fairy tales . As desired by Jessie Matthews after she and husband Bernard Miles waste three wishes granted by the forest fairy June Thorburn , she would love any child sent though the child be a wee one . Of course Tamblyn becomes the joy of their lives and his best scenes are dancing with those animated George Pal Puppetoons . Twenty years earlier , Russ Tamblyn would have been a great musical star , he didn't do half bad coming along when he did . The Puppetoon scenes won for tom thumb an Oscar for Special Effects in 1958 . I remember accompanying my younger siblings to see the film when it opened . Believe it or not the thing I remember best is that scene where Miles races home to tell Matthews about the three wishes . He casually remarks he'd like a sausage and then it appears . And then she just as casually wishes it would grow on his nose and poof there it is . Seeing it today on TCM brought that memory back of the sausage growing on Bernard Miles's nose . Fortunately the kind fairy gave her a heartfelt fourth wish . Alan Young is an earnest if diffident hero who performs a heroic deed and wins mortality and the heart for and of June Thorburn . And Peter Sellers and Terry-Thomas make a wonderful pair of villains who trick Tamblyn into using his small size to rob the king's treasury . And in the Grimm Brothers world of happily ever after , young tom gets a bride of his size . They might have been the ancestors of the gnomes from the Gnomemobile
The Rene Clair Touch	In this very delightful fantasy , a joint Anglo-American production with Alexander Korda doing it in the United Kingdom and it being partnered by Samuel Goldwyn over on this side of the pond , Robert Donat gets to do two of his best characterizations . Donat plays a 20th century Scot's Laird , forced to sell the family ancestral castle to pay some bills . Along with the castle a ghost goes with it , also played by Donat . A brief prologue gives us the reason why Donat is haunting the place . He showed up late for a battle with the invading redcoats and his father Morton Selten puts a curse on him . He's to be earth bound until he makes some guy from the rival clan do a little crawling to him in response to the ragging Selten has taken from this other crowd . So Donat the ghost has been haunting the family digs for about 200 years plus and his descendant is looking to sell the place . American food tycoon Eugene Palette wants to buy it and Mr . Palette has a lovely daughter in Jean Parker who Donat finds attractive . The castle is taken apart , stone by stone , to be reassembled in Florida and of course The Ghost Goes West with it . If there's a Lubitsch touch for comedy , there's certainly a Rene Clair touch for fantasy . The Ghost Goes West is really a delightful film with Donat's dual performance stealing the show . It's as light and airy as other Clair English language masterpieces as I Married A Witch and It Happened Tomorrow . Do not miss it if it is ever broadcast and it's an indisputable part of any projected Robert Donat film festival .
Vigilante Justice	For James Cagney's second costume picture and first in a 19th century setting , Warner Brothers took him to San Francisco's Barbary Coast for the Frisco Kid . Cagney's first costume role was in the all star production of A Midsummer Night's Dream . Unfortunately in production values it was lost in the acclaim for the more expensive Sam Goldwyn production The Barbary Coast . Personally though I think this film is better . Cagney is fresh off a sealing ship in for his first visit to San Francisco and nearly gets shanghaied for another long voyage . Kindly Jewish tailor George E . Stone rescues him and when Cagney kills Fred Kohler , the man who is in charge of the San Francisco shanghai racket , in a bar room brawl he gains a certain celebrity status . But no matter how far he rises in power on the Barbary Coast , Cagney can't get the woman of his dreams , society gal Margaret Lindsay . And the battle lines are getting drawn in San Francisco , isolated as it is from the rest of America pre-occupied with slavery and the Civil War . Director Lloyd Bacon had a sure feel for the mood and look of Gold Rush San Francisco . Besides those mentioned , you'll see some good performances from Donald Woods , Lili Damita , Barton MacLane , and most of all Ricardo Cortez . His death scene and attitude towards the vigilante mob is may be the highlight of the film . Warner Brothers more than most of the other major studios liked to recycle plots and situations . I think if one watches Frisco Kid , one will see elements of The Oklahoma Kid and The Roaring Twenties . And those are two pretty good Cagney films also .
He Betrayed His Revolution	The first impression you might have is that there is no way that John Osbourne , the creator of the frustrated Jimmy Porter in Look Back In Anger , could possibly have reached back five centuries for the subject matter of another play . Osborne's best work Look Back In Anger is firmly rooted in the 20th century , dealing with the post empire Great Britain that he knew and was part of . Luther of course is about the founder of one large sect of Protestantism , Martin Luther of 16th century Germany which was a geographical expression , not a country at that time . Luther was an angry young man like Jimmy Porter who revolutionized theology in his time and issued the bluntest , most direct challenge to the supremacy of the Catholic Church and the Pope . He founded his church which became supreme in Northern Germany and the Scandinavian countries . But when the peasants started to revolt , Luther betrayed the revolution he started and urged that they be put down as severely as possible which they were . It's for this that John Osborne indicts him in his work . It is the biggest tragedy of Luther's career and the one in which the Catholics never stop heaping scorn on him , a lot of it justified . The film Martin Luther from the Fifties that starred Niall McGinniss and the recent Luther that starred Joseph Fiennes from this decade do not deal with part of the Luther story . We see a very flawed human being , torn by a most exquisite conscience and frightened about the forces he has unloosed . One of the church elders who admonishes him says that the peasants want the gold and silver of the church , not a new kind of faith and he's not completely wrong . Stacy Keach takes Albert Finney's place who originally created the role on Broadway where the play ran for 211 performances in 1963 . Keach does a fine job in the part as does Judy Dench as Mrs . Luther , Patrick Magee as Luther's father and Hugh Griffith as one of his church superiors who lays the law down to him , unsuccessfully . No doubt we've not seen the last interpretation of this man's life . Martin Luther will be reinterpreted by historians and dramatists for centuries .
The Duke's A Druggist Dude	In Old California finds John Wayne in the highly unusual casting of an eastern dude from Boston going west to California to seek fame and fortune as California becomes American territory due to the Mexican cession . He might be an easterner , but you wouldn't expect John Wayne to be any kind of cream puff . He'd better not be because he's starting to interest Binnie Barnes who is the gal pal of Albert Dekker , the local boss of Sacramento and the surrounding area . Wayne likes Barnes , but he's got his heart set on Helen Parrish who the daughter of a local Spanish don . You wouldn't expect pharmacy to be such a rough business , but it sure turns out that way In Old California . Out of jealousy , Dekker conceives a plot to rid himself of his rival . Ultimately however it's Dekker who gets caught in the web of his on intrigue . Edgar Kennedy and Patsy Kelly make their one and only appearances in a John Wayne film and they make a real nice pair for the comic relief in the film . Also look for a good performance by Dick Purcell as Dekker's far slimier and deadlier brother . The California Gold Rush saves the Duke from one of Dekker's nefarious schemes . The Gold Rush also brings in the typhoid epidemic where Wayne's pharmaceutical knowledge and supplies are needed to fight the disease . The epidemic also brings on a blazing gun battle as well as the Duke leads a wagon train through to the gold camps . Binnie Barnes has a nice role herself as a wise cracking saloon girl with the proverbial golden heart . Their are plot elements here of other John Wayne films like The Spoilers and Reap the Wild Wind . In this one it's John Wayne who has the role Ray Milland had against him in Reap the Wild Wind . In Old California is one of Herbert J . Yates's better films featuring his meal ticket . Between loaning him out to the bigger studios and centering Republic's big budget features around the Duke , Yates and Wayne did a masterful job in making him a movie legend .
A Tale Of Two Sisters	For the only time in his career , director John Huston does a film with the main protagonists being women , in this case two of Warner Brothers biggest stars . Bette Davis and Olivia DeHavilland play a couple of sisters named Timberlake , one good and one bad . I'll leave it to the veteran movie fans to tell who was who . Although quite frankly both these women could have pulled off each other's roles in In This Our Life . They certainly proved over the course of their careers that they had the acting chops . The property seemed a natural for them as they play women of southern origin . Olivia's good sister is not quite as Pollyannish as her Melanie Hamilton from Gone With The Wind . But almost to the very end she allows Bette and her whims and desires to run roughshod over her life . The film does revolve around Bette and her character is an exponential version of Julie Marsden from Jezebel . She's a selfish willful flirt who thinks absolutely of nothing except herself and causes havoc to all around here . As the story opens Bette is keeping company with lawyer George Brent and Olivia is getting married to young doctor Dennis Morgan . On an impulsive whim and maybe to prove she can do it , Bette takes Morgan away from Olivia and they run off and get married . But Bette doesn't want the honeymoon to end and poor Morgan can't keep up with her partying . Realizing what he did he kills himself . But that's far from the end of things . Davis who loves to speed her car , causes a hit and run accident that kills a young girl and badly injures her mother . She casts blame on a young black kid Ernest Anderson who is working and clerking in George Brent's office and is the son of Timberlake maid Hattie McDaniel . The story is set in Virginia , not the deep South , but deep enough so that despite Anderson's denials , the law will just take white woman Davis's word as a matter of course . If it were Alabama , probably Anderson would have been lynched given those times . She knows this and for a while exploits the racism in her society . Ernest Anderson's role was an incredible milestone for its times , showing a black young man who aspired to a professional life . In This Our Life is quite the indictment of Southern society of the time . Another role that got acclaim for a different reason was Charles Coburn as the uncle whose ' affection ' for Davis can't be mistaken for anything else , but incestuous desire . He's the main employer in the town and pretty much makes the law around there . Davis's last scene with Coburn is one of the best in the film and reveals everything about both of these disreputable people . John Huston even got his father Walter to play an unbilled small bit as a bartender . The bartender it turns out is the key to getting at the truth for the police authorities . In This Our Life is one of Bette Davis's meatiest roles . Huston is a good enough director though to not let her pyrotechnics blot out the rest of the cast . For fans of Bette this one is a must .
Romance In The Italian Campaign	The original story behind Force of Arms was written by Richard Tregaskis , war correspondent from World War II , best known for Guadalcanal Diary . Of course some would argue that Tregaskis borrowed a lot of the plot from the previous war that Ernest Hemingway chronicled in A Farewell to Arms . Still it's a nice romantic story brought to life by the teaming of William Holden and Nancy Olson who did four films together back at this time . Nancy Olson in fact got an Oscar nomination in the Best Supporting Actress category for Sunset Boulevard which was their first film together . After his company is relieved on the San Pietro front in the Italian theater , William Holden meets WAC Nancy Olson and a romance blooms . But it's back to the front , in fact Holden gets himself wounded twice during the course of Force of Arms . Actual combat footage from the Italian campaign is used along with newsreels from the liberation of Rome where the climax takes place . There are good performances here also by Frank Lovejoy and Katherine Warren as the respective commanding officers of Holden and Olson . This was Bill Holden's first great romantic role along the lines of Humphrey Bogart in Casablanca . It's a harbinger of what we would later get from him in films like The Bridges of Toko-Ri and Love Is A Many Splendored Thing . It's a sadly neglected film , one of Bill Holden's better films and should not be missed .
" Nothing's Dirtier Than a Rear Guard Action "	Made with a competent cast of B film actors , Fixed Bayonets is the story of a platoon of 48 men of whom very few survive as they cover the retreat of an American Division in Korea . One movie legend made a brief appearance here , but if you blink you'll miss James Dean as one of the soldiers . Richard Basehart is the lead here who's a corporal and quite worried that if the people above him don't make it the nine days they're asked to hold a strategic pass responsibility will pass to him . It maybe Basehart's best big screen role . Another actor making his personal best in his career is Gene Evans as the sergeant ranked right above Basehart . If I was in a war situation , Evans is the kind of sergeant I'd like to be in a foxhole with . Some of the usual war film stereotypes are here . But director Samuel Fuller , who knew a thing or two about combat , got great performances from his cast . No false heroics here , just guys stuck with a very dirty job covering a retreat after the Chinese Communists enter the Korean War . For war film fans , an absolute must .
What's In A Name ?	The Guv'nor finds George Arliss not playing in one of his heroic biographical films for which his reputation has come down to the present day . Instead he's playing a gentleman tramp over in Paris who happens to have the famous name of Francois Rothschild . Ironic because one of Arliss's most famous biographical roles was that of Nathan Rothschild in House Of Rothschild . Poor Arliss , all he wants to do is go south for the winter . But he becomes part of a scheme by banker Frank Cellier to fleece Viola Keats and her mother Henrietta Watson out of their iron ore works because of his name . But Arliss proves way too smart for all of them . I'm really glad I discovered this film on TCM today . It was an absolutely charming portrayal by Arliss , very much in the same vein as Maurice Chevalier in Ma ' Pomme and Cary Grant in Father Goose . Let's just say that Arliss plays his famous name for all that it's worth and he proves more than a match for those who want to use him . Do not miss this one if it is broadcast again .
Bing helps a damsel in distress	Bing Crosby had done one previous film with a college setting in College Humor . In that one he was a music teacher . Now he's on the other side of the classroom as student / composer in She Loves Me Not . He's about to graduate and get married when a complication in the form of Miriam Hopkins comes into his life . She's fleeing from gangsters who think she's seen a shooting . The doer , Warren Hymer , is hot on her trail . She's a dancer in a nightclub in Philadelphia and she flees abruptly , not even changing her costume . She has just enough money to get to Princeton where she tells her sad tale of woe to Bing . And of course Bing and pal Eddie Nugent take her in . What follows is a lot of fast paced humor involving Crosby's fiancé , the college administration , a Hollywood publicity man , and the gangsters Hopkins is fleeing from . Along the way Bing makes the acquaintance of Kitty Carlisle who is the daughter of Princeton's Dean of Students played by Henry Stephenson . They sing beautifully together and would do so again in Crosby's next picture , Here Is My Heart . Songwriting chores were split on this film . Mack Gordon and Harry Revel contributed two songs , Straight from the Shoulder and I'm Humming . . . I'm Whistling . . . I'm Singing which were good . But the hit song of the film comes from Leo Robin and Ralph Rainger , Love In Bloom . 1934 was the first year that the best song category was put in the Academy Awards sweepstakes . Bing Crosby with Love In Bloom had the first of 15 nominations , the most by far of any artist introducing an Oscar nominated song . Love In Bloom lost that year to the beautiful music and heavenly rhythm of The Continental . Love In Bloom served also as the title tune of one of Dixie Lee Crosby's last films before she retired from the screen to raise Bing's first family . But the song finally got a home being heard as the squeaky violin introduction for Jack Benny for almost forty years on radio and television . It became identified with him so much that many people don't know Bing Crosby introduced it as a serious ballad . Bing and Kitty sing Love In Bloom well together although the main weakness of the plot is that their romance gets a bit sappy at times . It does detract from the comedy . Nevertheless She Loves Me Not is pretty funny and the inimitable Mr . Crosby is in excellent voice on some excellent tunes .
" Some Kind of Man "	If you remember The Carpetbaggers , you'll note the scene where Jonas Cord , Jr . tells his surrogate father Nevada Smith about how he researched and discovered his real story . That his real name was Max Sand and that when three vicious outlaws killed his parents , he spent years tracking them down to mete out justice . From that small speech in The Carpetbaggers came the motion picture Nevada Smith which starred Steve McQueen in the role that was destined to be Alan Ladd's last . Talk was that Ladd would have liked to do it himself , but he would never have been convincing as the young Nevada . The outlaws who McQueen is on the trail of are three of the most vicious ever created in Hollywood . Karl Malden , Arthur Kennedy , and Martin Landau each admirably fit their despicable characters . So does Brian Keith as Jonas Cord , Sr . who became McQueen's friend and benefactor . There are three substantial women's parts in this film . Janet Margolin is the Kiowa Indian girl who went into the white man's world and became a prostitute who cares for McQueen when he's wounded in the Kiowa Village . And there's Joanna Moore , a most grateful widow of Martin Landau who wants to thank Steve good and proper for her new station in life . She's the one with the title quote for the review . One of the unsung roles in the film however is that of Suzanne Pleshette who plays a Cajun swamp girl who gets bitten by a water moccasin while helping McQueen and Arthur Kennedy bust out of a prison work camp in Louisiana . His treatment of her is McQueen at his most ruthless , he's just using her to get out a jail to get a crack at Kennedy . In fact he deliberately got himself thrown into prison for that purpose . When Pleshette realizes that when she's dying in the swamp of the untreated snakebite , it's maybe her finest moment in her film career . Nevada Smith was a very good part for Steve McQueen , it stands high with his legion of fans and holds up very well forty years later .
The Gospel According To Cecil	Cecil B . DeMille's film about Jesus was made during a period in his career when he left Paramount and organized his own studio . Unfortunately for DeMille his studio went belly up after the stock market crash of 1929 . The King of Kings is unquestionably the greatest film he made during that period . But in DeMille's cinema gospel he eschewed the traditional Christmas story to be found in those four other gospels . DeMille begins his movie with a real lavish party at the home of a noted women of the town Mary Magdalene played by Jacqueline Logan . It's DeMille showing revelry at its best and most alluring . Logan asks why one of her favorites , Judas Iscariot hasn't been attending her clambakes recently . She hears he's been hanging around with this carpenter from Nazareth reputed to have performed some miracles and who doesn't approve of her lifestyle . That's it for Ms . Magadalene ; she's not about to let this hick take one of her favorites away . Off in a chariot pulled by Zebras she goes after this carpenter . She finds H . B . Warner as Jesus doing one of the miracles and becomes a follower herself . After this the film becomes a reverential straightforward account as you would find in the Bible . Reverence and revelry , the hallmark of a DeMille film is found in equal measure in The King of Kings . H . B . Warner does a fine job in the lead role , he makes a saintly Jesus . I do wonder what led DeMille to cast Warner , to think of him in the first place . Warner was 52 at the time playing a 30 something Jesus . The King of Kings offers the movie fan to see father and son Rudolph and Joseph Schildkraut who play Caiaphas and Judas . Both contribute fine performances to the endeavor . Unlike later gospel based films , this one clearly has Caiaphas as the villain of the piece . He's described in the subtitles as a man concerned more with ' revenue than religion ' which doesn't make him all that different from some folks I could mention today . The Schildkrauts however were Jewish and stars in the Yiddish Theater in Europe and America . They got good and slammed for their participation in The King of Kings by more than a few of their co-religionists . Sharp eyed viewers will also note that the guy playing Simon of Cyrene who helps Jesus with his cross is none other than Hopalong Cassidy , William Boyd . Boyd was a DeMille discovery and had previously starred in another DeMille production , The Volga Boatman . This of course was years before he became the idol of the nation's children . In his autobiography DeMille goes into some detail about how Jeremiah Milbank helped him with the financing of the DeMille Studio from which The King of Kings was produced . After the initial run , Milbank set up a foundation in which prints of The King of Kings were copied and made available to various Christian mission groups free for their work . It's one reason why this particular film is never in any danger of being lost . DeMille was told on at least one occasion that this was his greatest picture because there is no greater subject . It's arguably one of his best from a technical standpoint . Still for the hundreds of millions of affiliated Christians on the planet , The King of Kings certainly occupies a special place .
What is France Without Paris ?	About 350 years earlier Henry of Navarre had captured just about all of France , but Paris and had been ruling as Henry IV for about five years but he decided he wasn't really king without his capital . He converted to the Catholic religion and Paris became united with the rest of the country . Henry decided that Paris was indeed worth a mass . Fast forward to 1944 . Maybe militarily Paris wasn't worth that much in defeating Hitler , but for the morale of a people being liberated from a brutal conqueror it was invaluable . When the forces of the Resistance in its many branches could no longer be contained with Allied armies only days from Paris , battle plans got changed and a Free French Division under General Phillippe Leclerc went in and helped the Resistance take the city . Paris brule-t-il is the French cinema's answer to The Longest Day . It is dotted with cameos from French , German , and American film players and makes very effective use of newsreel footage blended into the finished product . You really do think you are watching an actual filmed record of the events as they happened . The lead in this film is German actor Gert Frobe , better known to audiences as James Bond nemesis Goldfinger . The film opens with him being given command of the city by Hitler himself and given very specific orders to destroy the city before it was recaptured . Frobe knows it and finally admits that the war is lost . He's concerned about what history will think of him should he do this terrible thing . He gets a direct order from Hannes Messemer playing Alfred Jodl and a reminder of what Hitler does to those who disobey him . Frobe's character General Von Choltitz died shortly after this film debuted and Jodl was executed after being tried at Nuremberg . Jean-Paul Belmondo , Alain Delon , Jean-Pierre Cassel , Yves Montand are all playing roles of Resistance members . Leslie Caron has a poignant small part as a woman trying unsuccessfully to get her husband freed before the Nazis ship him off to Germany before retreating . Americans in this film are Kirk Douglas as General Patton , Glenn Ford , as General Bradley and Robert Stack as General Siebert . Those three were put in briefly to insure some American box office in a French story . Funny no one thought of Douglas for the Patton biographical film classic four years later . Orson Welles has a much bigger part as the Swedish consul general in Paris who negotiates between the Nazis and the Resistance before the Free French Division arrives . Another one of those brilliantly executed parts by Welles he did to get money for his own projects . Director Rene Clement really made the people of Paris the star of this film . It is their tribute picture and a terrible reminder to people in every nation what it is like to live under a tyranny .
Cool Under Fire	Robert Donat's Eastern European background and fluency in a few languages make him the ideal choice for British Secret Service to send on a mission to destroy a Nazi poison gas factory in occupied Czechoslovakia . In a brief prologue with Donat disarming a buzz bomb that landed in a hospital , we see an example of how he keeps his cool under fire . Sabotage Agent next has Donat in Czechoslovakia disguised as a refugee from the Nazi sympathizing Iron Guard of Romania . Donat moves effortlessly from the stiff upper lip British agent to the bumptious Jan Tartu of Romania . He keeps his wits about him pretty good in a whole bunch of situations . Especially since he loses his contact upon arriving in Czechoslovakia almost immediately and is flying blind . Another agent is Valerie Hobson who like Donat is always good . She's a Czech who's a collaborator officially , but is really working for the Czech underground . She doesn't know what to make of Donat . One thing is sure , her Nazi boy friend Walter Rilla is plenty jealous . I have to say that the action packed ending was a bit much . It was like Donat was trying to compete with Errol Flynn . Something a little more clever I would have expected from his character . This was more like something from James Bond . Nevertheless Donat and Hobson give good characterizations and also Glynis Johns as another Czech patriot gives a memorable performance .
" It's Value Is , It Has No Value "	Take a look at the jagged line that represents the boundary truce line between North and South Korea on a map . You'll then have some idea of what Pork Chop Hill is all about . While the armistice talks are going on in Panmunjom , both sides are jockeying for position on both sides . The truce line will be on a prescribed latitude parallel , but owing to various hills and valleys , adjustments are in order . Those adjustments are costing lives though . While the talks are in their final stages the Communists prove intransigent about a particular piece of real estate called Pork Chop Hill that really has no significant value . But as Carl Benton Reid at the talks says it's value is it has no value . The Communists are just using it as a test of wills , filed for future reference . Gregory Peck as Lieutenant Joe Clemons gets the dirty task of leading his men into battle for no real discernible reason . How he keeps his men going is the real story here . Joe Clemons was a real army lieutenant who wrote a book on his real experiences on literally the last day of the Korean War . Peck is an inspirational Clemons and I'm sure the real Clemons must have liked it . Scattered in the cast are such future movie and television names as George Peppard , Harry Guardino , Gavin McLeod , Robert Blake , and Norman Fell . But the best performance in the film without a doubt belongs to Woody Strode . He's fully conscious of the racism he's feeling at home just before the civil rights revolution and can't really come up with a reason to die for Korea or do time in the army stockade for desertion . His scenes with Peck and with fellow black GI James Edwards just crackle with heat and talent . I'm surprised no one considered Strode for Best Supporting Actor . Lewis Milestone who directed THE anti-war film , All Quiet On the Western Front is at the top of his game in Pork Chop Hill . A really good film about a sadly forgotten conflict .
Now who'd have thought angels would be helping a bunch of pirates .	Before the New York Mets came along , the Pittsburgh Pirates were the first name in baseball for flat footed futility . At the time that Angels in the Outfield was made the Pirates had a long term lease on the National League cellar . In fact the only reason the Pirates drew any crowds at all was the presence of the premier slugger in the National League , Ralph Kiner . One shudders to think where they might have finished without him . But that's reality . In this film some heavenly help is granted the Pirates , presumably by a long suffering Deity who's maybe a Pirate fan . That is on condition that manager Paul Douglas clean up his act . He's told that by unseen angel James Whitmore . As it turns out Douglas is not the only one getting celestial visitations . He only hears angels , but little Donna Corcoran sees them behind every Pirate player on the field . When reporter Janet Leigh writes the story all kinds of complications ensue . Even without the special effects of the 1994 remake , Angels in the Outfield still maintains an innocent charm that is irresistible to baseball fans of a perennial losing team . After all we found out in Damn Yankees the kind of outside help they've been getting to stay on top . Nine years later the Pirates were in fact World Series winners , humbling the mighty Yankees in seven games . And for thirty years after that the Pirates were a contending ball club . They're back in the doldrums that Angels in the Outfield portrays . Maybe time for another heavenly assist .
Save The Prince	India in 1905 was a country in transition and turmoil , the Moslems and Hindus were warring on each other and on other minority groups and everybody wanted the British out . The Congress Party was a going concern at that point and was still a vehicle for both Moslem and Hindu to work within . If every single man at arms that the British Empire could command had been stationed in India at any time , they could never have ruled such a vast area in land and population . They did it with a lot of collaboration , some of it willing , some of it a matter of convenience . Very little of what is now India , Pakistan , and Bangladesh was ruled outright by the British . They worked in collaboration with the various rulers of the many provinces , some Hindu , some Moslem . In this story , a Hindu maharajah's state is being overrun by Moslem rebels . Kenneth More as a British captain is charged with getting the small son out of the kingdom and to safety along with the child's nurse , an American played by Lauren Bacall . On a train of one coach , More , Bacall , and the child Gorinda Raja Ross flee the kingdom . Other passengers on the train are arms dealer Eugene Decker , newspaper correspondent Herbert Lom , the wife of the provincial governor Ursula Jeans , and the governor's secretary Wilfrid Hyde-White . The train is driven by Indian actor I . S . Johar and more has a small group of Sepoy troops to help out . The journey to safety is the bulk of the story of Northwest Frontier and on that journey all the people show their character . One of them will betray the others . All of them have flaws of a sort . The British really do believe in Kipling's white man's burden about keeping order among the people of India . To a greater or lesser degree they have a racial prejudice about the place . Only Bacall as an American and an outsider is seemingly free of it . Not to say that most of them aren't a brave bunch because in the crunch most step up to the plate . The story was written by Patrick Ford , John's son and others have pointed out that he borrowed liberally from his dad's masterpiece Stagecoach . The final attack on the train by the Moslem rebels is as exciting as that attack by other kinds of Indians in Stagecoach . Kenneth More as the hero of the piece is not the Ringo Kid however . John Wayne was on his own mission when he became part of the Stagecoach ensemble , More is a British with a mission . The various maharajahs and nawabs were all pensioned off as per the Mountbatten settlement in 1947 . I'd like to think the young prince grew up and inherited his kingdom and got pensioned out of it along with a few hundred others of his class . One kingdom missed the settlement , that of Kashmir which is today the sore point between India and Pakistan . Director J . Lee Thompson was at the beginning of a great career directing some fine action films . Northwest Frontier is a fine action film and you can learn a great deal about the Indian subcontinent in the viewing of it .
Tries A Funny Hand At Murder	I've maintained this before , one day someone is going to do a study of the director / actor team of George Marshall and Glenn Ford . They did some really great work together such as The Sheepman , Imitation General , Texas and Advance To The Rear to name a few . The Gazebo falls in that category as well . The Gazebo was originally presented on Broadway as a play by Alec Coppel and ran for 218 performances in the 1958-59 season . The roles that Glenn Ford , Debbie Reynolds , and Carl Reiner play were done on Broadway by Walter Slezak , Jayne Meadows , and Edward Andrews . I'm still not fathoming a role originated by Walter Slezak done by Glenn Ford . I'm betting the role had to have been rewritten for the screen . I'd like to describe it as a black comedy , but in the end it does turn out all sweetness and light . Ford is a television writer who lives with wife and musical comedy star Reynolds in the suburbs with Reiner as their neighbor . Oh , Reiner happens to be an Assistant District Attorney and Ford just loves picking his brain on how to avoid capture by the police when you commit a homicide . Which is what Ford has in mind , not suggestions for a television script . Someone's attempting blackmail because they've got some nude photographs of Reynolds in her salad days . He lures the blackmailer to his home and what follows is hilarious . A lot of the problem has to do with a gazebo that Ford and Reynolds have put in their yard . It might serve as a place to bury a body , but it doesn't quite work out that way . Besides those already mentioned Marshall put together a good cast to support the leads with Doro Merande as their housekeeper whose normal conversational tone is a roar and John McGiver as the head of the work crew installing The Gazebo . Special mention should go to a pigeon named Herman who Ford took in and nursed back to health . Some of The Gazebo's funniest moments are provided by Herman . The Gazebo did get an Oscar nomination for Costume Design , but I think Herman should have been up for a CLIO award .
Age Brings Change	For ten years Al Bundy was television's favorite sad sack . Married to a shrew of a woman , two kids who have no respect for him , a feminist neighbor who is constantly showing him up as a Neanderthal and a dead end job selling women's shoes he hates . Have I left anything out ? But as any devoted fan of Married With Children knows Al Bundy had his moment in the sun . As a high school football star he scored four touchdowns in a single game for Polk High . For seven seasons everyone in America heard about it . But we never met the other players on the team , particularly the quarterback who threw those bullets . This episode involves Al getting suckered into a bet involving a game with some old rivals . Unbeknownst to Al the other team has several ringers in it , former pro football stars as a reading of the cast list will show you . Everyone has grown older , that kind of change with age is inevitable . But it turns out the quarterback of the team who we learn was named Thad , had an additional change . Thad is played by Drew Pillsbury who some years earlier transitioned and became a woman . That was not something Al expected . As played by Ed O'Neill , Al Bundy was a lot of things , but he was a blue collar guy singularly free from prejudice except maybe against one thing , pretentious people . He had an abiding hate for that . It was a lesson we can all learn . After a few qualms , Al and the rest of his former teammates accept the transgendered quarterback and go play their hearts out . Let's just say everybody's a bit out of shape including the pros . This review is dedicated to a transgender woman I met a few days ago named Cindy who dreams of playing on a transgender football team . May Thad be your quarterback .
A Bird With No Feet Can't Land Anywhere	I suspect that Tennessee Williams probably agreed to change the title of his classically sounding play Orpheus Descending to The Fugitive Kind in order to insure box office . Possibly some of Marlon Brando's fans garnered from The Wild One might pay their admissions thinking they were seeing something like that . I can think of worst ways to be exposed to one of America's most respected playwrights . This was Brando's second time doing Williams for the screen , the first time being A Streetcar Named Desire . Curiously enough this was Anna Magnani's second time doing Tennessee Williams for the screen as well , she won an Oscar in 1955 for The Rose Tattoo . So the combination of Brando and Magnani seemed a natural for the screen . I don't think The Fugitive Kind is as good as Streetcar or The Rose Tattoo , but the parts are meaty enough roles for both these honored players . Characters seem to drift in to The Fugitive Kind from other Williams work . Brando's Val Xavier is quite like Chance Wayne in Sweet Bird of Youth , in fact in the review's title is the illusion Brando himself makes of his character . He's an early 30 something drifter with a talent for sex and music , the former probably more than the latter . Unlike Chance , Xavier doesn't have a female keeper , but he'd like to find one . He passes up liaison with the town trollop played by a third Oscar winner in the cast , Joanne Woodward for the older and married Anna Magnani . Magnani is trapped in a loveless marriage to a dying Victor Jory , a petty tyrant who runs the town general store . Like Big Daddy in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , Jory is dying of cancer at a much more advanced stage of the disease than Burl Ives had . Picture Big Mama from that play hot to trot for Chance Wayne and you've got the essence of The Fugitive Kind . Joanne Woodward has an interesting part . Part of her loose behavior is in rebellion against the time honored tradition of institutional racism that is the south that Tennessee Williams grew up in . I'm not an expert on Tennessee Williams , but of the works I've seen that are revived frequently , this is the only one where Williams directly brings up racism . Orpheus Descending on Broadway only ran 68 performances in 1957 . Two members from the Broadway cast made it to the screen , R . G . Armstrong as the sheriff repeating his role and Maureen Stapleton who had Joanne Woodward's part on stage , essays the part of the sheriff's wife who also is married to another middle aged tyrant . Considered a lesser work of Williams at first , Orpheus Descending is now revived frequently by stock theater companies everywhere . A critically acclaimed revival on Broadway in 1989 with Vanessa Redgrave and Tammy Grimes and Kevin Anderson helped bring Orpheus Descending into its proper place in the sun . Maybe if a remake is ever done , it will even be done under its proper original title . Till then we can be well satisfied with this version .
The Mountain Men , Our Real Pioneers	When one watches western films of the latter half of the 19th century , the settlement of the west was on a course that was nothing but bad for the American Indian . As good as some westerns are , always lingering in the back of any viewer's mind is the thought that no matter what the predicament of a given hero / heroine in any film is the fact that the might and power of the United States Cavalry will ultimately tip the balance towards the white man . But the fur trappers of the early half of that century faced a far different situation . They were few and the Indians at that point outnumbered them . These people as typified by Clark Gable and the rest of the cast in Across the Wide Missouri were the really brave ones in our history . They wanted to trap their beaver and sell their pelts and the last thing they wanted was wholesale immigration of settlers . It took a lot of nerve to live in that lonely existence , days and weeks at a time where you couldn't count on a troop of soldiers to bail you out of trouble . I'm a big old sucker for films about the earlier west and two good ones came out at this time , this one and the following year from RKO , The Big Sky . I give the nod to this one thought because it was done in color and on location . Gable gets one of his best post World War II parts as the sturdy Flint Mitchell , mountain man who falls big time for Indian princess Maris Elena Marques . While grandfather Jack Holt approves of a white husband for his granddaughter , the match don't sit well at all with Ricardo Montalban his successor . The climatic duel between Gable and Montalban is staged very well indeed and quite thrilling . Playing various fur trapper roles are Alan Napier , James Whitmore , John Hodiak and most of all Adolphe Menjou . Though one normally expects the debonair Mr . Menjou in tuxedo , he's really quite good as the French Canadian trapper and sidekick to Gable . Maria Elena Marquess got her one and only chance in Hollywood and did well as the Indian princess . She was already a name in Mexican cinema and became an even bigger star down there due to this film with Clark Gable . This film marked the farewell performance of Jack Holt who died soon after it was completed . His career spanned all the way back to the earliest years of Hollywood . He makes a very impressive chief of the Blackfeet . Gable was a rugged outdoors-man in real life , he liked to fish and hunt and brought his fourth wife , Lady Sylvia Ashley on location . Unfortunately Lady Sylvia was not a big fan of the great outdoors and her experiences roughing it contributed to the Gables getting unhitched . Director William Wellman kept things going at a good clip and though Across the Wide Missouri is slightly over 75 minutes for an A film , it's still a great item and rates being an A film for its cast and its production values .
The Star Is The Sport	According to a recent biography of Steve McQueen , Grand Prix was supposed to be a project that he and John Frankenheimer were originally to work on . But the two had creative differences and went their separate ways doing separate racing pictures . What McQueen eventually did was Le Mans . I think Frankenheimer wound up with the far better product . Grand Prix is a Grand Hotel type film involving several people and their lives over the course of a few months on the European racing circuit . Many of the types fans of the sport will most likely recognize . James Garner is the American driver who's had a run of bad luck . A car crash has forced him to try and be color commentator for television , a role he can't fit in . Japanese auto industrialist Toshiro Mifune is offering him a way back into the circuit . Brian Bedford's sustained a serious crash and even before's he's healed he's driving through a lot of pain . His wife Jessica Walter thinks he's certifiable and she drifts into an affair with Garner whom she thinks is showing good sense in going for the life of sports television commentator . Antonio Sabato , father of the famed Calvin Klein model of the last decade , is the Epicurean live for the moment driver who doesn't take anything seriously except for the time he's actually competing . Definitely not his women as Francoise Hardy finds out . The veteran of the circuit , the Michael Jordan of the profession , is Yves Montand . The only real happiness he has is driving , not even an affair with journalist Eva Marie Saint is bringing him that . Montand is trapped in a loveless marriage to Genevieve Page who's the daughter of another automobile industrialist . His name means more prestige for daddy's firm , so she'll tolerate all infidelities . Montand is getting old and like many afraid his reflexes won't be there for him at one critical point too many . Back then these guys were racing at speeds of 180 miles an hour . Your life saving decisions at some point are taken out of your hands at those speeds . Whether it's the NASCAR circuit in the USA , the Grand Prix of Europe or even midget go cars , auto racing may in fact be the only truly international sport there is . It's stars come from every corner in this world except Antarctica . The sport is held in just about every country there is . It's also never become has politicized as the Olympics have become on occasion . The drivers who compete and the supporters and sponsors around them are an international fraternity that national boundaries have no meaning for . Despite the presence of so many international names , the star of the film is the sport itself . All the stories of the players are done against that backdrop . It's a tribute to John Frankenheimer that the individual stories did not get lost in the making of Grand Prix . The film won three Oscars , for Sound , for Sound Effects , and for Film Editing . Grand Prix is the best film on auto racing ever done . And it's presented in such a way that even people who don't follow the sport , can appreciate what the drivers go through . If possible see this one on the big screen .
" We Put That Princess Thing Over , Didn't We "	You're Tellling Me finds W . C . Fields pitted against the world again , the immediate world and the outside world . And Fields fights it with the weapons of his choice , rye or gin . You're Telling Me actually does get a bit serious for a while . He's Sam Bisbee in this film , ne'er do well optometrist and full time henpecked husband of Louise Carter and father of Joan Marsh . Joan would like to marry Buster Crabbe who's the son of the town's leading snob Kathleen Howard , but it looks hopeless . Fields's one love besides his family and booze is inventing things . He actually may have something in a puncture proof tire . But in a demonstration where he shoots the tires of a police car it gets him in some trouble . Here's actually where this Fields comedy takes a serious turn . He's actually contemplating suicide on the way back home on the commuter train , but then seeing a young lady Adrienne Ames in distress and contemplating the same thing , he talks her and ironically himself out of it . She turns out to be his guardian angel in many ways and turns the tide for new friend socially and economically . This was first the first film Fields did with Kathleen Howard . Someone at Paramount must have seen something because the following year they were teamed as husband and wife in It's A Gift . She became Fields's Margaret Dumont in that one . You're Telling Me is the film where Bill Fields got do his golf routine which is almost as famous as his pool shark specialty . It comes at the end of the film where a contrite town who just thought of him as the town drunk , now asks him to open their new country club . It's still holds very well today and a source of amusement for duffers everywhere . In fact the whole film is as amusing as it was when it premiered in 1934 . The comedy of W . C . Fields is timeless .
Murder At Midnight	Who Done It finds our intrepid duo as soda jerks who want to be mystery writers and work on the Murder at Midnight Show . Bud and Lou go to a broadcast just in time to witness the real murder of the head of the network , Thomas Gomez . So what do our two geniuses think to do ? They decide to impersonate police officers and try and capture the criminal themselves . Interfering with a police investigation is an offense unto itself , but when Abbott and Costello do it , it's strictly for laughs . The two cops who don't think it's that funny are William Gargan and William Bendix . Supposedly Costello was not happy with Bendix playing the dim bulb detective because he was getting more laughs than him . Mary Wickes who plays the secretary of Thomas Gomez also said she did not get along with Costello on the set . The actual murderer turns out to be a very peripheral character who only had a couple of inconsequential lines before he's unmasked at the end . I tend to think there was probably more of his part , but it was edited out . Not that there are not a host of suspects like Patric Knowles , Jerome Cowan , Don Porter , Ludwig Stossel , and even Wickes and Louise Allbritton . One actor who did not get any billing , but should have because he was very funny constantly getting the better of poor Costello was Walter Tetley who played the fresh mouthed young elevator operator . What he did to Costello bordered on sadism . Who Done It is a fine slapstick burlesque of all these mystery films that all the studios were putting out back then . I guess it said that if even Abbott and Costello can solve a case anyone can .
Missing turns to Kidnapping	The only thing that I find amazing with Harper is why Paul Newman never had done a detective part up till 1966 . His laconic screen persona always seemed so right for the role of private gumshoe . Lauren Bacall hires Newman through the offices of mutual friend , lawyer Arthur Hill , to locate her missing husband . It seems as though disembarked his private aircraft from the airport and vanished . The last to see him alive was Robert Wagner who was his personal pilot . The call to Newman was premature as the story develops from a Missing Person to a Kidnapping case . Newman really wades through the muck on this one as he interviews a range of persons of interest , one sleazier than the next . And both the widow who hired him and the missing husband turn out to be pretty sleazy themselves . Paul Newman was really born to play Harper . As much as I liked this one , his second go around as Harper in The Drowning Pool was even better . But that's a review for that film . Of the supporting cast I particularly liked Julie Harris as the junkie jazz singer and Strother Martin as leader of a wacko religious cult that has some criminal interests . By the way , the ending is left very much up in the air in terms of what knowledge Newman will divulge to the authorities . Beyond that I won't say . So if you're curious , see this film , you will enjoy same .
The Quest For The Kormblatt	The destroyer USS Kornblatt has been missing since World War II and Congressman Gale Gordon wants to know where it is . It's several million dollars worth of taxpayer's money from Uncle Sam . The last guy in charge was a career Navy man who since World War II has risen from Ensign to Lieutenant John Paul Steckler VII played in every generation by Jerry Lewis . Don't Give Up The Ship deals precisely with a guy who apparently did just that and can't find it now . In a brief prologue to the film we see how Jerry playing several members of his family served their country in a kind of homage to Alec Guinness in Kind Hearts and Coronets . Despite a Steckler serving in the Navy for seven generations , the USA still became a superpower . As VJ Day was celebrated the USS Kornblatt was given orders to sail to San Diego and be decommissioned . Every other officer had enough points for discharge so command devolved on Jerry Lewis . The Kornblatt stopped at an island where Lewis was captured by some Japanese soldiers left there who weren't told the war was over . His men left him there , thinking he was killed . That was the last he saw of his ship . With this renewed interest in the Kornblatt and Navy appropriations on the line , Admiral Robert Middleton has given Lewis a special assignment to find his lost destroyer . Aiding him is Ensign Dina Merrill from Naval Intelligence . On top of everything else Jerry's planning to get married to Diana Spencer and the wedding has to be postponed . Diana's not understanding her beloved working in close quarters with Merrill . Romantic complications are the last thing Jerry needs . I think Don't Give Up The Ship was one of Jerry Lewis's funniest solo films since breaking up with Dino . It's got a lot of good physical comedy that Lewis excelled at and many opportunities to overact outrageously and with gusto . It's a must for Jerry Lewis fans .
Bares Resemblance To Anthony Mann / James Stewart Westerns	In Lone Rider Lou Diamond Phillips returns to his small Texas town after war service and looks to settle down with his family . When he left there before the Civil War his parents and cousin had a prosperous ranch and a mercantile in town . But while he's been away , a boyhood friend has become the town boss and is looking to take over the ranch and the mercantile . Lou's father Stacy Keach has borrowed for the store with a loan on the ranch which boyhood friend Vincent Spano wants paid in full . Spano's moving on a few fronts in that town and in the tradition of many westerns the town looks for a champion and Lou fills the bill . Lone Rider reminds me a whole lot of some of the Anthony Mann / James Stewart westerns of the Fifties . Phillips is playing a part that half a century ago Jimmy Stewart would have been playing . In fact there are distinct plot elements from The Far Country and Bend of the River in Lone Rider . And fifty years ago Lone Rider would have been released on the big screen when westerns had more of a market and would have been acclaimed and enjoyed . But for western fans like your's truly , we still enjoy them .
I Had The Craziest Dream	I wouldn't argue with anyone who said that Springtime in the Rockies might just be Betty Grable's best film . It certainly has a lot going for it . The plot's a skimpy one as these types of films are . Betty's in love with her act partner John Payne who says he reciprocates , but can't get pinned down for marriage . After a performance in their show , she and Payne get into one fight too many and she takes off for an engagement with her former partner Cesar Romero in a resort on the shore of Lake Louise in those beautiful Canadian Rockies . No one got near Lake Louise from 20th Century Fox . A few establishing shots of the lake with the mountains behind are all you see . Of course John Payne chases after her with some mixed motives . He wants to marry her , but he also wants her for a new show . He takes his own scenic route to Lake Louise , flying under his own power as well as by plane and finds when he both arrives and sobers up he's hired himself a secretary in Carmen Miranda and a valet in Edward Everett Horton . Betty gets to make her first appearance on screen with her new husband , Harry James and his orchestra . Just prior and during World War II was the era of the big bands and all the studios tried to sign them up and shoe horn them into films . It was an easy fit in this case for Harry James . Especially with a score from Harry Warren and Mack Gordon who provided James with one of his biggest hits . I Had The Craziest Dream . Played by the band with inimitable James trumpet and sung beautifully by Helen Forrest this was one of the biggest song hits of the World War II years . It still plays beautifully today . Carmen Miranda does a couple of numbers in her unique style , you haven't lived until you've heard her do Chattanooga Choo Choo in Portugese . And in this wonderful cast in a small role is Jackie Gleason as Payne's agent . It's sad that in this wonderful cast , Gleason had a most nondescript part that shows absolutely nothing of his comic abilities . There's nothing deep about Springtime in the Rockies , it's just fabulous entertainment with a cast you could never assemble like this today .
" What You Win You Can Collect . "	This is the fourth of five filmed versions of Rex Beach's redoubtable northern classic and since it's the only one out on video , it's the one best known to movie audiences . The stalwart trio of Marlene Dietrich , Randolph Scott , and John Wayne head the cast in this story about gold miners losing their claims to con men and doing something about it . Dietrich's Cherry Malotte is another version of the role she copyrighted in Destry Rides Again . And like in Pittsburgh , Randolph Scott and John Wayne have their hormones in overdrive . Randolph Scott is the gold commissioner / conman Alex McNamara and it's the only time he ever played a thoroughgoing villain on the screen and he carries it off , but I prefer my Randolph Scott to be tough and heroic . You need someone like Scott around because even though John Wayne's the good guy , he's just a little too sure of himself where Dietrich is concerned . Even though her heart's with the Duke , Marlene probably liked having Scott around . Lots of slam bang action here , topped off by what some consider the most brutal movie fight in screen history . Its close rival in Pittsburgh also featured Wayne and Scott and this one is longer , but not as brutal as in Pittsburgh . Nice cast of good supporting character actors and pay particular attention to Scott's companions in thievery , Samuel S . Hinds and Charles Halton . With Randy Scott and the Duke and la Dietrich , how can you go wrong .
Georgian Cad	Done a year before Tyrone Power went to war in those lovely South Sea Islands depicted here , Son of Fury is the film adaption of a best selling novel of that period , Benjamin Blake . I think Darryl Zanuck decided that Son of Fury had more of a box office ring to it . Our protagonist is the disinherited scion of a landed gentry family . We meet Benjamin Blake as a child played by Roddy McDowall . No proof of the marriage of his parents can be found and his uncle George Sanders has taken over the family estate and made McDowall his ward , binding him legally to him in essential slavery . He puts him to work in the stable . As McDowall grows up to be Tyrone Power , he gets a thing for Sanders's daughter Frances Farmer and she him . To be perfectly fair , we are treading into incestuous territory here and even a cad like Sanders has some reason for concern . It is the one real weakness of the plot . I wonder how this slipped by The Code . Of course Power decides he's had enough and goes off to the South Seas where he gets involved with native princess Gene Tierney . In fact Son of Fury is distinguished because of Power's involvement with two of the great screen beauties , Gene Tierney and Frances Farmer . Tierney is busy poaching on Dorothy Lamour's sarong territory and had this been a Paramount film , Lamour would have had Tierney's part . As for Farmer this was her last film before being confined to the mental hospital in a story that is now too well known . What a tragic waste of beauty and talent . In a sense this is a reunion picture of sorts . Tyrone Power's break out film was Lloyd's of London , also set in Georgian England and also having George Sanders playing a Georgian cad . In fact the word cad is virtually synonymous with George Sanders on the screen . Nobody could play the cad better , no one ever has since . Sanders is my favorite in Son of Fury , the man you pay your ticket for to boo . Seeing Son of Fury is to see Sanders at his finest .
Doris and Gordon dust off an old chestnut	No No Nanette , each stage and screen version , of it is one of those items that's going to have an eternal life on stage . This version of it , retitled with the best known number in the show is one of the best tellings of the story of a girl who has to keep saying no to all questions . Tea for Two will be sung as long as people have voices . Doris Day and Gordon MacRae sing a nice version of it here , but the primo version of this song is done by Bing Crosby and Connee Boswell for Decca Records . The whole ensemble performs quite nicely and settles into the roles that we've come to know and love them . Eve Arden as the wisecracking best friend , S . Z . Sakall as the confused old world uncle , Billy DeWolfe as the fussbudget conman producer just settle comfortably into their parts . If on Jeopardy the answer is the most frequent leading man for Doris Day , phrase the question Gordon MacRae . They did four films together and sang beautifully in all of them . Of course in this one Vincent Youmans gave them a great score , but Warner Brothers had a song catalog themselves and Gordon MacRae sings I Only Have Eyes for You and does it well . In fact in a lot of Doris Day's films , the Brothers Warner dusted off some of their old song hits . Gene Nelson appeared in a few Warner Brothers musicals . A very talented dancer , he should have come along when musicals were at their height . He'd be better known today . You can't go wrong with Tea for Two , the song or the film .
Scrooge Gets A Wake Up Call	As the celebration of Christmas has evolved through the years , whether one concentrates on the religious or the secular traditions , it is a time when people are supposed to behave a little better to each other . That has somehow slipped past one Ebenezer Scrooge , merchant and money lender in 19th century London . As his nephew points out to his uncle , he doesn't keep Christmas in any way because Scrooge feels the whole thing is humbug . The humanity in Scrooge was driven out long ago , he's a hard case , a whole lot like his 20th Century counterpart , Mr . Potter of Bedford Falls , New York . But as Charles Dickens told this tale , redemption is not too late for any of us and a lonely ghost and three spirits visit Scrooge and show him how . A Christmas Carol is such a timeless holiday classic that we sometimes forget that it is as much a social commentary of 19th century Great Britain as Oliver Twist was . The characters in this film are middle and lower class . The Cratchits are a couple of rungs above the street people in Oliver Twist , but they are having to struggle to stay up there . Still love and happiness radiate their home , no thanks to the guy Bob Cratchit works for . Like George Bailey who did a whole lot of good in his life and just had to be reminded how much , Ebenezer Scrooge needed a wake up call as to the potentiality he still had for doing some good in this old world . Patrick Stewart in his live performances and filmed play has pretty much taken over the part of Scrooge . But George C . Scott captures the old miser pretty well in this film . The meanness of him , but with a trace of sadness that makes us root for him to change . Scott joins a fine tradition of people like Reginald Owen and Alastair Sim who've both done great interpretations of Scrooge . Among the supporting roles I particularly enjoyed David Warner as Bob Cratchit and Edward Woodward as a hearty and stern spirit of Christmas present . According to IMDb this is one of 32 versions of A Christmas Carol made that they have archived and it is one of the best .
A Fabulous Trio , Bing , Carole , and Droopy	For those who've never seen Carole Lombard , but have heard about her genius for screwball comedy , go check out We're Not Dressing . Simple plot , Bing's a sailor on the Lombard yacht and he , Lombard , her uncle Leon Errol , her friend Ethel Merman and two princes / gigolos , Ray Milland and Jay Henry are shipwrecked after a drunken Leon Errol runs the yacht up on a reef . In order that they survive the sailor has to take charge and does . Oh , and also surviving is Lombard's pet bear , a creature named Droopy . Droopy comes pretty close to stealing the picture , especially after Leon Errol persuades Crosby to put roller-skates on him while they're still on the ship . He also has another trick , he won't hear any other song but Goodnight , Lovely Little Lady one of the songs written for this film by Mack Gordon and Harry Revel . Gordon and Revel's best known numbers from this are May I and Love Thy Neighbor which sold a few platters for Bing back in 1934 . Soon after writing a score for another Crosby picture Two For Tonight , they moved over to 20th Century Fox where they scored some of Alice Faye's films . Ray Milland in his autobiography Wide-eyed in Babylon recounts a tragic story during the filming of We're Not Dressing . The bear trainer gave specific instructions that any women whose time of the month it was were not to be on the set that day . One of them lied and the trainer was badly injured and later died of those injuries sustained at the paws of a super hormonally charged bear . He also said that Paramount signed him to a long term contract on the strength of that film . The six castaways were not quite alone on the island . Burns and Allen were there also with their brand of surreal comedy . Hollywood never knew quite what to do with them . God knows they were funny as all get out , but rarely were asked to carry a whole film . Ethel Merman was another problem . Like her famous Broadway rival Mary Martin , she never quite made it in Hollywood . Her biggest success was always on Broadway . During the 1930s she would support , Crosby , Eddie Cantor , and most memorably Ty Power and Alice Faye and Don Ameche in Alexander's Ragtime Band . Her number It's The Animal In Me was cut from the picture , although it's briefly sung at the end . Paramount saved it and put it intact into their Big Broadcast of 1936 the following year . At the time We're Not Dressing was shooting , Carole Lombard was romantically involved with Bing Crosby's singing rival crooner Russ Columbo . Columbo visited the set often and he and Crosby were friendly rivals and were known to do some impromptu singing during breaks . If only some sound man had left the microphone on . Columbo later died that year of a gunshot wound from an antique dueling pistol , a case that a lot of people felt was never satisfactorily solved . So with Crosby , Lombard , Burns and Allen , Ethel Merman , Leon Errol just the sound of that casts spells some wacky wonderful fun .
Women POWS	Claudette Colbert got one of her best late career roles in Three Came Home , the moving story of the experiences of Agnes Newton Keith and her time in a Japanese POW camp . Keith earned her status by dint of being married to a British colonial official in North Borneo who is played by Patric Knowles in the best stiff upper lip tradition . On the screen and in real life Keith was a novelist who faithfully recorded oriental life with some empathy in her books . That got her some favorable treatment from the Japanese , in the film in the form of an ally of sorts in a colonel played by Sessue Hayakawa . Hayakawa's performance is the highlight of the film . It may very well have been the first time post World War II that a Japanese character was given three dimensions . Of course the brutality of the Japanese prison camps is also shown in the best tradition of that other World War II film Sessue Hayakawa did , The Bridge On The River Kwai . 1950 was definitely the year for women in stir . A few weeks before this film came out , MGM released Caged which certainly has some of the same themes as Three Came Home . Of course the big difference is that over at MGM the women were criminals in a civilian setting . Three Came Home directed by Jean Negulesco who normally did lighter material than this , holds up very well for today's audience . Colbert , Knowles , and Hayakawa do some of their best screen work here and definitely try to catch this one when broadcast .
Good Old Uncle Charlie	I don't believe Shadow of a Doubt will rank as one of Alfred Hitchcock's best film . But second rank Hitchcock is better than most people's best efforts . Joseph Cotten has come for a visit to Santa Rosa , California to see his sister Patricia Collinge and her family . They welcome him as the prodigal brother . But his very perceptive niece named after him played by Teresa Wright suspects something is wrong with this picture . Uncle Charlie is suspected of being a serial killer with the monniker of The Merry Widow Killer . He strangles rich old widows and robs them . I guess it's a living , albeit one with risks . Those risks are getting to him and on some levels you see Cotten almost wants to be caught . In fact Teresa starts to suspect him over a trivial incident involving her dad's paper . Cotten goes to great lengths to hide a feature story about The Merry Widow Murders . When she goes to the library to see what was in the paper that he didn't want the family to see , this is when she starts figuring it out . Really all Cotten had to do is nothing . But he really did want it to end . I'm not sure any player ever had such an auspicious beginning in such top rated films as Teresa Wright . In the space of three years she appeared in The Little Foxes , Mrs . Miniver , Pride of the Yankees and now Shadow of a Doubt . She's a Nancy Drew if Nancy had ever discovered there was a criminal who was a close relative . Patricia Collinge essentially repeats her role from The Little Foxes . If she's not quite as daft as Miss Birdie , she's still kind of operating within her own world . Henry Travers does fine as her husband as does Hume Cronyn as his partner in their own make believe world of crime . Of course giving a big assist to Ms . Wright's suspicions is the presence of detectives MacDonald Carey and Wallace Ford . They are a team chasing Cotten as one of two men they think is the Merry Widow Killer . One thing with this film is that unlike Suspicion , Hitchcock stood firm and did not bow to pressure to exonerate Cotten like he did with Cary Grant in the previous film . Of course Cotten was fairly new to the cinema so he could be cast as a villain . And Hitchcock does what he does best , toy with the audiences emotions . Like Suspicion when a whole lot of things happen to Teresa Wright they can be explained away and there is that red herring of that other suspect across the continent . Of course the other part of Shadow of a Doubt is how the thing is resolved in regard to Cotten's family . The ending might be a bit too pat , but still it does tie up the loose ends in the best way for all concerned .
An Understanding Of Racism In Her Time	When Imitation Of Life came out in 1934 , Fannie Hurst was at the height of her literary reputation having had her two best works this one and Back Street , come out back to back as both novels and movies . Both stories are about a women's sacrifice . One day before World War I , Louise Beavers comes looking for domestic work and gets the wrong address and comes knocking on Claudette Colbert's door . Colbert is a recent widow with a child and Louise has a child the same age . Colbert can't afford any salary , but Louise is willing to work cheap , just for room and board for herself and her child . This starts an unusual partnership both personal and business because Claudette's late husband was a seller of a cooking syrup and Louise makes a melt in your mouth type of pancake . When passing stranger Ned Sparks tells her one day to package the flour , this makes both Colbert and Beavers millionaires overnight . Beavers can't see it however and passes up her own household to stay with Claudette . A lot of people today look at Beavers's character and say this is a racial stereotype that Hurst was perpetrating . Taking the racial component out of it , I've seen several people who are just like Beavers in their own way . Clark Gable had a father who could have lived quite well off his son , but couldn't deal with the Hollywood lifestyle and actually told his son they ought to resume their previous occupations as oil roughnecks . Stan Musial when he was making big money as a baseball star had a mother who took in washing back in the little steel mill town of Donora , Pennsylvania where he came from and not because he wasn't willing to provide . And I had an uncle who worked hard at Kodak and also built up a milk delivery business of his own and at an age where he could have just relaxed and taken it easy , he was out working at close to 80 at a tool and die plant . There are folks out there who shy away from the outward trappings of success like Beavers . And there are those stubbornly over-committed to a work ethic when they don't have to be . Both Colbert and Beavers are just moms with problem daughters on their hands . Daughter Rochelle Hudson is crushing out on Warren William who has his eyes on Colbert . But Beavers has bigger problems . Remember these girls were literally raised together with their mothers in business . Fredi Washington sees the white world , she's light skinned enough to pass , she wants what's over in that world . But her denial of heritage hurts Beavers more than my words can describe . But Hurst's words in the novel and the screenplay betray a rare understanding of racism during her time . Imitation of Life got three Oscar nominations including Best Picture . It's a dated film , but that fact alone makes it worth watching as a glimpse of the racial picture in America in the Thirties .
Cellmates and Soulmates	There is this story going around that Robert Mitchum refused the part Tony Curtis eventually played because he did not want to work with a black man . The actual story is that Mitchum who did spend time on a southern chain gang said there was no way that back in the day a black and white man would have been chained together in the first place . In fact Stanley Kramer must have taken the critique in stride because sheriff Theodore Bikel has a line of explanation saying the warden had a sense of humor . Though the film dates a bit , it's still quite dramatic even now . Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier chained together have an unplanned jail break while being transported . Curtis has all the attitudes typical of his time and Poitier doesn't take nothing off anybody . Still joined at the hip as they are , they do need each other and find eventually there's more that unites than divides them . Besides Theodore Bikel in a strange role for him as a laconic southern sheriff , look for good performances from Lon Chaney , Jr . who runs a turpentine work camp who saves Curtis and Poitier from a lynching and Cara Williams as a trampy white trash farm lady whose needs haven't been met for a while . Tony Curtis in an incredible act of generosity insisted on equal billing for Sidney Poitier since due to the nature of the film , they are on screen together for most of it . That act of generosity may have cost him an Oscar for both he and Poitier were nominated for Best Actor , but lost to David Niven for Separate Tables . An act that rankles Tony Curtis to this day because at the drop of a hat he will insist Niven got ' his ' Oscar . Despite the sour grapes , The Defiant Ones though dated is still a good bit of cinema .
Dizzy the Great	In a sport that prizes quirkiness and treasures it's characters , one of the greatest of them from the 1930s was pitcher Dizzy Dean . He was so colorful a personality he was probably elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame on the strength of that as opposed to his pitching statistics . After all part of the Dean story is that early end to his career . In the Pride of St . Louis Dan Dailey successfully captures the character of Dizzy Dean , at least the Dean I remember . I'm not old enough to remember him pitching , but I do remember him broadcasting Baseball Game of the Week during the 1960s . For that's part of the Dean story as well , being a pioneer broadcaster on radio and later television . Now that announcers are in the Hall of Fame , there's no question Dizzy belongs there . Jerome Herman Dean was one of a tribe of sharecropper's kids who had very little schooling , but an amazing talent for throwing a baseball at blinding speed . In fact he had a younger brother Paul Dean who was a pretty good pitcher himself . Richard Crenna plays Paul in this film and it's one of his earliest film roles . Paul Dean in real life was a quiet retiring sort who's career was also cut short by injuries . Because of that Crenna isn't given much to work with . During the Dean heyday , sportswriters tried to pin the nickname of Daffy on Paul , but it never took . Joanne Dru , taking a break from playing , western gals in gingham dresses and corsets is first rate as the wise , patient , and understanding Patricia Nash who met and married Dizzy while he was playing for Houston in the Texas League . In the 1937 All Star Game Dizzy started for the National League . Facing Cleveland's Earl Averill , Dean was hit on the foot by a line drive smack at him . Refusing to listen to medical advice , Dean came back to pitch too early . He'd broken a big toe and put too much of a strain on his arm . He was never the same pitcher and his refusal to accept that is part of the story . Had he had a career of say ten to fifteen years who knows what pitching statistics he might have rolled up . Dean was the next to last pitcher to win 30 games in 1934 and after Denny McLain ( who was something of a character himself ) did it 1968 it hasn't been done since . Dean went into broadcasting and while he was not the first former player to go into the broadcast booth , his colorful game descriptions made him an instant hit . He started broadcasting for the other St . Louis team , the Browns , and the Browns were a pretty miserable team with not much to cheer about . Dean became a star attraction there . Of course part of the Dean story is the trouble he got into because of his lack of education and his colorful way of expressing himself on the air . That's part of the story I won't go into , but in the film it's handled with tact and humility and your eyes might moisten if you tend to the sentimental . A fine baseball film , a real tribute to an American success story .
H . M . S . Bounty , A Troubled Ship	The latest retelling of this tale shifts a lot of the blame about the voyage over to Fletcher Christian and the fact that he and a lot of the crew had simply gone native . One of the great villainous portrayals on the screen is Charles Laughton's Captain Bligh from the stirring 1935 film . Laughton is pretty unforgettable with that jutting lower lip and that bellowing voice at the crew . Anthony Hopkins has given us a kinder , gentler view of Bligh which may be far closer to the facts . Bligh certainly was a stern taskmaster as a captain of a naval vessel . In fact he served with distinction in several naval battles during the Napoleonic wars . What he unfortunately had was a sarcastic tongue , something not really needed for what in fact was a peaceful voyage to obtain breadfruit plants . Scurvy which is caused by a Vitamin C deficiency ran rampant on the ocean going ships of the time , none more so than in British ships because they had the most of them . This was a pretty important voyage , to bring back Tahitian breadfruit to see if it could be cultivated in the climate of the United Kingdom . Maybe the mistake was in not sending a civilian ship to do the job , who knows . Anyway Bligh punished men who got out of line , no more so than what was normal . The problem arose when after months at sea , his crew got just too used to frolicking among the female population of Tahiti . That would also unfortunately include Bligh's second mate Fletcher Christian , played in this version by Mel Gibson . It wasn't Bligh's fault they lingered in Tahiti , the plants had to be mature enough to stand the voyage to Great Britain . Nevertheless the lack of discipline there , contrasted with what was expected of British seaman on a naval vessel , a return to that life was what led to the mutiny . Certainly Fletcher Christian by all accounts was a charismatic guy , he would have to have been to get the men to mutiny . He was portrayed by four charismatic actors , Errol Flynn , Clark Gable , Marlon Brando , and now Mel Gibson . Only his intervention prevented the men from killing Bligh and a few others . What I like most about this version is the fact that it does give due attention to Bligh's remarkable voyage in a long boat to Timor which was some 1500 miles from where he and the loyalists were cast adrift . It was a remarkable piece of seamanship , no mutinies during that voyage . The luckless Captain Bligh also had the misfortune to be the Governor of New South Wales , appointed by the Crown , and was overthrown there in a power struggle with the merchants of the colony . That didn't help his historical reputation a bit . Among the crew of the Bounty you will find Daniel Day-Lewis as John Fryer who Bligh replaced mid voyage with Fletcher Christian and Liam Neeson as one of the mutineers . Laurence Olivier plays Admiral Hood who led the court of inquiry that cleared Bligh of blame for the mutiny . Still Hopkins and Gibson dominate the film with their skills and talents . Who knows who might bring the saga of this troubled ship next to the screen . This story has fascinated us for generations .
They're Starved For Entertainment In That Town	A Big Hand For The Little Lady takes place in Laredo , Texas circa the turn of the last century . The film actually dates itself because a couple of current record cylinders are played , Ma Blushin ' Rosie and Hello My Baby both of which came out around 1900 . Anyway a big annual event in this town is when five of the big movers and shakers of the community get together for a big no holds barred poker game . The big five are Jason Robards , Jr . , Charles Bickford , Kevin McCarthy , Robert Middleton , and John Qualen . After the game gets going with the whole town just hanging on word of every hand , a very tired trio of pilgrims , Henry Fonda , Joanne Woodward , and their child Gerald Michenaud arrive in town . They are a sorry trio , especially Fonda who would be a candidate for Gamblers Anonymous if such a thing existed in 1900 . Fonda just asks if he could watch , kind of like Arthur O'Connell who hasn't got the price of favors at the bordello in There Was A Crooked Man , but the madam allows him a little fun at the keyhole for old time's sake . Kevin McCarthy is the one who takes pity on him and in fact this is the first but not the last time he shows gallantry as a true Southern gentleman . A Big Hand For The Little Lady is a film that's almost impossible to write about without giving away anything . I absolutely dare not go any further in talking about it . But what A Big Hand For The Little Lady is is that it is a really original idea for a western comedy that I defy anyone to watch without enjoying it . It's not got the rough house type humor that Burt Kennedy or John Ford do in their films , but there are laughs a plenty . This film turned out to be the farewell appearance on the big screen for Charles Bickford one of the best and most durable character actors the screen ever saw . He's kind of subdued in the film , my guess is that health problems were starting to overtake him . Still he fits the gruff part he has perfectly . It's a fine film with a surprise twist that beats all .
Every Little Movement	Presenting Lily Mars may have provided Judy Garland with one of the easier roles she had while at MGM because Lily Mars is definitely a character she could identify with . A young girl with talent enough for ten , she knows she has what it takes to make it in the theater no matter how much producer Van Heflin from her home town discourages her . I really liked Judy in this one as the girl determined to make it in the theater . Because it is Judy Garland with the talent of Judy Garland you in the audience know she has the right stuff even if it takes Van Heflin nearly the whole movie to be convinced . Both Judy and Heflin hail from the same small town , Heflin's dad was the town doctor who delivered her and Heflin while he may have moved away and become a big producer on Broadway , their respective moms , Fay Bainter and Spring Byington have kept in touch . That's her entrée , but Heflin's constantly barraged with stagestruck kids , but never anyone quite like Lily Mars . No real big song hits came out of Presenting Lily Mars for Garland , though she sings all her numbers . The best in the film is a revival of that gaslight era chestnut , Every Little Movement Has A Meaning All Its Own . Judy sings it with Connie Gilchrist playing the cleaning lady in a Broadway theater where Heflin's show is being produced . Gilchrist was a star back in the days of the FloraDora Girls and she and Judy deliver the song in grand style with Connie . It's the best scene in the film as Gilchrist encourages Judy to keep at it . Composer Karl Hoschna had died a long time ago , but lyricist Otto Harbach was still alive and I'm betting he liked what he heard . European musical star Marta Eggerth is in Presenting Lily Mars as the show's star who's at first bemused , then angry and finally , understanding of Garland and Heflin . She did a couple of films with MGM and then went back to Europe for more work on the continent . I'm betting MGM didn't quite know what to do with her and her thick Hungarian accent , though Louis B . Mayer never met a soprano he didn't like . Van Heflin does well as the patient producer who puts up with a lot from Garland and Eggerth . Heflin was just coming off his Oscar for Johnny Eager the previous year and he and Garland wouldn't appear to be an ideal screen team , but they're not bad together . Presenting Lily Mars is a fine showcase for the talents of Judy Garland . And she didn't have to share the screen in another backstage film with Mickey Rooney .
The Debut of the Buddy Film	Here Comes the Navy is a key film in the history of cinema . As it marks the first teaming of James Cagney and Pat O'Brien , that in itself is historic . For these two in my humble opinion are the inventors of the male buddy film . The only other rivals for that distinction are Edmund Lowe and Victor McLaglen when they did a series of films as Captain Flagg and Sergeant Quirt . Cagney and O'Brien were teamed for seven years by Warner Brothers in various parts . This also is James Cagney's first film in any of our Armed Services . He's the usual fresh mouthed Cagney who as a civilian runs afoul of CPO Pat O'Brien over a woman played by Dorothy Tree . Then Cagney joins the Navy and there's O'Brien waiting for him . And O'Brien has a sister , Gloria Stuart who Cagney falls for . But of course when Warner Brothers had the good idea of shooting this movie at the San Diego Naval Station , they had no idea that they would be shooting on what became a national shrine . In fact it's mentioned several times that both O'Brien and Cagney are assigned to the battleship , U . S . S . Arizona . Shortly after this film was made the Arizona and the rest of the Pacific Fleet moved to Honolulu and on December 7 , 1941 the Arizona became a part of history . A whole lot of the crew of the Arizona served as extras in Here Comes the Navy , so a lot of the faces you see are probably at the bottom of Pearl Harbor in the Arizona . Knowing that I find it incredible that Here Comes the Navy has never made it to VHS or DVD . Hopefully that will be rectified soon .
Turned Out To Be Lucky After All	Along similar lines to Suspicion , dapper Cary Grant plays a gambler confidence man with two problems that he solves in what he thinks is a masterstroke . The army is out to draft him so he has another crook with high blood pressure , Paul Stewart , pose as him at the draft physical . He also takes the name of a dead Greek sailor on a gambling boat that was raided . Of course when it turns out that the sailor had a lengthy criminal record including three felony convictions , that's not so good . On to a big score however . Grant offers his services to a war relief committee that is run by Park Avenue dowagers like Gladys Cooper and Florence Bates with the idea of doing a Las Vegas Night and stealing the take . Of course when pretty Laraine Day who's also involved in the committee comes on the scene , Grant reassesses himself . Especially after he gets a letter for the dead Greek sailor and has Greek Orthodox priest Vladimir Sokoloff translate it . MGM did a similar story about a draft dodger in For Me and My Gal which was Gene Kelly's debut film . That one was a good deal lighter than Mr . Lucky yet the plot line about being redeemed by the love of a good woman is the same . Mr . Lucky was one of RKO's biggest hits that year and it's clear that they knew what they were doing by not letting Cary Grant remain a heel . Try as he may , Grant had a lot of difficulty in getting studios to see him as anything other than the good guy . Eventually he surrendered to studio wishes , whatever studio it was . Besides those mentioned , Mr . Lucky also has good performances by Charles Bickford as the boat captain and amateur surgeon who saves Grant's life and by Alan Carney as Grant's driver and man Friday . It's definitely worth a look when next on TCM .
The Fabled Baron	You've got to hand it to that Josef Goebbels . When the little club footed maniac wasn't busy trying to get into the pants of every starlet of the German cinema , his UFA Studios could turn out some good work . Such is the case of the lavish spectacle Munchhausen . The color cinematography and special effects definitely equal the quality of anything Hollywood could do . The Munchhausen Stories in German culture are akin to Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels . The author Rudolf Erich Raspe was trying for Swift like satire of the political events of his time . In time though they became beloved for their face value alone . In fact the protagonist became a synonym , Munchhausen's syndrome is a diagnosis for one who tells exaggerated stories or outright lies the better to ingratiate themselves with another individual or a group . In fact at the same time that German romantic cinema star Hans Albers was doing Munchhausen over in Germany , a different kind of Munchhausen was popular in America . Jack Pearl , a former vaudevillian , had a radio series based on the Munchhausen character and his famous line to those who questioned the authenticity of his stories was " Vas you dere Charlie " . Quite popular back in the day . The story of the fabled Munchhausen is told in flashback during a party in modern Germany by the current Baron Munchhausen . By the way , another reviewer said that it would be Germany in the Thirties before World War II started . Not necessarily because the Nazi regime was notorious for not asking the kind of sacrifices demanded of its civil population until late in the war . Such a lavish type party was definitely in keeping with the regime's culture of the time . Though Goebbels kept it light as he did most of UFA's product except those that were outright propaganda , they did get their shots in . During the part of the film concerning Munchhausen's visit to Imperial Russia , the German background of Catherine the Great played by a fetching Brigitte Horney is emphasized . Catherine was a name she took when she married the Czar , she was in fact Sophia of Anhalt-Zerbst . Also there is a scene when Pugachev , the peasant leader of a revolt in Siberia , is brought in caged like an animal and looking like something from Dr . Moreau's laboratory . Pugachev was later played by Van Heflin in the film Tempest in the next decade . The caricature was definitely in keeping with the Nazi ideas to depict Slavic people as some kind of subhumans , almost as bad as Jews . Throughout the film as Munchhausen travels from St . Petersburg , to Istanbul , to Venice and even the moon , Albers's faithful sidekick is Herman Speelmans who is like Sancho Panza or even Gabby Hayes if you will . Speelmans does a fine job and dies on the moon in a beautifully played scene . As the propaganda is kept to a minimum , Munchhausen has survived to be appreciated on its own merits which are considerable .
Life On the Rodeo Circuit	One of Robert Mitchum's best films from his days at RKO is The Lusty Men about the rodeo circuit . Mitchum plays Jeff McCloud a burned out rodeo rider who spots some potential star talent in Wes Merritt . He also spots Merritt's wife and the Merritts are played by Arthur Kennedy and Susan Hayward . Mitchum's been thrown by one too many bulls and horses and he's a burned out man . Still the allure of the circuit holds him in sway . He mentors Kennedy until they come to a parting of the ways and not just over Susan Hayward . The part is a perfect fit for Mitchum , his own footloose past made him understand the character of Jeff McCloud and bring it to life . This was the first of two films Mitchum did with Susan Hayward . She's clearly in support of him and she knows it . Her big moment on screen is dispatching a rodeo groupie at a party who had designs on Arthur Kennedy . Her footage had to be shot first , according to Lee Server's biography of Mitchum , as Hayward had a commitment in Africa to shoot The Snows of Kilimanjaro . Among the supporting cast Arthur Hunnicutt , one of the biggest scene stealers around , is very good as another burned out rodeo rider . Mitchum looks at him and sees that is his future . In fact in the end , so does Kennedy . The Lusty Men is a fine depiction of rodeo life , ranking up there with the later Junior Bonner and 8 Seconds . Good entertainment all around .
The Great Gold Heist of 1855	With Mission Impossible like precision , Sean Connery , Lesley Anne Down , and Donald Sutherland pull off The First Great Train Robbery , years before Jesse James did it in the American West . Of course holding up a train with a dozen masked bandit confederates doesn't equal the near precision complexity that it took to steal gold bullion off a train by three men in stealth . Connery is the mastermind of the scheme and he plays Edward Pierce with the usual charm we've come to associate with Connery . It was interesting how Connery gets the idea for the heist in your typical Englishman's club with at least one of the responsible parties for the gold in that very room . The other club members know him as a retired industrialist who seems rather well fixed and comfortable . If they only knew the real source of his comfort . Lesley Anne Down may have given her career performance here as Connery's girl friend . Their scenes fairly crackle with witty repartee and sexual innuendo . Down is certainly not above using her sex to help in the robbery . In fact the first part of the plan which took about a year in preparation was to get duplicates of four keys that unlock the safe on the train where the bullion is transported . She compromises one of the key custodians in a Victorian bordello which is the film's humor highlight . Donald Sutherland is the safecracker friend of Connery's enlisted for the caper . He gets the dirtiest details of the caper . In fact the authorities get wind of some kind of plan in the works and Connery has to make some last minute adjustments to his plan . The adjustments call for Sutherland to get into the car in a coffin with a dead cat for odorous effect . What some won't do for money . Sutherland handles the whole thing quite well . Connery has the dangerous part of the caper which calls for him to go from front to back on a moving train . Those sequences according to the Films of Sean Connery were shot in Ireland which better represented the look of rural 1855 England . I was stunned to learn that Connery himself did the stunts . Sean admitted himself that it was the most dangerous business he ever undertook for any film . What some will do for the sake of art . The First Great Train Robbery is a stylish caper film set in Victorian Great Britain and the film really captures the look and manner of the period . One of Sean Connery's best films , definitely worth a look .
Beautiful Music , Dangerous Rhythm	The Gay Divorcée is the answer to the trivia question of which of Fred Astaire's and Ginger Rogers's is one that Fred Astaire had previously done on Broadway . When Astaire did it on Broadway , the Cole Porter musical had been entitled The Gay Divorce . But that extra ' e ' was added on lest anyone get the idea that divorce itself was something frivolous . Imagine anticipating Britney Spears by about 70 years . Actually Fred had also done Funny Face and The Bandwagon on stage as well . But on stage The Bandwagon was a revue and Funny Face had an entirely different plot than the musical made by Astaire in the Fifties . Only in The Gay Divorcée was he asked to repeat a stage role . The basic plot is still the same , the usual Astaire-Rogers case of mistaken identity . Ginger is the budding divorcée going to London to get a divorce as Aunt Alice Brady hired a professional co-respondent . Ginger mistakes Fred for that co-respondent and it takes a while for Fred to warm her up . Fred's an American musical comedy star visiting London with his manager Edward Everett Horton who also happens to know Brady . This gives the excuse for the musical numbers . Cole Porter's score was cut completely from the screen other than the immortal Night and Day . In it's place came four songs , three written by Harry Revel & Mack Gordon and one written by Con Conrad & Herb Magdison . Fred and Ginger dance divinely to Night and Day . Fred does a solo dance to A Needle in a Haystack and Don't Let It Bother You . Betty Grable got her first notice from the movie going public , singing and dancing in Let's Knock Knees all of which were contributed by Revel & Gordon . But it was The Continental number by Con Conrad and Herbert Magdison that got the first Academy Award ever given out for Best Original Song in a motion picture . It's what The Gay Divorcée is remembered for today . It's a rather long , between ten and fifteen minutes of screen time , but as magical as everThe Gay Divorce ran for 248 performances on Broadway during the 1932 - 1933 season . Sacrificed for romance are Porter's witty lyrics in the rest of the score containing their usual commentary on the social scene . Of all the American musical giants of the era , I would say that Cole Porter wins hands down as the man that Hollywood butchered the most in bringing his work to the screen . Even before The Code was in place , it seemed that the powers that be deemed that his work was way too sophisticated and naughty to be seen and heard as is . Still with the film being frothy romance instead of social commentary , The Gay Divorcée is still great entertainment . Also repeating their roles from Broadway are supercilious waiter Eric Blore and the real co-respondent Tonetti who prefers spaghetti , Erik Rhodes . Wit for romance , you decide if it was a fair exchange .
Nine Years Later	It turned that 2001 : A Space Odyssey was nowhere near the real 2001 when it finally rolled around . It is devilishly hard to predict the future , it's not the first or the last science fiction film to get it wrong . So with only one year remaining until 2010 , the story of 2010 bares no resemblance in any way to the future described except in global tensions and those are of a different nature . Nine years before Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood went into space with a spaceship operated by a computer with issues named HAL to investigate reported signs of life on one of Jupiter's moons . They never returned and their empty ship still orbits Jupiter . The USA gets word that the USSR is sending a team to investigate the ship which is in orbital decay . They want American participation , but at the same time there is a growing war threat over in Central America where the Russians have a new surrogate government in Honduras . The president's science adviser James McEachin persuades the man who sent Dullea and Lockwood to head the American team . Roy Scheider picks as his guys , John Lithgow and Bob Balaban . Balaban is the guy who invented and programmed HAL the computer which went haywire the first time . The Russian team is headed by Helen Mirren before she played the Queen and before she was Inspector Jane Tennyson . They're all scientists , but her team and Scheider's are citizens of their respective countries . But being out in space forces a cooperation that the governments on earth can't seem to grasp . The film comes up with a lot of answers for the questions that 2001 left including the reason for HAL's problems in the other film . HAL also gives this new group some reason for concern in this film . 2010 is more Arthur Clarke than 2001 one was which was Stanley Kubrick's own version of what Clarke wrote in the book the first film was based on . Here director Peter Hyams lets Clarke's more straightforward screenplay speak for itself . The end is a spiritual one , something truly wonderful does happen . It's even somewhat biblically prophesied if you think of a play on the words ' son ' and ' sun ' . And that's as far as I go in describing the climax . 2001 had the actors dwarfed by the spectacle . Here the actors have more to do and they uniformly do it well . Roy Scheider's character seems to be a harbinger for his character on Seaquest DSV . I'm not a big fan of films where the story is sacrificed so I like the Stanley Kubrick film , but not to the degree others do . This film while operating in the parameters set by Kubrick has an identity all its own . It might not be something wonderful , but it is something to think about .
The Collie Franchise Started Here	I'm sure that when MGM was filming Lassie Come Home they were not aware they would be setting up the foundation of a collie franchise . The film obviously was meant to be a B picture filler as none of MGM's big box office names were used . But the story of the loyal collie dog who traveled over 1000 miles from Scotland to Yorkshire to return to his young master struck a nostalgic chord in the English speaking world . What MGM did do for this film was use location footage , most likely in California and film it in Technicolor . Doing that made the film a classic and wanted by today's market which disdains black and white . Two young future stars Roddy McDowall and Elizabeth Taylor are in this as children and they are an appealing pair . For the rest of the cast MGM made liberal use of the English colony in Hollywood with Elsa Lanchester , Donald Crisp , Nigel Bruce , Edmund Gwenn , Alan Napier , Arthur Shields , and Dame May Witty and her husband Ben Webster . In fact if you take away the two child stars , this film may just have the oldest average age of any film cast around . Elizabeth Taylor and Roddy McDowall formed a lifetime friendship from this film . She also became very attached to Donald Crisp who became a father figure for her until his death in 1974 . Crisp and McDowall are reunited as father and son as they were in How Green Was My Valley . The plot is a simple one . Because he's out of work and needs the money for food on the table , Donald Crisp sells the pure bred collie to Lord Nigel Bruce who takes him from Yorkshire to Scotland . But Lassie ain't having this and escapes and makes the journey to what she considers home . The story is about her adventures on the way . After over 60 years Lassie is still appealing to children of all ages everywhere .
Four Parts Chase , One Part Mack	Charley Chase got to do a real bit of acting in Four Parts when he plays the part of four brothers , all sons of Florence Roberts and all in different walks of life . That mere fact causes some major upset to poor Betty Mack who first runs into one of the Charleys and hits it off with him after they both fight over a street penny that was later claimed by Stymie Beard . Remember this was the Depression and pennies could and did actually buy things back then . You accumulate enough of them , they still do . Anyway after that she starts seeing Charley Chases wherever she goes and I have to say that in this Hal Roach feature , her reactions to dealing with the Quadruplet Chases are as funny as Charley in his many guises . He's a dentist , a street car conductor , a taxi driver and a policeman . A poor man's Alec Guinness . Anyway it's a pretty funny short maybe one of the best that came from the Roach studio that didn't star Stan and Ollie .
More Kafka Than Hitchcock	The problem that most people have with The Wrong Man is that it's not the Alfred Hitchcock we've come to expect . No unflappable hero like Cary Grant , no cool blonds to accompany the hero like Madeleine Carroll , or Grace Kelly , no McGuffin as Hitchcock always describes the object everyone is after in his films . The object our protagonist , in this case Henry Fonda , is after is to clear his good name . And The Wrong Man is based on the true story of Christopher Emmanuel Balestrero who apart from working odd hours due to his job is your average normal family man . Fonda is a bass fiddle player in the orchestra at the famous swanky Stork Club in Manhattan . Fonda's Kafkaesque nightmare starts when wife Vera Miles needs some ready cash so he goes to borrow on his insurance policy . His dumb luck to walk into the insurance office and look like a man who had held the place up before . Fonda's even wearing the same type clothes . The insurance company calls the police and Detective Harold J . Stone is assigned . Remember this was the days before Miranda warnings were mandatory , otherwise had Fonda called a lawyer right then and there , he might not have gotten in this mess . Stone convinces himself he's got the right man and Fonda is arrested . When the police think they are on the right track it's mighty hard to dissuade them . Back when I was a working person as an investigator for the NYS Crime Victims Board , I handled a couple of claims arising out of the break-in murder of a lesbian woman in Brooklyn in 1995 . The woman's partner was also injured by the same man who broke in . However the police were absolutely convinced that the partner herself had a hand in the killing . They told that to one and all who would listen including me in my official capacity . The partner's claim was held up as a result of this . As it turned out the police on a totally different case arrested a man who confessed to the break-in murder / robbery . Now the partner was never arrested as Henry Fonda was , but she was under suspicion by all because the police investigating went on a totally different track . The surviving partner eventually got all that was due her by my agency . So I'm here to tell you that these things can and do happen in real life and the case of Christopher Emmanuel Balestrero was no aberration . Actually though , as good as Fonda is in the part , the best work in the film is done by Vera Miles . She blamed herself and her mismanaging of the household finances as the reason for her husband's troubles . She suffers a complete mental breakdown as a result . Vera's performance was Oscar caliber stuff , it should have been considered by the Academy . Although it would seem a most odd choice for the role , British actor Anthony Quayle played Frank D . O'Connor , former State Senator , who defended Balestrero . O'Connor later worked the other side of the courtroom when he became District Attorney of Queens County , President of the New York City Council and Democratic candidate for Governor in 1966 against Nelson Rockefeller . O'Connor later went to the New York State Supreme Court where he was well respected . I'm sure O'Connor in real life was pleased with the way Anthony Quayle played him . Though a film like this would be more identified with someone like Jules Dassin , Alfred Hitchcock did a fine job . Pity the film was not better received because the movie going public expected certain things from a Hitchcock film .
German Kids Rumble	No Greater Glory is Frank Borzage's adaption of a biographical novel by Ferenc Molnar . It's set in the postwar depression that Germany had after World War I . As it opens we first see a veteran talking about the futility of war and then it cuts to a German school where the boys , there are no women in this film other than the lead character's mother , are being spoonfed the same militaristic propaganda that sent Lew Ayres and his friends off to the trenches . These kids learn well and Lord of the Flies like they split into communities , rival communities that we call gangs . The gang we first meet is the Paul Street Boys and their leader Jimmy Butler . Another group of slightly older kids are trying to push these kids out of the vacant lot that the Paul Street kids play in . This means war and these kids have developed their own rules about it . One kid , small and scrawny George Breakston wants so much to belong to the gang , but the others tease him and tell him he's too little . He spends the rest of the film trying to prove himself worthy . No Greater Glory is a really heartbreaking film about kids with misplaced values , the kind who would later become good recruiting fodder for the Nazis . Breakston's performance will elicit tears from the stone lions at the New York Public Library . Frankie Darro and Butler as the rival gang leaders do well by their roles . I'd love to know how Frank Borzage got Harry Cohn at Columbia Pictures to OK this project . It's a B film , no big stars involved at all , still it's not the most commercial of projects . Yet if you do see it , you will discover a classic .
Politics Didn't Get in the way	A Lady Takes A Chance is a pleasant easygoing comedy about a young working class woman who saves and splurges for a bus tour out west . Jean Arthur as the vacationer gets a whole lot more than she bargains for in the form of rodeo cowboy John Wayne . The Duke literally sweeps her off her feet after literally landing in her lap . Wayne gets introduced to Arthur when he gets tossed off a bucking bronco right into the front row section where she's seated . It's an interesting courtship because the Duke has a retinue of two others who are above her in his personal pecking order . Sidekick Charles Winninger and his horse Sammy . In fact Sammy almost breaks the two of them up . Arthur takes a horse blanket meant for him to keep herself warm during a cold prarie night while they're camped out . Wayne has to teach her a bit about western etiquette . A Lady Takes A Chance though it came out in 1943 had to be backdated to 1938 . There were severe restrictions on travel at that time , the movie going public simply would not have bought a story that was current . In a recent biography of Jean Arthur , Arthur was quoted as saying that she liked the movie and got along with John Wayne . She also says she wouldn't have had she known of his political views . Come to think of it , a whole bunch of Arthur's leading men , Gary Cooper , Joel McCrea , and James Stewart also didn't have views that would have meshed with hers . Charles Winninger in his one and only appearance with Wayne does well in the sidekick role . Phil Silvers has a small role as a most obnoxious tour guide . I can't imagine going cross country listening to Phil Silvers shtick for a couple of weeks straight . Jean , good thing you met up with Duke or you should have got your money back . But for the movie going public , A Lady Takes A Chance was well worth the price of admission .
Gary Winston Meet Sister Aimee	When Herbert C . Hoover became Secretary of Commerce in the Twenties radio was just getting established and he was instrumental in founding the Federal Communications Commission which is under the Department of Commerce auspices to regulate the new form of communication . Evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson also saw the new medium as a way to reach folks for Jesus . Although eventually she complied with the new FCC regulations when they tried to limit her to an assigned frequency at first she told Hoover to keep those ' minions of Satan ' away from her as she was doing the Lord's work . Now how the FCC or anyone else was going to control Tim Robbins as Gary Winston or anyone else when SYNAPSE got going was going to be a real chore . SYNAPSE is a program that will allow one to break into all television broadcasts all over the world . Trouble is that Robbins didn't invent it , in fact he had the guy murdered who did . That's not sitting well with Ryan Phillippe a brilliant computer programmer in his own right who works for Robbins , but is a good friend of the murdered man . As in the political film Bob Roberts , Robbins creates a really frightening character who will do anything to stay on top . I'm sure Bill Gates's attorneys checked the libel and slander laws very carefully after seeing Antitrust . But as frightening as Robbins is , more frightening is SYNAPSE itself especially if the technology is in the hands of one man . Think what it might mean if something like that was possessed by Al-Jazeera or Pat Robertson ? Antitrust is a thought provoking film and if it teaches you nothing else , be kind to the computer geeks you meet . For better or worse they are destined to rule the world .
The Great Profile As The Great Seducer	Although John Barrymore was 44 when he played the role of Tirso DeMolina's famous libertine , the soft focus photography enabled to look years younger and really do a convincing job as the most famous seducer in fiction . In fact Barrymore plays two roles , the dashing cavalier Don Juan and his stern father who was cuckolded by his wife and imparted some cynical views on women to his young son in a prologue . When the main action of the film gets going it takes place in Rome when the Borgias were running things . Cesare Borgia played by Warner Oland and his evil sister Lucretia who has Estelle Taylor , then Mrs . Jack Dempsey playing her part . They're quite a pair , cruel and sadistic , and they've got a cousin played by Montagu Love who rivals Don Juan in the seducing department . Barrymore is ostensibly in Rome as a student , but he's way too busy with his female conquests for any academics . He and Love have their eyes on the same woman , Mary Astor , who is royalty herself , related to the Orsinis who the Borgias have kicked out of power . That rivalry is what fuels the plot of this film . Director Alan Crosland was obviously influenced by Cecil B . DeMille in directing this film . The sumptuous sets and even more the scenes of debauchery could be found in many a DeMille spectacle . And we don't get DeMille's moralizing with the film either . As for Barrymore he plays the part with the dash and verve of Douglas Fairbanks who later got to play Don Juan , but as a much older man in Faribanks's final film during the sound era . Note the dueling sequence with Love . Warner Brothers for whom this film was produced used some of the same bits in their sound version of The Adventures Of Don Juan with Errol Flynn . There is also a nice bit by Willard Louis as Barrymore's lackey , Pedrillo . Sad that he would die the same year as this film came out . He was quite amusing in the role . Still it's Barrymore's show and quite a show it is . Don Juan is a good chance to see a young John Barrymore at the zenith of his acting talent .
The Worst Case Scenario	It was harrowingly close , but The China Syndrome received the worst kind of publicity when as it was going into theatrical release , the accident at Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant happened . I still remember the whole country's attention was glued onto hourly bulletins coming out of Harrisburg , Pennsylvania . And wouldn't you know it , a scientist in The China Syndrome describes the worst case scenario as rendering an area as large as the state of Pennsylvania uninhabitable . Less than a decade later in the Ukraine at Chernobyl , the Soviet Union in its last days dealt with such a crisis that didn't get righted in the nick of time . The China Syndrome once again became a relevant movie . The film is more about cutting corners for safety than it is about being anti-nuclear . Jack Lemmon is a man who lived with nuclear power all his life as the captain of an atomic power submarine . What angers him and sets him off to create the confrontation that climaxes the film is the stupidity and greed of the power company managers . Stupidity and greed though are commodities found every day . The problem with them is that there are places where it can be tolerated less in human society . Lemmon shares star billing with a couple of famous Hollywood offspring , Jane Fonda and Michael Douglas . Jane is a TV News reporter who is constantly being assigned to puff feature stories and just happens to be at a nuclear power plant when an accident occurs . The cover-up by her own station and her later meeting with Lemmon set off the chain of events depicted in The China Syndrome . Fonda's best scene I thought however was with Peter Donat a news executive with her station . Take a look at her facial expressions as Donat fluffs off the importance of the story and patronizingly tells her that her very beauty demands she stick to puff pieces . Fonda knows she's got something and sticks with it . Michael Douglas plays her iconoclastic cameraman , this was a typical part for him back in the day . In his TCM tribute to his father Kirk Douglas , Michael said he opted for roles showing sensitivity . Still I could have seen a young Kirk Douglas in this part . What to do about energy for industrial and post industrial nations , a vexing problem that will bedevil our government for a couple of generations to come . This film shows what can happen with a dependence on nuclear power . Our current problems geopolitically in the world stem in part from a dependence on fossil fuel , specifically oil . Everything we use brings consequence some unforeseen . The real hero of the film in my opinion is Wilford Brimley , Lemmon's colleague at the nuclear power plant . In the end Brimley really steps up to the plate . See The China Syndrome to know what I'm talking about .
Henry Van Cleave , You've Had A Wonderful Life	At the top of the list of Don Ameche's best films , in that first five , Heaven Can Wait is always listed . As a film with that inimitable Ernest Lubitsch touch , how could it miss ? The very dapper an elegant Mr . Henry Van Cleave has arrived at the entrance to the underworld where he feels given the risqué life he's led on earth , he feels he belongs . To convince the Prince of Darkness , Laird Cregar , that he should be his guest for eternity . And he tells him his life story to prove his case . We see Don Ameche at the various stages of his life during this film and the picture we get of him is a very decent man , but one who could not resist a pretty face or a pretty ankle , depending on which order he noticed them . Nevertheless he does meet the girl of his dreams , Gene Tierney , and while she kept him on the straight and narrow , it wasn't without a look here and there to the side . Some of Hollywood's favorite character actors show up in this film which is one of the reasons it's such a favorite . It's hard to pick from a cast that includes Signe Hasso , Spring Byington , Marjorie Main , Louis Calhern , Eugene Palette , Allyn Joslyn , and Charles Coburn any particular favorite . But I'd have to say my favorite is Laird Cregar . There has never been a more cultivated or civilized Satan on the screen before or since . Cregar's performance more than anything else is symbolic of the Lubitsch touch . Heaven Can Wait is an interesting commentary on our system of morals . Don Ameche's character is absolutely sure he's going to hell and if you listened to fundamentalist ministers he sure would be . Apparently for Laird Cregar's place though , if you spread some happiness in life you certainly don't qualify for admission . An interesting criteria , don't you think . Don Ameche is charming , Gene Tierney is beautiful , the script is witty and bright , the direction faultless . Can't do better than that .
Hello Alice , Hello	One of Alice Faye's last and best costume period pieces , this has a great score of pre-World War I numbers and terrific performances by the four leads . Alice covered this ground before , but she always covers like no one else can . When Darryl Zanuck signed John Payne , I have always maintained that he was looking for another Tyrone Power who could sing . In the series of pictures that Alice Faye and Betty Grable and June Haver did with Payne , Zanuck got what he wanted . Payne had a pleasant singing voice and the roles he played are similar to what Power played , the hero / heel in stuff like Rose of Washington Square , In Old Chicago , A Yank In the RAF , etc . Jack Oakie and June Haver are a couple of very adept comedians and also look for the performance that Lynn Bari gives as the society woman Payne marries to further his career . Also the one song Alice Faye introduced that won an Academy Award is in this picture , You'll Never Know . That was back when that category meant something . Catch it if you can .
SEAL Training Doesn't Cover This	One of the better comedies from the Walt Disney Studios in the past several years has been the Pacifier . If Arnold Schwarzenegger can manage kindergarten , than Vin Diesel can certainly babysit a whole family of a scientist who's been killed under mysterious circumstances . Tate Donovan was doing some top secret work for the government and whoever killed him didn't get what they want . That puts his family in danger . Vin Diesel's been sent to protect them . Of course getting into their lives wasn't included in the bargain . Mother Faith Ford has a handful with her kids who range from the teens down to the toddler . The handful is now dumped on Diesel . Diesel's tough guy screen image is nicely played against by the kids . Look for a very nice performance by Brad Garrett as a blowhard assistant principal who Diesel puts nicely in his place . For the conclusion , the film glides effortlessly back into the action genre we're more familiar with in Vin Diesel films . Nice film for the whole family and try to learn the Andy Panda dance .
How I Miss Frankie Laine	It seems as though back in the fifties every other western seemed to have Frankie Laine singing the theme song . The 1957 version of 3 : 10 to Yuma is one of my favorite westerns . Part of the reason is that theme which echoed through out the film . What I liked about 3 : 10 to Yuma is that the hero / protagonist is an ordinary man trying to support his wife and two sons through some very hard times . When a killer is caught and because he needs the money he agrees to help transport him to Yuma State Prison on the 3 : 10 train from Contention . A lot happens between the capture and the boarding of that fateful train . Russell Crowe and Christian Bale make admirable updated substitutes for Glenn Ford and Van Heflin . Though Ford's performance as the sly rogue of a gunman is good , the previous film was driven by what I always considered Van Heflin's greatest screen role . The original holdup was hardly the violent affair that this one was . Only one shot was fired and that was by Ford when the shotgun guard momentarily overpowered one of the gang . That's here too , but the holdup itself was taken from The War Wagon . One part was totally eliminated and that was the part of the town drunk , played by Henry Jones in the original version , who was the only other man to volunteer his services . Jones was killed in a gut wrenching scene then , but in fact my favorite scene from the original was when Heflin's wife Leora Dana pleads with him to let Ford go , he responds with a heartfelt speech about how he couldn't look himself in the face after the sacrifice the town drunk made . I've seen the 1957 version dozens of times and am never failed to be moved by that scene . In its place the part of the oldest son is built up and conversely the wife's part is cut down . Young Logan Lerman plays the older son who tags along after the group taking Crowe to Contention . Lerman is 14 and he and Bale have the usual father / son issues . Lerman feels his Dad to be a failure with things going so wrong against them . Bale and he bond during the shared experience and you know no matter what the outcome of things , he'll leave a good legacy for his children . The usual tension between Bale and Crowe is present as it was in the original when Ford kept trying to bribe Heflin . Added to this is a whole lot of violence , most of it started by Ben Foster who's part as the young punk outlaw in the original was played by Richard Jaeckel . Foster is one murderous thug in this film , only Crowe is able to keep him somewhat in line . The characterization is still there , the violence is expected in this day and age even though a lot of it is gratuitous . This version of 3 : 10 to Yuma is fine , but it can never take the place of the original in my affections . This review is dedicated to young Harve Stewart of Stephenville , Texas and one of the Professional Bull Riders best young stars . I saw an interview with him where he mentions this is a film he likes . I liked it too , but I would commend him to watch the original 3 : 10 To Yuma which is just one of the best western dramas ever made . It was out in 1957 and I was 10 years old at the time . I'm old enough to be Harve's grandfather and I'm sure back in the day 3 : 10 To Yuma was enjoyed by his real grandparents in the theater .
Jeanette's In No Mood For A Banker	When Jeanette MacDonald left Paramount and signed with her new studio of MGM it was her wish that she not do any more films with Maurice Chevalier . Though the three films she did for that studio with him were very successful , the two of them did not get along at all . She thought he was a rake , he thought she was frigid . So imagine her chagrin when she learned that her first MGM film , The Merry Widow which has some great songs for a soprano she would be co-starred once again with Chevalier . He wasn't exactly thrilled either , it was known he was hoping to do the film with Grace Moore . But they both went back to work for Ernst Lubitsch who had guided them in The Love Parade and One Hour With You . Lubitsch got the best out of them , especially Jeanette . There are some who say her work at Paramount with him is far superior to anything she would do at MGM , even with Nelson Eddy . Jeanette's the richest woman in the tiny kingdom of Marshovia , her taxes bankroll the kingdom . But she's bored there and cynical about all the men courting her for her money . The king and queen of Marshovia , George Barbier and Una Merkel , want to keep her Marshovian money in Marshovia so they send the most romantic guy they know , captain of the guard Maurice Chevalier as Count Danilo who cuts quite a romantic figure and romantic swath among the ladies . Of course he falls in love , but he's still got a roving eye and in his own way Maurice is as cynical as Jeanette . It will take some doing to get these two together . The Merry Widow had its American premiere on Broadway in 1907 and ran for 416 performances . The basic numbers of the score that Franz Lehar wrote are retained . My favorite is one of the best operetta numbers ever written for a soprano , Vilia . Jeanette sings it beautifully as she does the famous Merry Widow Waltz . And who could sing about the joys of courting Girls Girls Girls while hanging out at Maxim's than Maurice Chevalier ? Lubitsch does a grand job at getting some real comic moments out of Edward Everett Horton as the Marshovian Ambassador in Paris who together with Herman Bing . I do so love the scene where Bing is translating the diplomatic codes for Horton with the king's editorial comments . Chevalier and MacDonald never worked together again , but they certainly went out on a high note ( no pun intended ) with The Merry Widow .
Goosey Goosey Gander	Someone's given ancient history professor Gregory Peck a message with a Hittite inscription on it and all he gets out of it is that fabled nursery rhyme . Of course there's a good deal more to the message and that's what he and Sophia Loren are jetting all around London trying to solve . There's a lot of players involved here , Sophia as a Mideast general's daughter , Alan Badel as an Arab oil millionaire , Kieron Moore as a revolutionary . They're all after the meaning of that message , it could upset the balance of power in the Middle-east circa 1966 . In a role originally intended for Cary Grant before he announced that Walk Don't Run would be his final film , Gregory Peck ably fills the role of the debonair professor with a disarming quip for all occasions . My guess is that Cary Grant retired because he was getting on in years and he realized it himself in his last film where he's the old matchmaker not the leading man . Peck was ten years younger and cinematically speaking that showed . He and Sophia made a real good team together , too bad they didn't do more features . Stanley Donen directed it in the sophisticated style of his acclaimed Charade . I remember seeing this at a drive-in movie on a double bill with Tobruk . This was far better . And given the ever festering global sore in the Middle-East , Arabesque is actually rather timely .
The Garden Of Eden ? ? ? ? ?	The Lost Patrol is set in of all places , Iraq . It takes place during the First World War when this was a very peripheral theater of operations in that way . But as Boris Karloff puts it , this small patrol could be standing on the Garden of Eden . Well we know that God expelled all the inhabitants of that place . It's no garden , but a small oasis where a small cavalry patrol commanded by Sergeant Victor McLaglen stops to camp for the night . They are besieged by a band of hostile Arabs who both are at war with the British and want that water . Bit by bit they're picked off . Will relief get to them and how many will be left before it's over . It doesn't get more basic than that . The Lost Patrol is a short running film , but manages to pack in a lot of good characterization . The various military types are shown here , everyone from the hedonistic Reginald Denny , to the fanatically religious Boris Karloff , to the callow youth Douglas Walton , to the tough professional soldier Victor McLaglen in charge of them all . John Ford directed this film and in McLaglen used one of his favorite players , a year before getting an Oscar for that other Ford classic , The Informer . As typical in a Ford film , there are some beautiful shots of the vast Mesopotamian desert over which our own troops now fight with a lot better communications and weaponry than these guys had . The foe hasn't changed any though . The Lost Patrol is as elemental as it gets , sheer survival until relief comes . Once you're viewing it you'll want to know how it all turns out .
Doing It For The Boys Over There	During the World War II year every major studio contributed at least one all star extravaganza for the movie going public . Many times that portion of the movie going public that was in the Armed Services and over there got to see some of this stuff first . Universal Studio's entry into this field was Follow the Boys . The first twenty five minutes of the film consists of how screen team and married in real cinema life team George Raft and Vera Zorina got together . Raft plays one of the members of an old vaudeville show business family who after vaudeville dies , goes to Hollywood to continue his career . He meets up with Vera Zorina and they meet and fall in love and get married . Their joint careers are going good until Pearl Harbor . Here's the part of the plot I cannot understand . Raft tries to enlist and gets turned down because of a bad knee . He wants it kept quiet for reasons I absolutely can't figure out . A few Hollywood stars like Gary Cooper ( a broken hip that never mended properly ) and Ward Bond ( another broken hip and epilepsy ) were quite legitimate 4-Fs . Why this was so embarrassing for Raft didn't make sense to me . But what he does is start organizing shows under the USO auspices and at that point all the stars playing themselves came in . Another thing about Follow the Boys I don't understand is that several of Universal's biggest musical and comedy stars that were there at the time never appeared . I'm talking about folks like Abbott & Costello , Deanna Durbin , Allan Jones and Nelson Eddy . And they even got Jeanette MacDonald over from MGM as one of the guest stars . But it's still a good group that's here . Sophie Tucker , Dinah Shore , Donald O'Connor , Peggy Ryan and the incomparable W . C . Fields . This was Fields's farewell appearance and he does his famous pool room bit that he perfected in vaudeville long before he became the screen's number one misanthrope . Dinah Shore sang I'll Walk Alone , one of the World War II era's biggest song hits and Follow the Boys only nomination for an Academy Award . It lost that year to Swinging on a Star from Going My Way . Dinah's rendition will moisten the eyes I guarantee . She sold a few 78 platters back in the day off this . Orson Welles is in this one and in it he gets to show off in his number two avocation , prestidigitation . Mr . Welles performs a few feats of magic , something he did when he was not acting , writing , directing , etc . And he had the loveliest of assistants in Marlene Dietrich . Although George Raft was known for his gangster portrayals , back in the day before Hollywood he was a dancer . He showed that talent off in such films as Rumba and Bolero for Paramount in the Thirties and he was pretty good . He and Vera Zorina made a fine dance team and Raft himself does a nice soft shoe routine to Sweet Georgia Brown . Jeanette MacDonald got to reprise one of her early screen hits Beyond the Blue Horrizon and that was a treat indeed . Too bad no one thought to team her with Nelson Eddy or Allan Jones , but I see the fine hand of Louis B . Mayer here who probably didn't want them singing together for anyone else but Leo the Lion . I have a weakness for these all star extravaganzas so there's no way I ever give one a bad review . Despite a story line that defies belief , Follow the Boys should not be missed .
Youth In The Depression	The only studio in Hollywood that acknowledged that there was a Depression out there for the most part was Warner Brothers . It was only from this studio that Wild Boys Of The Road could have been made and done as well as it was . The story and the situation is what puts this film over . There are no stars in Wild Boys Of The Road although some of the players eventually got reputations as competent character actors . The most well known person in this film would have to be Ward Bond playing the part of the train brakeman who sees that one of the Wild Boys is actually a girl and rapes her . Bond in his early days did play thugs like these for the most part . The generation that proceeded me lived through the Great Depression . My uncles were in their teens at the time this film was made . In fact one of my uncles before he died told me how he left school and went to work on a farm in Brockport owned by the husband of my grandmother's cousin . He considered himself incredibly lucky to even get that kind of work even from family . Both of them could easily have been part of the gang of homeless youth . The film centers on three of them , Frankie Darro and Edwin Phillips , a pair of kids from small town USA in the west somewhere are both up against it . Darro's father is laid off and Phillips's has died , leaving both families right on the poverty line as they would be described today . Darro and Phillips take off for the east and along the way meet up with Dorothy Coonan who is in drag for her own protection , rightly so as she finds out later . The film concerns their adventures on the road , the railroad to be precise as they catch rides aboard freight trains with an eye out for the railroad police . Curiously enough one Hollywood star was living just this kind of life at this point . Robert Mitchum and his brother John would have been teens at this time and also left home to find any kind of work . His memories , should his widow Dorothy ever divulge them , could make the basis for another Wild Boys Of The Road . Note in the climax scene in the courtroom where Darro , Coonan , and Phillips are before Judge Robert Barrat who usually was a bad guy in films , but is a sympathetic judge here , the Blue Eagle symbolizing the National Recovery Administration . It was one of the first initiatives of the New Deal and its presence in the film is a symbol of hope for these kids . But later on a more substantial program directly aimed at these youths was passed right around the time Wild Boys Of The Road would have been in theaters . The Civilian Conservations Corps which took homeless kids off the streets and put them to work beautifying America's National Parks and a lot of other rural area would have been home to Darro , Phillips and the whole rest of the railroad freight hoppers . Back then liberal was not a dirty word and it was all right for government to care about the welfare of its citizens . The CCC was one of the best of the New Deal programs and it lasted all the way until World War II was declared . And it's to the CCC which provided real salvation for so many youths of the time like Darro , Phillips and the rest that this review is respectfully dedicated to .
Entering our English Lexicon	It is not often that a proper name or title enters the common use of any language , but maybe the highest possible praise Gaslight could receive is the fact that the title is now a verb . To gaslight someone now is to do little deliberate things and blame articles disappearing or misplaced on a person in an effort to make them think they are losing their minds . That is exactly what the suave sophisticated continental Charles Boyer is trying to do to his new bride Ingrid Bergman in the house that they live in . It was previously occupied by Bergman's aunt , a noted soprano who was murdered several years earlier . A good mad act is always guaranteed to draw Oscar attention and in this case it got Ingrid Bergman her first Academy Award . She is really something to watch as the poor woman really starts to believe she's losing her mind . Charles Boyer goes against type in this film . Usually the charming European of many nationalities besides his native French , Boyer starts out the film in a typical Boyer mold . But he gradually changes into a hardened stone cold killer . The audience ever so gradually realizes he didn't marry Bergman for love . Boyer was also nominated for a Best Actor Oscar , but no one was beating Bing Crosby that year in Going My Way . Joseph Cotten plays the stalwart Scotland Yard inspector and a very young Angela Lansbury has an early part in Gaslight as a tart cockney maid . George Cukor directs it all with a Hitchcock type flair that even the master of suspense would tip his hat to . In fact I'm surprised that Alfred Hitchcock didn't consider Gaslight as a film property for himself .
Redeemed By A Gun	Ten years before Burt Lancaster came out with the acclaimed Birdman of Alcatraz , Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer produced this neglected gem of a film starring a dark and brooding James Stewart as David Marshall Williams who invented the M-1 carbine rifle while in prison . Before writing this review I took a look at the wikipedia article on Marsh Williams and found that MGM had stuck pretty close to telling the real story about Williams . For the farmer the Great Depression began after the Armistice was signed and the food they produced was no longer needed to feed troops . Many like Marsh Williams turned to making moonshine , not just as a way of distilling spirits for personal use , but for economic survival . That fact cannot be emphasized enough in telling the Carbine Williams story . The federal men were seen as taking the bread out of the farmer's mouths in the North Carolina hills and other such places and the rural folk reacted accordingly . Williams was convicted of murdering a federal agent during a raid . He didn't get the death penalty because no one could tell who really fired the fatal shot , but as he was part of the group he shared responsibility . He got thirty years . Williams was a skilled machinist and after he got over the bitterness of his incarceration with the help of a friendly warden he worked out the design of the weapon that later became the M-1 carbine rifle used by our armed forces in World War II . James Stewart in developing his character as Marsh Williams borrowed a whole lot from some of the characters in his Anthony Mann westerns . This is not the ' aw shucks ' Jimmy we all identify him with , but a very bitter man , as bitter even as George Bailey when he thinks the world's deserted him in It's A Wonderful Life . Jean Hagen plays the Donna Reed like wife here who with a man incarcerated has a lot more troubles than Ms . Reed dealt with . The third major role is that of Wendell Corey's warden whose belief in Stewart is sustained . Carbine Williams tread earlier along the same lines that Birdman of Alcatraz did . And in depicting the moonshining community , Carbine Williams shows folks that could have been the ancestors of the family Robert Mitchum was part of in Thunder Road . It's a good story about a man who found his soul and his work in the oddest of places .
One Glorious Romp	Before Burt Lancaster got his first Academy Award nomination for From Here to Eternity , the film he would have been most identified with , what could have been his career role , would have been The Crimson Pirate . It's also the film that he probably got to use more of his background as a circus acrobat than in any other . Unlike some of the films of known movie pirates like Errol Flynn , Tyrone Power and Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , The Crimson Pirate is set in some pirate never never land in what we think is the 18th century by the style of dress , but we're not really sure . It could be the Caribbean , most likely it is . But I remarked to another reviewer that it looked a whole lot like the Mediterranean . And then I looked and saw that it had in fact been filmed on the island of Ischia in the Bay of Naples with interiors done in the United Kingdom . I've seen very few actors enjoy themselves as much as Lancaster does playing Captain Vallo . At the same time Lancaster was desperately looking for serious roles so that he would be taken seriously as a thespian . When this was finishing Lancaster was signing up with Columbia for From Here To Eternity . But I'm not sure that Lancaster would have done The Crimson Pirate had it not had a hidden message about tyranny and forbidding freedom of expression which he felt the House Un-American Activities Committee was doing . The original script for The Crimson Pirate was blacklisted writer Waldo Salt , Roland Kibbee did revisions and later got screen credit . Salt himself forbid screen credits as he didn't want Lancaster to run afoul of the blacklist . All this is told in a recent biography of Lancaster . None of the rightwing lugnuts got it however as The Crimson Pirate was buried under layers of comedy and outrageous overacting . Lancaster is in the title role and in some complicated machinations about playing both rebels on some unknown Caribbean ? island against some unknown European country authorities off against each other , he falls in love with rebel leader's daughter Eva Bartok . In the supporting cast the best parts are that of James Hayter as an eccentric inventor who's a century ahead of his time in some respects . His gadgets help save the day . The other really meaty supporting role is that for Torin Thatcher as the guy who inspires mutiny among the Crimson Pirate's crew for not hewing to pirate rules . Some people are fundamentalists that way . I can't fathom anyone not loving The Crimson Pirate .
This Land Here Is Anderson Land	If James Stewart had done Shenandoah twenty years earlier he would have had the role that Glenn Corbett has of the son challenging the Anderson family neutrality policy at the dinner table . The Anderson patriarch would have been played by Lionel Barrymore . Charley Anderson is a man raising a family with six sons and a daughter all on one family farm . He owns no slaves as did many in the South back in those Civil War days . Some of his sons want to get into the Civil War as a matter of regional pride . He doesn't think that's reason enough or a real good idea in any event . But when youngest son Philip Alford is taken by the Union soldiers because he was wearing a lost Confederate hat he found , Stewart sets out to get his son back . The journey is filled with the heartbreak and tragedy visited on a man who never wanted to get involved in a war he considered none of his business . There sure were easier places you could be neutral in the Civil WAr . In New England you had little danger of invasion and Florida saw no great land battles of the Civil War . But the Shenandoah Valley was one of the major theaters of war back in the day . Viewers of Shenandoah know that and when the film is over we know that the Anderson family and the rest of the people living there will have more to deal with . Shenandoah became a long running Broadway musical in the Seventies starring John Cullom . But I think more people identify with it as a James Stewart project . Saddest moment in the film , the deaths of Patrick Wayne and Katherine Ross . Very poignant indeed . Funniest moment is easily when Doug McClure is looking for the hand of Rosemary Forsyth from James Stewart . Funny , but also wise in terms of what makes a long term relationship possible . Shenandoah still holds up very well forty years later as grand family entertainment .
Witty And Bright	This first film version of the Rachel Crothers play finds Robert Montgomery as the irrepressible playboy who will do just about anything to win Myrna Loy back from the clutches of married publisher Frank Morgan . Even if that means bringing Morgan's wife Ann Harding into the picture . And When Ladies Meet , watch out . A later version was done by MGM but with more of an emphasis on the mistress than the wife . Joan Crawford had Myrna Loy's role and Ann Harding's part was done by Greer Garson . Robert Taylor played Montgomery's role and the difference between the two films is the quality of their performances . Taylor had developed a real gift for light comedy , but for Robert Montgomery this kind of part was what made his reputation . Frank Morgan was far better than Herbert Marshall because he played the role as the two timing rat he was . You watch Marshall's performance and you'd think he was the wronged party . As for Morgan , no one loved him more than I in the role of the inept bumbler he usually played , but parts like in When Ladies Meet and also in Hallelujah , I'm a Bum do show him to good advantage in other kinds of roles . It's hard to choose between Garson and Harding though . Both of them have the best part in the film and both make equally good use of it . Each are the best in their respective casts . Eliminated from the second version is a great deadpan performance by Sterling Holloway as the allergy prone golf caddy who destroys Montgomery's game as he's playing with Harding . The original play ran on Broadway for 191 performances in the 1932-1933 season and starred Walter Abel , Frieda Inescourt , Herbert Rawlinson and Selena Royle . Ironically all of these folks had substantial film careers , but could never be classified as any kind of box office . When Ladies Meet is witty and bright and a great example of the sophisticated type comedy that's just not being done any more .
Racing to beat life's deadline	Deadline - U . S . A . has Humphrey Bogart as the editor of a big city newspaper that is in the process of being sold to a Rupert Murdoch like chain that publishes scandal sheets . His paper is in the process at the same time of doing an expose of notorious racketeer Martin Gabel . And if that ain't enough for Bogey his wife Kim Hunter is splitting from him . It's the usual story , she can't stand having him married to her and the paper as well . Growing up in New York in the Fifties we had several newspapers , each vying for a smaller readership . I remember we had the Times , News , Post , Herald Tribune , World-Telegram & Sun , Journal-American , and the Daily Mirror . Some of those you can see are the products of consolidation , there were more in the past . After a printer's strike in the sixties most of them went out of business . The papers were competing for a shrinking share of readership . In the previous generation , radio competed with the print media and I grew up with that new phenomenon of television . Today we are seeing the effects of the Internet as the individual's primary source for news . The gangster part of the plot gets started with the discovery of the body of a Virginia Hill like moll , the former mistress of Martin Gabel . While some of the scandal sheets cover the sensational aspects of the murder of a glamor girl , Bogey's paper does some serious investigative reporting and uncovers a lot of evidence . Their work also has consequences including the maiming of young reporter Warren Stevens . In the meantime the heirs of the newspaper's original founder are looking to sell the paper . Opposing it is their mother , Ethel Barrymore and she has a fine part and is obviously the model for the widow publisher played by Nancy Marchand in Lou Grant . She has one classic scene with Humphrey Bogart where they commiserate over their mutual problems . Deadline - U . S . A . is a realistic look at the life of a big city paper in days gone by . It's a gritty piece of nostalgia , as timely in its day as The Front Page was in the Twenties . Cast members like Paul Stewart , Jim Backus , and Ed Begley look and feel right at home at their jobs . The film is recommended particularly for younger viewers who are glued to their computers and television to see how a newspaper functioned back in the day .
Playing Navy Politics	This was the second of two films that Burt Lancaster's Hecht-Hill-Lancaster company produced with a co-star from the earlier generation of film icons . Lancaster got the services of Gary Cooper for Verz Cruz and for Run Silent Run Deep , Clark Gable signed on for a hitch in as a submarine captain with a mission that isn't in the orders . Clark Gable has been desk bound for a year after losing his submarine in the Bungo Strait in Japanese waters . He hears of another submarine coming into Pearl Harbor with a wounded captain who will be on medical leave . So with a little back channel influence playing naval politics , Gable gets command of the U . S . S . Nerka . He inherits a resentful crew and an executive officer in Burt Lancaster who thinks he should have inherited the job . Gable's going back to the Bungo Stratis to nail the Japanese battleship that sank his former submarine and it's against orders . The conflict already existing between Gable and Lancaster and the one some in the crew would like to make is what gives the film its spark . Though this is a submarine film , you can see plot elements of Flying Leathernecks and The Caine Mutiny here . Brad Dexter is in the Fred MacMurray role . If Humphrey Bogart on the Caine had had at least one confidant on board he might not have cracked up . Gable's confidante on the Nerka is Jack Warden who is desk bound with him and transferred with him to the Nerka when Gable got command . Both Warden and Dexter are the best in a good supporting cast . By the way what Gable is drilling his men in doing is shooting with precise speed and accuracy into the bow of an oncoming enemy ship and then diving for cover in split seconds . Quite a maneuver . And quite a good film as well .
The Slapstick Spirit	Charles Laughton did a badly edited biographical film of Captain Kidd in 1945 although his performance as the cockney captain with aspirations to class is memorable . We don't often get a second crack at roles when they don't become mega-hits , but Laughton got it and made the most of it . Laughton got one here although he had to take on Abbott and Costello as co-stars . But I will say that the distinguished Mr . Laughton more than held his own with those two burlesque comics . Especially when you consider that his co-stars names were in the title of the film . Of course it was fans of A & C who went to see the film , but you get your audiences from where they come . Check Laughton's deadpan face when he's doing the old handcuff gag where Costello thinks he's got Captain Kidd cuffed behind his back and helpless . They did the same routine on their television show with Gordon Jones as Mike the Cop and the results are just as hilarious . Speaking of the television show , Hillary Brooke from the cast of their show is also on hand as Laughton's rival , Captain Bonnie . Fran Warren and Bill Shirley have a great pair of voices , too bad the songs that they got to sing in the film aren't worthy of them . Abbott and Costello were on a downward slide of their careers , but this film does hearken back to their early days at Universal when they were grinding out a whole bunch of comedy gems . But the thing that has always gotten me about this film is the way Charles Laughton just dove right in to the slapstick spirit of this movie . Costello was known for not getting along with several of his co-stars , many of them had less than kind things to say . But according to observers , Laughton got along just fine with the boys . You can tell by the side splitting results .
A Fast Draw Superbowl	Although The Quick and the Dead is primarily remembered among film fans starring Sharon Stone as a revenge seeking frontier woman , for me the film stands out because of Gene Hackman . As John Herod , outlaw kingpin and ruler of the outlaw town of Redemption , Hackman is one of the most evil people ever created in any film genre . Sharon Stone has excellent reasons for wanting this man dead , although the truth is the key to the whole film and I won't say . Suffice to say , she's learned the gunman's trade and more than holds her own with any of the male competitors . In westerns about outlaw towns the usual is for the outlaws to respect each other as they are all men on the dodge . That's not what you get in The Quick and the Dead . Hackman for his sadistic amusement decides to conduct a fast draw contest , a kind of fast draw Superbowl . He's even kidnapped a former member of his band , Russell Crowe , who has renounced violence and become a preacher . And his unacknowledged offspring Leonardo DiCaprio is in the contest as well . There is of course a big similarity to the Kirk Douglas / Johnny Cash western , A Gunfight . But in that it was just the two of them staging a contest for both pride and money . That's expanded on quite a bit in The Quick and the Dead . I thought Gene Hackman was brilliant in the Clint Eastwood classic , The Unforgiven . Brilliant and evil also . But Hackman's character of a town marshal in The Unforgiven is a boy scout next to the outlaw kingpin of The Quick and the Dead .
Our State Fair Is A Great State Fair	Overshadowed in this day and age by the two musical film versions that succeeded it , this version of State Fair provides a great showcase for the personality and talent of American institutions Will Rogers . Although I was surprised to see that in the billing , Fox's main female star at the time , Janet Gaynor , was billed above him . The power of what winning the first Best Actress Oscar can get you . It was probably only natural that the two would eventually be in a project together . Gaynor always played good girls , fresh from the farm like Melissa Frake , her best example of that is Esther Blodgett in A Star Is Born . As for Rogers , his patented brand of homespun humor had already established his legend . When I did a review of Junior Bonner , I said that the film was simply the story of a rodeo family's day at the Presscott Frontier Rodeo . State Fair is a simple film , without any pretensions ; the story of the Frake Family and its visit to the State Fair where all of them have an unforgettable time . I wouldn't believe it , but Will Rogers never had a better straight man than his prize hog Blue Boy who perks up and struts his stuff when an attractive sow comes to his attention . But he's far from the only one who finds romance . Janet Gaynor meets small city reporter Lew Ayres who says that even though the paper is a Republican one , don't blame him and the rest who have to work there to make a living . Republicans were not highly thought of in the wake of the Depression back in the day . Her wholesomeness attracts him . As for son Norman Foster he gets quite a lesson in love in a most explicit before the Code encounter with trapeze artist Sally Eilers . Surprising for a Will Rogers film in my humble opinion . Even Louise Dresser comes home a winner , taking first prize in just about everything she prepares due to Rogers spiking her cooking liberally with some schnapps . He knew the best way to the judge's heart . State Fair is a great piece of nostalgic Americana and a great showcase for that American institution named Will Rogers .
An Art Obsession	German Army Colonel Paul Scofield has come up with an idea that no doubt tickled the fancy of Herman Goering , Nazi Germany's most noted collector of art . As Von Rundstedt's army is retreating and Paris is about to be liberated , Scofield decides to liberate a whole collection of the finest of French painters . The works of Matisse , Gauguin , Renoir , Degas , Toulouse-Lautrec are taken from museums and loaded on a train bound for Germany . They will possibly be used as a trading tool for the Germans of whom many believe the war is lost . The manager of the train marshaling yard in Paris is Burt Lancaster and he's a Resistance fighter . Suzanne Flon a museum curator tells the Resistance about the train and can they stop it . It's containing a lot of the heritage of France . The Resistance takes on the job . The Train rapidly becomes a personal test of wills between Lancaster and Scofield . And they're pretty evenly matched as adversaries . Scofield represents the occupying army , Lancaster the people of France . The Train was based on a true incident in which the Nazis did try to steal a lot of valuable art work and the Resistance did delay them until the Allied Armed Forces got to Paris and beyond . You have to remember this was an American production , in fact one that Burt Lancaster's own production company made with John Frankenheimer directing . Had it been a French production , I could easily have seen Jean Gabin in Lancaster's role . Most of the rest of the cast was made up of German and French players . Jeanne Moreau has a nice part of an innkeeper who is not involved at all in the Resistance , but offers some timely aid to Lancaster when he needs first an alibi and a hideout in separate incidents . A favorite of mine is Michel Simon as the old train engineer who does his own little bit of resisting and pays with his own life for it . Lancaster is in the lead and it's his film , but for my money Paul Scofield is best in The Train . An idea with him becomes a positive obsession that he can't let go of even when it's blatantly apparent to all others things are kaput . Scofield is really one frightening human being . He actually got the idea because he really is an art connoisseur and knows what their value is both commercially and to the culture of France . As for Lancaster , he's not an educated man , he's a working stiff who worked his way up in the railroad trade to become a manager . He knows the value also of what he's being asked to save , but he seriously questions whether the human sacrifice is necessary . The Train has a lot of action , but even more it has suspense . You're wondering right up to the end whether the Germans will pull it off . The Train was shot on location in and around Paris and the scenes at the marshaling yards are quite authentic and photographed well . The Train is a good World War II movie and I even think the French would like this one also although they probably would and did complain that one of there own cinema stars didn't do this .
Surviving On His Wits	A whole lot of Marlon Brando's films have been unjustly neglected from the sixties and Morituri is one of them . It's a nice espionage yarn set on the high seas in a voyage from Japan to occupied Bordeaux in France . There's no other way to put it , Marlon Brando's character is a draft dodger who if he had done so in The Young Lions he'd have been much better off . But he's got certain engineering skills that British Intelligence learns about and they essentially blackmail him into a mission for them . The British Intelligence officer is Trevor Howard and quite frankly I'm surprised the two of them are sharing the screen again . They had pointedly not gotten along during the making of Mutiny on the Bounty . Maybe the dislike put some bite into the scenes where Howard persuades Brando to enlist in the Allied cause . The mission is to disable a German freighter leaving from Japan loaded with several tons of rubber ore . The allies don't want the ship sunk , they in fact want Brando to disable the various charges put around the ship that would enable Captain Yul Brynner to scuttle if need be . What I like about Morituri is that there are no heroics here . Brando's cover is that of an S . S . man traveling as a passenger on the ship . He's got no back up at all and he's got no James Bond like spy devices . His character has to survive on his wits alone and Brando proves very clever at out thinking foes that are not stupid . He's helped in this by a very good script . Brynner also has his problems . He's a patriotic German , not particularly in love with the Nazis . He has a son in the German Navy though . Brynner was drunk on his last voyage and may have been indiscreet due to alcoholic influence , a fact that Brando cleverly exploits in letting them think his real mission as a ' passenger ' is to keep an eye on Brynner . Both stars get their moments to shine in the film . Brando was able to use his star power to get a role for his best friend Wally Cox as the ship's morphine addicted doctor . Cox was trying in the sixties to branch out into serious parts and doing it successfully . Morituri is a good espionage tale with a very tight and literate script , brought to the screen by a pair of the best actors around .
When A Strong Man Shows Them The Way	Other than some bad language , I can't see why The Gridiron Gang rated a PG . It's a really nice inspirational story about a man with idea to slow down the rate of recidivism among juvenile offenders . Based on the true story of Sean Porter , Dwayne ' The Rock ' Johnson plays Porter a former college football star who thinks that if he can get some of the kids to organize as a football team in his ward of the Los Angeles Juvenile Detention Center it might keep them from going back to the gangs and returning to jail or winding up dead . The Rock , trading in on the name and image that professional wrestling gave him , maybe for the first time is playing a normal human being albeit a former sports star . No superhero heroics for once in this film , just a man with an idea who inspires a bunch of kids to not think of themselves as losers . Dwayne Johnson dominates the film just as he dominated the ring in his wrestling matches . He's got his own troubles as well , a mother who is dying well he's dealing with the problems of his juvenile charges . But he does persevere and he turns losers to winners . It's a nice film about what can be accomplished when you believe in yourself .
Red Retires The Side	Whistling in Brooklyn was the last of three films that Red Skelton did as Wally ' The Fox ' Benton , radio criminologist who keeps getting drawn into these real life mysteries via his reputation . Why he didn't just say that he was just an actor playing a role would have saved him a whole lot of trouble . Then again we wouldn't Skelton's Fox films , made at MGM , and they're pretty funny . Among other things he never quite gets around to is marrying gal pal Ann Rutherford . If another Fox film had been done I'm sure they'll have not done the deed yet again . There are some murders going on in Brooklyn , the last one being that of a police detective and after each one someone sends the Brooklyn Standard ( Eagle ) a note as to where the body is and signs it ' Constant Reader ' . At the same time Skelton and his lunkhead man Friday Rag Ragland whom he picked up from the last Fox movie Whistling in Dixie decide that he ought to give out with the publicity stunt that Skelton is really the Constant Reader . That sets up one long chase where Skelton , Ragland , Rutherford , and snoopy reporter Jean Rogers get to solve it all literally on the fly . Whistling in Brooklyn is a fast paced comedy that is nice and personal for me and for the aging fans of the former Brooklyn Dodgers . There is an extended sequence where Skelton has escaped from both cops and bad guys and has disguised himself as a member of the semi-pro team the Beavers who are playing an exhibition with the Dodgers and they all wear beards . There was a team called the House of David where the players were just like that , they all looked like Hassidic Jews . It was their gimmick and they were an attraction . MGM did some location work in Brooklyn and such Dodgers as manager Leo Durocher and players like Arky Vaughn , Joe Medwick , Mickey Owen , Billy Herman and Dolph Camilli played themselves . Skelton disguised himself as the Beavers pitcher and took his place on the mound against these guys and retired the side after hitting the first three batters . You've got to see how he does it . Later on when he's up pitcher Bobo Newsom administers some chin music to Skelton at the plate . Newsom was almost as natural born a performer as Durocher who with this film started hanging around with show business types the rest of his life . Newsom had some right-handed sidearm delivery as you'll see . Those shots of the Brooklyn Dodgers and Ebbets Field are definite treasures that any baseball fan must see . To tell the truth , the plot is kind of dopey , but the laughs are real enough . For Skelton and baseball fans , a must .
Another Meddlesome Priest	Remember Henry II's oblique wish about his former friend Thomas Becket which got carried out ? Christopher Plummer tried more explicit methods to get rid of his meddlesome priest all without success . Although Monsignor Hugh O'Flaherty , an Irish national attached to the Vatican staff , was providing aid to refugees of all kinds from the Nazis before , this film covers a period between September of 1943 and June 5 , 1944 when Mark Clark and the Fifth American Army liberated Rome . Gregory Peck plays the resourceful monsignor who's got a whole bag of tricks from the land of leprechauns to outwit the Nazis . He develops quite a network of people who house escaped prisoners . When Italy threw out Mussolini and switched sides in World War II , a whole lot of Allied prisoners were freed and roaming the countryside . You might remember the novel and film Von Ryan's Express which detailed that phenomenon . The word got out if you could make your way to the Vatican , Monsignor O'Flaherty could help . What I like about The Scarlet and the Black is the fact that Peck's chief antagonist Christopher Plummer is shown as a three dimensional character . We see him as the ruthless Nazi who dogs Peck and his operation every step of the way . We also see him as father and husband who's enjoying Christmas in Rome with his family and also acting like any other tourist taking the family to see the sights of the Eternal City . Peck and Plummer are a pair of well matched antagonists . Presiding over it all is John Gielgud as Pius XII . The criticisms I have of Pius occur before he reached the Papacy in 1939 . At the point in time that The Scarlet and Black is taking place , there was very little he or anyone else as Pope could have done . He feared , probably with good reason , an Avignon captivity situation for the Papacy if he appeared to be overtly pro-Ally . And of course the Soviet Union which was his big fear was an Ally . I would recommend watching this film about a good man who happened to be a priest who stepped up to the plate when no one would and fulfilled a great need . A whole lot of lives were saved because of him .
" And He Goes By The Name of King Creole "	By this time Elvis Presley was a big movie box office name due in no small measure to the astute management of Colonel Tom Parker . I have no doubt that the Colonel got him Michael Curtiz as a director and a top flight supporting cast consisting of Oscar winners like Dean Jagger as the King's father and Walter Matthau as the villain of the piece . And other such outstanding players as Carolyn Jones , Vic Morrow , Paul Stewart , and Dolores Hart . Presley steps into James Dean territory here , had he lived I'm sure Dean would have played the part of Danny Fisher in what would have been a non-musical story or one where Dean's singing would have been dubbed . Danny Fisher is just the kind of troubled youth searching for himself that Dean excelled with in East of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause . In fact in the relationship between Presley and Jagger you can see a lot of the dynamics of Dean's and Jim Backus in Rebel Without a Cause . Elvis has had to go to work because his father has been unable to hold down a job ever since the death of his wife . So's Elvis's sister , Jan Shepard , also had to work . He gets a break in Walter Matthau's club with an impromptu audition , but it's rival owner Paul Stewart who hires Elvis . That sets the stage for a lot of the action to come . For those who are used to seeing Walter Matthau as the lovable grouch starting from The Odd Couple it would surprise many to learn most of his early roles were bad guys . He's an exceptionally nasty bad guy in King Creole . The title song became one of Elvis's early best sellers and it is also the name of the club Matthau owns in the New Orleans French Quarter . Presley has some other good numbers in this film as well . Some other reviewers have mentioned that Elvis should have done more dramatic stuff like King Creole . Maybe he should have , who knows . But I think the point should be made is that first and foremost Elvis was a singing icon , not an acting one . As were the idols of former generations Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra . I don't think Elvis was willing to push himself as player in the same way they were . Neither Crosby or Sinatra also had a manager with as tight a control over them creatively as Colonel Tom Parker . Both Crosby and Sinatra got Oscars , but it was for parts that they knew they could handle and went after , especially Sinatra . Maybe Elvis in the words of another icon , knew his limitations or the Colonel did . King Creole also was one of the first of Harold Robbins's novels to be made into a film . Yet it's never thought of as a Robbins film like The Carpetbaggers or The Betsy . It's an Elvis film , first and foremost . And that's good enough for fans of the King and others .
The Great Champagne Offensive	Kings Go Forth is one of , maybe the only , film about the Allied offensive in Southern France in late summer of 1944 . Several divisions who were fighting in Italy under Mark Clark were sent to invade France from the south . The action as compared to the larger shows movie east from Normandy and north up the Italian peninsula was light as the Germans were retreating to protect their own borders . It was called the champagne offensive because it was as you see it with Frank Sinatra and Tony Curtis , fighting one minute , and on a weekend pass the next . Frank Sinatra narrates the story with him as one of the protagonists . He's an army lieutenant and he's just gotten some replacements for his company , one of them being Tony Curtis . Curtis is a spoiled rich kid , a real smooth operator . But he turns out to be a good soldier and he and Sinatra become friends despite Sinatra being an officer and Curtis non-com . Then the two of them get interested in the same girl , Natalie Wood . She's an American expatriate living with her widowed mother , Leora Dana . Her father was a black man and they left the United States many years before to escape ruling prejudices . Ironic that they escape to France and then France gets occupied by the real prejudice merchants . The film is divided equally , half of it concerning the war and half of it dealing with the romantic triangle . For the second time in his career , the first being in Sweet Smell of Success , Tony Curtis plays a heel and does it well . Curtis was really coming into his own as a player and not just a pretty face . Kings Go Forth was filmed on the heels of his Oscar nominated performance in The Defiant Ones . Frank Sinatra gives one of his best screen performances in Kings Go Forth . None of the hipster slang , not the nebbish of his forties musicals , Sinatra plays a really good man trying to deal with his own inner conflicts about what he's been brought up to believe and the feelings he has for Wood . It's something different and Sinatra does it well . Natalie Wood was as beautiful as they come and Leora Dana as her mother who's seen too much of the world and is determined to protect her daughter has some of her best screen moments . Tony Curtis liked working with Natalie Wood very much in the films they made together , but he does mention in his autobiography it would have really been great if someone like Dorothy Dandridge had been cast in her role . It might have made Kings Go Forth better remembered today , as much as classic as Guess Who's Coming To Dinner . Elmer Bernstein did the film score and one of the themes was given a lyric by Sammy Cahn and became the song Monique after Natalie Wood's character . Frank Sinatra made a hit record of it though it is only heard instrumentally in the film . It's one of his loveliest ballads . Viewers should see the film before hearing Sinatra's record of it . The whole premise of the film is the plain Sinatra and the smooth Curtis competing for Wood . You hear old Blue Eyes sing Monique and you'll find it hard to believe why he didn't just sing that song . Why Natalie would have melted right away in his arms .
That Catherine Was Great and Popular	Although Marlene Dietrich was a far more glamorous Catherine the Great , closer to the real one was definitely Elizabeth Bergner in this British production from Alexander Korda . The former Princess Sophia of Anhalt-Zerbst , one of many small pieces of turf in Germany before that country became a country instead of a geographical expression , pulled off something unique in history . She came as a promised bride to the tsarevitch who in this case was Peter , nephew of the Empress Elizabeth of Russia . Through her own will and genius for intrigue , this Queen Consort , without a drop of royal blood of Russia in her , got to rule Russia and well for over 30 years after deposing her husband . Woman must have done something right . The film here like the one in Hollywood ends with the deposition and death of the Czar and Catherine taking over . We don't see the regal , confident , and promiscuous empress Catherine was to become . We see her as a shy and overwhelmed German Princess who grows in her role as her husband won't in his . Catherine grows in her character as Elizabeth Bergner does in this part . Sam Jaffe as Peter is far closer to the mark of the real character of that unfortunate soul than Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . is in this film . Yet Fairbanks gives an extraordinary performance , far from the swashbuckling parts that his father patented on the silent screen . In fact both the Fairbanks were in the UK at the same time . Fairbanks senior gave his farewell screen performance in the Private Life of Don Juan and his son did about seven films for four years of which this is probably his best effort . The pleasure loving Empress Elizabeth as done by Flora Robson is light years different from Queen Elizabeth in Fire Over England and The Sea Hawk that Robson did later , but still very nicely done . Alexander Korda perfectly captured the mood and feel of old Romanov Russia as taken over by a usurper , a popular one , but still a usurper .
Gary Cooper pinch hits	Man of the West is a fine gritty western with Gary Cooper stepping into the James Stewart parts in those 50s Anthony Mann westerns . Mann and Stewart during the 50s did eight films , five of them westerns . and some of the best westerns ever made . They were on the set of a sixth , Night Passage , when they quarreled and Mann walked out . I'm sure that both The Tin Star and Man of the West were properties that he originally developed with James Stewart in mind . But at least in this one Gary Cooper pinch hits admirably . The key here is incest . Gary Cooper is former outlaw Link Jones trying to live his past down . He's on the way with his town's savings for a schoolteacher . The train is held up by the Doc Tobin gang and while he eludes them in the holdup , he runs into them later on when he's left behind by the train . These aren't just former outlaw compatriots , they're his family . And what a family , the most frightening group of inbreds ever put on screen until Deliverance . From Lee J . Cobb on down , a lovely group of twisted psychos . Cooper is not just running from his past , but from his lineage . The rest of the gang is Robert J . Wilke , Royal Dano , Jack Lord , and John Dehner . Lee J . Cobb is Doc Tobin and though he's 10 years younger than Cooper , he plays his uncle . Along for the ride are fellow train passengers Julie London and Arthur O'Connell . It's an admirable cast . A real downer of a western , but a great classic .
No Worlds To Conquer	Rebellious youth has always been a good subject for movie makers and Look Back in Anger for the United Kingdom became what The Wild One and The Blackboard Jungle were on this side of the Atlantic . Though like Marlon Brando , Richard Burton should have been way too old to portray a rebellious youth , he certainly overcomes it with a bravura performance . Burton saw the play on the London stage and went to author John Osbourne and told him he wanted to do the screen version . For the screen version the producers had the good sense to hire Osbourne to write all the additional scenes needed for a film . The play as presented on stage takes place entirely within the apartment of married couple Richard Burton and Mary Ure . He's a lower class youth who's married well beyond his station . Class and station are quite a bit more rigid in Europe than they are here . He's got a dead end job with a peddler's license in an open air market . In generations gone by the character of Jimmy Porter would have been off for adventure in some faraway place with a strange sounding name that the United Kingdom had as a part of its empire & commonwealth . But the empire is no more and British society as a whole was adjusting to it in the post World War II years . So all Mr . Burton can do is play his raging trumpet and take out his frustrations on all around him . Mary Ure repeated her role from both the Drury Lane and Broadway productions and she and Burton are joined by a good ensemble with Claire Bloom , Edith Evans , Gary Raymond in the main feature parts . Also look for Donald Pleasance in an early role as an officious inspector at the market , the kind of bureaucrat you love to hate . Although the UK is still around minus the empire , Look Back In Anger is a fascinating look back to post World War II Great Britain .
Debut for legendary screen team	The Long Hot Summer is chiefly noted for the fact that Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward made their joint cinematic debut in this film . One of Hollywood's best personal and professional partnerships , Joanne had won a Best Actress Oscar for The Three Faces of Eve the year before and it took Paul thirty more years to match it for their mantelpiece in The Color of Money . Based on some William Faulkner short stories , The Long Hot Summer commences when Joanne Woodward and Lee Remick , daughter and daughter-in-law of local patriarch Orson Welles give drifter Paul Newman a lift into town . Woodward's a repressed school teacher and Welles despairs of her finding a suitable match . Because he started dirt poor and worked his way up to the top , Welles takes a liking to Newman and pushes , a little too hard for Newman and Woodward to team up . That's not sitting real well with Anthony Franciosa who is Welles's son and sees Newman displacing him in the family pecking order . In fact my favorite in the film is Franciosa , he usually is in any film he's in . When he's on the screen , you don't pay attention to anyone else , not even Orson Welles . Welles borrows a bit from Tennessee Williams's Big Daddy Pollitt from the Paul Newman film the year before , Cat On a Hot Tin Roof . His Will Varner though is a bit softer around the edges , also lends itself more easily to caricature . I think the creators of The Dukes of Hazzard used Welles in The Long Hot Summer as their model for Boss Hogg . In fact it's interesting to see the contrast in The Long Hot Summer and Cat On a Hot Tin Roof . It's obvious to me that William Faulkner liked the people of Mississippi a whole lot more than the southerners that are in Tennessee Williams's work . Almost fifty years later , The Long Hot Summer is still enjoyable viewing and still may be the best of Paul and Joanne's joint ventures .
An Unheard Of Comedy Gem	After Betty Hutton stole Happy Go Lucky right out from under leads Dick Powell and Mary Martin , Paramount decided to try the Martin and Powell combination again for one more time . They were cast in a very funny comedy picture , True to Life , but the demand for them as a team was underwhelming . Mary might even have at the time been contemplating an offer to go back to Broadway and do One Touch Of Venus and Powell was begging Paramount for the chance to do some really dramatic roles . But troopers that they were they did do this film which has a lot of laughs in it . Dick Powell and Franchot Tone play a pair of radio writers whose radio show has fallen in the Hooper ratings and network president Clarence Kolb tells them to get some fresh material . A chance meeting by Powell with waitress Mary Martin who mistakes him for being indigent and feels sorry for him . She takes him home and persuades the family to take him in as a boarder . What Powell's fallen into is a kind of poor version of the Vanderhof clan from You Can't Take It With You . The folks at Paramount leaned very heavily on the Kaufman & Hart classic for inspiration here . Powell's inspired as well realizing he's found a gold mine of fresh material here with parents Victor Moore and Mabel Paige and Mary's siblings Raymond Roe and Beverly Hudson . Also boarding with them is William Demarest , Paige's sickly brother . Some of the best lines in True To Life come from Paige who indulges Demarest not contributing anything to the household , but is on Powell's case constantly to get a job and earn a living . Of course Powell mining this treasure trough of comedy material and Tone actually doing the writing isn't pleasing to Tone . He contrives a meeting with this family and also enters their lives and as a suitor for Martin . Interestingly enough Franchot Tone who left his original home studio of MGM because he also was not getting the dramatic parts he wanted , was once again cast as a debonair man in a tuxedo because he looked so good in them . Later on in their careers I do wonder how Powell and Tone looked back on their various films and did they appreciate what a comedy gem True To Life is . I certainly hope so . A couple of guys who were just as good at presenting their own material as the stars they were whom they wrote for , Hoagy Carmichael and Johnny Mercer , wrote some songs for True To Life . The best of them is The Old Music Master which Powell sings in an effort to distract the family from the radio where their daily lives are being broadcast . Dick Powell had stopped recording his musical material , he had not renewed his contract from Decca a couple of years earlier . But Carmichael himself did a classic version of The Old Music MasterThe guy who rains on the parade is William Demarest . I really enjoyed his performance as the lazy good for nothing uncle who when all is revealed does something in the grand American tradition , he finds a lawyer and threatens suit , something about defamation of character and invasion of privacy . That particular part of this film is even more relevant today than in 1943 . True To Life was no doubt something that Mary Martin , Franchot Tone , and Dick Powell were all doing until the next stage of their careers commenced . Yet this film , directed by comedy master George Marshall is a real sleeper . It's terribly under-appreciated and very funny .
Class Distinctions in the Army	When You watch Thousands Cheer please note the plot similarities between it and the two John Ford cavalry classics Fort Apache and Rio Grande . Kathryn Grayson is an army brat whose army father John Boles and show business mother Mary Astor separated years ago as in Rio Grande . Kathryn like Shirley Temple has fallen for a man of the ranks , a recent draftee . Fortunately John Boles is a bit more understanding than Henry Fonda was . But folks , you don't watch films like Thousands Cheer for the story , thin as it is . You watch to see a whole lot of fabulous acts and a kind of film that can never be done again because we don't have all that talent under one studio roof . Gene Kelly the object of Grayson's affections was fairly new to films and is only give one dance number , an impromptu affair with a broom . With Eleanor Powell in the same film it would have been nice had they partnered in a number . But back then MGM wasn't thinking of posterity . Just like in Paramount's Star Spangled Rhythm , the hook is a show that is being put on at the camp John Boles is in charge of . Mickey Rooney serves as one lively master of ceremonies and does some wicked impersonations of fellow MGM players Lionel Barrymore and Clark Gable . My favorite though is Lena Horne singing Honeysuckle Rose . Best thing about a very entertaining film .
the spirit , but not the fact	John Ford certainly does capture the spirit of how James Michael Curley would like to have been remembered . It's how he wrote his memoirs and how Edwin O'Connor wrote that brilliant piece of fiction . Curley was a demagogue par excellence . He played ethnic politics to the hilt . He served one term as governor of Massachusetts and that term was noted for an outrageous scandal in which pardons were sold to prisoners who could cough up the money . And he was always the victim of those nasty Yankee patriarchs . Spencer Tracy does a great job in cleaning up the Curley image and the rest of the cast is fine . I would like to call attention to two actors who typified the cultural divide that James Michael Curley never attempted to bridge in his lifetime , unlike in this film . Willis Bouchey playing Roger Sugrue , disparagingly referred to as the Papal Knight , is this rabidly bigoted Roman Catholic who is forever finding fault with the rest of humanity and criticizing those of his fellow Catholics who are not as good as he . He nearly has a stroke after seeing a Monsignor played by Ken Curtis on TV playing golf with a rabbi . No wonder Donald Crisp playing the Cardinal refers to him as " that horrible man , Roger Sugrue . " And the other side of the coin is John Carradine playing Amos Force the descendant of old line Puritans who is as bigoted in his way as Roger Sugrue is in his . It's alluded to that back in the 1920s Carradine was in the Ku Klux Klan and you can believe it from Carradine's portrayal . Bouchey and Carradine are the two best in a cast that is saturated with John Ford favorites . As a lesson in respect for diversity , The Last Hurrah has a lot to say . History it's not though .
No Good Deed Goes Unpunished	Some of the best westerns of the Fifties and Sixties were directed by director John Sturges . Sturges's films combined that rare blend of action for the kiddies with adult problems and issues . Here the problem is a debt owed or at least that's what Marshal Jake Wade feels towards Clint Hollister . Before Jake broke with the Hollister , it seems that Hollister saved him from a hangman's noose back when he ran with Hollister's gang . Jake hears about Hollister being arrested and sentenced to be hanged so he rides a piece and breaks him from jail . That squares it as far as the Marshal is concerned , but the outlaw leader has other ideas . Seems Jake ran off with the proceeds from the last job . No good deed goes unpunished in this life . Hollister re-unites with his gang and they kidnap the Marshal and his fiancée and force him to lead them to the money . You have to watch the film for the rest of this . If you're any kind of a fan of westerns , I think you'll know how this turns out . Robert Taylor plays the upright Marshal Jake Wade who could have let the whole thing slide and let outlaw Richard Widmark hang , but he feels a debt . It's a good part for Taylor as he was winding down his contract at MGM . Unfortunately Taylor doesn't figure that Widmark owed him something for running off with the loot . The two leads play well off each other . Rounding out the cast is Patricia Owens who is your typical crinoline western woman and the rest of Widmark's gang which included DeForest Kelley , Robert Middleton , and Henry Silva among others . Nice Saturday afternoon fare for all fans of the American western , like me .
Broadway Goes To War	You'll never see films like Stage Door Canteen again . The all star support the troops film is a thing of the past . Try to make something like that today and see how many stars would be willing . This is an art form deader than the dinosaur . No reason it can't be enjoyed though . Skip the slight plot involving the servicemen who are patronizing the Stage Door Canteen who hook up with the hostesses there . Concentrate on the number of stars in the film , each doing some bit of business for themselves . Though a number of film stars are here , the film concentrates on stars of the Broadway stage . Katherine Cornell makes her one and only appearance in a film , in fact my favorite part of Stage Door Canteen is her impromptu reading from Romeo and Juliet with bashful GI Lon McCallister who played Romeo in high school . Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne are here also . The Lunts later did some televised plays and we have some kinescope version of them . They eschewed the screen though , so even a bit of footage of them doing kitchen police at the Canteen we should be grateful for . The concert violinist Yehuda Menuhin is also here and it's nice the GIs took time to hear some serious music , a break from the swing bands of the era that are featured like Count Basie , Freddy Martin , Benny Goodman , and Kay Kyser . Director Frank Borzage was known for doing films of tender romances and the nominal leads William Terry and Cheryl Walker were little heard from again . Still they do their best to provide the note of poignancy for the serviceman enjoying time with the stars before going to war . Funniest unintentional moment occurs when Franklin Pangborn and Johnny Weissmuller are on the serving line . Pangborn who was very close to being an out gay actor at the time is looking admiringly at Tarzan and engages in a little banter with Weissmuller . Tarzan decides things are too hot in the kitchen and removes his shirt . I thought Pangborn was going to faint on the spot . I'm a sucker for these all star extravaganzas , I'll never give a bad review to one of them . Stage Door Canteen provides a glimpse of a bygone era , not likely to return .
Exploiting A Symbol	Although Clint Eastwood's recent Flags of Our Fathers has told the real story about the flag raising at Iwo Jima , it hasn't diminished any of the impact that Sands of Iwo Jima has , either back when it was released or viewed today . In fact because the three surviving flag raisers , Joseph Bradley , Rene Gagnon , and Ira Hayes all were in this film it's even more proof of how the symbolic flag raising has become mythologized . Of course the real heroism was in capturing the island that was less than a 1000 miles from the main islands of Japan and the airfields on Iwo Jima that could be used by our bombers for land based flights . It took about a month to do that , the flag was raised on the fifth day . I read a history of the United States Marine Corps from it's formation during the American Revolution . Over the course of its history it was interesting to learn that the Marines many times were threatened with extinction , to be folded into either the army or navy right up to and including World War I . Right after World War I a very farsighted man named John A . Lejeune became the Marine Corps Commandant and he saw that we would be in a war in the Pacific with the Japanese as our foes . He also saw that the survival of the Marines as an entity involved them training for a very specialized kind of mission , amphibious warfare . He started training them for that and come World War II they were certainly ready . John Wayne as Sergeant Striker got one of his most memorable parts of his career in Sands of Iwo Jima . Striker is a tough as nails Marine Corps lifer whose got a job to whip a lot of recruits into shape for the later Pacific landings after Guadalcanal . He's also got one lousy personal life as his wife's left him and taken their son . Wayne got his first Oscar nomination for Best Actor in this part . There's a couple of other films he should have gotten a nomination for , but that's another story . Among his competition in 1949 was Kirk Douglas for Champion , Richard Todd for The Hasty Heart , and Gregory Peck for Twelve O'Clock High . Note three of the nominees were for World War II related films . But the winner that year was Broderick Crawford for All the King's Men . At least Peck and Wayne both got Oscars later in their careers . John Agar who was trying to carve out a reputation as being more than Mr . Shirley Temple back then plays the son of a former commander of Wayne's who has a problem with his Dad and takes it out on Wayne attitude wise as a surrogate father . Julie Bishop and Adele Mara play women drawn to both Wayne and Agar respectively . Of the supporting cast who play members of Wayne's platoon , my favorite is Wally Cassell , the wisecracking city kid who finds a tank to help his platoon out during a sticky situation . Flags of Our Fathers teaches us about how the flag raising symbolism became part of the Marine Corps heritage . Sands of Iwo Jima exploits that symbol in the best sense of the word . After almost sixty years , it's still a fine film with a grand performance by the Duke .
A Cop Killing In Los Angeles	Van Johnson plays it a lot rougher than usual when cast as a hardboiled police detective in Scene Of The Crime . He's got reason to be hard in this case . A fellow detective has been murdered , shot down in the mean streets of Los Angeles . The victim had a thousand dollars in his pocket and may have been doing some off duty guard duty for some bookmakers . Which would make the cop and incidentally Van's friend a crooked cop . Which among other things is what Captain Leon Ames wants Van to find out as well as bring in the killer . What Van and his squad uncover is a gang of crooks who are robbing these illegal gambling establishments , be they bookmaking parlors , dice games , poker games , whatever . This case is the main concern of this film , but Johnson has a whole lot of other things on his plate . A partner , John McIntire , who is slowing up with age , a young detective Tom Drake who is learning the ropes as fast as Van can teach him , and his wife Arlene Dahl who would like very much for her husband to get out of the cop business . Two other performances really stand out in this film . First Gloria DeHaven as singer / gangster girl friend who's definitely the most hardboiled character in the film . Her reasons for her actions tread into adult areas that the Code frowned on , but are still implied . Secondly Norman Lloyd you will not forget as one of Van's stool pigeons who might just be missing a whole suit in his deck of cards . Lloyd will definitely make your skin crawl . Scene Of The Crime is a good cop drama , atypical for MGM at that time , but they would soon be doing more of these .
No Tale More Tragically Told	Despite the fact we have a 47 year old Romeo , a 36 year old Juliet , and a 54 year old Mercutio ; George Cukor's production for MGM of Romeo and Juliet manages to entertain and well . Of course these protagonists are all teenagers , but these players have all played romantic parts in an age when romance was not something to be cynical about and they do fit their roles well . No Romeo was ever more dashing than Leslie Howard or a Juliet as passionate as Norma Shearer . John Barrymore as Mercutio is a bit of an exception . I look at him and I think of another Shakespearean character who simply doesn't want to grow up and spends his time with the young blades of his day at the tavern . That would be Falstaff in Henry IV in both parts and if you think of Barrymore's Mercutio in that way , his interpretation makes a lot of sense . My favorite in this film has always been Tybalt and Basil Rathbone plays him with fire and passion . Rathbone got an Academy Award nomination , the first of two , for Best Supporting Actor in the first year Supporting Actor Awards were given out . He lost however to Walter Brennan in Come and Get It . He's just spoiling for a fight with some Montagues and in the end he unfortunately gets one . Romeo and Juliet is insightful into the Italy of the times . Italy was a geographical expression not a nation . In fact it was ruled mostly by the German entity , the Holy Roman Empire . But inside the empire and out it was a succession of petty states , constantly at war with each other . Sometimes the causes of the wars were long forgotten , but the hostilities took on a life of their own . Right down to a couple of wealthy families in the small town of Verona where the prince there has his hands full trying to keep the Montague and Capulet feud from spilling over into violence every time some of them meet in his town . With this background a young prince of Montague just getting over another bad romance and a princess of Capulet whose father has her slated to marry another meet and fall in love . Even when they find out their respective pedigrees , it makes no difference . In fact the idea that love can bridge all barriers is what I believe makes Romeo and Juliet as popular as it is . It's a lesson people and nations could learn . Norma Shearer got an Oscar nomination for playing Juliet , but lost to Luise Rainer in The Great Ziegfeld as Best Actress . George Cukor and the film itself also were up , but lost for best director and best picture . Andy Devine plays the small part of Peter , a Capulet servant and I'm sure you're wondering what Andy Devine was doing in Shakespeare . So did he when he was cast in the part . The story goes that he went to George Cukor and told him he hadn't foggiest idea what he was doing in a classic Shakespeare play , he'd never done anything like this . Cukor supposedly told him , that was to his credit and that he would be the only member of the cast who would not be telling him how to direct the film . Turned out Cukor was right , but the film got made . And that's definitely for the better .
Singing in the Canadian Woods	There have been three versions of Rose Marie done for the screen , a silent 1927 version and on in 1954 as well as this one . And not one of them had the same plot and not one of them repeated the same plot as the original stage version in 1923 . Not that it matters because this version with Jeanette and Nelson sets the standard . One thing I did object to is that a whole lot of the Rudolf Friml - Otto Harbach-Oscar Hammerstein II score was jettisoned . Some very nice songs were left out . Only The Mountie Song , Rose Marie , and Indian Love Call were retained . Totem Tom Tom which is done as a dance number actually has words . Because Jeanette is an opera singer in this one , arias from Tosca and Romeo and Juliet were included . And Friml and MGM house composer Herbert Stothart wrote a couple of other melodies with Gus Kahn doing lyrics . Nice , but not the real score . In this version Jeanette is an opera singer who receives word in Montreal that her younger brother is a fugitive after killing a man . She goes to him , but on the way gets sidetracked by Mountie Nelson Eddy . He just happens to be the guy they've assigned to get the brother . I don't think I have to give any more of the plot away . Jeanette and Nelson are in good voice and MGM splurged a little by going on location and not using any back lot sets to show the Canadian wilderness . I'm willing to bet that Rose Marie may have been the most expensive of their eight films to produce . Three future stars got exposure in Rose Marie . Allan Jones who Jeanette would co-star with the following year in The Firefly sung the opera numbers with her . David Niven has a brief role as a stage door Johnny ready to declare his undying love for the diva . And James Stewart plays her fugitive younger brother . Of course Jimmy Stewart was able to do this before he became typecast as all American good guy Jimmy Stewart . Three years later MGM could never have cast him this way . But his performance was definitely a big break for bigger and better roles . Because of this film Nelson Eddy got his trademark . After he left films and concert singing and did nightclubs towards the end of his life , Nelson would always make a grand entrance replete in white tie , tuxedo , and a Mountie hat . Nelson Eddy was one of the kindest and most generous of performers in giving of himself to his public , but he least of all took his movie career image seriously . In fact he always maintained he was a singer first and film was just a medium to give his singing career more visibility . But if you want to hear some golden voices doing some classic songs like they don't write any more than I can't recommend Rose Marie strongly enough .
Why Am I Gone About Those Girls ?	Cole Porter's final film score and next to last music written for any media is Les Girls . The same team producer Sol Seigal and writer John Patrick who produced and wrote the adaption of The Philadelphi Story for High Society worked with Porter again and this time George Cukor was directing . It's a good film , but I've got the feeling that it could have been a whole lot better . One of the criticisms that Porter used to get annoyed with was the perennial ' it isn't up to Cole Porter's standard ' and then you'd look in the score and see a lot of classics . Can-Can is the best example of that . But in the case of Les Girls Porter admitted this to be true . According to the George Eells biography of Porter , he was starting to suffer the decline in health that would eventually end his life in 1964 . He did have surgery to bypass an ulcer and was not feeling up to par . Still the numbers are mostly for a vaudeville act , Barry Nichols and Les Girls so they're serviceable to a bright Rashomon like plot . The members of the act are Gene Kelly and the girls are Mitzi Gaynor , Taina Elg , and Kay Kendall . Kay's written a memoir that includes an alleged suicide attempt by Elg and she's suing her in an English court . As we get testimony from Elg , Kendall , and Kelly , they all give out with different versions . It's also clear he had his fling with all of them at one time despite his alleged no fraternization policy . Elg has the best ballad of the score , Ca C'est L'Amour which sounds like something that might have been written for Can-Can and discarded . Cole Porter discards are better than a lot of composer's best efforts . The sparkling Kay Kendall was never shown to better advantage on the screen than with You're Just Too Too in a duet with Kelly . And Cole Porter wickedly satirizes Marlon Brando and The Wild One in Why Am I So Gone About That Gal with Kelly and Mitzi Gaynor . In addition to this being Cole Porter's last film score , this film also marks Gene Kelly's last full blown musical . He did do other musical numbers in films like What A Way To Go and Young Girls From Rochefort and Xanadu , but this was the last musical he did . They were getting way too expensive to make , something Kelly learned from behind the camera when he directed Hello Dolly . Even with a score that Cole Porter himself wasn't thrilled with , Les Girls is still a fresh bit of film making . And since it's original to the screen , the Porter wit is not edited severely . All in all four great musical performers , three of them Les Girls .
Divorce can happen to good people .	The movie opens with Bing Crosby singing the Sammy Fain-Paul Francis Webster title song over the opening credits . But that's all you hear from Crosby the singer . For the first time Bing starred in a film without any singing at all . The story involves a pair of divorced parents who have fallen out of love and are contesting the custody of their son . Crosby the father has the kid and wife Mary Fickett and her new husband Richard Eastham want him . It's a well acted film and Crosby proves he doesn't need to sing to carry a film . His Earl Carleton is a troubled man , a loving father wounded terribly by the divorce . Mary Fickett is a loving mother who's been denied custody of her son by a hastily signed agreement at the time of her's and Bing's divorce . Her new husband Richard Eastham wants a share of custody for his wife's sake . The point is that this is a film without villains . These are just good people caught in a bad situation trying to do the right thing as they conceive it . And in probably the best performance of her long career , Judge Anne Seymour has to decide it . The custody hearing scene in her chambers is the best acted scene in the film . This situation may have inspired some of the situations portrayed in the current series Judging Amy . The film has an honored place in the films of Bing Crosby . A must see .
" Raised On Mare's Milk "	The Red Pony was an early novel of John Steinbeck dealing with memories of his childhood in the Salinas Valley in California . It was Republic's prestige film for 1949 away from the B westerns that were the company's bread and butter . Herbert J . Yates even had the good sense not to have wife Vera Hruba Ralston in it . He probably spent half the studio budget signing as stars Myrna Loy who was free lancing and Robert Mitchum from RKO . In Mitchum's case it might have been a question of a favor or two owed to Howard Hughes . Both studios were B picture companies . The story takes place like Steinbeck's other classic , East of Eden , during the years before American entry into World War I . The Tiflin family has recently moved on that ranch . For Myrna Loy it was a case of going back to her roots on both the screen and the film , in real life she grew up on a ranch in Montana . But her husband Sheppard Strudwick is a school teacher and a city kid and feels an outsider . Especially when their kid Peter Miles starts hanging around with ranch hand Robert Mitchum . Anyway the lad is given a roan colored pony , a really good looking and smart animal as well . The pony and the boy take to each other and Miles follows Mitchum's instructions on care and feeding implicitly . He even teaches the pony some tricks one of which will innocently bring about the animal's ultimate demise and a Tiflin family crisis . Though the Tiflins are quite a bit up the economic scale from the Baxters , The Red Pony is very similar in plot in a lot of respects to the Marjorie Keneston Rawlings classic , The Yearling . Both are nice family films in which the boy protagonists face crises involving their respective pets . They also have some disturbing scenes in them , young Peter Miles's scrape with some buzzards might give real little kids nightmares . I may have some myself tonight . Still if you are willing to risk the bad dreams , The Red Pony is a fine family film that still holds up well after 59 years .
Laughton on canvas	Charles Laughton returned to his native Great Britain in 1936 for three years and made a series of films there . The first and best of these was for Alexander Korda about Rembrandt Van Rijn , arguably the greatest of all Dutch painters . Later biographical pictures , Lust for Life about Van Gogh and Moulin Rouge about Toulouse-Lautrec had good location photography going for them . Alexander Korda did create some nice sets to depict the Netherlands of the 17th century , but it just isn't the same . Another difference between Rembrandt and the other two later pictures is while Van Gogh and Toulouse-Lautrec died young , Rembrandt lived to be an old man by the standards of his century . The film takes us on a forty year journey of his life from the death of his first wife until just before he dies . Laughton is great at capturing Rembrandt at every stage of his life . As compared to those other two 19th century artists , Rembrandt's life was also not the tormented one the others had . Rembrandt is not a deformed cripple like Toulouse-Lautrec nor is he dealing with the onset of mental illness like Van Gogh . Tragedy happens in his life , but the tragedy isn't out of his own character . Like the other two Rembrandt was constantly plagued with money problems . That's actually what takes up most of the film , the compromises he makes with his artistic vision and the need he has to put bread on the table . Gertrude Lawrence and Elsa Lanchester do fine as the two women in his life . Laughton and Lawrence did not get along during the making of Rembrandt , that may have helped give their scenes some real bite . Three members of the performing Livesey family are in this film and Roger Livesey is a standout as the beggar who Rembrandt uses to paint his portrait of King Saul from the Old Testament . Rembrandt is a finely crafted piece of film making and Charles Laughton gives one of his best screen performances . I wish though it had been done on location the way Lust for Life and Moulin Rouge were .
South Of The Border , Trouble and Romance	Just as Matt Damon was able to cast aside his New England accent for a Tennessee one in The Rainmaker and use it to great affect in Good Will Hunting , he cast aside again for the Texas tones needed for All The Pretty Horses . The man's got a good ear for speech idiom , he could be a worthy successor to Robert Mitchum in that department . From a novel by Cormac McCarthy and directed by Billy Bob Thornton who also has a good ear and feel for idiom and mores of the Southwest , All The Pretty Horses is about a couple of friends who go across the border into Mexico for work . Damon's been cheated out of a ranch he was expecting to inherit and he and friend Henry Thomas go south . They find both work and trouble and Damon finds romance . How they all intertwine is the story of All The Pretty Horses . Damon's romance is with Penelope Cruz , the daughter of Ruben Blades the owner of the ranch they find work on , breaking mustangs . The two come up against both Latino culture and Texas culture and how they really clash . Trouble starts for Damon and Thomas though when they pick up young runaway kid Lucius Black who's got some real issues with authority and a bad upbringing . His actions start the trouble for everyone involved . But Black in fact steals the film from the more well known stars . I'm surprised he wasn't considered Oscar material for Best Supporting Actor . His performances succeeds on so many levels as likable , goofy , but definitely trouble riding a horse . All The Pretty Horses is a good film where director Billy Bob Thornton does a great job with his cast and with capturing the mood and ambiance of that Rio Grande border country on both sides .
Too Much Pills And Liquor	Although Jeanne Eagels is a fascinating film with one of two career roles for Kim Novak , the other being Vertigo , it does do some disservice in telling the story of the legendary Jeanne Eagels , Broadway star of the Twenties . The Roaring Twenties was a hard partying era , especially on women as three of the brightest stars of that era , Marilyn Miller , Helen Morgan , and Jeanne Eagels died way to soon because they indulged too much . That part of the story is all too true , Jeanne went like Elsie in the title song from Cabaret , from too much pills and liquor . What's not true is the fact that Jeanne was basically a raw talent who came to Broadway out of nowhere and then died . Eagels did pay her dues in a long hard road in stock companies . The character that Jeff Chandler plays is based on someone she did actually marry , one of the heads of a touring company , not a carnival barker . Her second husband played by Charles Drake was a Broadway playboy and former All American football player . The surviving members of the Eagels family did threaten suit against Columbia Pictures for this film . From what I've researched about Eagels she got a whitewash in this picture . Kim Novak does a great job playing Eagels , a woman who indulged too much in her life . She picked Jeff Chandler for her leading man in Jeanne Eagels . This was Chandler's first picture after finishing up his exclusive contract with Universal Studios . His new contract was non-exclusive and this was his first outside film . Jeff dusted off his Brooklyn accent for his role as the carnival man who loves Jeanne , but stands by helplessly as she self destructs . Agnes Moorehead plays Jeanne's acting coach and Larry Gates her overwrought producer . This film was the farewell performance of Gene Lockhart who has a brief scene as the presiding member of an Actors Equity Hearing . Eagels got herself in lots of problems with Equity back in the day because she blew off performances . Lockhart was active in Equity and essentially is playing himself . There is one other really good performance , a very touching one by Virginia Grey of a fading Broadway star who also dissipated herself . The role is great , but of course it has no basis in fact , Eagels did not ' steal ' the play Rain away from this woman or anyone else . Jeanne Eagels is a fine film capturing the essence of a self destructive star of a bygone era though factually it leaves quite a lot to be desired .
Oomph in the Tropics	This was the final film for James Cagney and Pat O'Brien who in my opinion invented the buddy film . O'Brien would be leaving Warner Brothers the following year and the two of them would not get together in another film until Ragtime in 1981 in which they both had small parts . It's a typical fast paced comedy for both of them , they were incapable of doing anything else together . O'Brien slowed down when he was in a clerical collar and Cagney when he was doing a nostalgic film , but together the lines go at light speed . Except when Ann Sheridan is concerned . Director Bill Keighley always slowed the pace for Sheridan because he didn't want anyone to miss some of her tart sayings . She has some of the best lines ever in her career . Typical being when she tells O'Brien that the stork that brought him must have been a vulture . Or when she's constantly one upping Helen Vinson who made a career of playing the other woman . O'Brien is the hardnosed manager of a tropical fruit company and he's in big trouble because a local Sandinista type bandit leader , George Tobias , is wrecking his operations . Another distraction is Ann Sheridan whose redheaded beauty he figures is too much of a distraction to the men where redheads are scarce . Notice how O'Brien tells the local authorities what to do . More truth than humor in that situation . He's desperate enough to hire back his number one troubleshooter James Cagney who gets the job done , but always gets himself in a jackpot where women are concerned . He's taken a fancy to Sheridan and she him . A couple of other reviewers have pointed out the obvious similarities between this and The Front Page . The first film version of that classic play is the one where Pat O'Brien made his screen debut as the ace reporter . However he did it on Broadway in the role of the editor which he's playing here . Perhaps this might be better described as another version of His Girl Friday . I can't say remake because both films came out at the same time . Sheridan comes off the same way as Rosalind Russell does in His Girl Friday , but Keighley also wants to accent her sensuality as well as her sharp tongue . He succeeds admirably because no woman in their previous films quite put off both Cagney and O'Brien the way Sheridan does . The woman sure had oomph .
Cantor Strikes Again	Strike Me Pink has Eddie Cantor playing his usual schnook against the world character with the background of an amusement park . Eddie runs a store near a college and he's constantly being bullied and would have been intimidated out of business but for perennial student Gordon Jones . Jones keeps the bullies at bay while Eddie learns some assertiveness training . When he graduates finally due to some help from Eddie the plan is for the two of them to go and run the amusement park his mom owns . She's being bullied herself by some gangsters headed by Brian Donlevy who want to put slot machines in the park . Eddie's assertiveness training pays off albeit in some unusual ways . Strike Me Pink is vintage Eddie Cantor when he was probably at the height of his popularity . He would be departing from Sam Goldwyn after this film and never was really showcased properly for film after his Goldwyn days were over . View some of Cantor's Goldwyn films next to what Danny Kaye later did and you can see the influence Cantor had on Kaye's style . Ethel Merman plays the vamp for the second and last time with Eddie Cantor . She also was never better on screen than when paired with Cantor by Goldwyn . She was cast ironically by Cantor's daughter Marilyn who was a fan of her's after seeing her on Broadway and lobbied with Goldwyn . Marilyn was an adolescent at the time , but Goldwyn agreed with her and Merman was in Kid Millions and then Strike Me Pink . They have a really nice duet together in Calabash Pipe . Cantor brought over some of his radio family for this film in the persons of Harry Einstein as the befuddled Greek , Parkyakarkus and Sidney Fields . Yes , that is the same harried landlord of Abbott and Costello in the Fifties . Fields was an old vaudeville pal of Cantor's who brought him out of that dying institution and put him on radio in front of the mike and also as a writer . With Gordon Jones who was Mike the Cop on Abbott and Costello that makes two A & C regulars in this film . The chase scene through the amusement is the climax and according to a recent biography of Cantor , two stuntmen doubles suffered broken legs during the filming of that dangerous sequence . All to obtain a phonograph record where the bad guys have confessed their evil deeds . If you want to see one of America's funniest men at the height of his popularity by all means catch Strike Me Pink when it is broadcast next .
An Autobiographical Debut	For Mario Lanza's first feature film role it wasn't much of an acting stretch for him . He played exactly who he was an opera singing truck-driver from South Philadelphia . Mario would have been 28 at the time That Midnight Kiss came out and that is his approximate age right here . Of course in real life he wasn't discovered by the granddaughter of another real life noted Philadelphian , Ethel Barrymore . As the plot would have it , Kathryn Grayson finds Mario playing on the piano and singing an old Italian song Mama Che Vio Sape . Grayson's got singing talent herself in abundance and when you're from the Philadelphia Main Line you've got a grandmother who's willing to start a production company built around her . Of course to make sure it makes a little money you want a name tenor like Thomas Gomez as opposed to some unknown truck-driver . Kathryn would rather make music with Mario both on and off the stage . The story with a few of the usual Hollywood romantic complications shows how they get to do just that . Mario and Kathryn sang a good collection of classical and popular selections . My favorite recording of Jerome Kern's first great hit song They Didn't Believe Me is from Mario's original cast album of That Midnight Kiss . It's a solo recording , on screen it's done with Grayson and done just as beautifully . MGM made a good choice in including that great song in this film . A good cast of MGM regulars supported Mario and Kathryn that included Keenan Wynn as Lanza's friend and Jules Munshin as the manager of the opera company . Best in the supporting cast however is Thomas Gomez as the egotistical tenor Lanza replaces . Gomez utilizes some seldom tapped comedy talent for this role . Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer engineered a very auspicious debut for their new singing discovery in That Midnight Kiss .
For the love of aviation	I remember seeing The Flight of the Phoenix during the afternoon while I was in college with no late classes that day . As I watched it in the old Duffield Theatre in downtown Brooklyn , I was mesmerized by the terrific cast and the overwhelming sincerity with which they tackled their roles . Of course in analyzing the film , it's absolute nonsense what these plane crash survivors were able to do to escape their predicament . Build a plane out of the wreckage of the one they crashed in . Sheer unadulterated claptrap . But even viewing it today , it's a grand piece of adventure entertainment . The cast and direction are superb , there's not one bad performance or wasted line in the entire film . Robert Aldrich's direction is superb and considering he had FOUR Academy Award winners in his cast in the acting category , James Stewart , Ernest Borgnine , George Kennedy , and Peter Finch he's got the talent to work with . James Stewart even as a kid was fascinated with flight and every movie fan knows about how he enlisted and became a bomber pilot in World War II and served in the Air Force Reserve after , retiring as a Major General . He did previous films about aviation that didn't do so well like Strategic Air Command and the Spirit of St . Louis . Those films didn't do so well , but this one was a winner and Stewart's performance as Frank Towns , veteran pilot and leader of the group survivors , is a favorite of mine . Right at the beginning of the film in a conversation with navigator Richard Attenborough , Stewart reminisces about his early days as a flier and how you took pride in just getting to your destination . As he says those lines you can see in his face his love of his vocation , it's one of the most moving scenes General James Maitland Stewart did on the screen . You know Stewart must have jumped at this film for his love of aviation . Richard Attenborough , who come to think of it is also an Oscar winner albeit not in the acting category , has a great turn as the alcoholic navigator . Peter Finch who usually played characters with an edge or some complexity to them is very good as the brave British Army captain who Stewart and the oil company he flies for is giving a lift . Along with Finch is Ronald Fraser who's a sergeant and the opposite of Finch , shall we say not a king and country volunteer . They have a mini-conflict of their own in the film . Every one of these players could have been up for an Oscar , but Ian Bannen as " ratbags " the cynical Scotch oil worker got a nomination for Best Supporting Actor from the Academy . His lines have real bite to them . The main conflict is with Stewart and Hardy Kruger who plays the anal retentive Heinrich Dorfman who's an aircraft designer who comes up with the scheme to rebuild a new plane , but he needs a pilot of Stewart's experience to fly it . Their conflict , how it resolves , and who lives to take off in the Phoenix and who dies in the desert is the real story here . And for that , you'll just have to see this mesmerizing piece of cinema .
Powell got a singing Ruby	Stagestruck's biggest asset is the performance of Joan Blondell as the Paris Hilton heiress of the day . Blondell plays Peggy Revere which is a takeoff on Peggy Hopkins Joyce whose antics back in the 30s kept the tabloids buzzing the way the Hilton twins do today . Blondell overacts outrageously , but it's all to the good . Warren William plays ego-maniacal producer Fred Harris which is also a takeoff of producer Jed Harris . Legend has it that Jed Harris was as full of tricks and deviltry that Warren William's character in Stagestruck is . It's very similar to the John Barrymore character in 20th Century . In fact looking at William's profile it's like looking at a poor man's Barrymore . But that is unfair because Warren William did a lot of good work on screen . Dick Powell is the director here and he gets a couple of good songs to sing . Mostly he has to act annoyed at Blondell and falling for newcomer Jeanie Madden . Since Powell and Blondell got married right after this film , that may have been the biggest performance in the movie . Jeanie Madden was the love interest . Ruby Keeler had departed Warner Brothers so Powell got a new Ruby , a singing Ruby . Ruby Keeler's singing voice was as flat as her dramatic delivery . Madden couldn't dance , but she sang beautifully especially in the duet with Powell , Fancy Meeting You . But her acting was as bad as Ruby's and she was gone after two more films . There was a quartet in the film called the Yacht Club Boys and they had a couple of funny bits , especially one in Warren William's office where William plays a straight man for them ( and looks like he's having a ball doing it ) . I suppose they were too similar in style to the Ritz Brothers over at 20th Century Fox so they were gone after this film . It's a funny film on its own merits , but unless you know who Peggy Hopkins Joyce and Jed Harris were , a lot of the lines will be lost on you .
Baseball and Vaudeville	Gene Kelly took this idea to Arthur Freed about an original musical which would combine two big loves of his , baseball and the dance . The story would be based on Al Schacht and Nick Altrock who played ball during the regular season as pitcher and catcher and then in the off season toured in vaudeville . So Take Me Out to the Ballgame was born . In fact the song Take Me Out to the Ballgame was written during that era of Theodore Roosevelt . But instead of a battery , the story revolved around a double play combination of Gene Kelly , Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin . Right in the same Teddy Roosevelt era the famous double play combination of Tinkers to Evers to Chance was doing great things for the Chicago Cubs . So it seems natural that a nice novelty number of O'Brien to Ryan to Goldberg seemed in order for this film . Vaudeville and baseball are not complete strangers either . During the previous century Michael ' King ' Kelly , colorful star catcher and base stealer for the Cubs toured in vaudeville . Rube Marquard the number two pitcher for the New York Giants in the second decade of the last century married musical comedy star Blossom Seeley and toured with her as part of her act before they broke up . In fact the original idea in Take Me Out to the Ballgame was to have Leo Durocher play the Jules Munshin part . Of course it would have been a lot different role then . Durocher hung out with a lot of show business types , one of his best friends was George Raft . That got him in some trouble , but that's a story for another film . Kelly and Sinatra essentially play the same roles they did Anchors Aweigh . Sinatra doesn't get as many good numbers as he did in that film , but he does have a very nice ballad , The Right Girl for Me who he thinks might be Esther Williams as he sings it to her . Of course Betty Garrett gets in the picture and she has some different ideas . Esther Williams was not kind to Gene Kelly in her memoirs . She gets only one brief dip in a pool in a one piece bathing suit that was just being popularized at the time of this film by Annette Kellerman . Of course Esther later played Annette Kellerman in another film . She had a lot of trouble with the dance numbers because as she explained it , the muscles one develops for swimming are not the same as those needed for dance and she was really as she describes cruelly razzed by Kelly and Stanley Donen . She grew to dislike him intensely . Kelly's best number is The Hat Me Father Wore on St . Patrick's Day , a nice Irish jig number that he does with style . Busby Berkeley directed the film , but the kind of mammoth musical number that typifies his work is only seen in the ensemble song , Strictly USA . The plot involves some gamblers trying to fix the pennant race against the heavily favored Brooklyn Wolves , Kelly and Sinatra's team . Edward Arnold is the number one fixer . As we well know , gambling and baseball weren't strangers back in the day . Players were hardly paid what they are today and in the days before Kennesaw Mountain Landis became the first Commissioner , fixes were talked of in hushed tones . Kelly gets tricked and tempted . Take Me Out to the Ballgame , the first good musical film on baseball , a harbinger for Damn Yankees and nice entertainment .
Shirley Finds A Family	1936 was a breakthrough year for Alice Faye for two reasons . First this was when stopped being 20th Century Fox's platinum blond answer to MGM's Jean Harlow . But Darryl Zanuck did her a big favor when he hired the songwriting team of Mack Gordon and Harry Revel away from Paramount and for the next five years they were practically Alice Faye's personal composers . Nearly all the succeeding films she did had a Gordon-Revel song in it and after Mack and Harry split up , Gordon continued to write with Harry Warren as a partner for 20th Century Fox . Gordon in fact put more words in Alice Faye's mouth than any other lyricist . Gordon and Revel wrote a couple of songs for this Shirley Temple film Stowaway where she unites Alice Faye and Robert Young to become her new parents . The setting is China though they never got anywhere near the real Kuomintang China for this film . Shirley's an orphan who's being raised by some missionaries in place of her parents who were also missionaries . When bandits are threatening the mission , Shirley's sent to Shanghai . But Willie Fung to whom she's entrusted skips out on her and leaves her and her Pekinese dog stranded . But our little moppet is resourceful and she charms playboy Robert Young and later Alice Faye who's engaged to both Allan Lane and his mother Helen Westley . That's right Lane and Westley are definitely a package deal . It's a Shirley Temple film so any of you who are fans of her's know exactly how things go here . Gordon and Revel wrote for Stowaway my favorite ballad of their's and one of the best movie songs ever done , Goodnight My Love . Alice even got to record this one . First Shirley sings it and then Alice does it as an adult obbligato with adult lyrics . It was one of Alice Faye's best loved movie songs though the real hit record was done by the Benny Goodman Orchestra and a new vocalist he had hired , one Ella Fitzgerald . You can't go wrong with either recording . Helen Westley also does well as the prospective mother-in-law from hell and my favorite in the supporting cast is J . Edward Bromberg who after Shirley testifies at a divorce hearing , refuses to grant a divorce for Young and Faye . It's one of Shirley Temple and Alice Faye's best films and even today you will love how orphan Shirley finds a family that she has to put together .
Training the First Generation of Top Guns	Task Force was the first of two films Gary Cooper made regarding the development of aviation . Here he plays the fictional Jonathan Scott who looks back on his life after retiring from the Navy . The second is the Court Martial of Billy Mitchell where he plays the real life Army Aviation pioneer . For today's fans if one wants to see where Tom Cruise and the gang from Top Gun all got their start , take a look at Task Force . The idea of a floating flattop ship from where airplanes could take off and land was one that was scoffed at post World War I . Pilots didn't have the skills yet for that . What Task Force shows is Gary Cooper and a whole bunch of other people who believed in an idea living and dying to prove that idea . Task Force was memorable in the career of Gary Cooper for two other reasons . It was the first film he did after leaving his original studio , Paramount , at Warner Brothers where he worked for about five years . It was also the last film he did with good friend Walter Brennan . They made eight joint film appearances , including some memorable ones in The Westerner and Sergeant York where they got Oscars , Brennan for The Westerner and Cooper for Sergeant York . Jane Wyatt is Cooper's leading lady , playing the part of the faithful wife where if this had been made at MGM , June Allyson would have had the part . She's the widow of one of Cooper's early Navy flier friends who is killed trying to land on a new aircraft carrier . Director Delmar Daves made good use of actual combat footage both black and white and in the last 15 minutes color . Lent a real air of authenticity to what we were viewing . Look for some good supporting performances from Brennan , Wayne Morris , Bruce Bennett and the best being an obtuse United States Senator played by Stanley Ridges . The final shot of the film shows Cooper now in civilian attire with jets passing overhead . That was a whole new skill that had to be learned by the next generation of Top Guns . Very graphically demonstrated in The Bridges at Toko-Ri . I'd like to think that Tom Cruise and the rest of the cast of Top Gun saw those two films and realized the great heritage they were now going to portray .
A Feminist Classic	A pair of bored thirty something friends decide on a girl's weekend and in that time become the most wanted women in America . Not that bedding either Susan Sarandon or Geena Davis hasn't got its delightful aspects , but that's not the kind of wanted I'm talking about . The film is shot in some of the reddest part of red state America where gender roles and rules are laid down real specific and you don't cross them . Just these two women going out without husband or significant other partner of the opposite sex means they're loose and available . So when alpha male Timothy Carhart decides after some line dancing at a county honky-tonk that Geena's hot to trot , he decides to do something about it in the parking lot . And if she resists he certainly knows how to bring her in line . But when Sarandon pulls a gun on him he backs down very reluctantly . In fact Carhart's defiant attitude and assumed male superiority snaps something in Sarandon and she blows him away on general principles . After that they're on the run . Sarandon and Davis work beautifully together in Thelma & Louise . Close friends before the homicide takes place , they learn a lot about each other on the journey . They air out finally the way they feel women have been treated in their part of the country . Though I wouldn't recommend women act out quite the way they do , the film remains a great feminist manifesto . Harvey Keitel does a fine job as a caring police officer who wants to bring them in with no problems and before they run up a real criminal record . Christopher McDonald and Michael Madsen are the men in their lives , both in their different ways clueless as to what is going on inside Thelma & Louise . Just the fact they wanted a girl's vacation should have lit up some bulb . McDonald , Madsen are just two of the men these two get to degrade and humiliate on their merry race with destiny . One however that gets the better of them is Brad Pitt in his breakthrough role as a young cowboy they find hitchhiking and give a lift to . Despite their new found feminism , Sarandon and Davis are still quite vulnerable in some areas , as are we all . Callie Khouri won an Oscar for Best Screenplay written directly for the screen . Thelma & Louise got five other nominations including for both Sarandon and Davis for Best Actress . They split the balloting as is what usually happens and Jodie Foster took her second Oscar home for Silence Of The Lambs . Thelma & Louise is destined to be a classic and a feminist manifesto for generations .
Going On Separate Trails	Streets of Laredo is a remake of Paramount's successful Texas Rangers with William Holden , William Bendix , and Macdonald Carey playing the parts that were done thirteen years earlier by Fred MacMurray , Jack Oakie , and Lloyd Nolan . Color is added and if anything this is a remake that proved better than the original . Three amiable outlaws get separated running from a posse . Two of them Holden and Bendix join the Texas Rangers and Carey continues his outlaw ways . Carey also as the film progresses demonstrates that he's a good deal more vicious than when we first meet him . Between them they have a lot of adventures on both sides of the law . But it is inevitable that they are destined for a showdown . There's a nice performance here from Alfonso Bedoya , fresh from The Treasure of the Sierra Madre , as Calico another outlaw with a murderous protection racket . Bill Bendix though he's never bad in anything , is really miscast in a western . He's just too urban a type to be a convincing western sidekick . Holden is a year away from his breakthrough part in Sunset Boulevard , in Streets of Laredo he's in one of his ' smiling Jim ' parts as the amiable good guy . He fit those parts well , but he never would have had the career he did had he stuck to them . Western fans will definitely like this one , enough action and gunplay for any fan of the genre .
Reese Goes To Hah-Vard	Legally Blonde finds Reese Witherspoon in one of her breakthrough roles as sorority queen Elle Woods who is dumped by her preppy boyfriend Matthew Davis . He's moving on to Harvard Law School where he will get his law degree , marry a woman of good background in Selma Blair and claim the family legacy of public office . So there's no time for his homecoming queen Reese although I'm sure he'd arrange something on the side later . She's totally floored by this , but our intrepid girl vows to fight fire with fire . If he can go be a Hah-Vard Law School Graduate so can she . I mean she's got a 4 . 0 GPA even if it is in fashion design . But beneath her Barbie Doll personality , she actually does have a brain . She aces the law boards and sends a unique video essay that is something different for the admission committee to ponder . She gets to Harvard to be with Davis , who's unfortunately there with Blair . At this point the charm of Reese Witherspoon really takes over and dominates the film . I'm not sure anyone else could have pulled off the part of Elle Woods . With that wonderful combination of charm and guilelessness , Reese Witherspoon has created an endearing character , one she's already done a sequel film with . She's nicely aided by Luke Wilson as an attorney and crony of one of her law professors . Another performance that I liked was that of Holland Taylor as a feminist law professor who's initially put off by Witherspoon , but gradually comes to appreciate her worth . In fact in the end just about everyone in the film comes to appreciate her worth , some to their regret . I don't know about you , but I'd like to see a Legally Blonde 3 .
Everybody's got their own agenda	Joel McCrea , Douglas Kennedy , and Zachary Scott are partners in the Three Bell Ranch in Texas as the Civil War starts . When war does come it splits the partners up . The ranch is raided by Victor Jory and his cutthroats and the partners are wiped out . Kennedy opts for enlisting in the Confederate Army . McCrea and Scott decide to go into gunrunning to make enough money to re-stock the ranch . McCrea makes enough , but Scott likes the profits and he wants to keep on gunrunning . As you can see the three partners all have different agendas . In fact everyone in this movie is working on his own agenda . The female leads Alexis Smith and Dorothy Malone have a hankering for McCrea . Victor Jory rides for the Union the Confederates and for himself . Bob Steele who's a slimy sort that Scott recruits in the gunrunning business has his own plans . Believe it or not it all jells into a very nice plot and is good entertainment . Joel McCrea was his usual stalwart hero as was Douglas Kennedy . Zachary Scott was no better than he had to be on any occasion . It's a good western and I wish it was shown more often .
We've Got Our Ticket To Ride	After the success of the low budget A Hard Day's Night with its classic soundtrack that after over 40 years is still a best selling item , the more expensive Help was made for the Beatles . The Fab Four even got to do a little location shooting in the Bahamas and in Salzburg , Austria for the skiing sequence . Ringo Starr so named for his well known passion for rings has got himself quite the ruby bauble . It's been noticed by some Eastern cult headed by Leo McKern and these guys ain't kidding about what it takes to get it . The one who wears the ring has to be a human sacrifice . So when all kinds of strange people start going after our page boy teen idols , it's one merry anarchistic chase all over the United Kingdom and other parts of the globe . Leo McKern and such other British character actors like Alfie Bass , Victor Spinetti , and Patrick Cargill get it on the fun . Eleanor Bron plays a fifth columnist in McKern's camp looks to help the Beatles because she's one of several million fans they have across the globe and she really does like the drummer with the honker . Like it's predecessor Help's soundtrack is still selling in the gazillions because it has several John Lennon-Paul McCartney songs still popular like A Ticket To Ride , You're Gonna Lose That Girl , You've Got To Hide Your Love Away and the title song . Also like it's predecessor it paved the way for the venue of the music video which today's musical artist seem to prefer more than records on which you can hear them . It boggles the mind when you think of who could have been captured performing if that technology had been available for more than 100 years more . So if your ticket to ride is punched , relax and enjoy .
Go Forth To All the Nations	When first released George Stevens's version of the Gospel was dismissed as too long , too reverential , too soon after the sound version of The King of Kings was released , and too many stars in the cast taking one's attention from the story . Too some degree that is true , but being a stargazer myself I'll never find fault with a film for that . And who knew in 1965 that we would get The Last Temptation of Christ and the Passion of the Christ in our future . George Stevens's film is looking pretty good now . No doubt about the presence of a whole lot of movie names helped bring in the bucks . But with one glaring exception you do pay attention to the roles , not who's playing them . Some parts are pretty substantial . Charlton Heston as John the Baptist has the longest amount of screen time other than Von Sydow . Also given a large amount of time is Jose Ferrer as Herod Antipas , Telly Savalas as Pontius Pilate , Dorothy McGuire as the Virgin Mary and Donald Pleasance as the Prince of Darkness . The personification of the Devil is something Mel Gibson borrowed for his film . Personally I think Donald Pleasance is quite a bit better than what Gibson did . Other stars had smaller roles . Sidney Poitier played a silent part as Simon of Cyrene who helped Jesus with his cross on the way to Calvary . You could not have gotten away with an all white cast in a film like this by 1965 . A whole group of players from previous Stevens films got some bit parts and more like Van Heflin , Shelley Winters , Sal Mineo , and Ed Wynn . One star Joseph Schildkraut had the rare distinction of playing in both Cecil B . DeMille's silent King of Kings and this film . Schildkraut played Judas for DeMille and is seen as Nicodemus here . This was Schildkraut's last film . An interesting double distinction for a man who came from a prominent Jewish theatrical family . One big glaring error though . Stevens should never have cast John Wayne as the Roman Centurion who supervising the crucifixion . Wayne is seen in passing through out the journey to Calvary , but with no dialog . At the moment of Jesus's death with the drama unfolding it was just wrong to have that recognizable a voice utter , " truly that man was the son of God . " Instead of concentrating on the story the audience gets distracted and in the theaters the whispers went up with ' ooh , that's John Wayne . ' Arizona served as the location for ancient Judea . Unlike DeMille in The Ten Commandments , Stevens concentrated on the beauty of the location as opposed to filling the screen with people . It got filled enough with the story . You might recognize the Grand Canyon as the backdrop for the sermon on the mount scene . Of course Handel's Messiah is almost obligatory for these films and it's done well here . One scene that you will not forget comes at the end of the first act , the raising of Lazarus who is played by Michael Tolan . His sisters , Mary and Martha , are played by Ina Balin and Janet Margolin . They had shown Jesus and the disciples hospitality earlier . When Lazarus is taken ill , Mary and Margaret , go after Jesus to bring him back . It is too late , Lazarus has died and he's in his tomb . Or so everyone thinks . The sparse dialog , the photography , and the background music are so well done at this point the most hard hearted nonbeliever will pause . Of course most of the name players in The Greatest Story Ever Told are no longer with us so the cameos don't mean as much today . It is probably better in that an audience of today can concentrate on the story without even the most minimal interference of recognition . And they can concentrate on the story without either alternate realities as in The Last Temptation of Christ or all the gore and violence of Mel Gibson's epic . Definitely worth a look by today's contemporary audience .
No Stars To Get In The Way	In adapting Three Men On A Horse for the screen Jack Warner took a big chance in not having one of his box office leads headline in this film . Instead Three Men On A Horse remains pretty faithful to the Broadway play and gives some of the character people under contract at Warner Brothers a chance to shine on their own . I don't know about you , but personally I like these kind of films where all these performers with a particular shtick get to outdo the other . The nominal lead is Frank McHugh and it seemed like either he or Alan Hale appeared in every Warner Brothers production of consequence for a while . McHugh plays the typical henpecked milquetoast who does poetry for greeting cards for a living and grossly underpaid for his originality and he has a genius at doping out winning horses . But that's only a hobby , he never bets himself . But when Damon Runyon like characters Sam Levene , Teddy Hart , and Allen Jenkins find out about his ' hobby ' one night in the Hotel Lavalliere Bar , these three gibbronis decide to ride along on a winning thing . They kidnap the poor schlimiel , but treat him ever so gently and cater to his whims which aren't all that much . Along for the ride are Joan Blondell as Levene's girlfriend , Eddie Anderson as the hotel porter and elevator operator and Edgar Kennedy the bartender . But there's more than that here . Frantically looking for McHugh who's disappeared is his wife , Carol Hughes and his boss Guy Kibbee . And also on the scene is McHugh's brother-in-law Paul Harvey who doesn't think much of him . Actually Harvey's blowhard character is my favorite in this film . Amazingly enough it all kind of works out for McHugh in the end . But you have to see the film to find out . And I mean HAVE to see the film which is a real treat with some of the best character players ever on screen in the golden age of the studio system all in one film . And no big stars to get in their way .
It Might Be Paradise If It Wasn't For The Japanese	One of the great injustices of Hollywood history is the fact that Deborah Kerr was nominated for Best Actress while Robert Mitchum got nary a mention for Best Actor in Heaven Knows , Mr . Allison . Kerr had several nominations , but never came up a winner . Mitchum was nominated once at the beginning of his career in the Best Supporting Actor category in The Story of GI Joe and then never again . In Mitchum's case I think that some of his irreverent comments offended a few people . Sometimes Bob was a bit too candid about what he thought of the film industry and his chosen profession . Otherwise he might well have gotten nominations for this , Night of the Hunter , Cape Fear , Ryan's Daughter , The Sundowners , The Friends of Eddie Coyle and a few others . This film is always and rightly compared to The African Queen with a female in the religious missionary profession and a hell-raising outsider thrown together in war time . The African Queen was in World War I and this film is set on a backwater Pacific island in World War II . Corporal Allison , USMC arrives on a rubber raft after the Japanese opened fire on a submarine he was on . The only other person on the island is a nun who has seen all the others die or flee the island . It's a small island , but apparently strategically located . The film is about these two mismatched people thrown together and what they have to do to survive . Deborah Kerr is a nun who hasn't yet taken her final vows and being alone on the island with Mitchum is a temptation no doubt . Mitchum though has his own code . He's a foundling kid who took the name of Allison because that was the street in Milwaukee he was dropped off on . He was a juvenile delinquent until he joined the Marines and they gave his life a meaning . The Marine Corps manual is his Bible as much as the Scripture is Kerr's . I can identify with that because in fact I had a cousin who was in the Marines who did in fact straighten him out . He was a hell raising kid in his youth and he became if not a solid citizen after his service , at least a respectable one . John Huston got unforgettable performances out of his credited cast of two . Heaven Knows , Mr . Allison has not dated one single bit since its release . We all need something to believe in to get us through in this world .
Lancaster and Douglas - - - Earp and Holiday	In one of her books Hedda Hopper devoted a chapter to both of the stars of Gunfight at the OK Corral , calling them the Terrible Twins . As a columnist Hopper was a firm defender of the old studio system and both Burt and Kirk were seen by her as betraying old Hollywood . Now personally I think their careers show that both of these guys knew exactly what they were doing in guiding their own destinies . This film is a great example of it . It was deservedly a critical hit and a moneymaker . No film has ever been made that completely told accurately the story of the famous gunfight , least of all this one . But it sure captures the spirit . I think both of these guys could have played each other's part and the film still would have been a winner . The problem with playing Wyatt Earp is that he's usually such a straight arrow on screen or on television that the main job of the actor is to keep from making him sound like Dudley Doo-Right . Burt Lancaster is capable enough and did it , but Wyatt Earp maybe one of the least complex roles he ever essayed . Kirk Douglas though is the best Doc Holiday I've ever seen portrayed . Doc Holiday is a brooding , consumptive alcoholic who's also a woman batterer . He treats Jo Van Fleet like garbage and her responses to him is responsible for several of the plot twists . As I've said before Douglas can flip into rage better than any other actor ever . Just watch him with Van Fleet after the youngest Earp brother has been killed . Today we would call Jo Van Fleet a battered spouse even though she and Douglas are living common-law . Her's is the next best portrayal in the film besides Kirk Douglas . Rhonda Fleming has little to do except look coquettish and beautiful as the lady gambler who Lancaster falls for . But that was usually enough for her public . It's ironic that she's playing a liberated woman for 19th century and Fleming's politics are quite right wing and Lancaster her very traditional 19th century man was a noted political liberal . And of course the unbilled co-star is Frankie Laine singing that wonderful title song by Dimitri Tiomkin and Ned Washington . Tiomkin was one of the best of movie composers , his music gave that extra oomph into a lot of good movies , making them great .
How H . G . Wells Conceived The Future	If scientists behaved in a way that H . G . Wells was confident they would in the future , history wouldn't quite have turned out the way it did in Things To Come . Were almost 80 years past the point that Wells wrote The Shape Of Things To Come on which this film is based and no closer to the world he describes than before , in some ways farther away . Though such well known players as Raymond Massey , Ralph Richardson , and Cedric Hardwicke are in the cast , they're more caricatures than real characters . It's the main weakness with the film , it's devoted to Wells's philosophy of science will solve all problems and the rest of us are backward fools . Massey's characters , two generations of the same family holds that supremely optimistic view . Cedric Hardwicke is a skeptic who feels man is rushing too far forward . And Ralph Richardson is a warlord arisen from the destruction of another Thirty Years War fought with modern weapons . By the way as the atomic bomb had not been invented , poison gas was deemed to be weapon that almost destroys mankind . According to Wells , science and conquest can never mix . Scientists as a group are far too above the world of politics to engage in such things . In Wells's lifetime scientists certainly fled the rightwing fascistic governments of Hitler and Mussolini . Those same folks however in order to defeat them , subordinated themselves to the Allies and fashioned the atomic weapons that ushered in the modern age . If they behaved as Wells would have liked them to , someone like Albert Einstein would have headed a junta of scientists who would have established a new order after World War II . Wells got it wrong both in time and in development . He apparently never envisioned the computer as well as atomic power . Computer programmers are far more likely to be our rulers in a brave new world than scientists at the moment . Still Things To Come , aided by the direction of William Cameron Menzies and the sets created offer an interesting glimpse into the mind of H . G . Wells , certainly a respected thinker of his time though he didn't quite get right the shape of Things To Come .
Lynnfield's Terrible Secret	I'm not sure how Theodora Goes Wild would be viewed today because of changing demographics . Some of those small New England towns like Lynnfield are not bastions of conservatism any longer . Today the home of a well known author like Irene Dunne would be a tourist attraction . But back in the Thirties , this still was the New England of Calvin Coolidge and descendants of the town founder just don't go writing romance novels . But that's what Irene Dunne is doing only its under a pseudonym , lest the good people of Lynnfield make life uncomfortable for herself and her two maiden aunts . Irene's cover will be blown though when she meets her illustrator at her publisher . Melvyn Douglas is quite smitten with her and he follows her back to Lynnfield from New York and persuades her that she ought to live life a little and not just vicariously through her novels . Dunne takes his advice with a vengeance after he's thoroughly embarrassed her . But when Theodora Lynn does go wild she takes no prisoners . Coming out in public under her pseudonym of Caroline Adams , Dunne gets fame and notoriety confused . Today she would be big time tabloid fodder and pays Douglas back in a way he can only blame on himself . It's charming pair of leads with a delightful supporting cast that play their roles to perfection . A particular favorite of mine is publisher Thurston Hall who gets to do a drunk scene with Dunne , something the very proper Mr . Hall didn't often do . Irene Dunne got one of her five Oscar nominations for playing Theodora Lynn aka Caroline Adams , but lost in the big sweepstakes to Luise Rainer for The Great Ziegfeld . I'm not sure how you could do Theodora Goes Wild today though . I can see the town billboard on the Massachusetts Turnpike : Welcome to Lynnfield , Home of Caroline Adams .
A New Hairspray For A New Generation	This second version of Hairspray got lots of attention for seventies disco king John Travolta doing a role in drag . It was quite an undertaking because the person Travolta was trying to emulate was the one and only Divine . Her characterization of Edna Turnblad in John Waters's original Hairspray was the pivot for that whole film . Hairspray number two retains all the originality and songs and good humor of what John Waters gave us in the Eighties . I guess Travolta was lucky there was no gossip about him and Christopher Walken who plays Wilbur Turnblad in this version . I do wonder if Nikki Blonsky who plays our hefty teenage protagonist Tracy Turnblad will have a career similar to Rikki Lake's . Lake's was going quite well as a talk-show host in the Nineties , but we haven't heard much from her as of late . The thing that shocked me more than John Travolta in drag about this version of Hairspray was the fact that Disney Studios let their number one bubble gum teen idol Zac Efron appear as heartthrob Link Larkin in this version . Maybe it's something that Zac demanded of them and they relented . Presumably he's worried about a career after the third version of High School Musical comes out . Eventually it all has to end . I can say with certainty that old Walter Elias Disney would NEVER have let one of his stars appear in any version of Hairspray . This was the man who ran Tommy Kirk out of the business for being gay . Things have changed a lot in the Magic Kingdom . I enjoyed this version of Hairspray every bit as much as I did the original one . Maybe we should do one for each generation that passes .
" George and Martha , . . . . . . . sad . . . . . . . . sad . . . . . . . . sad "	Edward Albee's award winning play , Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ran for 664 performances on Broadway and just closed down when this film version made its debut in 1966 . The Broadway play was set entirely in the living room of George and Martha's home and starred Uta Hagen , Arthur Hill , Melinda Dillon , and George Grizzard . All eminently respectable players , but none of them exactly movie box office . This film was destined to make money when the most publicized couple of the decade , Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton , chose it as a star vehicle for themselves . Of course what was not clear was how well a one stage play would adapt to film . It adapted very well and went quite beyond one stage . The action of the film moved effortlessly to an all night diner at one point with some stops along the way . You'd hardly know the story as originally told only had one setting . There's no real plot to it . For reasons I can't fathom this middle aged and bitter couple George and Martha have a younger couple , Nick and Honey , over to their house at two in the morning . I don't know about you , but I'm usually not my best at that time . Also they had just come from a party at Martha's father's house . Martha's dad is the president of a college and George teaches there . Nick and Honey are a newly hired professor and his wife . The late night and the liquor bring out the worst in everybody . A whole lot of ugly truths get told . Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf was the summit of the professional team of Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton . Playing against type , Elizabeth Taylor got her second Oscar the one she felt she earned . She always disparaged the one received for Butterfield 8 as it came on the heels of her well publicized pneumonia bout . In fact all four members of the cast were nominated with Sandy Dennis winning Best Supporting Actress . Ironically Richard Burton didn't win , losing to Paul Scofield for A Man for All Seasons . I guess the Academy voters figured Burton would get another shot . He never brought home the big prize though . George Segal usually gets overlooked . This film and Ship of Fools was the start of his long career , but no Oscar for him either . Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf is quite the indictment against marriage , especially after the love has died . It's far from the whole story of marriage . There are many who stay married longer than George and Martha and happily . But it wasn't in Edward Albee's life experience to draw from . But this should be seen to see Liz and Dick at their very best .
The Happiest Day In A Lifetime	One of Fred Astaire's most charming musicals is Royal Wedding where as if taken from his own real life , he's part of a brother and sister act with Jane Powell . We never did get to see Adele Astaire perform on screen , but rumor has it she was exquisite in her steps and lovely to see . And like Jane in this film she married into the aristocracy . In fact both brother and sister have their romances in Royal Wedding , Fred with none other than Sarah Churchill who was the daughter of a well known British politician . On shipboard Jane attracts the attention of Peter Lawford who was a member of the aristocracy and something of a skirt chaser . All this is against the background of the royal wedding that took place in 1947 between Mr . Phillip Mountbatten and Ms . Elizabeth Windsor . Another reviewer astutely remarked this film was on the MGM drawing boards for some time . In fact it was originally meant for Judy Garland , but she had her breakdown and Jane stepped into the part . Despite all the British locales , the cast never left the MGM lot , footage of the real royal wedding and other London establishing shots were used . Jane got three lovely numbers to sing , The Happiest Day in a Lifetime , Open Your Eyes , and Too Late Now , the last being nominated for Best Song . In fact Jane Powell had a unique distinction of having two film songs up in the same year for the Oscar , the other being Wonder Why from Rich , Young , And Pretty . I can't recollect another performer this ever happened to , not even her co-star Fred Astaire or Bing Crosby who did introduce the Oscar winning song for 1951 , In The Cool Cool Cool of the Evening from Here Comes The Groom . Songwriters Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner didn't do too bad for Fred either . Royal Wedding is famous as the picture in which Fred Astaire did his surreal dance on the ceiling . Thinking about his lady love Sarah , Fred , alone in his hotel room starts to sing and dance You're All the World To Me and ends up dancing on the sides of the wall and ceiling of his room . This was accomplished by constructing a set that turned with the furniture and fixtures nailed down . I can't fathom the precision it took to get that number right and retain the spontaneous look that Astaire's dancing was noted for . Fred also sang and danced I Left My Hat in Haiti and Every Night at Seven . The duet that Powell and Astaire have is the longest song title on record to date . How Can You Believe Me When You Know I've Been A Liar All My Life has Fred and Jane as a gangster and his moll . Astaire was fabulous and Jane more than kept up with him in the number . When Judy Garland had her breakdown , her first public appearance after leaving the hospital was on a pair of Bing Crosby's Philco Radio Program where guest starred with Bob Hope as well . Judy did a rollicking version of the Liar song with Bing and it's the only instance where you can get an idea of what she might have been like in Powell's role . This film was a favorite of my mother's , when we watched on VHS about 20 years ago , she loved Fred Astaire's Sunday Jumps number . This is a sequence on board ship where Fred asks to use the ship's gym for rehearsal and does a marvelously inventive sequence with the gym equipment even including a coat hanger . If there's an example of Fred Astaire's ingenuity in making his material look spontaneous this is it . It's well known the number of man hours he rehearsed to get that spontaneous look , but it certainly pays off here . And this review is dedicated to my mother , a very big fan of this film . I can still hear her remark about how graceful Fred Astaire moved .
The Sharpie And The Schnook .	On the third stop in the Road series of pictures we find Bing Crosby and Bob Hope playing their usual sharpie and schnook . Crosby's schemes have a little more bite to them in this film , he sells Hope into slavery . Ah , but the catch is : Dorothy Lamour bought him to be her husband and is Bing put out about that . No worry there however , he sings a patented Crosby love ballad and Dottie the princess is his . Musically , Road pictures seem to break down into the usual choice of songs for the film . That ballad Crosby sang to woo Princess Dottie is Moonlight Becomes You , probably the biggest song hit ever to come from a Road picture . There's a song for Dottie , in this case entitled Constantly , performed in the sultry Lamour manner . You have a philosophical number Ain't Got A Dime To My Name for Bing which is his own genre . And finally the title tune which is one for Hope and Crosby to perform with their usual ad-libbing and banter . When Decca released an album of 78s for the Road to Morocco , Bing recorded all the numbers solo including the duet with Hope in the title tune . When they later did Road to Utopia , Crosby and Hope recorded Put It There Pal and then the flip side of that 78 included a duet version of Road to Morocco . Since it was a duet in the movie , the duet version of Road to Morocco became the only one after that . Bing's solo version of Road to Morocco disappeared into the Decca vaults , never to be heard again . It's one of his rarest items now , so if you have it , it's worth something providing it's in good condition . One thing about writing reviews for Road pictures is that there is no plot worth mentioning , just a frame to hang a lot of gags on . No worry of spoilers here . In this journey we have hotfoots , whoopee cushions , talking camels , mirages , dribble glasses and Bob and Bing kissing each other . Is that enough nonsense ? One gag wasn't planned . At the beginning when Crosby and Hope are washed ashore on the Moroccan desert they find a camel . Without any warning the camel spits in Hope's eye . Director David Butler thought it so hilarious , he left it in the film .
Racing Towards a Racist State	When Stephen Dorff's character of PK sees the African child reading from the U . S . Declaration of Independence about that all men are created equal , he knew he'd started something . Literacy is always the key to freedom and accessibility to read everything is the second step . The southerners in the slave holding part of the USA knew that well . It was a crime back in the day to teach a black slave to read . In our own country Frederick Douglass knew that well and he counted his education as a first step for freedom for his people . What I liked about The Power of One is that it goes into the history of the Union of South Africa as seen not from a historian , but from the point of view of a growing boy who was of English parentage . The young man who grew up to be Stephen Dorff because he's orphaned as a child has to go to a school for Afrikaans children . Their resentment of English encroachment and victory in the Boer War runs deep . Their ministers in the Dutch Reformed Church preach a brand of Christianity that can now only be found in the USA among white supremacist fringe groups . It wasn't so long ago it was more in the mainstream here , let alone in South Africa . Dorff identifies with the blacks because he's an oppressed minority as well . The film takes us through the late twenties . thirties , and forties in South African history . The year 1948 is a critical one as shown here . The coalition building of Jan Christian Smuts came to an end as his South African Party was voted out of office and the white supremacist Nationalist Party of Daniel Malan was voted in . What was informal before became established law at that point . Of course even then a lot of people of good will in all races living there opposed that policy . It remained in affect until Nelson Mandela was elected president . Young people are shown as the engineers of change in South Africa . Dorff , his friend Dominic Walker , his African boxing rival Alois Moyo and even Fay Masterson whose father is high up in the Nationalist Party are the opponents . All of them give fine performances . The two most well known names in the cast are Sir John Gielgud as Dorff's English headmaster and Morgan Freeman the African who teaches him to box . The first half of the film is a flashback as Dorff's is reciting an autobiographical essay for class which we don't realize until the classroom is shown . He learned to box to combat the unceasing bullying he took from the Afrikaans kids . Freeman gives a wonderful performance and the coda to it was supplied by Dorff when he says that the Afrikaans policeman who beat Freeman to death was later found strung up in an isolated area . One of the kids who bullies Dorff grows up to be Daniel Craig who also becomes a policeman who now have powers greater than they had before . Their confrontation in the end is something to see . As a kid Craig idolized Hitler and as an adult we see how he put those ideas into practice . It's a truly malevolent portrayal of hate , you could tell Mr . Craig had a good career ahead of him . As did Stephen Dorff . He's got a great ear for dialect , right in the tradition of Robert Mitchum . Hard to believe he's an American . For a great picture of South Africa turning a dark corner in its history , I highly recommend The Power of One .
How The Grinch Nearly Steals Cary Grant's Career	After winning two successive Oscars for A Letter To Three Wives and All About Eve , director Joseph Mankiewicz was on one big creative roll . His next film was this charming comedy / drama about a medical doctor with some interesting ideas and one of his patients , a girl with a bundle of joy on the way and a dead father , courtesy of the Korean War . Those roles are played by Cary Grant and Jeanne Crain . Grant's a strange kind of doctor who believes that surgery and pills are only a last resort . Today he might be operating a very successful wellness center . Grant would still be getting the a lot of criticism from jealous colleagues like Hume Cronyn . In fact that's how the film opens up with Cronyn getting a report from Margaret Hamilton who was from a place where Grant practiced his trade called Goose Creek . It was a report about Grant affected a lot of ' miracle ' cures down in Goose Creek . Our boy Cronyn is looking for dirt with which he can discredit Cary . Playing a most mysterious role in the proceedings is Finlay Currie who lives with Grant and is hardly ever not around him . At the faculty hearing that Cronyn has called to discuss the charges Cronyn has made because of his investigation , Currie's story is finally told and it is quite the tale indeed . Cronyn has one of two roles that could be described as villainous . He's a nasty little Grinch like creature who thinks he can rise to the top by discrediting others . You find those in every profession , in every walk of life . You also find people like Will Wright who is Jeanne Crain's uncle . She and her father , Sidney Blackmer , live on Wright's farm totally as his dependents . Blackmer is a cultured , cultivated man who unfortunately was never able to make a go of the various professions he tried , teacher , reporter , etc . Now with bad health he's come back to the family farm to live with Crain at the sufferance of Wright who proudly claims them as his dependents . In defense of Wright he's no doubt a hard working individual , but he's as prosperous as he is because of government agricultural subsidies . In a scene very similar to one Elizabeth Taylor had in Giant , Grant rather firmly puts Wright down saying how unfortunate it is that brains and talent can't similarly be subsidized . Wright is such a philistine , the remark goes totally over him . It's my favorite scene in the film . Besides those I've mentioned , look for a nice performance from Walter Slezak as Grant's friend and chief defender and Basil Ruysdael as the dean of the college conducting a hearing . People Will Talk is a wonderful film about mostly some very nice people and the small contributions they make to make our planet a happy one . The only fault I have with it is I can't imagine Cary Grant coming from a place called Goose Creek .
Butterfly Man Of Devil's Island	Watching Papillon today it occurred to me that the film it most resembles is Birdman of Alcatraz . Both Steve McQueen and Burt Lancaster were sent to prison for murder convictions although allegedly McQueen was innocent . Both were based on true characters who wrote , in the case of Lancaster ghost wrote , their own memoirs of their time in the joint and the films are based on those books . And certainly both men were rebel spirits . In Lancaster's case it's an internal rebellion against the rules of the penal system . Of course in the work he did developing those bird remedies , he rehabilitated himself in a way that ' the system ' did not understand . But in the case of Henri Charriere aka Papillon for the butterfly tattoo on his chest , he just wants out of the penal colony at Devil's Island and makes many attempts to get shed of the place . The film is about his many attempts and his refusal to quit no matter what is done to break him . Devil's Island in the Thirties was not any better than it was when Alfred Dreyfus was doing his time in the tropical prison . Still McQueen is resourceful enough as you will see . McQueen though he's far from French has the rebel persona that really fits this part . Had he been younger and this been a French production I could have seen Jean Gabin in the role . It's one of McQueen's best roles and he holds your interest throughout this nearly three hour film . Leading an impressive supporting cast is Dustin Hoffman who plays what we would now call a white collar criminal . He becomes a devoted acolyte of McQueen seeing he's going to need friends himself if he's to survive Devil's Island . He also wants to escape in the worst possible way . Later on we see Hoffman in a different light as if completing the Birdman of Alcatraz analogy , Hoffman's role is similar to that of Telly Savalas who's a tough character when we first meet him in Birdman , but later becomes acclimated to prison life . Hoffman has worked himself into a nice situation relatively speaking on the Island and has resigned himself that this is his home for better or worse . It's a very good performance by Hoffman as his character changes during the film . I'd really recommend seeing both Birdman of Alcatraz and Papillon back to back . It's a good prison doubleheader for a rainy afternoon .
An Unusual Fugitive	If anyone is looking for some typical Stephen King fare with lots of blood and vividly imagined monsters , Hearts of Atlantis is not your film . If however your taste runs to well acted drama about growing up in the early sixties Hearts of AAtlantis is definitely the film for you . Although it's not stated my gut tells me that this tale is somewhat autobiographical . David Morse comes back to the small town he grew up in to attend the funeral of a friend killed in action , presumably Kuwait during Desert Storm . He also learns that his first girl friend also passed on a few years earlier . They were a trio that hung out and did things together as kids . Morse's mind wanders back to those innocent days when Anton Yelchin as young Morse , Will Rothhaar as the man who was killed as a youngster and Mika Boorem as the girl friend are all of eleven . Yelchin lives with his mother Hope Davis , a woman made bitter by the split between her and Yelchin's father . Into their lives comes a mysterious boarder whom Davis takes in because she needs the money , but remains suspicious . The stranger is Anthony Hopkins and he and Yelchin form a bond . Hopkins is a fugitive , but not in the usual sense . As we discover he's got powers and abilities far beyond those of ordinary men which are in the mind reading field . It's a gift and a curse and Hopkins is wanted by some mysterious strangers who want to make use of his abilities . Presumably this is the Central Intelligence Agency . Hearts in Atlantis is a tender and loving film that is made by the performances of Anthony Hopkins and the juvenile cast around him . Best scene in the film is Hopkins defusing a confrontation between Yelchin and friends and a school bully played by Timothy Reifsnyder . Hopkins reads Reifsnyder and tells him things about himself he would not want known , but they do ring true and play into the pathology of bullying . This is an absolute must see films , one of the best screen performances by Anthony Hopkins on film .
" You Have Stolen My Heart , Now Don't Go ' Way "	I've always had a sneaking suspicion that Jack Warner saw how well MGM did with Two Weeks With Love , a nostalgic gaslight era musical that starred Jane Powell . I'm sure Warner then got the idea to do a musical for his reigning musical star of the moment Doris Day from the same era . And save a whole lot of money because nearly all the material is in the public domain . On Moonlight Bay is the title of the film and one of several songs sung by Doris Day , Gordon MacRae , and Gordon's rival for Doris , Jack Smith all from the era before America's entry in World War I . Hollywood has done a lot to glamorize that era of Norman Rockwell and Grant Wood as America likes to see itself . Certainly none of the social problems the USA had in that era seem to intrude on Milbern , Indiana the fictional location Booth Tarkington had for the Winfield and Sherman families whose son and daughter find each other . Of course if you paid a ticket to see social problems in a Doris Day film as that other Warner Brother icon would say , what a maroon . Doris as the tomboy first baseman hasn't quite discovered men yet , that is until she almost shoots Gordon MacRae . After that you know how this film will go . One original song was done for On Moonlight Bay , the Christmas Story which Doris and Gordon sing with accompanying carolers . It blends nicely in with all the nostalgic material . On Moonlight Bay and its sequel film , By The Light Of The Silvery Moon is based on the Booth Tarkington Penrod stories . Billy Gray who later was Bud Anderson in Father Knows Best plays Doris's younger brother Wesley ( Penrod ) . He's one mischievous kid and whatever trouble he doesn't get into here is saved for the next film . Doris , Gordon , and Billy all appear in the next film along with her parents Leon Ames and Rosemary DeCamp and maid Mary Wickes who always has a sharp word for the goings on . I confess I have a fondness for the songs of this romantic era myself , so I'm prejudiced about On Moonlight Bay . But try it you young folk , you might like it .
" Career , Career , Love is a Career "	Career is one no-holds barred look at the theatrical profession and what it takes to get to the top . Anthony Franciosa had that determination , but it cost him big time in his personal life . No pun intended , but this may have been Tony Franciosa's career role . He's Sam Lawson , World War II veteran with thespian ambitions . Franciosa literally starts at the bottom with a character named Maury Novak played by Dean Martin . Career has it all , the performances in fly by night stock companies for indifferent audiences , the fighting for bit roles and the bigger fight to get even noticed for your big break . It costs Franciosa two marriages and near blacklisting through his association with Martin . Career in fact is one of the first films to even mention the blacklist , albeit they do it in a very gingerly way . Had it been made 10 years later , I doubt that the script would have had a line in it for Carolyn Jones to say that the House Un American Activities Committee had some honorable intentions . Speaking of Jones , she's great in a role as an agent who has a deep affection for her client Franciosa . You kind of hope that they will get together at some point in the future . Shirley MacLaine has a great part as the good time daughter of a big theatrical producer played by Robert Middleton . At some point MacLaine gets married to both Franciosa and Martin during the film . Dino did a hit record of the title song for the film although it is only heard instrumentally during the film . His performance as Maury Novak , a sleazy friend indeed to Franciosa , further established him as a dramatic actor and more proof he didn't need Jerry Lewis to succeed . Career is a dated film , it's very rooted in the Fifties when the story takes place . Yet it is a good dramatic story and a bit of a social commentary on the times .
There'll Always Be a Raj - - - - - - - NOT	A Passage Through India tells a story about the radicalization of a native Indian who happens to be a Moslem . This was in the days before the idea of a separate Pakistan took hold in the independence movement . Victor Bannerjee plays Dr . Aziz Ahmed and as you see by his title he's a professional man . But he's still looked down upon by most of the British who are ruling India . He's befriended by Peggy Ashcroft who is visiting India with her daughter-in-law to be , Judy Davis . Peggy's son is a magistrate . Bannerjee is also friends with James Fox who is an administrator at a local college . He's warned against fraternizing with the British by his friends and family , but Bannerjee goes on a picnic with Ashcroft and Davis and Davis has a horrifying experience in the historic caves at Marabar . It's only her claustrophobia acting up , but Bannerjee winds up accused of rape . And his trial becomes a cause celebre for the Congress Party . Note that Bannerjee has two defense attorneys , a Moslem and a Hindu . E . M . Forster who wrote A Passage to India brought two elements of his background to the writing of this novel . He served as a private secretary to a local maharajah so he knew the customs of India as well as the political scene . Most in the United Kingdom wanted to see India free after World War I . A few very powerful folks like Winston Churchill and some influential press lords , most prominently Lord Beaverbrook did not . There opposition kept India a British colony until after another World War . Secondly Forster was a closeted gay man . His homosexuality was not publicly revealed , he wasn't ' outted ' until after he died in 1970 . One of his relationships was with a Moslem Indian who died at a young age . He's the model for Dr . Aziz . The India Forster writes about is not Rudyard Kipling's India . A place where the native population is made to feel like outsiders . Forster identified with them in a way Kipling could never conceive . Peggy Ashcroft won a Best Supporting Actress Award for her role as the kindly Mrs . Moore . I've got a sneaking suspicion that Forster modeled her character on his own mother who lived with him until she died in 1945 . Judy Davis got a nomination for Best Actress and A Passage to India was nominated in a whole bunch of technical categories . A Passage to India is a disturbing look at a bygone era in a place where you can see a lot of the problems we face today being nurtured .
A Prisoner Of His Own Creation	Universal Studio in the height of the Hollywood Studio System was famous for three things that kept it in the black besides those famous studio tours that survive to this day . The Deanna Durbin musicals , the Abbott & Costello comedies and those great Gothic horror films with Dracula , The Wolfman , The Mummy and most of all Mary Shelley's Frankenstein . Those sets were used over and over again , you can recognize them if you're a real student of the genre . Although some have criticized it , I rather like the beginning of Bride of Frankenstein in a Regency drawing room where the creative minds of Lord Byron , Percy Shelley , and Mary Shelley are meeting . Of course the subject gets around to how she would continue the story , it just can't end right there . So while Gavin Gordon as Byron and Douglas Walton as Percy Shelley listen , Elsa Lanchester as Mary Shelley starts to tell about the further doings of her characters . Of course Colin Clive as Victor Frankenstein thought dead when he was brought out of the ruin , turns out to be alive , but in need of medical attention . The monster is also not dead , he's been put together even stronger than an ordinary human . As is first two victims he kills the parents of the little girl he killed in the original Frankenstein film . While Clive is recuperating at home under the care of his wife played here by Valerie Hobson , Clive receives a visit from his former teacher and mentor who originally aroused his interest in experiments along this line . Ernest Thesiger is Doctor Praetorious , a scientist whose reputation is more dubious than that of Frankenstein . He's been experimenting with bringing people back to life and he shows his little creations to Frankenstein . What he describes sounds a lot like cloning Mini Mes as Doctor Evil did . But DNA was not heard of back in the early 19th century . He thinks they ought to combine there efforts and create a female back from the dead to be a mate for the Frankenstein monster . Who knows if the big guy gets a little something something at home , maybe he won't have quite such a bad attitude . When the monster after wreaking havoc again on the countryside is finally back in the Frankenstein laboratory , he insists on a ' friend ' for himself . It's a real mess that Clive has gotten himself in again . Bride Of Frankenstein with that incredible climax when the monster tries to court his bride will still give you frights for weeks on watching it . The Gothic horror atmosphere that James Whale created on the Universal sets is still capable of creeping one out . Boris Karloff did not repeat his monster role after this and Colin Clive died in 1937 before the next Frankenstein film was made . Still the cycle may have been the most successful of all the Universal monster franchises . It certainly my favorite of all of them .
A Reign Full Of Ironies	The recent BBC series The Tudors certainly had nothing on their productions a generation ago of Henry VIII And His Six Wives and Elizabeth R . Henry VIII certainly had his marital problems , but they weren't just his domestic concerns . Other heads rolled when this guy discarded a wife . Most account of Henry VIII usually start with him trying to get a divorce from Catherine of Aragon in the 1530s so he could begat himself an heir with another . In fact in the first episode which does cover 30 + years of his reign and a bit of Henry VII we meet the young and virile Prince Henry who takes as his bride , Catherine of Aragon intended for his late older brother Prince Arthur . England did in fact come close to having a real King Arthur . To keep to the format of dealing with his reign wife by wife a lot of history gets crammed into that first episode . Always uppermost in Henry's mind was the previous century and the dynastic struggles with the Houses of Lancaster and York known popularly as the War of the Roses . He wanted and needed a male heir to secure the secession and everything else was subordinated to that . Subordinate he did because when the Pope under pressure from the occupying Spanish Army in Rome of the Emperor Charles V who happened to be Catherine of Aragon's nephew , Henry just broke from Rome and founded the Anglican Church . No church was going to tell him what to do and mess up the chance of a peaceful succession . Keith Michell is a wonderful Henry VIII both as a young man and later on as the fat tyrant he's come down in popular culture as . The wives are well suited to their parts with Frances Cuka ( Catherine of Aragon ) , Charlotte Rampling { Anne Boleyn ) , Jane Asher { Jane Seymour } , Jenny Bos { Anne of Cleves ) , Lynne Fredericks { Catherine Howard ) , and Barbara Leigh-Hunt { Catherine Parr } . Charlotte Rampling is tragic as the young ambitious Anne Boleyn from an even more ambitious family who won the king and then committed the horrible sin of having a girl baby . That baby grew up to be Queen Elizabeth , but her road to the throne was a rocky one also . Anne was essentially framed with an adultery charge in order to get rid of her . Which leads me to the best of the episodes . Lynne Fredericks as wife five Catherine Howard was a wild child to say the least . No fool like an old fool who really thinks this one wouldn't be straying . With the succession secured by Edward the child of Jane Seymour , Henry just wanted a little frolic . But he was old and fat and Ms . Howard had needs . Which she fulfilled with just about any young male who was around . Henry VIII's reign was full of ironies and this was one of the biggest ones . He had to frame Boleyn to get rid of her , but Catherine Howard needed no framing . He couldn't execute her fast enough once he found out . Thomas Cromwell who arranged the Boleyn marriage and later the Anne of Cleves marriage has come down as a sinister and thoroughly unpleasant man . And he's played by a guy and played well by one who's done a lot of sinister and unpleasant people , Donald Pleasance . Look also for a good performance by Bernard Hepton as Thomas Cranmer the first Archbishop of Canterbury under the new Anglican leadership . I've not seen the new Tudor series , but it will have to go some to beat this excellent mini-series from the BBC .
Quenching the Devil's Thirst	Thunder Road is the film that Robert Mitchum got to use all his many talents . Not only did he star in it , but he produced it and wrote the original story on which the film is based . And if that wasn't enough he wrote the songs for the film and made a hit record singing the title song . The other song , Whipporwill , he left to the considerable talents of Keely Smith who appeared in this film with him . The story is about moonshiners , those mountain people in the Appalachians and the Ozarks who distill their own spirits and sell it at a cut rate price . Of course that doesn't sit well the government which wants it share of the sin tax . You can do just about anything else , but NEVER try to evade taxes , the most heinous of crimes as the government sees it . Gene Barry is their man on the scene , but Barry is after bigger fish . He's after racketeer Jacques Aubuchon who wants to eliminate the independent moonshiners like Robert Mitchum and his family . Barry would like Mitchum's help , but Mitchum says a plague on both your houses . Mitchum with his hobohemian life in his formative years which included jail time among such people learned their ways very well , knowledge put to great use in creating this story . His character is something of a rebel hero , the kind Marlon Brando or Paul Newman would normally be playing , but Mitchum aces the part . It's usually in the top 10 of anybody's list in the films of Robert Mitchum . Making his screen debut is Bob's oldest son James Mitchum whose resemblance is so uncanny he looks more like a clone than an offspring . Of course the one that the part was offered to first was Elvis Presley . Unfortunately Mitchum made the mistake of seeing Elvis directly instead of dealing with Colonel Tom Parker . Parker would probably have nixed it in any event because he was making Elvis a star who never was less than first billed in any of his films . Still Elvis would have been perfectly cast in the role Jim Mitchum played , that was his background as well . Imagine what a different direction the King's career would have taken had he done Thunder Road . Even without Elvis , Thunder Road is a classic film from the Fifties . Shot on a low budget on location , it reaped much profit for the Mitchum coffers . Kept old rumple eyes in some of his favorite diversions for a long time , I'm sure .
Trust Fund Baby Gets His Comeuppance	For his second feature film directorial effort Orson Welles assembled a lot of his Citizen Kane alumni , Joseph Cotten , Erskine Sanford , Ray Collins , and Agnes Moorehead , for this screen adaption of the Booth Tarkington novel The Magnificent Ambersons . He didn't bring Gregg Toland along to film the thing , but Stanley Cortez definitely learned how from Gregg as to what Welles wanted . The Amberson mansion sure looks like a lost relation to stately Xanadu and the same deep focus photography is present . And those fill the screen closeups and telling shadows , still there and used to great effect . Richard Bennett is the head of Amberson clan and he's got a lovely daughter in Dolores Costello . Joseph Cotten is the hardworking young man who desires her hand as do many . But he tries a bit too hard and she coquettishly rejects him and marries good and dull Donald Dillway . The have a son who she spoils rotten in the person of Tim Holt . Tim Holt as George Amberson Minafer would today be called a trust fund baby . The thought of work or some kind of profession is alien to him and he has an intense dislike for Cotten as much as he'd like the daughter he has from the marriage he made after Dolores rejected him . My favorite scene in the film is Holt with Cotten's daughter , Anne Baxter , in a carriage where Holt is telling her about his disdain for any profession let alone any manual labor . But while being a person of leisure as one in Holt's class is born to be , he'll use his money in various charitable enterprises to benefit the less fortunate . Sounds like a budding Michael Moore . Holt got great reviews for this part proving here as he did in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre that he was capable of being more than a B film cowboy . But that's where he returned to and probably of his own choice . Also about that time war service interrupted his career as well . Joseph Cotten belongs to that vanished race of gentleman players that used to grace the screen . They don't write parts for people like him , William Powell , Don Ameche , Ronald Colman , etc . But being a part of these two immortal Orson Welles creations assures him a place in cinema history forever . The saga of the Amberson family covers a slice of American social history from the Gilded Age to the Progressive Era . Besides the editing that Welles claimed butchered his film , The Magnificent Ambersons failed to find an audience in 1942 . America's entry into World War II was on most people's minds then . A story about a bygone era just didn't sell . Citizen Kane which also had a bygone era story was also about a guy still very much on the scene . All the controversy about William Randolph Hearst sold a lot of tickets for Citizen Kane . The Magnificent Ambersons certainly didn't have that kind of a built in publicity gimmick . Even with the cuts that Welles objected to the film still has great merit , a fine group of players telling a good story . Tim Holt got his comeuppance , but not quite the way he expected . Then again so did just about everyone in the cast .
What Plans They Have For Robert Mitchum	In Lee Server's biography about Robert Mitchum the recounting of the making of His Kind of Woman could actually be the basis of an interesting film itself . Jane Russell of course was the personal creation of Howard Hughes and when Hughes bought RKO Studio , Robert Mitchum was his number one male star . It was only natural that Hughes seek to team them and in fact they do go well together . But Howard Hughes filmed this thing essentially three times with three different actors playing villain Nick Ferraro a Hollywoodized version of Lucky Luciano . First it was Howard Petrie , then Robert Wilkie , and finally Raymond Burr before Hughes got a Ferraro he liked . Besides that the original film had few laughs in it and Hughes did get a good streak of inspiration when he hired Vincent Price as the film was being re-shot for the second time and integrated scenes with him into the plot . Price plays a Hollywood swashbuckling movie star , shades of Errol Flynn , who really steals the film from both stars . It's a part that calls for Price to overact outrageously and he does so . His Kind of Woman is worth seeing for him alone . The basic story has drifter / gambler Robert Mitchum being persuaded with money and other less gentle means to go to a resort located in Baja , California . Of course who's ultimately hired him is our gangster villain Burr and let us say that His Kind of Woman may have been the inspiration for Faces Off with John Travolta and Nicholas Cage a few years ago . Tim Holt makes a brief appearance here as a Federal cop who warns Mitchum of what is in store for him and gets killed for his trouble . Holt was starring in B westerns for RKO and occasionally doing other film appearances like this one . When he went to war back in the mid Forties , RKO looked around for another replacement to be its B western hero and Mitchum got his first big break and his first starring role . But irony of ironies , Mitchum moved on to bigger and better things and Holt kept grinding out B films that were good , but way beneath his talent . Other assorted familiar movie faces like Charles McGraw , Marjorie Reynolds , Jim Backus , and Alberto Morin are in His Kind of Woman and give it a comfortable feel . His Kind of Woman is one of the great noir films ever done , even if it had to be shot over and over to get it right by Mr . Hughes's lights .
Busby Berkeley at his surreal best .	In 1935 with the country in the midst of the Depression this kind of escapist entertainment is just what the public wanted . And the studio best equipped to give it to them was Warner Brothers . The Brothers gave complete creative control to Busby Berkeley having him direct the whole film instead of just the musical numbers . And the talented Mr . Berkeley hit one big home run with this . Back during the late sixties when the nostalgia craze was going on Warner Brothers re-released this and Footlight Parade back in the cinema . It was quite the treat for me to see this first on the silver screen as it was for my parents and grandparents . You never worry about plot or story in these films , they're just an excuse to plant musical numbers in the film . What plot there is involves tightfisted dowager Alice Brady both financing a charity show at a favorite summer resort hotel of her's . She's brought her two children along , the beautiful Gloria Stuart and the idiot drunken son Frank McHugh . She's worried about some gigolo sweeping Stuart away as so many women have done with McHugh so she hires hotel clerk / medical school student Dick Powell to escort her . I think you can figure out the rest . But we also have from the Warner's stock company Hugh Herbert as another eccentric millionaire staying there and goldigging stenographer Glenda Farrell and Dorothy Dare a goldigging clerk who respectively land their intended targets . But borrowed from his usual haunts at MGM is Adolphe Menjou who steals the acting honors in a scenery chewing performance as a hammy Russian theatrical director who's a deadbeat chiseler as well . This film should be watched for him alone . Harry Warren and Al Dubin contributed three songs for this film . Dick Powell sings The Words are in my Heart and I'm Going Shopping With you . But the real hit song was done by Wini Shaw in the huge production finale . I'm speaking of Lullaby of Broadway which won the second Best Song Oscar given out . it's Busby Berkeley at his surreal best .
What It Takes To Be A Celebrity	Claudette Colbert was given two of Paramount's up and coming leading men in The Gilded Lily which holds up very well today because it talks about the cult of celebrity . Ray Milland and Fred MacMurray co-starred with her and in MacMurray's fifth film he became a star . Fred's a reporter and Claudette's a secretary and they have a regular Thursday date on a bench near the main public library in Bryant Park in New York . They talk about the state of the human condition while munching on popcorn . But one fine day Claudette runs into Ray Milland who is traveling incognito in the USA , he's a titled English Earl whose got a playboy reputation and a fiancé back across the pond . MacMurray as it were happens to spot Milland and his father C . Aubrey Smith as they're boarding the boat back for the United Kingdom . His reporter instinct takes over and he breaks the story of Milland and Colbert and overnight he creates a celebrity , ' the No Girl . ' What to do , but try and exploit this all around and Claudette working class secretary one day becomes a celebrity like Zsa Zsa Gabor , Pia Zadora , or Jessica Hahn . The cult of celebrity was just beginning back in the day and The Gilded Lily is one of the first films to deal with that phenomenon . Though MacMurray got his big break in this film after four other films which he didn't make much of an impact , the film really does belong to Claudette Colbert . She's got some great comic moments here , getting drunk and passing out under a nightclub table while MacMurray and owner Luis Alberni are discussing putting her in his club . Of course Claudette doesn't sing or dance or do card tricks , so what will she do once she gets there . Another great moment is Claudette taking singing lessons from an exasperated Leonid Kinskey . This might have been the inspiration for the scene where Fortunio Bonanova tries to resign from giving singing lessons to Dorothy Comingore in Citizen Kane . Of course this one is played strictly for laughs as poor Colbert tries to croak out a song . Claudette Colbert doesn't sing or dance or do card tricks , but give her her due as one of the best screen comediennes films had back in the Thirties . She's at her very best in The Gilded Lily and what the film says about celebrities and what it takes to be one is probably more true today than back in 1935 . Don't miss this one if broadcast
Free Tracy Turnblad	Hairspray both this version and the new 2007 one are a pair of great satirical films about teenage mores in the early Sixties of the Civil Rights Era . Sometimes our heroes and heroines for civil rights and human decency can be found where you least expect . Such a person is Tracy Turnblad played by later television host Rikki Lake who's a full figured gal in every sense of the word . Her biggest desire growing up in Baltimore of the Early Sixties is to get on the local teen hop show hosted by Corny Collins . The regulars who dance there have a celebrity status , but something a fat girl dare not hope to dream . Tracy doesn't hope , she lives the dream and actually gets picked to dance and be a regular to the distress of plastic teen princess Colleen Fitzpatrick . But it's a cause for celebration for Tracy's parents played by Divine and Jerry Stiller and her best friend Leslie Ann Powers . All this is against the background of the civil rights era and Baltimore had its problems also . The Corny Collins show is segregated with a prescribed Negro Day once a month . That seems as bogus to Tracy as baseball being segregated not too long ago and she joins the fight to integrate the show . She's even convinced her teen dream new boyfriend Michael St . Gerard to join in as well . A subplot is Powers finding love herself in the person of Clayton Prince who is black and that's upsetting to a lot of people , not the least is Powers's mother . It would be within that same decade that the Supreme Court did away with miscegenation laws , so these kids are running some real risks . Hairspray is a very funny film with a very serious message about live and live . In fact that's the main problem with the world today right now , certain people feeling they've got the right through religion or secular philosophy or plain out and out wealth who just feel they've the right to dictate the lives the rest of us are supposed to lead in conforming to how they see the world . In the remake of Hairspray , Queen Latifah who plays Ruth Brown's role of Motormouth Mabel says to the characters playing the Powers and Prince roles that as a racially mixed couple that those young people should be prepared for a whole lot of stupid in the world to deal with . One cast member of this version of Hairspray had occasion to deal with a whole lot of stupid back in 1994 . In the cast he's listed as Keith Douglas , lead singer of the Lafayettes DooWop group , but he was Keith Douglas Pruitt , a talented musician , actor , and composer . He and his partner were attacked by a trio of suburban rednecks who were dismayed at seeing two members of the same sex holding hands on Waverly Place . Keith sustained a fractured skull and a hearing loss for a while looked to permanently impair his career in music . It was in my working days with New York State Crime Victims Board that I met Keith Pruitt . I did the claims for both he and his partner , giving them what my agency could provide for both of them . He did go back to work eventually to the applause of his friends and admirers of his work . Keith Pruitt died only a week ago at the age of 47 . He left a legacy in art , but he also left a legacy in life as a genuine hero . One who certainly never started out to be one , but things are thrust upon us in life sometimes . He stood up to the homophobic bigots and bashers with dignity and pride . I'm really proud I knew him and was part of his story in a small way . And so this review of Hairspray is dedicated to Keith Pruitt , someone we can all emulate in life .
The Centerpiece of Mario Lanza's Career	Since musicals have both gone out of fashion and are incredibly expensive to make without all the talent needed to make one under contract to a studio , I doubt we will ever get a real life story of Enrico Caruso . But if everything else was in place it was no accident that no Hollywood studio attempted the task until Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer had Mario Lanza under contract . No one else could have done it , I doubt whether it will ever be tried again . And why should it . I think Enrico Caruso himself would have been satisfied as to how his singing was portrayed on screen . For his tenor voice was his life , his reason for being on the earth . To say that liberties were taken with his life is to be modest . Caruso , like the man who portrayed him , was a man of large appetites although with a lot more self discipline . He had numerous relationships with several women and fathered two out of wedlock sons who are not in this film . His contribution to the recording industry is treated as almost an afterthought . He's shown in a recording studio once late in his life . Actually he started recording right around the turn of the last century and together with Irish tenor John McCormack for RCA Victor made the recording industry what it became . When Caruso and McCormack were at their heights you had to practically inherit a ticket to see either of them perform live . But a lot of immigrant Italian and Irish families had a phonograph and a record or three of either of these men . It's why both became the legends that they are . What the film does have is some beautifully staged operatic arias done by Mario Lanza , a taste of what he might have become had he the discipline of a Caruso to stick to opera . The Great Caruso won an Oscar for sound recording and received nominations for costume and set design . Mario himself helped popularize the film with an RCA Red Seal album of songs from The Great Caruso . Unfortunately due to contractual obligations we couldn't get an actual cast album with Ann Blyth , Dorothy Kirsten , and Jarmila Novotna also . Though Blyth sang it in the film , Lanza had a big hit recording of The Loveliest Night of the Year further helping to popularize The Great Caruso . If you're looking for a life of Enrico Caruso , this ain't it . If you are looking for a great artist singing at the height of his career , than you should not miss The Great Caruso .
Go For Broke , means Shoot the Works	Van Johnson who was MGM's all American GI in many a World War II film , co-stars with a bunch of veterans from 442 Division which was a regiment made up of Japanese-Americans who chose this over internment in the various camps set up for them . The most distinguished member of this regiment is current United States Senator Daniel K . Inouye who lost an arm in Italy during that campaign . After training the 442nd was assigned to Italy after the Salerno landings , took part in the campaign for Rome , and then was part of the invasion force into Southern France that occurred in August of 1944 . Johnson delivers a fine performance of an officer who is reluctant to soldier and train with this new outfit . His prejudices , honed to a fine edge by Pearl Harbor , weren't exactly atypical of a lot of Americans back then . Over time , he grows to appreciate his troops as men and as fighters . Having all of those Nisei veterans lends a real ring of authenticity to this film . A few non-veterans were in this as well . Henry Nakamura played Tommy who adopted a pet pig in Italy and bought him to France and he was the comic relief . He made quite a hit and then was in the Robert Taylor western , Westward the Women . I guess he had limited typecasting potential because he disappeared after that . This is a story of World War II that bears constant retelling and MGM made a fine film to do it with .
Harry Callahan's Back On The Job	At the end of Dirty Harry , Clint Eastwood throws a way his badge and ID after ending the life of that evil piece of protoplasm Scorpio . The intention obviously was like High Noon when Gary Cooper just threw away the marshal's badge after killing four Miller brothers , Eastwood was quitting the San Francisco PD . Well he must have thought better of it because Harry Callahan became such an iconic figure that the public wanted him back on the job . So Eastwood made the first of four sequels in Magnum Force . Somebody is doing a great job in reviving the vigilante tradition of San Francisco with a string of assassinations , starting with the opening sequence of a shooting of a labor / racketeer who massacred a rival and his whole family . Shades of the United Mine Worker's Tony Boyle and what he did with Joseph Yablonski . A pimp who murders a prostitute who was withholding on him , there's another massacre at the house of a drug dealer , it's getting open season on criminals . His supervisor Hal Holbrook hates his guts , but there's no one like Harry Callahan for these kinds of cases . Mitchell Ryan who's an old friend of Eastwood plays a cop falling apart at the seams and he looks good for it . And there's a group of four sharp shooting rookies on motorcycle patrol , Tim Matheson , David Soul , Kip Niven , and Robert Urich . Any one of them could be our vigilante . In a way Magnum Force is the polar opposite of Charles Bronson's Death Wish films . Bronson's pretty good at selecting some of the right kind of criminal scum to eradicate , but doing this seems to offend Eastwood although Deity only knows , this has been his game for a long time . There's a nice climatic sequence with an unarmed Eastwood dealing with the responsible party for all of this . Magnum Force is every bit the equal of Dirty Harry in action and violence . In the end as Clint's famous tag line in this film says , it turns out that Dirty Harry was dealing with a man who did not know his limitations .
Detective Obsessed	Although it got at best mixed reviews when first released , Vertigo is now considered one of Alfred Hitchcock's classic films . A tribute to the players , the director , and the composer of that haunting musical score that will stay with you forever . The music is probably more important here than in most films , let alone most Hitchcock films . Because for most of the first half of the film and a great deal of the second half , it is without dialogue . In fact Kim Novak does not have a spoken line until about 48 minutes into the little more than 2 hour feature . She's under James Stewart's surveillance and the whole story of his growing obsession with her is told through his facial expressions and through Bernard Herrmann's music . Stewart is a cop retired on disability who is hired by an old college friend Tom Helmore to follow his wife . Helmore tells Stewart a tale about his wife falling under the spirit of her dead great grandmother who committed suicide . The wife he's following is played by Kim Novak . Novak in fact makes a suicide attempt and by jumping into San Francisco bay and Stewart jumps in and saves her . In a brief prologue the reason for Stewart's disability is told . While on the police force , he lost a man while pursuing the suspect in a rooftop chase . Another cop was killed trying to save Stewart who had slipped and was hanging on to a roof gutter for his dear life . After that Stewart acquired an understandable fear of heights with accompanying dizziness , vertigo . Later on at an old mission which has significance for Novak's family , Novak runs up to the top of the bell tower and Stewart because of his Vertigo can't pursue her to prevent her from jumping off and taking her life . Later on he spots Kim Novak again with a different color hair and this time essentially stalks her until they meet . By now he's totally obsessed with the dead Novak who he fell in love with . Alfred Hitchcock is plumbing some depths of the human psyche in Vertigo . Certainly good old all American Jimmy Stewart would not be one you would think of casting as a voyeur and a stalker . But he pulls off the performance in probably the film with the least dialogue Alfred Hitchcock ever made since sound came in . Kim Novak is hauntingly beautiful in Vertigo , she has to be or the whole plot would make no sense . Barbara Bel Geddes is in this also as Stewart's girl friend who finds herself losing him to an obsession with a ghost . She also serves as a sounding board for Stewart as he expresses some of his feelings to her . This was the first of two films Stewart and Novak made together . Ironically enough the second one , Bell Book and Candle , is about a witch played by Novak who actually uses witchcraft to ensnare Stewart . Given Stewart's obsession with Novak in Vertigo , if Hitchcock had thrown in witchcraft into the plot , the audience would certainly have believed it . Of course this is an Alfred Hitchcock film and therefore not all is as it seems . I can't sat any more , but there are no happy endings for anyone in this haunting film .
A Generation Gap Of Values	In Scent of a Woman Young Chris O'Donnell at the Baird Prep School on a scholarship , has to earn the money he needs for a round-trip back to Oregon to see his family at Christmas break . He takes a job posting off a bulletin board at school advertising for a companion to a blind man . The blind man turns out to be Al Pacino whose sister and her family want to unload him so they can go away for Thanksgiving . Pacino is no helpless invalid however . He's a former lieutenant colonel in the army and used to being obeyed on command . But he's facing a crisis in his life , he's just tired of being an invalid and dependent on people . O'Donnell's having a crisis too . Headmaster James Rebhorn feels he and another student , Philip Seymour Hoffman , saw an act of vandalism committed on the school grounds . It goes against O'Donnell's grain to be an informant . But these other kids , Hoffman included come from old money and can buy their way out of most things . If the ax has to fall as Pacino tells him , it's going to fall his way . The film is a touching story involving a generation gap of values that is bridged when Pacino and O'Donnell discover a genuine respect and affection for each other . Pacino's iconoclastic retired Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade finally won for him an Oscar for Best Actor that his peers had not voted him , despite being nominated 7 previous times in both the lead and supporting categories . In fact that same year Pacino was also up in the Supporting Actor category for Glengarry Glen Ross . Chris O'Donnell had a breakout performance as the young preppie who has far more integrity than his richer and more privileged classmates . And Philip Seymour Hoffman is great as the kid who rats under the financial umbrella of daddy's millions . Scent of a Woman is a great part for Al Pacino , not my favorite role for him . That one for me is . . . . And Justice For All . Still this award like the one given to Paul Newman for The Color of Money is more for Pacino's lifetime of artistic achievement in the cinema . And that's one artistic life anyone could envy .
One Uptight Cop	Before coming to the screen , Sidney Kingsley's Detective Story ran in the 1949-1950 season on Broadway for 581 performances . It's hard to believe because Kirk Douglas is so right for the part , but on Broadway the role of uptight police detective Jim McLeod was played by Ralph Bellamy . Lee Grant , Michael Strong , Joseph Wiseman , and Horace McMahon are the four that came over from the original Broadway cast . These and the others that William Wyler cast for the film , fill their parts almost to perfection . But this one is really Kirk Douglas's show . Kirk essays the part of a modern Inspector Javert in playing McLeod . Remember that in Les Miserables , Javert was also the son of a criminal and feels he has a burden to live down . Like Javert , McLeod has this maniacal attitude towards the criminal element . The world however is not black and white as McLeod discovers to his thorough destruction . I have no doubt that Sidney Kingsley was influenced by Victor Hugo's classic in writing this play . Note a lot of the Irish names among the squad , note also the fact that this is 1951 and the attitude about abortion was a whole lot different back then . Douglas's pet peeve is back alley abortion provider George MacReady . Many women died from the hands of such folk as MacReady , this was before Roe vs . Wade . MacReady is also harboring one dirty big secret about someone very close to Douglas . In his black and white world , the revelation of it breaks Douglas . Eleanor Parker is Douglas's loving wife who is showed to be less than perfect and neither her or Kirk can deal with his rage . William Bendix in one of his best screen parts , plays Douglas's veteran partner who's tough and compassionate . Lee Grant as the mousy little shoplifter got an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress in her screen debut . Unfortunately she fell afoul of the blacklist and didn't make it back to the screen for over fifteen years . After that her parts were anything , but what you see here . Joseph Wiseman plays the psychotic burglar and you won't forget his character rages either . But Douglas is wound so tight in his role , it's anyone's guess who is the bigger psycho . Detective Story is a realistic look at an NYPD squad back in the days before Miranda . It serves as the model for other police dramas right up to and including NYPD Blue . It's one of Kirk Douglas's best developed characters on screen . Reason enough to see it .
Six cylinder comedy running on laughing gas	That was one of the lines in a trailer about this film and for once the publicists did not exaggerate . All six of the featured players here are on the screen 99 % of the time , so they have to be good . It's always fascinating how certain plot premises can be worked for either highballing comedy to a deadly serious situation . Mary Boland of the ditzy and Charlie Ruggles of the henpecked play their usual characters who are planning to motor all the way to California . To share expenses they advertise for someone to share the ride . They get Burns and Allen and a monster of a dog . That same premise was a deadly serious one several generations later in Kalifornia . Of course if you're traveling with Gracie Allen you know you're going to be going absolutely nuts trying to figure her Monty Pythonesque reasoning about the whole world . And if that ain't enough you get to run into W . C . Fields , part time sheriff and full time pool hustler who's living in sin with Alison Skipworth . But back then we didn't delve into such things . A real classic comedy from the thirties , not to be missed .
An Abode Of Evil	For his second go around as two fisted archaeologist Indiana Jones , Harrison Ford was in China and had to beat a hasty retreat out of there with the lovely Kate Capshaw and his young sidekick Jonathan LeQuan as Short Round . Capshaw proves to be utterly useless in a crisis , but Indy has good reason to be glad he bought the little guy along . The plane he scrammed out of China on crashes in a remote part of India and Ford and his companions find themselves in a desolate and unhappy village . Two blue rocks said to have mystical power were stolen from the village idol saluting the Hindu god Shiva and someone like an eastern Pied Piper has taken all the children away . Rumor has it that the maharajah's palace has become an abode of evil . Specifically the Thugee strangulation cult which you will all remember from the RKO classic Gunga Din has revived . When Jones finally discovers what's going on and who's behind it , the last hour of the film is literally non-stop action . Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is one of those wonderful films that has no message , doesn't pretend to have a message , but is just made for entertainment purposes only . It also has it share of comedy , usually from Kate Capshaw . The scene in the maharajah's palace where all those exotic delicacies are brought out and positively nauseating the audience and Kate Capshaw is hilarious . Her reactions are worth the price of renting or buying the DVD alone . The Indiana Jones eighties trilogy is currently being run on a lot of stations because of the release of the new Indiana Jones film . The Temple of Doom is certainly something not to be missed by fans of the fighting archaeologist .
The Consummate Statesman	Ian McShane had a couple of pretty good acts to follow in portraying Benjamin Disraeli who was arguably the United Kingdom's greatest Prime Minister . George Arliss played Disraeli on stage and screen in a story that centered around Great Britain's acquisition of the Suez Canal and it was one of his most celebrated parts . In The Prime Minister , John Gielgud plays Disraeli in 1941 with the backdrop of World War II and the climax there is Disraeli facing down the threatening Otto Von Bismarck and the newly united Germany . That was a considerable rewriting of history , but it served the propaganda purposes of the time well . But this mini-series gives us a look at Disraeli's whole life and the many facets of that life . Disraeli was not a Jew , he was baptized in the Church of England , but his Jewish ancestry was always used as a slur against him and he never repudiated it or acted ashamed . He was a Georgian dandy , would be rake , would be novelist who dabbled in politics and eventually got a seat in Parliament . The original impression of Disraeli was as a dandy and fop who hadn't a serious bone in his body . He did a considerable amount of bed hopping in his youth before meeting a woman a dozen years older than himself who became the love of his life . Mary Peach as Mary Anne Wyndham Lewis Disraeli matches McShane's performance in every step of the way . Disraeli was one of the most creative statesmen of his century . The Tory Party owes its very existence to his vision today . He got way out in front of his party in his first ministry on the franchise reform question and his support of enlarging the franchise won voters to the Conservatives for generations though it did bear immediate results . The series does go into his acquisition of the Suez Canal and gives the real story of the Congress of Europe in 1878 when both Disraeli and Bismarck took the measure of each other . The lesson there was that Europe did not go to war as it did in 1914 . Had these guys been in charge at that time , World War I would never have happened . Disraeli was Ian McShane's career role and if this series is ever rebroadcast on Masterpiece Theater or some other venue , do not miss it .
Righting Terrible Wrongs	A really good film could be made about the making of Cry , the Beloved Country which in itself is a landmark film about the early stages of the formal apartheid society in the Union of South Africa . There's a famous story of Alfred Hitchcock shooting the scene with Cary Grant fleeing the United Nations on the sly with a hidden camera because the UN would not grant him permission to film . That's nothing to what Zoltan Korda had to just even getting Canada Lee and young Sidney Poitier into South Africa in the guise of houseboys . He filmed all the outdoor stuff on location there and the government never caught on . Had they caught on it might have meant prison , it certainly at a minimum would have resulted in deportation . , Canada Lee plays Reverend Stephen Kumalo who comes to Johannesburg in search of his missing son Absalom . Another man of the cloth , Sidney Poitier helps him search for his son who among other things has gotten a woman pregnant and has committed murder during a robbery attempt in a fit of panic . The rest of the story is not a pleasant one , but strangely uplifting as Lee , father of the murderer and the father of the victim who was a liberal South African fighting the apartheid regime pledge mutually out of their grief to work for a just society . It took a long time and it's not all together there yet , but South Africa is one of the great success stories of the past century about people of good will righting terrible wrongs . Alan Paton the author was a prophet with no honor in his own country . His book , a world best seller , was banned in the Union of South Africa and Paton himself ostracized . Paton was a committed Christian who really did believe that all people were indeed equal and fought for that ideal all his life . He died in the mid eighties and sadly did not live to see the fall of apartheid . Though a big budget film of Cry , the Beloved Country came out in the nineties , this time with the cooperation of the Mandela government , this film still sets a high standard just for courage in the making .
A Thousand Dollar Day Newspaperman	It took twenty five years , but when Paddy Chayefsky wrote and scored a critical and popular success with Network it went a long way towards redeeming Billy Wilder and Ace in the Hole from the critical and popular drubbing it took in reviews and at the box office . The cry then was that Wilder was way too cynical and in the height of the superpatriotic McCarthy days maybe he was for that time . Perhaps Kirk Douglas's Charles Tatem would find employment as a writer at UBS for Howard Beale's mad prophet of the air or at Fox News or if your tastes run the other way , scripting one of Michael Moore's documentaries . Kirk Douglas is a veteran reporter who's been fired off a whole lot of newspapers and arrives in Albuquerque looking for a job . Editor Porter Hall after an interesting job interview hires him . Two months later , a bored Douglas and cub reporter Robert Arthur are sent on some nothing story and on the way learn of a man , Richard Benedict , trapped in an old cave with a broken leg . Remembering the real Floyd Collins story from the Twenties about a Kentucky man trapped in a cave for 18 days while America followed every move of the rescue attempt , Douglas smells a return to the big time . With the aid of a corrupt sheriff , Ray Teal , Douglas starts controlling the story and indirectly making the story . Of course things get out of hand . Kirk Douglas has never been afraid of being seen as unlikeable on screen and in Charles Tatem he's at his most unlikeable . In fact until he did There Was A Crooked Man in 1971 , I'm not sure he's ever been this big of a canine descendant . He's matched every step of the way by Jan Sterling who plays Benedict's tramp of a wife who wants her cut of the proceedings and takes it out of Douglas literally . Ace in the Hole was made when newspapers still were a major source of news . Televisions were still scarce and I don't think it's an accident that Billy Wilder chose a sparsely populated state like New Mexico as the setting . Television sets in the Rocky Mountain states in 1951 were scarcer than the people . I think Ace in the Hole could be remade today , maybe with Michael Douglas taking over an internet news blog to bring it up to the times . Still Billy Wilder's magical cynical touch would be missing .
What Price Success , What Price Class	Room At The Top filmed in 1959 takes place some ten years earlier in post war Great Britain as veteran Laurence Harvey takes it in his mind to rise from his lower class origins by any means possible . He's a devilishly attractive fellow and if that's what it takes to do it , than so be it . Not like it hasn't been done before on either side of the pond . Harvey's got no family so to speak , his parents were killed in his small town when a German bomb hit their house . He's rootless now and has a crying need to belong somewhere . The similarities in character to novelist John Braine's Joe Lampton and Theodore Dreiser's George Eastman are too obvious to overlook . However unlike Eastman , Lampton as played by Harvey is courting two very different kinds of women . Boss Donald Wolfit's daughter Heather Sears is a young and somewhat inexperienced young lady who's easy prey for Harvey . Wolfit and his wife Ambrosine Phillpotts see what's happening with their daughter , but can't ultimately do anything . But while they're trying Harvey falls in with the unhappily married Simone Signoret . She's married to Allan Cuthbertson who's a cheating dog himself . She's got a lot of passion left in her and even though Harvey's ten years younger , she knows how to show him one real good time . Being French she has a different moral view of things than the folks of her adopted country and she thinks Harvey does as well . He does , but Harvey has his priorities . Room At The Top was something that still couldn't be made in America because of the Code , but at least it was shown here . What Makes Sammy Run , a work by Budd Schulberg never had a big screen adaption and it had similar themes to Room At The Top , Still it got great critical acclaim and two Academy Awards and other nominations . Simone Signoret got one of those Oscars , for Best Actress in 1959 . It's a very subtle part she undertakes , in fact she's not the main character , Harvey is . Still when she's on the screen even Harvey's flashier character of Joe Lampton takes a back seat . Signoret is just fabulous as the older and still attractive woman , trapped in a loveless marriage will touch you dearly . She's one of the most beautiful and tragic figures ever done on screen . Harvey was up for Best Actor , but he and the film itself were running in the year of Ben-Hur . He and the picture itself lost to Charlton Heston and the noble character he created on screen . Hermione Baddely who had a role similar to Thelma Ritter's in All About Eve was up for Best Supporting Actress , but she lost to Shelley Winters for The Diary Of Anne Frank . Room At The Top with its brutally frank talk of sex mixed with ambition has become a classic and Joe Lampton became Laurence Harvey's signature role . Two sequels with Joe Lampton , Life At The Top and Man At the Top , were spawned from the original , the latter with Lampton played by Kenneth Haigh as Harvey had died by then . It's an enduring classic of the British , nay the English language cinema and should not be missed .
" You Can Do Just About Anything You Want To , Chance . "	Howard Hawks initially wanted to reunite John Wayne and Montgomery Clift who had worked so well together in Red River in his second film with Wayne . Clift however was at the beginning of the slide that would ultimately destroy him in seven years and said no . It was then that Dean Martin was cast as John Wayne's alcoholic deputy . By the way if Clift had done the part it would have reunited him with Walter Brennan also who is playing a very similar part to the one he did in Red River in relation to Wayne . In the wordless beginning of Rio Bravo , Wayne while going into the town saloon to fetch Dino , witnesses a cold blooded killing perpetrated by Claude Akins . Akins is the no good brother of rich rancher John Russell who keeps trying to spring Akins from Wayne's jail . He also brings in some hired guns who bottle the town up . Both Howard Hawks and John Wayne absolutely hated High Noon and made Rio Bravo as their answer to it . This sheriff doesn't go around begging for help from the townspeople he's sworn to protect . He's supposed to be good enough to handle the job himself with some help from only a few good men . Dean Martin said that the Rio Bravo role for him was one of the most difficult . At that time he was playing a drunk on stage and was not yet into the substance abuse problems that beset him later on . But turns in a stellar performance . This film marked the farewell feature film performance of Ward Bond who took some time from his Wagon Train TV series to play the small role of a Wayne friend who offers to help and gets killed for his trouble . Fitting it should be in the starring film of his best friend John Wayne . The only bad note in Rio Bravo is that of Ricky Nelson who is too much the nice kid from Ozzie and Harriet to suggest being a young gun . But Rio Bravo marked the first of many films Wayne used a current teenage idol to insure box office . Later on Frankie Avalon , Fabian , Bobby Vinton all the way down to Ron Howard in The Shootist brought a younger audience in for the Duke . James Caan who played the Ricky Nelson part in El Dorado was much superior to Nelson . Then again , Caan is an actor . But I will say that Dean and Ricky sung real pretty . When you hear Dean singing My Rifle , Pony , and Me in the jailhouse , you might recognize the same melody from Red River as Settle Down . Dimitri Tiomkin wrote it and Dean recorded it as well as the title song for Capitol records . At Capitol Dino did mostly ersatz Italian ballads , it was what he was identified with . When he switched to Reprise , Dino started doing far more country and western and it really starts with the songs he did in Rio Bravo . Rio Bravo is a leisurely paced western , probably one of the slowest John Wayne ever did . But Howard Hawks created some characters and a story that hold the interest through out .
La Barrett - a tuneful treat	One Night of Love proved to be a successful comeback picture of sorts for Metropolitan Opera Star Grace Moore . Having not established herself at an earlier outing in Hollywood with MGM , Harry Cohn and Columbia got her back with this film that showcased Moore's magnificent voice . The film is your usual backstage story only with an operatic twist . Moore is an aspiring opera singer and as the picture opens she's singing the title tune which became a big hit at a radio station contest . The prize is a scholarship to study in Italy . Believe it or not , Grace Moore doesn't win , but she's determined and with her meager savings she goes to Italy and studies to become a great opera diva . Along the way she gets involved with two men , voice teacher Tullio Carminati and American expatriate Lyle Talbot . Carminati also has a witch of an ex-pupil / girlfriend he's trying to dump , deliciously played by Mona Barrie . But this is Miss Grace Moore's film and that's how she is billed here and would be for the rest of her film career . Grace Moore , who's all but forgotten today except for devoted opera fans , conquered four areas of entertainment ; recordings , stage , grand opera , and finally film . She was the best selling classical artist of her day . On Broadway in Irving Berlin's Music Box Revues she introduced several of his standards , most importantly the song Always . Her buxom beauty ( she was a full-figured gal before Jane Russell made bra commercials ) helped popularize opera for the masses . And after failing with MGM she finally did become a film star with this film . Moore set off a couple of copycats in Hollywood with her success . 20th Century Fox signed Lily Pons and Paramount inked Gladys Swarthout to film contracts . Both these ladies fine singers that they were , never achieved even the limited success Moore had . The problem with signing opera singers is that you have to have them singing opera to show off their talent . That has a limited appeal and Moore too was finished in Hollywood in four years . The film is curiously autobiographical in the same way Mario Lanza's That Midnight Kiss is . Moore plays a small town girl who wants to sing opera , just like the real Grace Moore . How often will the public go to see an opera singer , even a great one , play an opera singer ? Moore played versions of Mary Barrett for the rest of her film career at Columbia . Still the original is a tuneful treat . In addition to the title song and several arias , Moore also sings Ciribiribin which was a favorite song always requested at concerts and even at encores of her operatic performances .
A Lifetime of Service To His King And Country	I finally got to see The Young Mr . Pitt , a film I had wanted to see for decades . Mainly because Robert Donat perfectly fit my conception of what William Pitt , the Younger was like . In that I was not disappointed , Pitt is definitely one of Donat's best screen performances . William Pitt , the Younger 1759-1806 was the second son of William Pitt , the Earl of Chatham . As he was the second son , he did not inherit the earldom , but he did inherit his father's name and in British history , he is probably one of the five greatest individuals ever to be their Prime Minister . And he became Prime Minister at the ripe old age of 24 and held that office for most of the rest of his life . Although certain things were left out , what was in the film stuck pretty close to the facts . When Pitt turned 21 he entered Parliament in 1781 and the following year , Lord Frederick North , the Prime Minister who lost the American Revolution was finally kicked out . There was a bit of jockeying for power and several governments were formed over the next two years when George III got the idea to ask young Pitt to take the job . He managed to win the next elections and was master of Parliament the rest of his life . He also never lost the confidence of his sovereign . Donat captures Pitt perfectly , his only vice was every now and then to drink a bit much . No cheap swill for him though , only the finest of wines did he occasionally overindulge in . His chaste behavior around Phyllis Calvert is also true , it's pretty much established the man was celibate all his life , probably due to a low sex drive , though that's not explicitly gone into . Without family attachments , Pitt's whole life was devoted to the protection and governance of the United Kingdom . He saw the danger of radical Jacobinism from France to British society and the even greater menace of Napoleon Bonaparte . Like FDR and General George C . Marshall reaching down the ranks to get Dwight D . Eisenhower in World War II . Pitt was the man who found Horatio Nelson and gave him command of Great Britain's fleet and who responded with victories at Aboukir Bay and Trafalgar . As Pitt was chaste and aesthetic , his great rival of the period Charles James Fox was a rake and a gambler . Robert Morley gives one of his greatest performances also suitably cast as Fox . My favorite moment in the film is after Aboukir Bay , Fox gets a brick thrown through his window while dining with four lovely young ladies . When one of them asks what this was , Morley drolly replies , ' the voice of public opinion . ' What makes that particular scene more effective is that the next scene cuts to demonstrations against Pitt , calling for a truce in the war . The fickle finger of public opinion very graphically demonstrated . John Mills plays William Wilberforce of whom a film was made about last year to great acclaim . He was Pitt's devoted friend and ally , but Wilberforce's crusade to abolish slavery gets a brief mention in The Young Mr . Pitt and nothing more . What gets no mention at all is King George , III's periods of insanity and the Prince Regent , later George IV is not a character here . The film takes us up to Trafalgar . In real life Pitt died very soon after the battle of Austerlitz which left the United Kingdom bereft of continental allies for several years . Worn in body and spirit , sadly he died without knowing of Great Britain's eventual triumph over the force of despotism . Of course the film was made while the United Kingdom was also going through a great trial against an even greater evil , with another resolute Prime Minister who devoted his heart and soul to his country's service and protection . I'm sure Winston Churchill saw the film as some propaganda against his critics , but I'm also sure that William Pitt the Younger was a role model for him . As Pitt should be a role model for all who put country above all .
Only Connect	I'm sure that even in 1910 when Kaiser Wilhelm still had a few fans who remembered he was the grandson of Queen Victoria and not ruler of the soon to be hated foe of World War I , E . M . Forster must have come in for a few critic's slings in having some of his protagonists of Howards End have a German surname . Even that early time there were many who saw Germany as a potential foe . These two Schlegel sisters played by Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter befriend the Wilcoxes , a family of newly rich plutocrats headed by Anthony Hopkins who seem to be a version of Lillian Hellman's the Hubbards lite . Their mother is the class of the family and she's played by Vanessa Redgrave who is in poor health . While Bonham-Carter is rejected by Hopkins's son James Wilby as a suitable wife for marriage , Vanessa befriends Thompson finding her to be a kindred intellectual spirit in a house full of moneygrubbers . In fact before she dies she writes an unsigned note asking that a cottage that's in her family's name called Howards End be given to the Schlegel sisters . When Hopkins and the rest of the family find the note after she's dead it gets torn up and burned . Unsigned it has no probative value in any event . But as fate would have it Thompson and Hopkins get into a relationship and they soon marry and she tries to polish some of the rough edges off him . Especially in regard to snobbery . Hopkins is the kind of man who wants no reminders of where he came from . Particularly with another of the Schlegel sisters friends , a young clerk named Leonard Bast played by Samuel West trying to make his way in the world as the Wilcoxes have . Emma Thompson won the Academy Award for Best Actress for Howards End that year and the film also won Oscars for Art & Set Direction and for adapted screenplay . Though Thompson won the Oscar , my absolute favorite in this film is Susie Lindeman as Mrs . Dolly Bast . She's so incredibly common and obviously holding him back , you can't blame West for eventually getting involved with Bonham-Carter which leads to tragedy . The team of Ismail Merchant producer and James Ivory director succeed again at bringing the look and manners of Edwardian England as seen by E . M . Forster to life . Who says they don't make literate films any more , whoever says that have them see Howards End .
No Marquee Names	Bright Victory was one of a trio of films that came out roughly around the same time dealing with rehabilitation of wounded armed service personnel , the other films being The Men and Home From the Brave . This one however dealt with those men blinded in combat . It was also something of a surprise to the studio that produced it . This is clearly a product of Universal's B picture unit , no marquee names head the cast . But Arthur Kennedy's portrayal of Larry Nevins was so well received that he got an Oscar nomination for Best Actor in 1951 losing to Humphrey Bogart . Kennedy is a southern kid , wounded in North Africa and left blinded by the war . He along with many others go to a special army rehabilitation unit for the blind . Along the way he meets Peggy Dow and the two of them hit it off . But Kennedy's got a girl waiting for him back home . The film is about Kennedy's rehabilitation in adjusting to a dark world . He readjusts a few other things as well . Kennedy has the usual southern attitudes about race and rebuffs James Edwards's proffered friendship when he finds out he's black . It's quite a revelation to him to find out that blindness gives the two of them a lot more in common than race had previously divided them . This is the high point of Arthur Kennedy's career . A fine character actor , this film should have put him into leading man ranks . It didn't however , but Kennedy surely never lacked for work throughout his career . Peggy Dow had made her debut in Harvey where she scored well as the empathetic nurse and followed that portrayal with a well received one here . She left the screen after this . Too bad , she was a pretty girl with real talent . Sharp eyes will spot Rock Hudson in a bit part . In another year Rock might have been the lead here and this would have been an A product from Universal . But then Arthur Kennedy would not have gotten his greatest career part .
Experiencing Paris With Gershwin	Gene Kelly came up with some really grand ideas for musicals while with MGM . Here he's at the top of his creative powers working with the Arthur Freed musical unit . Hard to believe when you watch An American In Paris that the players never left the back lot at MGM . The magic of An American In Paris is due to the creative editing under the direction of Vincent Minnelli and the sets that MGM designed blended with some background establishing shots . The idea of the film originated with Kelly who wanted simply to do a film with a lengthy ballet sequence involving George Gershwin's tone poem An American in Paris . It sounded good to Arthur Freed who approached Ira Gershwin who said fine with him as long as they used other Gershwin material . Gershwin got the kind of deal for Gershwin music that Irving Berlin normally got . Not one note of non-Gershwin music is heard in An American in Paris . Listen to some of the background music and you will hear things like Embraceable You and But Not For Me which are not real musical numbers . Another guy who was a fair hand at writing lyrics , Alan Jay Lerner , wrote the story which admittedly is a thin one . All about an ex-GI played by Gene Kelly who after World War II never left France , just settled into an apartment on the Left Bank and proceeded to become a starving artist . He lives with eccentric composer Oscar Levant and does that ever sound like a redundancy . Two women are interested in him . Another expatriate American played by Nina Foch who wants to sponsor him as a painter if he'll reciprocate in other matters . But Kelly falls for a shop girl played by Leslie Caron in her film debut . Caron also has musical comedy star Georges Guetary interested in here . Of course the plot is just an excuse to sing and dance to the music of George Gershwin . An American in Paris happens to be the first film I ever saw as an in flight movie on the first airplane trip I ever took . I still remember flying back from Phoenix Arizona to Kennedy Airport seeing Gene Kelly doing I've Got Rhythm . My favorite number in the film however is Tra-La-La which Kelly sings and dances all over the apartment with Oscar Levant playing the piano . At one point Kelly dances on top of the baby grand piano . In a book about Arthur Freed , I read a quote where he said in the American in Paris ballet sequence was to be done with the background of the French impressionists which he felt the public would take to rather than a realistic setting on the streets or back lot . So it happened that way . Kelly had done lengthy ballet sequences in Words and Music , The Pirate , and On the Town . But this one topped them all . Still does in my opinion and that includes some of Gene Kelly's later films . In a surprise upset at the Oscars , An American In Paris was chosen best picture for 1951 , beating out the heavily favored A Streetcar Named Desire . I guess fantasy trumped realism that year . Big budgets also have an upper hand in these things as well . Still An American in Paris is one of the best movie musicals ever done and since the studios no longer have all that creative talent under one roof , something less likely to be repeated .
The Cost of Becoming a Woman	Flawless with its amazing chemistry and pluperfect performances by Robert DeNiro and Philip Seymour Hoffman is a very funny film which flows effortlessly into some dramatic moments . But very few want to talk about the social implications of it . Philip Seymour Hoffman is a female impersonator who lives in the same apartment building as Robert DeNiro , a retired policeman who works as a security guard . During a robbery of a drug dealer , one of Hoffman's fellow drag performers is killed and DeNiro suffers a stroke trying to prevent the crime . The drug dealers can't exactly go to the police with their story , but they have other methods of dealing with transgressors . DeNiro and Hoffman have nothing in common at all and usually confine any conversations they have with some usual shouted epithets . But DeNiro's doctor advises singing lessons as a form of speech therapy and he goes to Hoffman . They develop an unusual friendship . More unusual because it turns out that Hoffman has the stolen loot . And why Hoffman is keeping it is a matter of life and quality thereof . Hoffman is not dressing in drag for effect or to make money as a performer . Hoffman's real drag is the body parts God gave him because they don't match what's inside . Hoffman is a transgendered soul and the cost of a sex change operation is more than he could earn in a few lifetimes . Here in America our insurance companies amazingly regard a sex change as cosmetic surgery . Scary idea , but true . Recently I had some talks with a transgender person from the United Kingdom . There the debate is whether their socialized medicine system should be paying for the sex change . Either way it is frightening situation that Hoffman is put in with all that cash suddenly in his possession and the chance of matching heart and soul to body can be realized . Especially after just winning an Oscar for Capote , Philip Seymour Hoffman isn't worried about getting cast in gay roles . From the lovestruck Scotty G in Boogie Nights , to Flawless , and now to Capote , Hoffman's making one great career for himself going gay . But all three of those parts show an astonishing range and a courageous player willing to accept and master challenging roles . Of course Robert DeNiro is great , he's never anything else . And he's back in the world of lower Manhattan that he knows so well . His character turns out to be a person of great character and more than just physical strength . Flawless is a film that will make you laugh and cry , but even more important will make you think .
Bing To Lose His Voice ?	Bing Crosby may have had actor / friend William Gargan in mind when he consented to do this hour long dramatic episode on the Danny Thomas Hour . Gargan had appeared with Bing in one of his most beloved films , The Bells of St . Mary's and in the early Sixties had lost his voice due to a cancer found in his throat which necessitated his larynx removal . Gargan went on to be a spokesperson for the American Cancer Society . In this episode Crosby plays musical performer Charlie Castle , but we're always aware that playing Castle is the musical performer with the voice that more people have heard in the history of the world . To more than most his voice was his fortune and the doctors have discovered polyps on his vocal cords . An operation has to happen sooner or later . In addition Crosby is having a custody battle with his ex-wife Joan Collins over his real life daughter Mary Frances Crosby . This was Mary Frances's acting debut , though dare I say playing her real father's daughter wasn't too much of a stretch . George Maharis is around as a paparazzo who has attached himself to Bing in hopes of a breaking story . Still Bing is the star here , his performance is a mini-version of his role as Frank Elgin from The Country Girl . Hopefully it will be broadcast some time , so a new generation can appreciate Bing's dramatic talent as well as the singing voice heard by more people since the beginning of mankind .
One of the best of the ' last stand ' movies .	In addition to Bataan being one of the finest World War II films ever done , it also marked the final transformation of Robert Taylor from romantic leading man to tough action star . After this one Taylor , NEVER got cast in any powder puff roles . He's a tough , believable army sergeant who's in command of a squad that's been cobbled together from remnants of other squads and given a suicide rear guard mission to hold off the Japanese from taking and crossing a key bridge . Some of the other men of his squad are Lloyd Nolan , Thomas Mitchell , Robert Walker , Barry Nelson , Desi Arnaz . There's an army pilot with a plane to be repaired played by George Murphy and when Captain Lee Bowman is killed Taylor is in command . So they hold the Japanese off , the Battle of Bataan in microcosm , hoping for aid that never came because the United States had no aid to give at that point . In the tradition of The Alamo , they all go down , one at a time . Of the cast I'd single out Lloyd Nolan and Desi Arnaz . Nolan is another army veteran , a hardbitten hardcase almost a mirror image of Taylor . Their scenes have some real bite to them . But Lloyd Nolan was never bad in anything he ever did . Desi Arnaz is quite a revelation . His accent is pretty thick , he never got to be a Latin Lover leading man like Fernando Lamas or Ricardo Montalban did . In fact that accent was part of his whole shtick with his wife later on in I Love Lucy . But Arnaz shows her he was capable of being far more than the patient but sometimes exasperated Ricky Ricardo . Too bad he never got more opportunities like Bataan . No derring do heroics in Bataan . These are ordinary people of the greatest generation doing a job that had to be done .
We All Live In A Pink Submarine	In Tony Curtis's filmed tribute to Cary Grant for TCM he made much of his well known idolatry of the man who made him want to become an actor . As a kid growing up in the mean streets of New York , young Bernie Schwartz saw in Cary Grant all he ever wanted to be up there on the silver screen . During naval service on board a submarine in World War II he got to see Cary Grant in Warner Brothers Destination Tokyo . As Curtis said , life has a funny way of working things out . What happens ; Tony Curtis gets to star with Grant years later in a World War II service comedy that is set aboard a submarine . Destination Tokyo was not one of Grant's best films , but Operation Petticoat definitely is . Right after World War II starts , Grant's new ship , the Tigerfish is sunk right in her berth in a remote Pacific Island . Grant persuades Admiral Robert Simon to make whatever repairs he can and try and get the ship back to Pearl Harbor for repairs . Among other things Grant gets is a new officer Tony Curtis who hasn't exactly seen much sea duty , but he's quite the operator . The two develop quite an interesting relationship on the voyage . And it's one thing after another on that memorable shakedown cruise back to Pearl Harbor . But Cary Grant is as unflappable and charming as ever , though even he seems a bit put out at times . There are some pretty hilarious moments in Operation Petticoat , the sinking of a truck , the painting of the Tigerfish pink and then having to leave it that way until Pearl Harbor . And who can forget how they are saved from friendly fire at the climax of the film . Operation Petticoat was one of the biggest commercial and critical hits that Cary Grant had in Hollywood . Coming right after North By Northwest it could well be argued this was the high point of his career . The film holds up very well today , I think today's audience would laugh just as hard as they did in 1959 .
Something For Everyone , A Comedy Tonight	It's ironic that just as Stephen Sondheim was establishing himself as both composer and lyricist on Broadway , musicals just stopped being made except on rare occasions . As a result most of Sondheim's work is sadly not filmed . In any event we don't have the musical stars on screen to do the roles justice . So in his first effort at writing both music and lyrics we're lucky indeed to have A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum on the big screen . A cut down version to be sure in terms of songs , but still a tribute to Sondheim in a fashion . The accent is more on comedy however and you cannot give enough praise to both Zero Mostel and Jack Gilford who were the only two from the Broadway cast to repeat their roles . In fact I can't conceive of A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum being made without Mostel . He dominates the proceedings and that's not easy considering his main co-star is Phil Silvers . Phil Silvers was supposed to be on Broadway , but would not do the part on stage because he could not wear his glasses . Those were not just a comic prop , the man was terribly nearsighted . As a result his part was played by John Carradine . Who'd have ever thought those two would have been up for the same part ? Another movie veteran the garrulous Raymond Walburn played the wandering Erronius and his part was played by the great stone face Buster Keaton in what turned out to be his farewell performance . Richard Lester the director comes in for a lot praise as well . The way he maximized the use of the screen you can hardly tell the stage origins of this show . Certainly that wild and crazy chariot race at the end could not have been done on stage . It's a great sequence even if the idea originated in the Eddie Cantor film , Roman Scandals . This movie was also the return of Zero Mostel to the screen after the blacklist . Mostel previously had done some really nice character parts , he stands out in those two Humphrey Bogart films , The Enforcer and Sirocco and was really good as Jack Palance's lapdog companion in Panic In The Streets . But when he could not get work in Hollywood , he returned to nightclubs and the theater where he obtained real stardom . One of the many Tony Awards A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum won was for Zero Mostel as Best Actor . On Broadway the show ran for 964 performances from 1962-1964 and also won a Tony for Best Musical . I haven't even described the plot because it's impossible . It revolves essentially around young Hiero , played by Michael Crawford to get the woman he loves who happens to work over at Phil Silvers's pleasure house and his family slave Zero Mostel to obtain his freedom . That's as far as I can go . As another movie icon expressed , fasten your seatbelts , A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum is a wild and bumpy ride .
One Bottom Feeding Lawyer	In The Fortune Cookie , Billy Wilder took on the great American legal system and twisted a lot of laughs out of it . It's the underside of the great American dream , sue someone with deep pockets and you can be a millionaire . It's why we have too many lawyers in our society , it's what creates Willie Gingrich . In three previous Wilder pictures folks like Fred MacMurray in Double Indemnity , William Holden in Sunset Boulevard , and Kirk Douglas in Ace in the Hole all had some similar notions about a get rich and / or famous quick scheme and they all ended in tragedy . Interesting that protagonist Jack Lemmon as TV cameraman Harry Hinkle has more strength of character than those three before him . Not at first though . Jack Lemmon is a TV cameraman who is covering a Cleveland Browns football game in Municipal Stadium when running back Ron Rich takes him out when Rich goes out of bounds . That's where attorney and brother-in-law of Lemmon , Walter Matthau hears about a previous spinal injury Lemmon sustained and he hatches a scheme involving Lemmon who is supposed to now act paralyzed so he can sue CBS , Municipal Stadium , and the Cleveland Browns for as much as he can wring out of them . Matthau won his Oscar for Best Supporting Actor playing bottom feeding lawyer , Whiplash Willie Gingrich . With that kind of nickname in the profession it's no wonder that the white shoe firm representing the defending parties goes all out to trip him up . They get private detective Cliff Osmond to shadow Lemmon night and day . The results he gets from his surveillance are not unexpected , but a lot of laughs come along with them . Matthau is so good as Gingrich that you can literally see his mind at work as he hears about Lemmon's childhood fractured vertebrae from his wife who is Lemmon's sister . Watching his kids skateboarding in the hospital waiting room you kind of wonder what kind of ethics he's been teaching them at home . Note that when you last see Willie Gingrich in the film , he's down , but not yet out . There's a couple of other good performances here . Ron Rich as the Brown halfback who really is concerned that he permanently paralyzed Jack Lemmon . Also Judi West as Lemmon's ex-wife who when she hears about Lemmon's possible windfall , she's ready to reconcile with him . Matthau is ready to use her of course , but even he gets kind of put off with her ethics . This is also the farewell performance of Sig Ruman , who Billy Wilder liked to use when he could , both of them being refugees from Hitler . Ruman is one of the specialists brought in and the only one who's not fooled by Lemmon's performance . The Fortune Cookie even after 40 years still has plenty of laughs for this generation . That is sadly because this is part of the American legal system that if anything has increased exponentially since 1966 .
Espionage at the Music Hall	Alfred Hitchcock followed up his first international success , The Man Who Knew Too Much with an even better film , The Thirty Nine Steps . Hitchcock must have had a particular fondness for this film because I see elements of it North By Northwest , Saboteur , and Torn Curtain . There is no director in the history of the cinema who liked a good chase film better than Alfred Hitchcock . This one's a beauty with a wrongly accused of murder Robert Donat , running from London to Scotland and back again to find some spies to clear his name . Along the way Donat picks up a lovely and first unwilling traveling companion in Madeleine Carroll who is arguably the first of his blonde heroines . Donat and Ronald Colman rivaled for roles somewhat , they seem always to be cast as the same type of characters . Of course Donat worked primarily in the UK and on stage while Colman was strictly a movie actor since the silent days . Colman is the only other guy who could have done this and other Donat parts . It's a pity there are none like either of these guys around today . When Geoffrey Tearle thinks he's disposed of Donat by shooting him , Donat's life got saved by a hymn book in his breast pocket . Whether that was a device in the original novel by John Buchan or something Alfred Hitchcock improvised the inspiration for it was definitely taken from the attempted assassination of former President Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 . While running for president on the Progressive ticket that year , Roosevelt was shot in the chest in Milwaukee . What saved his life was a copy of his speech and an eyeglass case in his breast pocket . The whole thing here is how the espionage is being carried out and I won't reveal it . But if you've seen Torn Curtain remember why Paul Newman was the only guy they could send on that espionage mission . This is probably Hitchcock's best film from his pre-Hollywood period and shouldn't be missed .
Sexist Old Mother Russia	I'm willing to bet that Anna Karenina was something that Greta Garbo agreed to remake because she thought she might have her same leading man again . She had done Tolstoy's troubled countess in an acclaimed silent version with John Gilbert . When Gilbert's career wouldn't rebound after Queen Christina the year before , Garbo took on Fredric March as a second choice . It's not a bad choice , March makes a very good love ' em and leave ' em Count Vronsky . The book is nicely edited down to an acceptable movie length although it surely is better suited for a mini-series . But true to the Production Code and March's own image , he doesn't leave Anna for another woman and MGM tacks on a cop out scene at the very end where he expresses his profound regrets over the whole business . Greta Garbo is trapped in a marriage to a career minded Basil Rathbone and is bored with the lack of romance . Along comes the dashing Count Fredric March and she leaves husband and child Freddie Bartholomew . The whole point here is the difference in what happens . Tolstoy recognized full well the sexist frame his society operated under , but he thought it was a good thing . Women ought to know their place was his idea . When Garbo runs off to Italy with March and then is seen publicly with him in St . Petersburg , she is shunned from polite society . March can be shed of her and his return back to his regiment is welcomed , Garbo has nowhere to go and her fate is inevitable . Garbo captures the air of tragedy surrounding poor Anna so well , you're in tears practically the whole film . You KNOW what her fate must be yet you still watch her entranced . No wonder Anna Karenina is such an acclaimed role for her , both silent and sound versions . Basil Rathbone is a proud member of the sexist society of Old Russia , yet his performance is also good in that you both feel his pain and hate him for not having an ounce of forgiveness for her . Of the supporting cast , my favorite is Reginald Owen who is Garbo's brother . He's cheating on his wife with anyone in sight and then in the end HE lectures Garbo on what her duties are . No wonder there were so many Bolshevik women .
Surviving In A World Of Galoots	The Last Angry Man marks the farewell big screen appearance of Paul Muni who had been for about a dozen years concentrating on his stage career . Muni goes back to his roots in this one playing an elderly Jewish doctor in a mixed Brooklyn neighborhood of 1959 . He upholds a lot of values that the present generation seems to have lost . He's a man content to be a general practitioner and even makes house calls . He lives with wife Nancy Pollock and nephew Joby Baker . Baker is an aspiring journalist and writes a story about his uncle when he saves a young black woman played by an unknown Cicely Tyson at the time . A local paper picks it up and it comes to the attention of TV producer David Wayne who thinks the doctor might be a good subject for a television documentary . Wayne gets a lot more than he bargained for , Muni is quite the opinionated crusty old soul and not willing to just go on the air like a Queen for a Day contestant . He likes his life the way it is , doing good work for it's own reward and enough to live on . This puts him in conflict with Baker and with Wayne who are a pair that could have been working models for Budd Schulberg's Sammy Glick . People like that who want a quick buck without the work , Muni calls galoots and they seem to be multiplying in his life . Daniel Mann directs a finely tuned cast in support of Paul Muni's swan song . This film marks an early appearance of Billy Dee Williams as a brain tumor stricken teenager who his mother , Claudia McNeil brings to Dr . Muni for help . Muni of course takes him to his lifelong friend , a Park Avenue neurosurgeon played by Luther Adler . Adler has one of his great screen roles also here . He and Muni both went way back over 40 years to the Yiddish Theater on New York's Lower East Side . That helps in both of their performances as lifelong friends and colleagues because they actually were . Others of note in the cast are Dan Tobin as the sleazy network executive Betsy Palmer as Wayne's supportive wife and Robert F . Simon as the head of the drug company that would sponsor the show . It's Paul Muni's show and a really grand farewell to one of the finest actors ever .
A Quiet American Hero	For those of you who are not baseball fans , Pride Against Prejudice : The Larry Doby Story is about the second black ballplayer in the modern major leagues and the first to integrate the American League . Four months after Jackie Robinson started the 1947 season with the Brooklyn Dodgers , Larry Doby was purchased by Bill Veeck of the Cleveland Indians from the Negro Leagues , Newark Eagles and he joined the Indians in Chicago well into the 1947 season . Robinson as is known to baseball fans was rookie of the year in the National League and he led the Dodgers to their first pennant since 1941 though they lost as the perennially did , the World Series to the New York Yankees . Doby had a mediocre rookie season , but owner Bill Veeck never gave up on him . He switched Doby from the infield to the outfield and in 1948 he became a standout center-fielder as the Indians became World Champions in 1948 . Robinson and Doby were both good family men , loving husbands and fathers . Jackie was as we all know an eloquent spokesman for civil rights off the field as well . Doby was a shy and retiring type , didn't particularly feel comfortable in interviews , he much preferred to just rise and fall on his baseball record . Doby and Bill Veeck were close the rest of their lives , the way Branch Rickey and Jackie Robinson were . In his memoirs Veeck said that in retrospect and from strictly Doby's point of view he might not have been the best choice to have endured what he did . Doby may have been quiet , but he was also proud , the racial insults and taunts he received wounded him deeply and he kept it inside . It might have affected his play . Of course a . 283 batting average and 253 lifetime home-runs were enough to get him into the Hall of Fame . Doby also led the American League in home-runs twice during his career spent mostly with the Cleveland Indians . The documentary mentions in passing how it was Hall of Fame coach Tris Speaker who may have been the greatest defensive center-fielder ever , helped to convert Doby from a mediocre infielder to a superlative center-fielder . What it doesn't mention is that back in his youth Speaker , from Hubbard Texas , was a member of the Ku Klux Klan . I wish producer Bud Greenspan had mentioned that , it's proof positive that as human beings we can all grow and change . Among other highlights of Doby's career was in the fourth game of the 1948 World Series against the Boston Braves where he became the first black man to hit a home-run in the World Series . It was off Braves ace Johnny Sain and it proved to be the winning run in a 2 to 1 game . Afterwards the clubhouse picture of Cleveland Indian pitcher Steve Gromek hugging Doby went around the world . Integration in baseball really arrived . Friends and family of Larry Doby contributed their thoughts and reminiscences of Doby and teammates like Bob Feller , Al Rosen , Ralph Kiner and Jim ' Mudcat ' Grant were interviewed as well . Pride Against Prejudice : The Larry Doby Story is a fine sports documentary about a great ballplayer and a fine man who I remember as a player in my youth . Ballplayers today in this age of million dollar contracts and steroids would do well to use a man of the class and pride of Larry Doby as a role model .
Doing It For Defense	Betty Hutton , one of the nominal stars of Star Spangled Rhythm , was not just doing it for defense as in her number , but the whole studio was doing this All Star flag waver for the defense of the morale of the USA . I can never resist one of these all star spectaculars and there's only one I would ever have given a bad review to , and this isn't the one . Everybody working on the Paramount lot got to do his bit for defense in this film , some bits being longer than others . The nominal plot of this film has Betty Hutton as a switchboard girl at Paramount studios and Victor Moore , a former silent western star , now working as a security guard at the studio trying to convince Eddie Bracken and a bunch of his sailor buddies that Moore is really the head of the studio . For that they have to con and bamboozle Walter Abel who is a real studio executive out of his office and off the lot so they can do their masquerade uninterrupted . Of course Bracken asks the inevitable , pop can you get all these stars down for a big Navy show , and the con has to continue . But all of this nonsense is just an excuse for some musical and comedy numbers by the Paramount players . Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer wrote the score and out of it came two really big standards , That Old Black Magic which was nominated for Best Song that year , but lost to another Paramount film song , White Christmas and Hit the Road to Dreamland . The latter was done as director Preston Sturges was playing himself and screening a musical number from his latest film . As the projector rolls on screen it's Dick Powell and Mary Martin on a Pullman car singing about finally hitting the hay after some romance . The scene is so well done I wish it was included as an integral part of a real film . That Old Black Magic is sung by Johnny Johnson and danced by ballet star Vera Zorina . It was enormous hit that year , recorded by a flock of singers . Oddly enough not by Bing Crosby though he got to sing it in another film , Here Come the Waves . Of course the finale is a wartime flag waving number with Bing Crosby singing Old Glory about the flag and the wonders of the country behind it . The number about the flag probably wouldn't fly today still and that's a pity . It's even more of a pity that these musical extravaganzas are a thing of the past with the decline of the Hollywood studio system . Star Spangled Rhythm is one of the best of its kind .
Screwball In Three Acts	Any resemblance between the trip that John Barrymore has taken on the Twentieth Century from Chicago to New York and the madcap goings on at the Brewster house in Arsenic and Old Lace is entirely coincidental and welcome . Twentieth Century came out of Columbia Pictures the year that It Happened One Night did and like It Happened One Night was done with a pair loan out stars , John Barrymore from MGM and Carole Lombard from Paramount . Unfortunately Harry Cohn pushed It Happened One Night for the Oscar gold and Twentieth Century was shut out of nominations . Maybe in another year . The film is based on an apparently unproduced play Napoleon of Broadway which I could not find on the theatrical data base on the internet . Nor could I find any information on its original author Charles Bruce Milholland . In fact a couple of better known names , Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur adapted it for the screen and Howard Hawks did for him one of his first comedy triumphs . Twentieth Century seems to segment nicely into three acts as a lot of plays do . The first act is John Barrymore creating a new star for the stage out of a former shop girl , Carole Lombard . Formerly Selma Plautka , she's now Lily Garland . They marry , but his insane possessiveness drives them apart . Act Two has her now a big star having gone to Hollywood . And not so strangely Barrymore's influence really shows on Lombard . She's now as egomaniacal as he is . The roles are reversed , Barrymore's produced several flop plays without her and the theatrical genius can't get any backing whatsoever . But now comes Act Three . To win her back he ' coincidentally ' takes the Twentieth Century Limited from Chicago to New York where she's also on board , ready to sign with Charles Lane as her agent who was once working for Barrymore as his business manager . How will it all end . Barrymore is as frantic to win Lombard as Cary Grant was to get his two maiden aunts off to Happydale and leave dead bodies lie . His Oscar Jaffe is based on a combination of a pair of well known theatrical egos , David Belasco and Jed Harris . Stories about their eccentricities and possessiveness purportedly make Barrymore look mild by comparison . But he's certainly wild enough . Oscar Jaffe is a once in a lifetime part where it is impossible to overact . Barrymore makes a three course meal out of the scenery . Lombard matches him bite for bite on the props . Her part calls for her to become as big an egomaniac as Barrymore because after all , she is his creation . Walter Connolly and Roscoe Karns are Barrymore's bewildered and beleaguered sidekicks . No coincidence that both were also in It Happened One Night for Columbia . One part I thought was a little weak was Ralph Forbes . He plays Lombard's new boyfriend and he did a good job , but I thought more could have been developed with his character . Twentieth Century is as fast paced as Arsenic and Old Lace and One Two Three . Run all three of them back to back for a triple feature and I guarantee you will be out of breath just looking .
Reasserting Colonialism	The more honored documentary like film , The Battle for Algiers by Gillo Pontecorvo is considered the last cinema word on the subject of the title and this film is often overlooked . Yet Lost Command has a lot to recommend it and it's a pity it doesn't get more acclaim than it does . This is a retelling of a part of the Algerian War for Independence which ate like a cancer at the French body politic . For reasons best left to French historians , the Fourth Republic of France when it was created after World War II , decided to reassert it's sovereignty over its colonial possessions . France was then involved with a whole lot of brushfire wars in its colonies . The film opens actually in French Indochina at the Battle of Dienbienphu where the French got themselves surrounded and the guerrillas they had been fighting for years came out in the open . Among others surrendering was Anthony Quinn's regiment of paratroopers which included the unit historian Alain Delon and George Segal an Algerian Moslem serving in the French army . Quinn is a tough and charismatic leader of his troops who's risen up through the ranks to become a Lieutenant Colonel . He's not got any family connections , but he's not above making a few of his own by romancing the widow of his commander Michelle Morgan to get out of the doghouse he's found himself in . The French army as in the days of Dreyfus is looking for scapegoats for Dienbienphu . Quinn gets command of a new unit of paratroopers assigned to Algeria and upon getting there finds his old comrade Segal now thoroughly radicalized and fighting for independence . Quinn sees an opportunity for promotion and a chance to clear himself if he does a good job in Algeria . Delon is horrified by the brutality of the war on both sides , even more so when he's made a fool of by Claudia Cardinale who is Segal's sister and seduces him into allowing her access to the French command headquarters . Though the French gave independence to their other African colonies like French West and French Equatorial Africa and Tunisia and Morocco , for some reason they wanted to hang on in Algeria . In their minds they deluded themselves into thinking that it was part of metropolitan France . After the action in this film concludes , the Fifth Republic was formed and Charles DeGaulle returned to power for the express reason of dealing with the bloody war in Algeria . Only DeGaulle had the prestige and clout to get the French to quit Algeria . It was a personal and political risky position to take as DeGaulle soon found out . Time has proved the wisdom of what DeGaulle did . In a way all of the leading characters either get what they want or are proved right . You'll have to see the film to get my meaning . The film was shot in Spain which served as Algeria . The battle scenes are excellently done and the players are all well cast . By all means catch this film if it is shown on television .
An Unwanted Windfall	Walter Matthau playing the title role of Charley Varrick expected a few thousand dollars as the score in a small town bank in New Mexico . It was a costly robbery in human terms with only Matthau and hotheaded Andy Robinson who survive out of the original team of four . Imagine their surprise when they discover what they've got is three quarters of a million dollars . It turns out the bank was a laundering operation for Syndicate money and they're not the forgiving kind even if he was so inclined to return the money . Under Don Siegel's direction , Matthau turns in one of his best film performances as the wily bank robber who keeps a cool head in a very tricky situation . Matthau plays beautifully against Robinson who's everything Matthau's not in terms of brains and self control . Matching Matthau is the syndicate cleanup man Joe Don Baker who's also a shrewd man with a very suspicious nature . That comes with the territory of Baker's job , still he's got a streak of meanness in him as well . Matthau and Baker are an evenly matched pair . What I especially love about Charley Varrick is how Matthau uses Baker's own suspicions against him in the end . Beautifully written and beautifully played . If you liked the gritty realism of a film like The Asphalt Jungle you will definitely like Charley Varrick .
" Cause He's Got High Hopes "	A Hole in the Head is based on a Broadway play that ran for 156 performances during the 1956 season by Arnold Schulman . So popular and enduring has it proved that a full musical version was done on Broadway in 1968-1969 that starred Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme in the parts done here by Frank Sinatra and Eleanor Parker . High Hopes didn't make it to Broadway , but the song I've Got To Be Me was introduced there by Steve Lawrence and made popular by fellow Rat Packer Sammy Davis , Jr . In Frank Capra's autobiography he says that Schulman was not happy with the change of characters from Jews to Italians , but Capra brought him around to his point of view on this and other things . The ending in the film version is not as upbeat as in the original play . Capra had heard a lot of stories about how disagreeable Sinatra could be to work with , but he says that Sinatra was nothing , but cooperative during the entire work . His biggest difficulty was the fact that Sinatra likes to do things in one take because he becomes bored with repeated efforts . Whereas Edward G . Robinson likes to go over things repeatedly until it was perfect . Capra did work out a compromise where Robinson did his rehearsing , but without Sinatra . The story is about a widower who owns a ramshackle motel in a not popular area of Miami Beach and he's got money problems . Sinatra as the widower also has a son , Eddie Hodges and they are devoted to each other . Edward G . Robinson and Thelma Ritter are his brother and sister-in-law who are visiting from New York and Sinatra is hoping for a touch from him . Robinson's bailed him out a few times and he puts a lot of conditions on future help . Like maybe a remarriage for instance and Ritter tries to hook him up with an old friend , Eleanor Parker . They actually hit it off . But there's still a whole lot of complications . High Hopes which is sung by Sinatra and Eddie Hodges sold a few platters for Frank back in 1959 and won the Oscar for best movie song . Sinatra also sings All My Tomorrows over the opening credits and that song did not catch on at first . Later in the mid Sixties , Sinatra recorded it again this time for his own Reprise label , before it had been done for Capitol as had High Hopes and this time it became a minor hit for him . It's quite a poignant ballad . Keenan Wynn has a small , but important part as a real estate kingpin promoter who came down with Sinatra to Miami Beach , but made a big success . Sinatra also tries to hit him up with not so good results . Funny thing is that his big idea was a Walt Disney like park for Florida and life imitated art there , though the park got located in the Orlando area . Frank Sinatra is not as noble as some of Capra's populist heroes , but he's also down to earth and likable . It's one of his best screen performances in one of his best films . Though I have to say with that red hair Eddie Hodges looked a whole lot more like Eleanor Parker's son than Frank's .
The Section Hand and The Croker	John Wayne's been given a critical job to do by none other than General Ulysses S . Grant . He's been ordered to take 3 brigades deep into Confederate territory and destroy a critical rail supply station at a place called Newton's Station and then get his troops out the best way he can . He's ordered to take along , an army surgeon played by William Holden . Wayne's got what appears to be an unreasoning dislike of Holden and their rivalry professional and personal is what drives the plot of the Horse Soldiers . John Ford always disparaged the films he made after Wings of Eagles , but in my opinion , The Horse Soldiers is one of his finest films . Also in my humble opinion he managed to get one of John Wayne's finest film performances . Wayne's a volunteer officer , in civilian life he rose from section hand on a railroad to an construction engineer . Holden calls him " section hand " as a term of derision after Wayne consistently refers to him as " croker . " Wayne and Holden were very close personal friends and friendly rivals at the box office . That's part of the reason that The Horse Soldiers is so good , the chemistry between them . In fact when Wayne died in 1979 , Holden was said to have gone on one legendary drinking binge . Who would have suspected we'd have lost him as well two years later . Holden as the doctor has a less flamboyant part than Wayne , but he makes the most of what he was given . I suspect knowing the relationship between Wayne and John Ford , he knew going in his part would be less , but he did it anyway . Anyone who thinks John Wayne incapable of acting should see the scene in the saloon at Newton's Station after the Union forces repel a Confederate attack and are about their business destroying the railroad property . In a great drunk scene he reveals to Constance Towers the reason for his hatred of the medical profession . I won't reveal it , but it's something we can all understand . Wayne did this scene so well that Ford used an abbreviated version of it in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance . Ford makes marvelous use of music in there , weaving traditional Civil War era songs with the song written by Stan Jones for the film , I Left My Love . That is one catchy and infectious ballad , one of the best things written for a John Ford movie . Incidentally Stan Jones makes a brief appearance in the film as Ulysses S . Grant and does well by him . There are two in the supporting cast that deserve mention . During the Civil War Lincoln had to deal with volunteer political generals , most of whom were a flop . Willis Bouchey playing John Wayne's co-commander in the expedition captures the phenomenon to perfection . He's argumentative , arrogant , and a general pain in the butt to Wayne . It's probably Bouchey's finest screen performance . And Carleton Young also gives what I think is his finest screen performance as the one armed Confederate colonel who tries in vain to stop Wayne from completing his plans . It's a role that requires dignity and strength and Carleton Young is marvelous . In fact the contrast between Bouchey and Young as soldiers is pretty obvious . The relationship between the Section Hand and The Croker evolves during the running time of The Horse Soldiers . It's a relationship well worth seeing develop .
Living Justice	The Talk of the Town puts visiting law professor Ronald Colman in a delicate situation . He's rented a cottage for some peace and quiet before going before a Senate committee dealing with his nomination to the Supreme Court . But things are anything , but peaceful in the town of Lorchester , Massachusetts . The factory owned by Charles Dingle has burned down , arson is suspected and Cary Grant in an unusual working class role is the suspected arsonist . He's a man of radical opinions in the town so he's a convenient suspect . As the factory was the main employer in the town you can imagine that folks are crying for blood . Which brings an escaped Cary to that same house that Jean Arthur has rented to Colman . Though there are some amusing moments to be sure from all three of the stars , I find The Talk of the Town to be more serious than dramatic . Grant challenges Colman to come down out of the ivory tower he's been living in and apply his high minded principles to real life , if not necessarily his case . When he does Colman does it with a vengeance and it brings down a whole lot of Lorchester's leading citizens . Though Grant and Arthur are first billed , this film really belongs to Ronald Colman . His character is modeled I believe on a recent Harvard law professor who was also appointed to the Supreme Court , one Felix Frankfurter . Of course what the impeccable English Ronald Colman playing WASP Michael Lightcap and a Viennese Jew have in common is not obvious at first . But before becoming mentor to a host of New Deal civil servants , Felix Frankfurter was not only a professor of law at Harvard , but concerned himself with a host of social issues . He was for instance , very prominent in the defense of Sacco and Vanzetti whose plight in the twenties is very similar to Cary Grant's . Like Colman's character Lightcap , Frankfurter was also known as a man of impeccable integrity , who even his worst enemies conceded . He could also be a bit too high minded at times and had to be brought to realize in his philosophy of judicial restraint , that the courts are and should be an instrument for progress and social change . His story would make an excellent film itself . Although I can't see Felix Frankfurter putting the moves on beauty parlor owner Glenda Farrell to learn the truth about the arson . Farrell who graced many a Warner Brothers crime feature in the Thirties has the best of the supporting roles in The Talk of the Town . Also the ever unctuous Charles Dingle is wonderful as the very corrupting influence on the town itself . Colman's final speech to the mob who are ready to lynch Cary Grant is a masterpiece , one of his best moments on screen . The words ought to be required reading and viewing for those who would dismantle our judicial system out of heated passion of the moment . As a film that challenges folks to live up to the creed they espouse The Talk of the Town should not be missed .
Shiver Me Timbers	One of Walt Disney's best live action features is this first of several he did over in the United Kingdom in the Fifties . The Robert Louis Stevenson classic Treasure Island has been done several times over with even the Muppets going to seek those Dubloons , but never better than by Disney . When you do Treasure Island you had better cast two players with good chemistry for Long John Silver and young Jim Hawkins . If you haven't got that , the whole story falls apart . Fortunately Walt Disney managed to do that with Robert Newton and Bobby Driscoll . If you believe David Niven's raconteuring memoirs the biggest alcoholic that ever trod the boards or played on a soundstage was Robert Newton . There never has been a guy quite like him who if the occasion called for it could ham it up like no other . Of course Newton could be deadly serious in a part . But Long John Silver is not a part for a milquetoast . The roll of his eyes , the expressive body language , the pirate lingo that is so vivid in Stevenson's writings it set a pirate standard right up to Captain Jack Sparrow , Newton has it all down . Because of him , Treasure Island is not just a kid's tale , grownups I assure you will be enthralled with his portrayal . Bobby Driscoll is so earnest and brave as Jim Hawkins that you forget that he's American and doesn't have a trace of English accent nor even attempts one . Maybe some young English actor like John Howard Davies should have been Jim , but it matters no more than Jackie Cooper in the 1934 MGM Treasure Island . And in that one you had another eye rolling scene stealer , Wallace Beery as Long John Silver . Basil Sydney , Denis O'Dea , Walter Fitzgerald are Jim's fortune hunting adult partners , Captain Smollett , Dr . Livesey , and Squire Trelawney respectively . Only Livesey seems to have the same intelligence that young Jim has . Finlay Currie makes a fiercesome Captain Billy Bones whose map the rest are following . Ironic that both leads would fall victim to the vices , Newton dying from the ill effects of a lifetime of drinking and young Driscoll dead of a heroin overdose , his body unidentified for a year . Still both left quite a legacy and nothing better than a classic telling of the tale of Treasure Island .
Not The Paint Your Wagon Kind Of Mining Camp	Unless one wants to count They Came To Cordura as a western which also came out in 1959 , The Hanging Tree was Gary Cooper's farewell to the western genre which he did so much to popularize . Although in his career Cooper played a variety of roles , he is probably most identified with the western . Certainly that second Oscar for High Noon cemented that identity . Cooper is a doctor / gunfighter / gambler , a rather interesting combination of professions . But he needs all of them to survive in the gold mining camp where he's set up practice . It's a temporary home for the camp is a temporary town . Unless a mother lode is found , when the stream is panned out , the miners move on . The miners are an interesting lot , the usual men with needs , the usual women who satisfy them for a price and some married folk with some puritan like wives . Oh , and there's a crazy religious fanatic walking around played by George C . Scott . Cooper gets a pair of interesting patients who he takes more than a proprietary interest in . One is a young man who was shot robbing a sluice box played by Ben Piazza . Cooper patches him up and will not reveal who he is to the camp if he acts as servant to him . If The Hanging Tree had been made a decade later , one of those services no doubt would have been sex . The threat is real for Piazza , with no law of any kind , the miners make their own law and enforce it with liberal use of an old gnarled oak called The Hanging Tree . One apparently is mandatory these camps . These guys aren't the Paint Your Wagon type miners . Karl Malden does an excellent job playing one of those miners with some real needs . And he thinks he's got it made when he finds a sunburned and blind Maria Schell who survived a stagecoach holdup that killed her father . But she likes the strange and brooding doctor who saves her . She can't get close to Cooper however because of some things in his past . The Hanging Tree was the first time that George C . Scott and Karl Malden worked together . Eleven years later they would team up for Scott's career role in the title role of Patton . Both Scott and Ben Piazza made their American film debuts in The Hanging Tree . Karl Swenson and Virginia Gregg run the local mercantile . Swenson is one of the few in the town who befriends Cooper , but Gregg is the self appointed leader of the town morals committee . If Maria Schell wants to live in sin with Cooper , she ought to be with the other working girls at the saloon . The Hanging Tree is photographed beautifully on location in Washington State serving as gold rush Montana of the 1870s . And the title song , sung by Marty Robbins was Oscar nominated for Best Song , but lost to High Hopes that year . Robbins had a hit record out of it as did Frankie Laine . Delmar Daves , a most underrated director , does a fine job with his cast and story . This is a must for Gary Cooper fans .
True Love In the Rain Forest	I guess there's some difference of opinion as to what is found in the area that headwaters of the Amazon and Orinoco Rivers make their neighborhood . Arthur Conan Doyle wrote that there was a lost world of prehistoric dinosaurs when he wasn't doing Sherlock Holmes stories . But W . H , Hudson has us believe that there's a young waif like girl making her home with her granddad among all the hunter / gatherer tribes of the area . At the time that both The Lost World and Green Mansions were written that area was still one of the few unexplored parts of our globe . I daresay that there are still some parts of that area that haven't seen the trod of civilized feet ever . But it sure makes for stories of imagination and in the case of Green Mansions , romance . W . H . Hudson who was also a naturalist and ornithologist by trade had the advantage over Conan Doyle because he knew from whence he wrote about . The film has some lush photography and in fact was shot on location in Venezuela . In fact it opens with a view of Angel Falls , one of the great natural wonders of the world . Makes the Niagara Falls in my neck of the woods look like a waterfall from a Six Flags Park . Green Mansions had been kicking around Hollywood for almost thirty years before Mel Ferrer decided it would suit his wife Audrey Hepburn . It was originally bought by RKO for Dolores Del Rio who scored big in another exotic romance , Bird of Paradise . Anthony Perkins plays an exile from a revolutionary government in Venezuela who has retreated deep into the interior jungle . He's looking for gold , but instead finds Rima the bird girl living with her grandfather , Lee J . Cobb . Perkins also finds a tribe of headhunters with Sessue Hayakawa as their chief and Henry Silva as his son . They're a suspicious lot and fear the nymph of the rain forest . For a story set in Latin America , it's interesting that only Henry Silva is a Latino in the cast . Yet the leads have to be the sensitive types and Hepburn and Perkins do fill the bill there . Sad to say that Green Mansions was a flop critically and financially . I think we ought to take a second look at it . My guess is that no one wanted to see Audrey Hepburn in something so radically different than what she had been doing up to that time . She's quite good , every bit as good as Jean Simmons in The Blue Lagoon which is a similar story . Check this one out if it is shown on TCM .
" It's Pronounced Bissonay "	I think only in The Bank Dick was W . C . Fields more henpecked than he is in It's A Gift . He also has a perfect foil for his brand of humor in Kathleen Howard as his wife in the second of three films she did with the man from Philadelphia . In this film more than most of Fields's films I think the real secret of his comedy comes out . I can't think of a single funny line from It's A Gift worth remembering . But what does stick with you are all the gestures and expressions with his body and face that Fields gives us to show the hellhole of his married state . Kathleen Howard in fact doesn't let the poor guy get a word in edgewise . What a motormouth that woman had , constantly finding fault and running him down from the first to the last minute of the movie . Right at the beginning of the film the poor guy can't even have the bathroom to himself as kids and wife just barge in on him with their problems and complaints . In that scene where Fields is trying to shave , to later on when he goes out on the porch hammock to get some peace and quiet , it's nothing in what he says , but in all the reaction shots where the comedy comes from . Even in the famous scene at the general store with the blind man Mr . Muckle . The comedy is all in Fields's reactions to Muckle running amuck . Trying not to say anything to observe political correctness . Remember Muckle is also identified as the house detective in the hotel across the street . Kathleen Howard serves as Fields's greatest foil , no wonder he did three films with her . Note how Hyacinth like she is in insisting that her name Bissonette be pronounced Bissonay . Still Fields pursues the American dream and when Uncle Bean dies and wills him some California property , he loads up the truck and moves to , well not Beverly Hills , but close enough so he can get an orange grove and grow them . It comes about in an interesting way that you have to see the film for . It's A Gift is one of the finest efforts of America's most beloved misanthropes .
A Death In Palestine	Appointment with Death was the last theatrical release of that series of Hercule Poirot mysteries . I'm sure Peter Ustinov probably could have done others . I wouldn't be surprised if in fact the BBC Poirot series starring David Suchet which we in America saw for many years may have killed the more expensive budgeted big screen Poirot that Ustinov did so well . This particular mystery finds Hercule Poirot on holiday and in the company both on ship and later in British mandated Palestine in the mid Thirties of an American family headed by a tyrannical stepmother played by Piper Laurie . She has one grown daughter and three stepchildren one of whom is married . All live with her and the terms of her late husband's will give her complete control of the family fortune . The power of the purse keeps the whole family under her thumb . Laurie's come a long way since she was a matron in a women's prison . Another woman along on the trip who's come along way is a character based on Lady Nancy Astor , an American born woman who married a title and now has a seat in Parliament played by Lauren Bacall . She's traveling with a companion played by Hailey Mills . Also along on the trip is David Soul , Laurie's family attorney and Jenny Seagrove as a young doctor . On an excursion out in the desert Laurie turns up dead and the mystery is afoot . Of course Poirot through careful questioning and a gathering of the suspects eventually finds out who the real murderer is . The film has of course an impressive cast which also includes John Gielgud as the local police inspector in Jerusalem . A young Arab boy also dies during the film , killed because he witnessed the murder and can identify the culprit . That particular act robs us of any sympathy we might have had for the perpetrator . Appointment with Death also benefits from good photography , shot on location in both Israel and Italy with interiors done in London . All the Peter Ustinov Poirot films are of excellent quality and are a great introduction to the work Agatha Christie .
A Good Realistic Western	As one of the other reviewers pointed out , this whole film is based on a few lines of an autobiography where the protagonist Frank Harris joins a group of cattle RUSTLERS for a spell . So in fact that as tough as Glenn Ford and his crew are , at least they're on the right side of the law . Also Frank Harris is probably best known for the first definitive life of Oscar Wilde . And Harris like Wilde was born in Ireland . Might have been nice if Jack Lemmon had played him with a brogue . Another reviewer pointed out that Jack Lemmon did not fit into the western film . True enough , but in fact this is the story of a tenderfoot who goes on a cattle drive and has quite the adventure . Still and all Cowboy is a pretty good realistic western about life on a cattle drive . These drovers aren't any kind of heroic , but they do the job that has to be done . Jack Lemmon's ideas about cowboys are taken from the dime novels of the period . He gets rid of his romantic notions , but fast . Among the supporting cast Brian Donlevy comes off best as the world weary former town marshal who joins the drive to get away from his job and meets a tragic end . Cowboy came out in 1958 which was the height of Glenn Ford's career . Ford did some of the best westerns of the 1950s and Cowboy ranks right up there .
" Miles and Miles and Miles of Heart "	Damn Yankees was one of two Broadway shows written by the team of Richard Adler and Jerry Ross , the other being The Pajama Game which got made into films almost immediately upon the cessation of the Broadway run . Damn Yankees ran in the 1955-1957 season for 1019 performances and both Gwen Verdon and Ray Walston continued their roles from Broadway . However the protagonist Joe Boyd / Joe Hardy part , the middle aged real estate salesman who is a fanatic baseball fan of the lowly Washington Senators , was played by Tab Hunter in the Joe Hardy persona . As in that other Broadway film My Fair Lady it was felt that one of the leads should go to a bona fide movie name in that case Audrey Hepburn in this one Tab Hunter . In his memoirs Hunter said that he was apprehensive about taking over a musical lead because he admitted he was no singer . But the arrangements were certainly done to accommodate his limited range and he acquits himself well . He certainly does look well in the baseball scenes and even keeps up with Gwen Verdon . Gwen Verdon like Mitzi Gaynor came along in the Fifties just when Hollywood was slowing down with the making of musicals due to the decline of the studio system . Gwen did such other leads on Broadway as Sweet Charity , New Girl in Town , and Redhead , but only with Damn Yankees was she allowed to go to Hollywood and repeat her stage performance . Gwen like Mitzi was a fabulous dancer and in the Thirties and Forties she would have become acclaimed film name . Ray Walston got his career break in the part of Mr . Applegate the devil's identity for this film . Back when I was a lad and first saw Damn Yankees in the theater , I was enthralled by Walston's performance and became a fan until the day he died . Walston plays the devil like a spoiled child and there might just be some theological justification for that . The big hit songs from Damn Yankees was Gwen Verdon's seduction number and dance , Whatever Lola Wants . Few people ever on stage and screen could move like her . The second and even bigger hit was Heart , sung her by Russ Brown and some of the other actors playing hapless Washington Senator players under their eternally optimistic manager Brown . The song was a big million seller for Eddie Fisher who was at the height of his vocal career then . Damn Yankees the film was released in 1958 . In 1960 the original Washington Senators played their last year in Washington , DC . For the poor fans of the Senators it was a double blow . The team was just beginning to jell as a contender and in 1965 they did in fact in their new home in Minneapolis / St . Paul as the Minnesota Twins did win the American League pennant as the Yankee dynasty crumbled at last . In their place came another new Washington Senator franchise which continued in the second division ways that Washington knew so well and that fans like Joe Boyd were used to . They played their last season in the capital in 1971 and the capital was without Major League baseball until 2005 when the Montreal Expos moved and became the Washington Nationals . I'm afraid we may never see the name Senators attached to a Washington team again . The Texas Rangers have the name copyrighted . Still the Nationals in the other league are doing their best to hold up the Washington tradition of first in war , first in peace and last in now the National League East . Washington saw three pennants in 1924 , 1925 , and 1933 and one World Series winner in 1924 . They might just need another Joe Hardy to move the team . Let's hope someone doesn't have to make an arrangement with Mr . Applegate to make it possible to beat those Damn Yankees .
The Tip Of The Spear	Darby's Rangers is the story both of a proud group of the best and brightest the USA sent to war and the commander who sold the idea to the brass and the outfit was unofficially named for him . It was director William Wellman's next to last feature film and the first starring picture of James Garner . As William Orlando Darby , James Garner is far from the cynical and comical Bret Maverick whom he was portraying on television at the time in a mega-hit series . Garner sells the idea of having an Americanized version of the British commando spearheading the American landings wherever they may be . Trained by the British Commandos , Darby's Rangers or as it is officially known the First Ranger Batallion comes into being . We follow the Rangers from their first blooding at Dieppe through the North African and Italian campaigns until they were nearly annihilated at Cisterna , protecting the Allied landing at Anzio . The film is narrated by Jack Warden who plays Garner's chief non-commissioned officer in the unit . We meet all the Rangers , some of them not the noblest of characters such as womanizing Corey Allen who takes up with married British lady Andrea King . Young shavetail lieutenant Edd Byrnes gets a baptism of fire on many fronts both in battle with Garner and in love with Etchika Choureau . After the action of this film is concluded Darby was killed on April 30 , 1945 just days from VE Day in action . Coincidentally on the same day that Adolph Hitler committed suicide . Maybe it was better for the film to end as it did however for entertainment value . It's a fine World War II film about a true story . And this review is dedicated to those survivors if there be any of our First American Ranger Batallion and their gallant fallen comrades .
Tribute to Israel's Military Genius and Fighting Heart	The great fighting heart and spirit of the Israeli people was not developed by one man . It was embodied in the dream of every Jewish peasant who for two previous generations contributed even pennies to Theodore Herzl's Zionist organization . And for the holocaust survivors it represented their last chance for a place in the world that was truly their's . No longer to be a guest in everyone else's country . The heart and spirit were there when part Palestine became the state of Israel , but the military leadership was provided by a man born like myself in Brooklyn , New York . Colonel David " Mickey " Marcus was a West Point graduate who opted for a civilian career as a lawyer and dabbled in politics . His political allies at one time or other were Fiorello LaGuardia and Tom Dewey . He held various appointive positions in the LaGuardia administration in New York . When World War II broke out , Marcus went back in the army and for the most part given his legal training worked in the Judge Advocate General's office , but later did see combat with the Third Army under George Patton . Kirk Douglas plays Marcus and for him , this must have been a role he relished given his background as the son of Jewish immigrants from the Ukraine . The film opens with James Donald representing the Haganah literally accosting Douglas in Macy's 1947 and explaining he's about the fiftieth person they've contacted to be a military adviser to the provisional government in Palestine . Douglas explains he hasn't been in Temple since his bar mitzvah and really doesn't consider himself much of a religious Jew or even a cultural one . By the end of the film , he's developed pride in his religion and ethnicity and earnestly commits to the struggle . You might have expected Douglas's own Bryna Productions to have produced Cast a Giant Shadow , but co-producing it with the Mirisch Brothers was Batjac Productions which was John Wayne's company . Wayne took a minor role in the production as General Mike Randolph who is clearly Patton . Made clear by the prominent two stars Wayne has on his helmet in flashbacks to World War II which later become three stars during the scene of a concentration camp liberation . Well Patton as we all know was killed in December 1945 in that jeep accident in occupied Germany . So obviously a decision was made to fictionalize Wayne's name in order to give him a bigger part as a man who encourages his former subordinate in his work . And if Wayne were fictionalized then some others had to be also . Yul Brynner as Asher was definitely Moshe Dayan who was winning the Six Day War when Cast a Giant Shadow came out . Luther Adler's character name was Jacob Zion and he was clearly David Ben-Gurion . Michael Hordern has a brief part and is just listed as British Ambassador in the credits and that would have been Lord Halifax then . Also fictionalized was Marcus's fling with his female aide who is played by Senta Berger . She serves kind of like his Kay Summersby . Should never have been part of the film , but maybe the producers decided a little sex was needed . Marcus's wife in America is played by Angie Dickinson . Even though Cast a Giant Shadow is based on a true story , the film does suffer in comparison to the film made of Leon Uris's novel about the founding of Israel , Exodus . Most of that novel did make it on the screen . It's characters were better developed in a much longer film that held the interest throughout . Cast a Giant Shadow also had its moments of silliness . There was a whole scene with Frank Sinatra as a mercenary pilot joining the new Israeli army dropping seltzer bottles on the enemy . Whatever possessed the powers that be to let that into the film ? I will say that the battle scenes were well staged and the politics albeit one sided were clearly stated . Like Exodus in that way . One of the most moving scenes of the film was the announcement at the birth of Israel of the telegram from the American President Harry Truman announcing recognition of the new state accompanied with reverent singing of the Hatikvoh , Israel's national anthem . That same scene was also in Exodus , but both were done well . Of course the climax of the film is when Luther Adler makes the American visitor the commander over all the forces on the Jerusalem / Negev front . As he says , the last man who held this title is found in the Old Testament of the Bible and his name was Joshua . That's the scene when Kirk Douglas finally realizes what his heritage truly is and it is moving . Despite it's flaws , Cast a Giant Shadow is a wonderful tribute to the men and women who fought and still fight to maintain the State of Israel . Even though it does suffer in comparison to Exodus , it has plenty of merit on its own .
A Nation Mobilized	My favorite story of heroism in the 20th century happens to be the evacuation of the bulk of the British army from the beaches at Dunkirk . There was the United Kingdom which if they had not been rescued probably would have had to sue for peace with Nazi Germany despite Mr . Churchill's intentions to fight . The United Kingdom would have had nothing to fight with and World War II would have been over on the western front . The Dunkirk story was touched on briefly in the American cinema in William Wyler's Mrs . Miniver . Walter Pidgeon who owned a small craft was asked to meet some friends at a local pub . Turns out they wanted him and his boat to cross the English channel and evacuate troops . It's one of the great scenes from that film boats feeding in from every tributary of Thames and the flotilla sailing out to sea . But it's only part of Mrs . Miniver . The story is told from the perspective of the high command , but also from the ordinary tommy and from the civilians who helped . John Mills is a corporal who leads his small squad out of certain capture from the Germans . Richard Attenborough is a small craft owner like Walter Pidgeon who is a timid and frightened man , but summons up enough courage to help his country out in its darkest hour . Bernard Lee is a reporter who goes along with Attenborough to cover the story . All three meet on the beach at Dunkirk and go to the fates that await them and their country . My favorite in the film is Attenborough , he plays his role with real conviction , representing as it were , the courage and determination of a people united to repel an evil . Make no mistake about it , with the Royal Navy up over its head in other commitments , those people like Richard Attenborough in saving John Mills and others like him saved civilization itself . In many ways civilization owes them more than even the men of the RAF because they weren't in the armed forces , but civilians fighting for their homes and families as we did not see the like before or since . Dunkirk is one of the best war films ever to come from the United Kingdom and a worthy tribute to the small boat owners who saved their army and their nation .
The Mad Scourge of the Paris Opera	When Universal decided to remake Lon Chaney's classic silent version of the opera , sound opened up a rather obvious vista for the film . We can make it as much about opera as the phantom haunting the Paris Opera . A task rendered considerably easier by the presence of Nelson Eddy and Susanne Foster . Unlike his screen partner at MGM , Jeanette MacDonald , Nelson Eddy came from the opera to the cinema . He always viewed himself as a singer first , films were something he did to get publicity for his concert tours . But Eddy always loved the grand opera , it could easily been his career path . Consequently The Phantom of the Opera and the arias he sings here always had a special place in his affections . We see a lot of the real Nelson here . Another one of his interests was sculpture . The bust of Susanna Foster that Claude Rains stole from Eddy's dressing room is something that Nelson Eddy actually did . Sculpting was a hobby of his and as you can see he was quite good at it . Might have made a living doing that as well . Susanna Foster who had a lovely soprano voice gave up her career soon after this most acclaimed of her films . A pity too , it was a real loss to the screen . This Phantom of the Opera has a bit of comedy in it as well . Baritone Nelson Eddy and Inspector of the Surete Edgar Barrier have an uneasy rivalry going for the affections of Foster . The scenes involving this are nicely staged by director Arthur Lubin , more known for doing Abbott and Costello comedies . This may have been Edgar Barrier's best film role . He was a more than competent player , his career probably suffering because he was a bit too much like Warren William who was himself a poor man's John Barrymore . Barrier played equally well as villains or as a good guy as he is here . Another fine role for him even though he only has one scene is in Cyrano de Bergerac where he plays the very sly and all knowing and discerning Cardinal Richelieu . Of course Phantom of the Opera is really made by the performance of Claude Rains as the mild mannered , inoffensive Eric Claudin , a violinist in the Paris Opera who is crushing out big time on Susanna Foster . We see him first being told after 20 years he's being given the sack by the company . What they describe sounds an awful lot like Carpel Tunnel Syndrome that he's developed which is affecting his playing the violin . Bad news for Susanna Foster also because he's been her secret benefactor in paying for voice lessons . There isn't any middle aged man who doesn't identify with Rains . Tossed out of his job , the rent due , crushing out big time on a young girl , a lot of us have been there . Then when he thinks an unscrupulous music publisher is stealing a concerto he's written , he loses it completely and kills him . And when acid is thrown in his face disfiguring him , it's a short journey to madness . Rains really makes us feel for Claudin . In that sense the film is not a horror picture in that we're dealing with monsters or unworldly creatures that Universal so specialized in . The man who becomes the Phantom is all too real , too human , and if we're pushed right , could be any one of us . Can you do better than opera arias by Nelson Eddy and a classic performance by Claude Rains ? I think not .
The Lady Needs Some Good Handling	Pat and Mike must have been a pleasure for Katharine Hepburn to make because she got to show off her athletic ability which was considerable . Had she not decided to pursue a thespian career , Hepburn could have gone into either tennis or golf , she was good at both or any of the other sports named which she actually played . Later on as she entered the ranks of senior citizens , health problems curtailed her athleticism . But she's having a whale of a good time her and playing with some of the best women athletes of the 20th century . Hepburn's a college professor who's leading a rather dull life with a rather dull bore of a sweetheart in William Ching , who in a subtle way , belittles her . In a rather unorthodox way she meets Spencer Tracy , a sports agent who very narrowly treads the line between the legal and the illegal . She makes a believer out of him that you actually can make decent money legally . The usual Tracy / Hepburn charm is running on all cylinders . Pat and Mike ranks in the upper division of their screen teamings . I'd say that this was more her film than his though . A lot of familiar faces are in the cast . Look for Charles Bronson playing a hood and Chuck Connors playing a small town sheriff . Both of them make themselves noticed here which led to long careers for the two of them .
The Women Behind The Men Who Kept Us All Free	Millions Like Us is a tribute film to the women of the United Kingdom who were the Rosie the Riveteers of the Blessed Isle . With a much less population base to draw from , Great Britain relied far more than the United States to keep the war production running so the men could do the fighting . And being under aerial attack by the Nazis , they endured a lot more than American factory workers of any sex did . On the American home-front , my mother freshly graduated from Benjamin Franklin High School in Rochester , worked in the Bausch & Lomb factory , making all kinds of optical lenses for war production as that was all Bausch & Lomb was doing in 1943 when this film was made . Before that she worked after school there part time . Still it was a voluntary thing because she had a brother in the service . It was hardly the regimented lives you see these women leading , moved to far away location with new factories springing up in the country to avoid bombing . There's a reference in the film to Mr . Bevin's manpower needs filled by women and they are referring to Ernest Bevin , trade union leader , Labor MP , and in charge in the wartime Coalition Cabinet of such mobilization . The film centers primarily around two women , Patricia Roc and Anne Crawford , two of the loveliest beauties ever to grace the screen for the UK . Both are transplanted from the city , Roc is one of three sisters living with their widowed father Moore Marriott who's a member of the Home Guard . She has a bittersweet romance with RAF sergeant young Gordon Jackson in his first role of notice . Anne Crawford's a sexy thing used who's been around . She's not taking to factory work at all , but in spite of herself and in spite of himself , she's taking nicely to factory foreman Eric Portman and he , her . Roc is best remembered by Americans in her one and only Hollywood film , the western Canyon Passage . And Crawford before she died tragically at the age of 36 made her mark across the pond as Morgan LeFay in Knights of the Round Table with Robert Taylor and Ava Gardner . Anne didn't yield an inch to Ava in the beauty department . Today's audience will have it driven home just how much danger of invasion the United Kingdom was in when they see the direction signs on roads cut down and painted over . The better for the enemy not to be helped should he land . This film is a historic classic , a must for today's audience to learn what and how much a free people might endure to stay free . Women like Roc and Crawford and the Millions Like { Us } them kept the men in the fight , kept Great Britain free and ultimately kept us all free .
" Damn The Torpedoes , Full Speed Ahead "	In her one and only recognition of sorts from the Motion Picture Academy , Jean Arthur got a nomination for Best Actress for The More the Merrier , a screwball comedy based on the housing shortage in Washington , DC . It was a tough field with veteran players like Greer Garson for Madame Curie , Ingrid Bergman for Casablanca , and Joan Fontaine for the Constant Nymph . But a fresh faced newcomer with only two previous film credits under a different and real name of Phyllis Isley copped the big prize . Spiritual and ethereal beat out funny and sentimental that year as Jennifer Jones won for The Song of Bernadette . Arthur's well known stage fright manifested itself in non-cooperation with those that give out the awards . There are all kinds of Jean Arthur stories about her running and hiding from fans , her getting physically sick before shooting a scene and then giving a great performance , her total non-cooperation with the press that covers the film industry . It didn't redound to her benefit at Oscar time . Still The More the Merrier is one of her great roles . My mother's older sister was also one of those government girls who went to work for a flock of new agencies that sprung up during World War II . The country and its people were mobilized to a degree never seen before or since . Would that this president could show the leadership now that FDR showed then against a group of people who would destroy our way of life . My aunt met her husband in Washington who was deferred from military service because of tuberculosis he had suffered . If she were alive she could attest to the things shown in The More the Merrier . Washington , DC simply did not have the housing available for all the folks now working in the capital . Jean Arthur is one of those women and to show her patriotic spirit she offers to take in a roommate for splitting the rent . She gets quite a roommate in Charles Coburn , a millionaire who's been caught without a reservation at a hotel . Coburn was the only one who took home an Oscar from The More the Merrier as Best Supporting Actor . He's one roguish grandfatherly type who decides Arthur needs some male involvement even though she has an engagement of sorts to bureaucrat Richard Gaines . If he was 30 years younger he'd do the deed himself . So when homeless soldier to be Joel McCrea shows up , Coburn gets his matchmaking skills honed to a fine edge . Dolly Levy could have learned from this man . McCrea was at the high point of his career , he was taking a break from westerns and doing some of the best comedies around with Preston Sturges and this one with George Stevens . This was his third and final film with Jean Arthur . He had done the Silver Horde a Victorian melodrama with Arthur as the other woman and Adventures in Manhattan where he was miscast . This one however was a winner in every way for him . Best scene in the film is after Coburn as sublets half of his half of Arthur's apartment to McCrea and they haven't broken the news to Arthur yet . He gets into the shower and while some of us sing , McCrea likes to imitate a seal . Arthur's expressions on hearing the seal noises is priceless . The More the Merrier got a remake in the Sixties with Jim Hutton and Samantha Eggar and Cary Grant in his final film in the Charles Coburn part . It was good , but not nearly as good as the original . Don't believe me , see both and compare .
The Fight At Diablo Canyon	James Garner leaves behind his usual likable rogue that he normally plays for a role in Duel at Diablo as a grim and vengeful scout for the Army who's been told by Lieutenant Bill Travers and graphically shown that his Apache wife has been killed . If he goes on a mission scouting for Travers delivering ammunition and green troops to another fort , he'll meet up with the man who had the scalp , the marshal there , John Crawford . Garner's not the only who's lived in both the white and Indian world . He rescues Bibi Andersson who's been held captive by the Indians and when he brings her back to her husband , Dennis Weaver , he's not exactly happy to see her . Decent white women were to do the honorable thing back in the day and commit suicide before being defiled by an Indian . Andersson's not welcome back in the white world . In the end nearly the whole cast is in a desperate battle for their lives against Apaches who have jumped the reservation . Also in the battle is former buffalo soldier Sidney Poitier . And with a whole lot of green troops in the battle , Poitier being around comes in mighty handy . Duel At Diablo is not a western for the squeamish , it gets pretty graphic at times . The themes that were explored in such films as The Searchers , Trooper Hook , and Two Rode Together are really explored far more here . There's also a little bit of Stagecoach in Duel At Diablo with Garner like John Wayne on a vengeance quest against the people who murdered his family . Sidney Poitier's part is interesting in that there really is no racial reference as far as his blackness is concerned . In fact Poitier having been in the army and fought the Apaches has just about the same attitudes towards them as the white characters do . This is a good western , maybe a great one , but not one for the faint hearted .
The Mercurial Genius	Long after his rival died at a young age and his world essentially obliterated by the Napoleonic wars , Antonio Salieri as played by F . Murray Abraham looks back on his life from the confines of an insane asylum . Everywhere the music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is played and hummed familiarly by even the masses . Scholars study Salieri , the people from all walks of life listen to the notes that Amadeus put down for posterity . Amadeus is a wonderful recreation of the court at Schonbrunn Palace in Vienna during the age of reason . The Hapsburgs have now become the House of Hapsburg-Lorraine as a result of Maria Theresa becoming the first female monarch of their empire . The empire and the court are now ruled by her son Joseph as played by Jeffrey Jones . What I liked about the film is that author Peter Shaffer obviously researched with great care the period this rivalry between Salieri and Mozart takes place . Jones remarks on more than one occasion about letters he got from his sister Antoinette from the French court and what she's observing , but not quite understanding . Mozart is played by young Tom Hulce and in one of the few times that two actors from the same film got nominated in the same acting category , Hulce and Abraham were both up for Best Actor and Abraham won as opposed to both of them canceling each other out . It really would be hard to live on the difference in their performances , without a good Mozart and an equally good Salieri , the film would not be the masterpiece it is . And it did win for Best Picture , Best Director for Milos Forman and a flock of other Oscars , all well deserved . Besides those already mentioned I think you will enjoy Elizabeth Berridge as Mozart's long suffering wife and Roy Dotrice as his more staid and settled father who can't cope with a mercurial genius of a son any better than Abraham can . And Amadeus brought a revival of interest in the old classical masters and that's always a good thing .
Garson and Pidgeon , A Perfect Fit	For their third MGM collaboration , Walter Pidgeon and Greer Garson were cast as Pierre and Marie Curie in this epic biographical drama about the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in science . The Curies contribution to science was a newly discovered element radium which did nothing less than alter how we think about matter itself . The film carries the story of Marie Curie's life when she was a young student at the Sorbonne from Poland under her maiden name of Sklodowska . The mere fact she was a student there and a brilliant one was highly unusual for women in the 19th century . Her brilliance attracts the attention of young instructor there Pierre Curie , first her mind and then her heart . Pierre and Marie Curie seem such a perfect fit for each other mainly because Pidgeon and Garson worked so well together on screen . Both got nominations for Best Actor and Actress for 1943 , repeating what they had done for Mrs . Miniver in 1942 . This was Pidgeon's second and last nomination . They lost to Paul Lukas and Jennifer Jones in their respective categories . The film itself was nominated for Best Picture but lost to Casablanca . What I like most about Madame Curie is that you don't need a degree in physics to understand what's happening . The actors , the direction by Mervyn LeRoy and the script all are at their best . Look for up and coming MGM stalwarts like Robert Walker and Van Johnson to play brief roles . Easy to tell why both became stars . I think Madame Curie and her husband would both have liked the way they were portrayed in this film .
The Goal Is Always Justice	In a recent biography of Billy Wilder , Agatha Christie is quoted as saying that this was the best adaption of her work ever done on the screen . I can't praise Witness for the Prosecution any higher than that . Tyrone Power in his farewell film plays Leonard Vole who befriends a dotty old widow played by Norma Varden . She even rewrites her will leaving him the bulk of a very large estate . When she's murdered , Scotland Yard arrests Power . Power's solicitor Henry Daniell retains a dream team for defense of John Williams and the recently recovered Charles Laughton . Laughton is recovering from a heart attack and against medical advice plunges into the case . Laughton also has to deal with the efforts of his assigned nurse Elsa Lanchester to keep him following doctor's advice . The original play this was taken from concentrated completely on the Power character and the machinations of his wife . Wilder built up the character of the nurse and barrister Sir Wilfred Robards so that they almost equaled the screen time of Mr . and Mrs . Vole . So much so that Charles Laughton was nominated for an Academy Award in 1957 , but lost to Alec Guinness . Marlene Dietrich plays Mrs . Vole . She's a war bride over from Germany and she's got her own agenda going . Her performance and what her character does is the key to the whole film . Dietrich probably would have gotten an Oscar nomination herself , but due to the fact that if her performance was hyped up for Academy consideration , the element of surprise would have been lost in the film . Wilder in fact apologized to Marlene for that . The Anglo-Saxon legal system's goal is justice . Justice is served though not quite in the way it usually is in Witness for the Prosecution .
Growing Up In The Bronx	A Bronx Tale does take me back to New York City in the sixties . I grew up in Brooklyn then which certainly has always had its own identity . I'm glad that Chazz Palmentiri has given the Bronx an identity of its own . There are still parts of the Bronx which have the Italian neighborhood you see depicted here . But the Bronx is a Latino majority borough now , ironic when you consider part of the story of A Bronx Tale is the racial tension between the blacks and Italians . The movie divides in two parts , the first is around 1960 with the background of the 1960 World Series , one of the best ever played where the Yankees of Mickey Mantle lost to the Pirates in seven games . Robert DeNiro is your average Joe , a bus driver by profession trying with his wife , Katherine Narducci , to raise their son who is eight years old . Young Francis Capra who is fascinated by the gangsters hanging out at the bar down the street , witnesses the local boss commit a murder . True to the neighborhood code he doesn't snitch to the police and the local boss takes him under his wing . Chazz Palmentiri is the boss and he's an interesting character . A man who's risen to the top of his profession , he's got a sense of himself and what it took to get there . Life is about choices , he made his and he's going with the flow , but he knows it isn't for everyone . He advises young Capra to stay in school , but the more he advises the more fascinating Palmentiri becomes to DeNiro's dismay . The second half of the story is in 1968 , the Bronx as part of America ravaged by racial tensions , assassinations and the war in Vietnam . The little boy is now teenager Lillo Brancato who gets interested in a black girl , a big no-no in the crowd he comes from , but Palmentiri is the one person who encourages the relationship . Let's just say that everything , every element of the story comes full circle on one night in the Bronx in 1968 . The comparison to Goodfellas for me is obvious . The two kids who grow up to be Joe Pesci and Ray Liotta are taken under the wing of neighborhood boss Paul Sorvino who sees them as promising gangster material and they grow into the roles . Palmentiri keeps telling the young kid here do what I say not what I do , but in the end it takes some tragic events to set him on a right path . DeNiro who you would normally expect in the gangster role is just fine as the father , a good man , not a perfect one by any means , but just a guy trying to do right by his family . It's Palmentiri however who really steals the film as the local gangster boss who's as street smart as they come , but even with all that can't anticipate all contingencies . Lillo Brancato who went on to several other film roles and a long running one in The Sopranos certainly in real life didn't make the same choices as his character Calogero Anello did . Life really imitated art in his life story . Nice to see the Bronx get its due .
Wonderful kid's film	A lot of the comments previously made here are true and this certainly isn't any kind of real biographical film of Hans Christian Anderson . But one must remember that Samuel Goldwyn was primarily making this film as children's entertainment . And on that level he succeeded brilliantly . In fact at the age of 5 in the cinema in Brooklyn this was the first movie on the big screen I ever remember seeing . My father was a big Danny Kaye fan so the whole family went to see it . And of course one of the first long-playing records we had in our house was the soundtrack to that film . Another reviewer said that Frank Loesser's score was the highlight for him in the film . I don't think Danny Kaye ever had better material to sing with on the screen . Up to this point he got by with stuff especially written for him by his wife Sylvia Fine . He proved here in Hans Christian Anderson that he could definitely succeed without it . Anyway when I view this film I'm five years old again . You will be too if you see it .
Conflict within Conflict	Randolph Scott leads a group of Confederate raiders who rob a gold shipment and kill the Union Cavalry escort . Before one of them dies though , he informs the group that the Civil War's been over for a few weeks . They're outlaws now . That fact is brought home when a group of " deputies " lead by Ray Teal and Guinn Williams go out hunting the Confederates . They're not law officers in fact , but raiders looking to steal the gold and kill Scott and his crew . Scott and his crew take shelter in a stagecoach station and the fun begins . Everybody's in conflict here . Randolph Scott has eyes for stage passenger Donna Reed and her fiancée Richard Denning doesn't like it . Lee Marvin , who's one of Scott's men , also has eyes for Reed and willing to take a direct approach . The folks who run the station , Clem Bevans and Jeanette Nolan , don't like being caught up in the shooting at their station , but don't like the Confederates in particular as their Union sympathizers and Nolan's husband and son have both been killed in the war . Even the bad guys are arguing over just what approach to take in dealing with the Confederates and none of them trust the others . All this with the two groups shooting at each other . For 81 minutes a lot of plot is packed in and it's nicely done . Very tight editing , not a word or action wasted . Randolph Scott stands rigidly as the moral centerpiece of the film . Donna Reed , a year away from her Academy Award in From Here To Eternity , does well as a former Union Army nurse going west with her fiancée Richard Denning whom she learns is not all he seems . Lee Marvin gives a harbinger of things to come with his portrayal of a man quite ready and eager to become an outlaw . One of Randolph Scott's best westerns .
" Ladies and Gentlemen and Children of All Ages . . . . . . . . . . "	The Greatest Show on Earth is a Cecil B . DeMille extravaganza , maybe the best one he ever produced and directed . Unlike his religious films or his historical films , this film is a nice tribute to an American institution , the Ringling Brothers & Barnum & Bailey Circus and as such it does not attract the controversy of some of his other films . The Best Picture Oscar for 1952 that this film won was more of a tribute to a Hollywood institution . Cecil B . DeMille in fact directed the first Hollywood made film , The Squaw Man , forty years earlier and this Oscar was essentially a tribute to him for the work of a lifetime . Not the first time or the last time the Motion Picture Academy has done that . This is DeMille spectacle at it's best . The circus as a cinema subject , so full of color and life , is ideal for a DeMille production . Wonderful camera work marks this film , both of the circus acts and the reaction shots into the crowd of the children of all ages . Cecil B . DeMille himself narrates portions of the film showing the work involved in putting on the Greatest Show on Earth . His was a familiar voice to the American public because for 10 years DeMille came into American households via radio narrating the Lux Radio Theater . In fact until Alfred Hitchcock got his own anthology TV series , DeMille's voice was probably the most known to the American public of a film director . And only his name and that of Walt Disney's of people behind the camera were guaranteed box office in the days of the Hollywood studio system . Spectacle was his thing and DeMille was the master . As a director of players and a judge of good modern writing , DeMille left a lot to be desired . Because of the nature of the subject , no great historical or religious events , the grandiloquent dialog present in so many DeMille films is kept to a minimum here . This was Charlton Heston's first big break as a star and his second film under a Paramount contract . He had done a film called Dark City , a good noir thriller that got good reviews , but did little for him personally . DeMille saw the six foot two Heston walking on the Paramount lot one day and just said to himself that this was to be the circus ramrod for this film . But Heston was fourth billed behind Betty Hutton , Cornel Wilde , and Gloria Grahame , all better known than him at the time . Wilde and Grahame were independents as was James Stewart who played a clown with a hidden past . Stewart in fact had always wanted to play a clown and took this supporting role with smaller billing just for the opportunity . At the time he agreed to do this , his wife Gloria was pregnant with their twin daughters . Stewart had it in his contract a clause that gave him permission to leave the film temporarily to be with Gloria when her time was near . In fact Gloria McLean Stewart had a rough time with the birth and Jimmy exercised that option and totally enraged DeMille who had to shut down production for a few days . He and DeMille did not get along after that though Stewart finished the film and was great in it . Gloria Grahame may not have been the most beautiful woman in Hollywood , but she was the most seductive operating in 1952 . That was a banner year for her . She got a Best Supporting Actress for The Bad and the Beautiful on top of this DeMille film . As the elephant girl she attracts the unwanted attentions of Lyle Bettger who plays an elephant trainer . Bettger was a great player at that time who played a lovely variety of psychopaths on the screen . He pulls out all the stops here and its his unwanted attentions to Grahame that set up the final scenes . Dorothy Lamour was here also in a supporting part and she gets to sing Lovely Luawanna Lady in sarong and the reaction shots of the crowd focus on a couple of familiar faces who panted after her in a few Paramount films . The story itself is a standard four sided triangle involving Heston , Hutton , Wilde , and Grahame with Bettger horning in . You have to see the film to find out who winds up with who . However the high point of the film involves a circus train wreck . DeMille got a lot of notice for wrecking a train in Union Pacific back in 1939 . So he doubles the excitement and wrecks two trains here with circus animals pouring out of busted cages . Great stuff . Betty Hutton was coming close to the end of her film career . This and Annie Get Your Gun would be her biggest triumphs . Given DeMille's limitations on directing players , Hutton is surprisingly subdued here and effective . She also sings a couple of nice songs here as she bids adieu to Paramount in her next to last film for them . When The Greatest Show on Earth came out and was doing great box office , Charlton Heston related a story that DeMille came over to him on the Paramount lot and gave him a newspaper clipping and said he would never get a better notice ever , no matter how long a career he had . Heston read the thing and the critic from some small town paper praised all the actors like Stewart , Wilde , Hutton , Grahame , and Lamour said they were great , but that C . B . DeMille must be the greatest director in the world to get a performance out of that circus ramrod . For all of DeMille's faults here , he created a circus picture that set the standard for any to follow .
A Homage To The Little Tramp	Though his character is very much the center of the film , its star Johnny Depp left it out of the title . Benny & Joon is a brother and sister played by Aidan Quinn and Mary Stuart Masterson . Depp's character is Sam a man much influenced by Charlie Chaplin who comes into their lives and changes everything in this very gentle comedy . You have to give credit where it's due , Johnny Depp knew his talent , knew his worth , and was determined not to be pigeonholed as a teen idol that he was from his role in 21 Jump Street . He's created one of the widest variety of bodies of work there is out there for a player and has both defied type casting and retained being a box office draw . In fact only recently and I'm sure the money was too insanely good to turn down was he repeating parts as Captain Jack Sparrow . Benny is your average working man who has a garage and paints and repairs cars and he's concerned about his sister Joon who is mentally disturbed . He's the only family they both have , but her antics have left him with no life besides work and minding her . Part of his restricted social life is a really penny ante poker game with his cronies who all know him and his situation . They bet other things besides money . William H . Macy bets a weird cousin who has come to live with him and he loses Johnny Depp to Quinn . But this very gentle soul who could be a cousin of Depp's Edward Scissorhands sparks something in Masterson . Depp's always doing his Charlie Chaplin shtick , but you don't mind it because he's so darn good at it . Anyway Quinn might just be able to get a life of his own now and fill it with Julianne Moore with whom he'd like to get something going with . The year before Benny & Joon came out , Robert Downey , Jr . did his most critically acclaimed role as Charlie Chaplin in the film Chaplin for which he won an Oscar nomination . I'm willing to bet that Johnny Depp must have been up for the part and Benny & Joon just might have been his way of showing who was a better Chaplin . And I'm also sure that Benny & Joon is also Johnny Depp's way of a nice homage to one of the screen immortals he admires . Either way this quirky , but gentle comedy about life is a wonderful film and worth many viewings .
First In War , First In Peace , First In The Hearts Of His Countrymen	To take that imposing figure come down to us from Gilbert Stuart's famous portrait and turn George Washington into a flesh and blood human being was quite the achievement . I watched this and the succeeding mini-series about Washington and came away thinking I actually knew the man . I think the credit goes to two people . First the source of this mini - series is James Thomas Flexner's authoritative biography on Washington . I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to know about our first president and what went into the shaping of his character . The book is eminently readable and Flexner writes so that even a non-historian can appreciate Washington . The second is Barry Bostwick's performance as Washington . It's not easy to make someone who's attained near mythological status into a flesh and blood human being , but Bostwick succeeds brilliantly . His life and loves are told from early manhood through to the end of the American Revolution . Martha Washington is ably played by Patty Duke . During our revolution at any number of given points the colonial army could have been snuffed out if British commanders had made different and better choices . Washington endured a few victories , some defeats , but he kept his army intact and in being until the advantage that made that final victory at Yorktown in 1781 presented themselves . He also had to endure a lot of criticism of his leadership from some elements of the Continental Congress . In fact one should see this together with 1776 and get an idea about the American Revolution from both the military and civilian leadership perspectives . In the supporting cast I enjoyed James Mason in one of his final roles as British General Braddock who Washington served under during the French and Indian War . It's there where Washington got his baptism of fire in the woods of western Pennsylvania . This is the 18th century equivalent of what the Indians did to General Custer . Washington was lucky to escape that day and Mason does in good job in portraying a very brave , but incredibly stupid general . I would also single out Jaclyn Smith as Washington's first love , Lady Fairfax and Jose Ferrer as Virginia colonial Lieutenant Governor Robert Dinwiddie who gave Washington his first military command in the French and Indian War . George Washington is good drama and good history . Anything you want to know about the first American president can be learned here .
Even Randolph Scott Must Have Laughed At This One , Not To Mention Hedy Lamarr or Marlene Dietrich	I have a great deal of difficulty in deciding whether Blazing Saddles or The Producers is the funnier of the Mel Brooks comedies . Being a western aficionado I suppose I have to go with this film . I don't think there was a western cliché Mr . Brooks missed in this one . From the first scene with that celebrated foof contest going on at the campfire to that last shootout at the premier of Blazing Saddles , you'd better be ready to not stop laughing for one minute . Mel Brooks assembled one of the best casts of comic actors this side of It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World and got lifetime performances out of all of them . I've always thought that Mel Brooks for Blazing Saddles borrowed a lot from the surreal quality of the Road pictures and certainly Cleavon Little and Gene Wilder have a Crosby / Hope like camaraderie going . My favorite though is Harvey Korman as chief villain Hedy , oops I mean Hedley Lamarr . That was the role of a lifetime for him , I think his best moment on screen . Following closely is Madeline Kahn as famous saloon entertainer Lily Von Shtupp . You could tell the Code was a thing of the past when a character could have a name like that . John Wayne was purportedly shown the script and while he declined to be in it , he did say it was the funniest thing he ever read and he would buy the first ticket . Now that's the highest possible endorsement pilgrim .
A Classic Story Made Into a Classic Film	Of the four films that Robert Taylor called his " iron jockstrap movies " Ivanhoe is probably the best . Filmed on location in Great Britain with a classic mixed cast of American and British players , Ivanhoe is a film for those of us who like their heroes strong and true and their causes noble ones . It's a noble cause in every sense of the word . King Richard the Lion Hearted is held captive by Duke Leopold of Austria on a return from the Crusades . Leopold's demanding a hefty sum and Prince John who is regent over in England ain't in no big hurry to pay it . So it is one Wilfred of Ivanhoe , a Saxon knight on Crusade with the Norman King , who takes up the burden of raising that ransom . As Walter Scott wrote the story , Ivanhoe is a pretty virtuous fellow who takes those chivalry vows quite seriously . If this had been made at 20th Century Fox Tyrone Power would have been Ivanhoe . But MGM had a perfect actor for Ivanhoe in Robert Taylor , especially with the success Quo Vadis had previously . Joan Fontaine is the prim and proper Lady Rowena and Elizabeth Taylor is the lovely Rebecca ready to be martyred for her Jewish faith . She's the key to this whole film . She's crushing big time on Ivanhoe , but it is Norman knight Bois Guilbert who has it bad for her . George Sanders who plays Bois Guilbert has the most complex role in the film . He's genuinely in love with Liz Taylor , but all she sees is the oppressor of her people in him . Of course by his reasoning the Normans are enjoying the spoils of conquest in England which they've been doing since 1066 even though it's over 120 years at this point . Nevertheless he's a brave knight and a worthy opponent of Ivanhoe . Guy Rolfe as Prince John has an interesting part as well . Except in a Doctor Who episode I've never seen a good characterization of Prince later King John . Guy Rolfe is no exception . When Elizabeth Taylor is on trial for witchcraft and sorcery and Ivanhoe challenges the verdict of the court with a wager of battle , Rolfe knows how Sanders feels about Taylor . Yet in an act of supreme cruelty he chooses him as the court's champion . I suppose the idea was for Rolfe to get some kind of sadistic amusement at Sanders's discomfort . It costs Rolfe dearly . Other good performances come from those four reliable players Finlay Currie as Cedric of Ivanhoe , Felix Aylmer as Isaac of York , Robert Douglas as Hugh DeBracy , and Emlyn Williams as Womba the Squire . In that 19th century romantic age of literature Walter Scott did much to elevate the ideals of chivalry to what we popularly accept them today . Of course back in the day those knights weren't all that chivalrous all the time . But this film heeds to that bit of philosophy about American popular myths , " when the legend becomes fact , print the legend . " Or film it as the case may be .
Speculating Wolf	As Bud Fox in Wall Street , Charlie Sheen knows only one thing , he does not want the life his blue collar father and real life father Martin Sheen has . He's a child of the Eighties and wants to make money fast and live the good life . Inpatient with working in a brokerage house where he's barely breaking even paying for his yuppie lifestyle in Manhattan , Sheen wants to swim with the big fish . So he looks to ingratiate himself with the biggest fish of all , speculator Gordon Gekko . For Michael Douglas , Gordon Gekko has been the career role of his life , netting him the Best Actor Oscar for 1987 that eluded his father Kirk in three tries . Douglas is at once , charming , egocentric , shrewd , and ruthless . When he talked about his City College background and his father's background which seems remarkably similar to Sheen's it reminded me of Fredric March from Executive Suite . He also had a night school diploma , but rose to the top of his company through hard work and being completely ruthless . When Sheen brings him information about the airline that his father works maintenance for , Douglas makes a bundle and brings Sheen into his circle . But he's playing him like a piccolo as we soon find out . Darryl Hannah has a nice role as the trophy woman Douglas fixes for Sheen , but the performance I like is that of Terrence Stamp as the British tycoon who has a no holds barred rivalry with Douglas . He ultimately proves to be the key to the solution to the problem of the speculating wolf of Wall Street . Oliver Stone supplies us with a not to flattering look at the capitalist system . It should give one pause for reflection . Just imagine what it was like before the New Deal brought in the Securities and Exchange Commission and it was completely unregulated . It was the stuff the Stock Market Crash was made of . Though the thought of Gordon Gekko selling apples on the street is a pleasing one .
Stu And Astrid	Back in the Sixties when I was a mere teenager I read some of the stories about the Beatles and the background they came from . I knew of Stuart Sutcliffe and his story only months before the Beatles came into the consciousness of America . But until I saw Backbeat I did not KNOW Stuart Sutcliffe and the curious triangular relationship with John Lennon and German photographer Astrid Kirschner . Seeing Backbeat I do feel I was transported back to Liverpool and Hamburg of the early sixties and the origins of what became the Beatles . Sutcliffe was a good friend of John Lennon who was part of the group he and Paul McCartney put together back in the days when they were searching for an image and a sound . Sutcliffe had his own ambitions however , he was a talented artist . He also had an irreversible brain tumor and a guaranteed limited time on earth . I think that Stephen Dorff's background from a musical family no doubt helped in portraying Stuart Sutcliffe . I had seen Dorff previously in The Power of One and was amazed at his uncanny ability to get an Afrikanse accent right in a South African story . He does similarly here with not a British accent , but a Liverpudlian one . He certainly got no complaints from white South Africans or Liverpudlians for either film . He's got the best ear for speech patterns this side of Robert Mitchum . Sheryl Lee is a fetching Astrid Kirschner , beloved of Sutcliffe and possibly of Lennon also . Ian Hart plays John Lennon , not the poet of Give Peace a Chance , but an angry working class kid from Liverpool who wants to succeed in the music business . It's like looking in young Lennon's soul . The other Beatles are there , Paul McCartney , George Harrison , and Peter Best and there's a brief appearance by Ringo Starr who was drumming for another band and would be the piece that completed the revolutionary quartet eventually . But that's after this story finished . And the story is really about John Lennon and his good friends Astrid and Stu . For as long as the Beatles performed and as long as he performed there was a bit of Stuart Sutcliffe in their music , Lennon saw to that .
" How Many Times Does A Man Have To Win You ? "	The Big Country is one big and fun western with concurrent plot lines . The first is the struggle between two implacable enemies , Charles Bickford and Burl Ives . The second is a four sided romantic triangle involving Gregory Peck , Jean Simmons , Charlton Heston , and Carroll Baker with Chuck Connors trying to horn in . William Wyler directed the almost three hour western with a sure hand and your interest does not wane for one minute in this film . Gregory Peck also was a co-producer on this film as well as the first billed . He had a hand in casting a lot of the film , specifically Burl Ives in his Academy Award winning performance as Rufus Hannessy . It's the Terrills versus the Hannessys . Charles Bickford is the local Ponderosa owner Major Terrill . Presumably the title comes from the Civil War . Bickford does play Terrill with a military bearing . My guess is that he was a Yankee soldier . The Hannessys would now be called white trash . They look like hillbilly folk who also came west for fame and fortune . They've also got a big spread in a place called Blanco Canyon . They hate the Yankee Major as much as he hates them . Sitting between them is Jean Simmons who has inherited a modest piece of land that sits across a river that both outfits water their cattle on as per an agreement with her late grandfather . She doesn't work the land herself any more , she teaches school in town . Simmons tries to keep above the feud . She is friends with Carroll Baker , Charles Bickford's daughter . She's been east and is bringing home a prospective bridegroom who is a former sea captain played by Gregory Peck . That doesn't sit well with Charlton Heston who is the Terrill foreman . He's got eyes on Baker himself and Chuck Connors who is Burl Ives eldest son has eyes for Simmons when he's not in the local bordello . A lot of started and broken relationships and a few of the cast members being killed occurs in The Big Country . My favorite scene and line in the film is when Burl Ives gives some advice to Chuck Connors on how to woo and win Jean Simmons . His big advice is to show her how much you care by taking a bath occasionally . Charlton Heston took a role that was fourth billed because he wanted the opportunity to work with William Wyler . That was one great career move because Wyler and he hit it off so well that Wyler signed him for the lead in his next film which turned out to be Ben-Hur . Heston in his memoirs , conservative as he became , says he also got along very well with Gregory Peck who he called a " thinking man's liberal . " Peck and Wyler had worked together previously on Roman Holiday and had done good work there and also hit it off . However with Peck as a co-producer as well as star they had some clashes on the set . One notable one involved Peck wanting to retake the carriage scene where the Hannessy brothers attack Peck and Baker on the way to the Bickford ranch . Peck wasn't satisfied and wanted a retake . Wyler who was legendary for doing scenes dozens of times until he got what he wanted refused . Later when shown the finished film , Wyler had edited out and around what Peck didn't like and it came out OK . They remained friends , but never worked together again . Simmons as the independent minded school teacher and Baker as the spoiled daddy's little girl acquit themselves well in their roles . Baker is disappointed in Peck not seeing him as her ideal western man and Simmons upbraids her with the quote I put in the review title . This is also the final film of Alfonso Bedoya who never did get a role in an American film as good as the one he had as Gold Hat in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre . Still this is a fine farewell performance to a very colorful and talented player . When he's on the screen Burl Ives dominates and fills it and not just physically either . Rufus Hannessy may not be to the manor born , but he has his own sense of integrity and fair play . All that Burl Ives captured in Rufus and The Big Country is worth watching just for him alone . And that Jerome Moross score ; simply one of the best ever done in the history of film .
The Ay-Ay-Irish Senor	Alvarez Kelly , Mexican national , has just sold a herd of cattle to the North during the American Civil War . Yankee Major Stedman insists he accompany the cattle all the way to Richmond where they're to feed Grant's troops besieging the city . Only Confederate Cavalry hero Tom Rossiter has different ideas for the cattle and for Kelly . William Holden as Kelly and Richard Widmark as Tom Rossiter settle down in roles familiar to them . Ever since Sunset Boulevard Bill Holden has brought us a fine line of cynical protagonists to the silver screen . Holden's good , but he's not breaking any new ground here . Richard Widmark as Rossiter is a bit more idealistic than Kelly , but only because he believes in a cause . He's no less cynical than Kelly in his methods of getting Kelly's cooperation in his scheme . The scheme being to get the cattle passed union lines to Richmond . We're not talking here about slavery and the causes of the Civil War . Just the prevention of disease and starvation . The only other larger role of note is Patrick O'Neal as Major Stedman of the Union Army . He is such and unctuous and boring man and written deliberately so by the writers that we will understand why Kelly is tempted by the Confederate offer . Of course Widmark uses other forms of persuasion , but you have to see the movie for that . It's a nice action film by two very capable male stars who were passed the peak years of their respective careers in the Fifties . Also you will not be able to get the title song , sung by the Kingston Trio over the opening credits out of your mind . Very catchy indeed .
The Bell Tolls for Republican Spain	Ernest Hemingway was most particular about how is work should be portrayed on screen . He had hated the version of A Farewell to Arms that was done ten years earlier . What he did like was Gary Cooper's portrayal of a Hemingway hero . He and Cooper got to be good friends , so he was Papa's first and only choice to be Robert Jordan in For Whom the Bell Tolls . The novel grew out of Hemingway's experience in the Spanish Civil War that raged for almost four years . A number of generals not liking the leftist trend the new Spanish Republic was taking pulled a military coup d'etat . The whole world took sides with the Soviet Union aiding the Republic's defenders and Italy and Germany aiding the Nationalist Generals . The USA was officially neutral , but people had their opinions . Believe it or not many supported the rebelling generals seeing them as upholding traditional Catholic Spain . But some in America organized the Abraham Lincoln Brigade , a group of volunteers who fought for the Republic . Some in there were U . S . Communist Party members , but a whole lot were idealists . All of them had a lot of difficulty after World War II , for shall we say being to prematurely anti-Fascist . Gary Cooper plays just such a volunteer and he's got a mission , to blow up a key bridge in the Guadarrama mountains . He makes contact with the guerrilla band of Akim Tamiroff and Katina Paxinou . Of course fighting with them is Ingrid Bergman , so we had some romantic interludes there which steamed up the screen . This was quite a year for Ingrid , she did Casablanca as well that year and her name became synonymous with romance . She was not the first choice here . Director Sam Wood did not like his original leading lady Vera Zorina and replaced her with Bergman who he really wanted in the first place . In fact Wood was a second choice . Paramount originally scheduled this film for Cecil B . DeMille . I'm betting there were some creative differences between DeMille and Papa Hemingway . If this had become a DeMille type film , it would have been a disaster . Gary Cooper , Ingrid Bergman , Akim Tamiroff , and Katina Paxinou all got Academy Award nominations . Only Paxinou won the Oscar for this film . A great performance , but also probably a tribute to her refugee status . She had fled her native Greece when the Nazis took over where she was a leading member of their national theater . She accepted her Oscar in memory of her late colleagues there . The only criticism of the film came from those that thought it lingered too long on Cooper and Bergman's romance . Something by the way they were having in real life as well . But Ernest Hemingway liked the film just fine and I think most will as well .
Eddie Gets His Millions	In a recent and long overdue biography of Eddie Cantor it turns out that Cantor's daughter Marilyn was responsible for the casting of Ethel Merman in this and a subsequent film of her father's . The Cantors and the San Goldwyns saw each other socially quite a bit and young Marilyn Cantor became a fan of Merman's after seeing her on the Broadway stage . She lobbied with Goldwyn to get Merman opposite her father and the man relented . Cantor and Merman did work well together here and in Strike Me Pink . Eddie is playing his usual bullied schnook who is living with what I guess would be considered a foster family on the New York docks . But it turns out he's the son of an archaeologist who went to Egypt and went missing , but who found a reputed treasure . All he has to do is claim the treasure over in Egypt . Of course there are some other people who think they have a claim . Berton Churchill and daughter Ann Sothern helped finance the expedition and Ethel Merman claims a common-law relationship , a scheme cooked up by her hoodlum boy friend Warren Hymer . All of these people perform well and I have to say that Warren Hymer who never exactly played intellectuals on the screen actually dumbs HIS usual character down for the film . But I have to say that the man who seemed to be enjoying himself most playing the villainous Arab sheik is character actor Paul Harvey . He overacts outrageously in his part and I'm sure he was grateful for the false beard and mustache he had to wear to contain the grins he must have had on his face . Playing the Harvey's daughter and her beloved are the vaudeville team of Eva Sully and Jesse Block in their only screen appearance . I'm betting Cantor was responsible for their casting . Eva in her harem outfit and Jewish accent develops a crush on Cantor who's who'd rather be boiled in the sheik's oil than marry her . But that's part of the whole wonderfully silly plot . A whole host of song writing talents contributed to this film , Irving Berlin , Walter Donaldson and Gus Kahn and Burton Lane and Harold Adamson . Some sharp ears might recognize a Lane tune that was revived with a different lyric by Alan Jay Lerner and danced to by Fred Astaire in Royal Wedding then called You're All the World To Me . There is also one of the strangest minstrel numbers ever shot on screen where no one but Cantor is in blackface . During it he has to dance with the Nicholas Brothers and I'm sure in the primitive minds back then it was felt he'd better look like them . He shouldn't have tried because Fayard and Harold dance him right off the screen . Other than the minstrel number , Kid Millions is one of the best musicals from out of the Thirties and another showcase of the talented Eddie Cantor .
Losing A Moral Compass	John Wayne's Ethan Edwards , Jimmy Stewart's Howard Kemp , or any number of roles Kirk Douglas has played have nothing of the intensity of Gregory Peck's Jim Douglas in The Bravados . Peck is perfect casting for the part because he's playing against type . If Atticus Finch's wife had been a homicide victim , I think this is how we would see him . Totally lose a moral compass and become a relentless stalker . It's what makes The Bravados work , because we identify Gregory Peck with an innate decency . Peck's house was robbed and his wife raped and murdered by intruders . Peck has a line on them , they're four killers who've been caught and scheduled to hang for a bank robbery in a town several miles away where a bank teller has been killed . But they escape with the help of the hangman , Joe DeReda soon to become a stooge . These are a quartet of the nastiest villains ever , Stephen Boyd , Albert Salmi , Lee Van Cleef , and Henry Silva all of whom have played villains with relish on the big screen . One of them , Boyd , in fact is a rapist , they take young Kathleen Gallant the daughter of the town's dry goods merchant along as a hostage . Charles Bronson never executed bad guys with as much relish as Peck did . They are convicted murderers who've escaped , there's no law to answer to . Peck may be doing some public service homicides , but there's a higher law he must answer to for the preservation of his own soul . In fact the ending brings quite a twist to the tale . The Bravados is one of six films directed by long time 20th Century Fox director Henry King who is most known for doing nine films there with Tyrone Power . In fact the first couple that Peck did were probably properties that were meant for Power , but Darryl Zanuck switched them for his new up and coming leading man . This one however is all Gregory Peck's film , I'm not sure Power could have done a better job . Peck gets some able support from the villainous quartet and from Joan Collins as an old flame he finds that has settled in the town the four have savaged . Special mention should go to Andrew Duggan as the priest in the town where apparently everyone is Catholic . Duggan does a good job as the padre who gives just the right spiritual advice and counsel to a troubled soul . Themes like rape were not exactly subject matter for westerns before the Fifties . The Bravadoes succeeds both as Saturday matinée shooting and as serious adult drama . It shouldn't be missed when broadcast .
All That's Missing is Color	One of my favorite Kirk Douglas films is The Big Sky where he plays mountain man / trapper Jim Deakins . It's a great part for Douglas with his incredible charm and quick burn when someone does him wrong . The Big Sky was RKO Pictures big production for 1952 . I'd like to say that Howard Hughes spared no expense in making this film , shooting a good deal of it in the Grand Tetons , the actual location for the adventures of many fur trappers . But for the life of me I don't understand why Hughes and RKO after doing that , didn't spring for color . Possibly because director Howard Hawks wanted black and white . His last epic film Red River had done well in black and white . Still I really think something was missed . RKO did use color on films with a lot less budget . There's a lot of similarity between The Big Sky and Red River . Both films involve a group of men on an epic journey into the unknown for business reasons . In Red River , John Wayne has to get that huge herd to market and has to use a trail few have used . In The Big Sky a group of independent trappers basically want to land a nice fur contract with the Blackfeet Indians where few whites have gone up the Missouri River . Going against them is a fur trading consortium kind of like the one John Jacob Astor put together . The trappers are mostly French Canadian Metis headed by Steven Geray , but also along is Arthur Hunnicutt who speaks the Indian language . Their ace in the hole is Elizabeth Threatt , a Blackfoot princess the trappers have rescued and are bringing back to her people in the hopes that her old man will be grateful . Hunnicutt is also the narrator of the film . Douglas and Dewey Martin join up with the group in St . Louis and the trappers have the usual adventures as they take the flatboat up into the Missouri River country . The scenes showing journey upriver are nicely photographed . Two others in the cast merit attention . Hank Worden does a nice job as a lost Blackfoot Indian who the trappers pick up . He may not be playing with a full deck , but he does come in handy . Jim Davis is one lean and mean villain as the company troubleshooter who wants to keep the independents out . Arthur Hunnicutt got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his role , The Big Sky proved to be his career film . Unfortunately he lost to Anthony Quinn for Viva Zapata . Still Hunnicutt's folksy charm was always something to look forward to in any film he was ever in . The Big Sky is one of the best films ever done about the mountain man era of the American frontier . If they'd only spent for color .
Titus the Caterer	Titus is Julie Traynor's adaption of one of Shakespeare's bloodier works , Titus Andronicus . It's set in a surreal land where ancient idiom is mixed with modern dress and customs . It's not normally a form I like because I prefer my Shakespeare traditional . However in the case of Titus Andronicus though the setting is that of ancient Rome , the characters and plot incidents are an amalgamation of several stories out of Rome , so there is no real history for it to compete with . It's not like doing Julius Caesar in this kind of setting . Titus Andronicus is a Roman general whose legions can make or break the next emperor . Rather than claim the crown himself he says give it to the eldest son of the last emperor Saturninus . He soon wishes he hadn't been that magnanimous . The other strand of the plot involves Titus in insisting a blood sacrifice be made to the Roman Gods of the eldest son of the captured Queen of Goths Tamora . She begs and pleads for her kid's life , but to no avail . After that she starts planning revenge and she's got two other sons and a Moorish man toy named Aaron to both help her out and pour gasoline on her fires for revenge . Watching Titus Andronicus I thought of Hamlet which also about what turns out to be a bloody quest for vengeance where nearly every principal character winds up dead in the end . But in Hamlet's case the deaths were by sword except in the case of the father of Hamlet , already dead by poison . This one is a whole matter . And how singularly appropriate that the man who won an Academy Award for playing Hannibal the Cannibal plays Titus Andronicus . We've got rape , mutilation , throat cutting , decapitation , being buried alive , and finally what the play is most noted for , the serving of up of a tasty meat pie with the flesh of two of the characters . Anthony Hopkins of course is the caterer and he's magnificent in the title role . He goes almost as mad as Hannibal the Cannibal in Titus . From a man who generously gave a crown away , to a blood crazed animal , Hopkins deterioration in character is truly something to behold . He's matched every step of the way by Jessica Lange as Tamora . Lady MacBeth has nothing on this woman , she makes Lady MacBeth look like Mary Poppins . Lange brings some real passion to this part , in some ways it's a more substantial role than the title character . I would venture to say it is one of the best roles for a woman that the Bard ever wrote . Titus Andronicus is one of Shakespeare's lesser known plays . Quite frankly it's too bloody for most tastes . I doubt it will ever make a high school English syllabus . But it's a fascinating tale of revenge , just taking hold of people until that's all they live for .
Realistic Racetrack movie	Personally , I enjoy two atmospheres in life . Ballparks and racetracks . Baseball movies are usually about individual efforts , I've never seen one that captures the atmosphere of the game itself . But Boots Malone better than any other film I've seen about racing until last year's Seabiscuit , captures the whole flavor of the track itself . You can literally smell the manure ( and I don't mean that as a comment on the film ) when you watch this thing . The characters in and around the track are Damon Runyon like , but not romanticized in the way he usually did . There just the everyday folk you find there , working hard at something they love . A lot of the movie depends on the chemistry of the four principal players . That this film has in abundance . Bill Holden as the cynical jockey's agent , Stanley Clements as the over the hill jockey who's now an exercise rider , Basil Ruysdael as the owner of a claiming horse with hidden promise and finally Johnny Stewart as the naive teenage kid who runs away from boarding school to hang around the track , all of them work very well in the scenes they have that's about half the film . Bill Holden had three years earlier established himself as an actor to be reckoned with in Sunset Boulevard . No more nice guy parts , he's a tough cynical character . His Boots Malone is like Joe Gillis , a cynical survivor , also like Sefton in Stalag 17 . Unlike those other two characters , we're shown the reason for Malone's cynicism and alienation , his wife and kid were killed several years earlier in a car crash . The kid , Tommy Gibson played by Johnny Stewart , get to Malone . Bit by bit as Holden shows him the ropes around the racetrack community they develop a strong bond . Some of the best scenes in the film are those with Holden teaching Stewart the fundamentals of the jockey trade . Johnny Stewart should have had a major film career . He had charisma and good acting skills in abundance . After this he made one more film and then left Hollywood to resume acting on the Broadway stage . I would love to know whatever happened to him . I love this film very much and if you love the racetrack this film is a must .
Notoriously Vicious And Intemperate Disposition	With all the fine westerns that have come out in the history of film , Unforgiven is only the third one to win the Academy Award for Best Picture . Following in the steps of Cimarron and Dances With Wolves , Unforgiven finally got Clint Eastwood the Oscar recognition for one of film's great icons . It's also one nasty and uncompromising look at the old west with people neither all good or all bad , usually reacting to the time and circumstances they're in . And the reputations they've had built for them by the various dime novelists whose work littered the land during the last half of the 19th century . A former border raider back in the wild days of the Civil War , Clint Eastwood's William Munny is our protagonist . He gave all that up and got married , fathered two kids and has been living peaceful and quiet as a farmer . He's also given up the drink , because it was demon rum which helped him overcome a whole lot of inhibitions about violence . But a few states over , a cowboy being told about his shortcomings from one of the town tarts , decided to cut her up . After doing so , he fled to the safety of the ranch he works for . Town Marshal Gene Hackman , also a violent man in the past tries to play the whole thing down . But the women raise a bounty in the only way they know how to take vengeance on behalf of a colleague . One of the great examples of women's liberation in the old west . News of it is carried to Eastwood by old friend Morgan Freeman . Reluctantly because he does need the money , Eastwood , Freeman and young gun Jaimz Woolvett decide to go after it . Gene Hackman won his second Oscar to go with his one for Best Actor in The French Connection . His town marshal is another uncommonly vicious man who now that he is on the side of ' law and order ' has some grand pretensions about himself . It's also a fascinating look inside the character of someone like Wild Bill Hickok or Wyatt Earp and what it probably took to keep ' law and order ' in frontier towns . It was a well earned Best Supporting Actor performance . Part of the reason some folks in frontier America have the legendary reputations they do is the fact of those dime novels I mentioned before . Ned Buntline , the leading purveyor of this literature made the reputations that so many frontier icons have today . One of the most interesting roles in the film is that of Saul Rubinek who is such a novelist . When we first meet Rubinek he's traveling with English Bob , played by Richard Harris in another fine performance . Hackman who knows of him and knows he killed a friend of his way back when , takes it on himself to expose and thoroughly humiliate Harris . He then takes on Rubinek as his scribe because he fancies the kind of reputation that Earp , Hickok , and Bill Cody et al are now enjoying . Of course in the end when Clint delivers a bloody reprisal to one and all , Rubinek who now has seen such a scene of death and destruction that is having a lot of second thoughts about his profession . It's my favorite role in Unforgiven . Unforgiven in addition to Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor for Hackman got Clint Eastwood his first Oscar in the Best Director category . He's won two of them now also for Million Dollar Baby . He was up in the Best Actor category , but lost to Al Pacino for Scent Of Mystery . Unforgiven won its fourth Oscar in the Editing category . Unforgiven isn't John Wayne's kind of west , but it's a fitting climax for Clint Eastwood in the genre that launched his career . I don't think it's an accident he's not done another .
" Whatever Suits You , Just Tickles Me Plum To Death . "	So said the agreeable Henry Fonda to just about every suggestion Glenn Ford or other cast members made to him . This the first of a series of very agreeable entertaining comic westerns that Burt Kennedy directed and / or wrote starring some of Hollywood's great but aging male stars . I think for the first and only time both Ford and Fonda play a pair of losers . They seem to forever be in financial bondage to their off-and-on employer Chill Wills . Wills just out-slickers Ford and Fonda just goes along with that line that must have been repeated about 8 times in The Rounders . But their biggest problem comes from a white-faced roan horse that Wills has talked the gullible Ford into taking . The horse named " Old Fooler " has a streak of cunning malevolence that provides most of the laughs in this comedy . If there was a special award given to animals for performances Old Fooler should have won it in 1965 . In fact that horse created his own acting genre , the animal anti-hero . Burt Kennedy gave us a lot of good laughs starting in the mid60s with his films and this is one of the funniest .
Sheba Like Our Youth Ain't Coming Back	For those of you who only know Shirley Booth from the television series Hazel , I would strongly recommend you look at the list of her Broadway credits which date all the way back to the twenties . She appeared in so many Broadway plays that later went on screen without her recreating the role . For example she created parts in The Philadelphia Story , Goodbye My Fancy , and Desk Set that were later played by Ruth Hussey , Joan Crawford and Katharine Hepburn respectively . Booth joined that select group of players who won both Tony and Oscars for playing the same role in Come Back , Little Sheba . The play by William Inge ran for 190 performances during the 1950 season and co-starred Sidney Blackmer with Booth . Like the Lunts when they filmed The Guardsman , we get to see but one of her performances preserved on film , maybe her best role . William Inge's play concerns two very ordinary people , Doc and Marie Delaney , a seemingly quiet middle aged couple . But like George and Martha in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf , there's a lot of skeletons in the Delaney closet . Doc was forced to marry Marie when she became pregnant and then the baby was lost anyway . Both made the best of the situation . Doc , unfortunately turned to drink . But when we meet him he's been sober for a year and involved with Alcoholics Anonymous . Marie is this dowdy middle aged housewife who's forever tuned into the radio and constantly reminiscing of her youth . Doc is just the opposite , he doesn't like to talk at all about the past . But he gets a bit of nostalgia going when pretty and stacked Terry Moore boards with the Delaneys . Her presence in the house sets of a chain of events that knocks Doc off the wagon . We then see what Marie's been living with before AA . Another reviewer remarked at how well Shirley Booth caught the attitudes and mannerisms of the wife of an alcoholic and where had she done her research for the part . The answer is she lived it . Her first husband , Ed Gardner from radio's Duffy's Tavern , was a notorious alcoholic , Booth got all the material she ever would need to create Marie Delaney with him . For movie box office Burt Lancaster played Doc Delaney and he got rave notices himself for the part . Doc was such a change from the aggressively masculine heroes like Lancaster played in The Crimson Pirate or The Flame and the Arrow . I wouldn't doubt that his performance may have led to Lancaster being cast in From Here to Eternity and winning his first Oscar nomination . In a sense Lancaster plays two roles because the sober Doc is a totally different individual from the raging drunk when he gives in to temptation . The title comes from their dog Sheba who up and ran away one day . Marie calls for him constantly , thinks she sees him at times . But Sheba's a metaphor for their youth which is never to return . Cinema acting don't get much better than Burt Lancaster and Shirley Booth in Come Back , Little Sheba .
Returning to the Primitive	I'm really gratified to find so many other reviewers having good memories of Sands of the Kalahari and feeling as put out as I do that it is not on VHS or DVD . Nor apparently has it been seen in America at least for some time . This is a tale of survival , but the characters sure don't come out of Swiss Family Robinson . A small plane crashes in the Kalahari desert in South Africa . One woman , Susannah York , and five men . Only one of them Stuart Whitman who is a big game hunter is really trained for the business of survival . The others are products of the ease and comfort of civilization . One of them , Stanley Baker , is badly injured and needs constant nursing by York . There's a colony of baboons nearby and Whitman starts identifying with them in every sense of the world . He turns on the others , eliminating them one by one except York who he decides will be his savage Eve to his savage Adam . The injured Baker gradually heals and in the end proves to be the savior for York . I'm not going to say any more , but hopefully TCM or AMC will run this film at some point for American audiences . Susannah York is beautiful and talented and goes through a gamut of emotions regarding Whitman and their predicament . Stanley Baker is a favorite of mine among British players , he never gave a bad performance in any film I ever saw him in . But the real treat is Whitman . His devolution of character out in that desert was Oscar caliber material and why he wasn't nominated in 1965 is a mystery . If some American movie channel gets a hold of this film , do not miss it .
Tra-La-La-La-La	One of the most enduring of animated classics is Walt Disney's Three Little Pigs , taken from the old fairy tale about three juvenile little oinkers , only one of whom meets the challenge of the Big Bad Wolf . Coming out as it did in 1933 it's both a metaphor for the Great Depression , the consequence of no financial planning for a rainy day and the steps we must take to reform the system as the New Deal attempted to do . A lot of people thought the same way as the Three Little Pigs did in poopooing the notion of a Big Bad Wolf , but only Practical Pig took practical steps in building his house of bricks so the wolf was kept from his door . In Steamboat Willie , Mickey Mouse became the first of Walt Disney's animated creations , but in Three Little Pigs , the first of many songs identified with the Magic Kingdom was written and has certainly endured . Who's Afraid of The Big Bad Wolf is probably sung by so many parents to their children in reciting this tale that they probably think it came with the fairy tale . It probably was what won Disney his Oscar for Best Short Subject for the cartoon . It was a mega-hit during the Depression , not an easy thing when people weren't buying records . I happen to have a rollicking version by Thirties band-leader and entertainer Ben Bernie of the Frank Churchill - Ted Sears classic . It's still quite a hoot . And as a lesson in planning ahead , Three Little Pigs for children and former children can't be beat .
A Tale of Three Betrayals	Producer Jonathan Shields is in big trouble on a production and reaches out to three people he's befriended and betrayed in the past for help . All three are brought to Harry Pebbel's office where he makes a pitch for the help of each one . And we're told in flashback the dynamics of the relationships between Shields and each one . One thing about Tinseltown , they've never been afraid to show the seamier side of movie-making . Kirk Douglas's Jonathan Shields is a not too thinly disguised version of David O . Selznick . The same drive , the same ambition , the same overwhelming ego that Selznick was legendary for is a part that was tailor made for Kirk Douglas . The three betrayed people , director Fred Amiel ( Barry Sullivan ) , star Georgia Lorrison ( Lana Turner ) , and screenwriter James Lee Barlow ( Dick Powell ) all ring very true . One of the things I like about this film is that all three stories , each in itself , could be expanded into a film all it's own . Lana Turner's role as the ersatz Diana Barrymore is not to hard to spot either . It's so much better here than the film based on her own book Too Much Too Soon . If that voice of Turner's actor father on those 78 rpms she's playing sounds familiar , it's that of Louis Calhern . Turner's was a life lived out all too well in the tabloids and she brings all of it to bear in playing Gerogia Lorrison . Dick Powell , who was offered the lead as Jonathan Shields , opted to play tweedy professor turned screenwriter James Lee Barlow . This was Powell's next to last feature picture as an actor , it should have been the one he went out on . Powell was always ahead of the industry's cutting edge and he decided to concentrate more on directing and acting for the small screen . Powell's segment includes Gloria Grahame as his flirty wife . Post World War II Hollywood , whenever it had a part for a tramp , first call Gloria Grahame . Here she responds with an Academy Award winning performance . She hasn't many scenes , but as was said in another MGM picture around that time , what there is is cherce . I don't think there's ever been an actor who can go from zero to sixty on the emotional scale as quickly as Kirk Douglas . Check the scene when Lana Turner discovers how Douglas betrayed her . The intensity of his reaction alone is frightening and real . Douglas was also up for an Oscar , but it went that year to laconic Gary Cooper in High Noon . Vincente Minelli put all the pieces together just right and it comes out great entertainment .
" I'm the Son of a Sea Cook ! "	In Frank Capra's autobiography he explains that the reason he wanted to do Arsenic and Old Lace was that he was planning to go into the service , in preparation for the war he was sure coming . He wanted a surefire moneymaking hit that could be done on the cheap . Arsenic and Old Lace was running on Broadway at the time and authors Howard Lindsay and Russell Crouse had sold the film rights to Warner Brothers . Capra negotiated a deal with Jack Warner for a percentage and told him how he would do the film on the cheap , but not cut production values . Years of experience at Columbia had taught him how . The property was perfect since 90 % of it is on one set , the Brewster living room . So the shooting was for four weeks and a big percentage of the budget was spent on getting a name star for guaranteed box office , that of course being Cary Grant . Of course this being 1941 the shooting was interrupted briefly by the actual attack on Pearl Harbor . But the film wrapped up quickly and was not released to the public until 1944 after the show on Broadway closed . It was however shown to troops overseas as were several other Hollywood films before they reached the domestic market . Of course with a Capra selected cast the film was a great triumph . Only Jean Adair and Josephine Hull as the Brewster sisters and John Alexander as " Theodore Roosevelt " Brewster repeated their Broadway roles . Capra had insisted on that . I don't think Cary Grant was ever more frantic in his film career than in Arsenic and Old Lace . He's one bundle of perpetual motion as Mortimer Brewster theater critic and member of a family where insanity doesn't just run , it gallops . He's got two daffy old spinster aunts who poison lonely old men to cure their loneliness , a brother who thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt , and another brother who is a homicidal maniac . Quite a family tree . Grant's performance is so good , you can see the fevered workings of his mind in his facial expressions as he frantically tries to get his whole family committed before the aunt's deeds are discovered . Of the supporting cast I think that Raymond Massey as the homicidal brother , Peter Lorre as his sidekick , and Jack Carson as the dense police officer truly stand out . They and the others play parts that seem tailor made for them . Over fifty years later , Arsenic and Old Lace will still fracture the funny bone in you . And I wouldn't bet we've still not seen the last Roosevelt in the White House .
Stitched Together Rather Nicely	As presented in London and on Broadway Separate Tables was two one act plays set in a residential hotel in the seaside resort of Bournemouth . The stories involving Burt Lancaster and Rita Hayworth and the one involving David Niven and Deborah Kerr were presented separately . Fortunately producers Burt Lancaster , Harold Hecht , and James Hill had the good sense to hire Terrence Ratigan to stitch the two acts together into one well done coherent drama . Came out rather nicely . Burt and Rita's story involve a former married couple who's volatile personalities make it impossible for them to live together and their sexual attraction makes it impossible for them to function without . Lancaster is a working class writer and Hayworth is a chic fashion model . Different temperaments and different worlds . Lancaster in fact is now engaged to Wendy Hiller , the proprietress of the hotel everyone is staying at . Deborah Kerr is the shy and plain daughter of a domineering Gladys Cooper who is essentially playing the same role she did in Now Voyager . Kerr is attracted to the hale and hearty Major played by David Niven . But Niven is not all he claims to be . He's not a major from Montgomery's Eighth Army , but rather a former lowly supply lieutenant who never saw any combat . And he's got a sexual problem in that he likes to molest women in dark places like movie theaters . In fact he was arrested for it in a nearby town and is panic stricken that the rest of the residents will find out and see through him . The Major is one of Terrence Rattigan's most personal creations . Rattigan was a gay man living in the pre-Stonewall era when such topics were not talked about . Noel Coward was about as explicit as one could get in British society . The Major was a man playing a role in his whole life and gay people before Stonewall did just that , presenting a facade to the world at large . If Separate Tables were written today , I've no doubt David Niven's character would be explicitly gay . David Niven had one of the strangest careers in Hollywood . He was a man of acting ability this film certainly proves it . But producers always looked no farther than him as a debonair charming leading man . He carried a host of mediocre films by dint of charm . Separate Tables is one of the few films where he really does create a three dimensional human being . David Niven was also one of the most popular individuals in Hollywood . As charming in real life as he was on the screen , he was a great raconteur with a host of stories that kept everyone at gatherings entertained . His friends included people of all political persuasions from Humphrey Bogart to William F . Buckley , Jr . That and the fact that Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier split the vote being both nominated for The Defiant Ones got David Niven the Best Actor Oscar in the only time he was ever nominated . Ironically though the Oscar really did nothing for his career . He went right back to playing the same charming lightweight roles for the most part the rest of his life . Wendy Hiller got an Oscar in the Best Supporting Actress category . Her's is a subtle understated performance . She's a wise and compassionate woman that Wendy . In love with Burt Lancaster she sees what her duty is in that relationship and she's ready to be a friend to David Niven when Gladys Cooper wants him expelled from the hotel . What a pity Deborah Kerr never won an Oscar other than an honorary one in the Nineties as a lifetime achievement . Her role as Sybil is about as different from Anna Leonowens in The King and I as from the sluttish Mrs . Holmes in From Here to Eternity . Typecast as prim and proper ladies at first , a backup to Greer Garson at MGM , Kerr broke out with an astonishing range of parts in the Fifties . She never gets the credit due her . Intelligent and literate , Separate Tables is old fashioned considering the times it was written in . But the characters absorb you in their problems and you leave it with the fervent wish that they all find some healing together or apart .
" Hesto , Presto , One of Cary's Very Besto "	Cary Grant , prominent diplomat and widower , is trying to get acquainted again with his three kids , Paul Petersen , Mimi Gibson , and Charles Herbert . He's also got a sister-in-law , Martha Hyer , crushing out on him big time . But after the youngest kid , Herbert , wanders away after a concert , he meets Sophia Loren who is also running away from her conductor father , Eduardo Ciannelli . They are soul mates Herbert and Loren and before long she's moved in on the Grant family . Which is forced by circumstance I won't reveal to live on a houseboat in the woods in Maryland . The Houseboat and its many problems lend itself to a whole lot of physical problems and one rather dramatic one , when one of the kids nearly drowns . Cary gets a lot of good mileage out of the comedy . This was Cary and Sophia's second film together and it was one big improvement on the overblown Pride and the Passion . No doubt that the two of them were still involved from The Pride and the Passion lends a lot of truth in the scenes Grant and Loren play together . Also look for a nice performance by Harry Guardino who's the one who is responsible for the group being on the Houseboat . Houseboat is a nice family comedy and hasn't aged a bit from the Fifties when it was made .
They're what you see a show for	One of the nice things about those Warner Brothers Depression musicals is that you can forget some of the sillier aspects of the plot and just enjoy the wonderful nonsense created . Dames certainly classifies as wonderful nonsense . A wacky millionaire who's a sideline puritan is going to leave a bequest to a cousin and her family providing that they are of good moral character by his ideas . The wacky millionaire is Hugh Herbert and the cousin is Zasu Pitts , her husband Guy Kibbee and her daughter Ruby Keeler . There's another distant cousin Dick Powell who's already out of the will because he's an actor . Back then theatrical folk were held in some disdain by polite society , though that's hard to believe now . Also some eyebrows might have been raised with Dick's involvement with Ruby . But then again the president of the United States was married to his fifth cousin . I'm sure the brothers Warner knew that full well when Dames was released . Dames of course is remembered for those wonderful Busby Berkeley numbers and one of the biggest movie songs ever in I Only Have Eyes For You . Introduced by Dick Powell it was never commercially recorded by him though dozens of our best singers have done so . It's a favorite of mine for sure . Last but not least Dames features the always captivating Joan Blondell who's not above a little blackmail to achieve her ends . A girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do . She's featured in the Girl at the Ironing Board number , a great piece of Berkeley magic . We can't forget the title song because as Dick Powell sings , it's what you see the show for . And in that finale they're sure enough of them to satisfy any red blooded male .
Adjustments	Summer Wishes , Winter Dreams casts Joanne Woodward as a woman going through mid-life crisis in her forties , realizing that she's settled and not selected in her choice of husband and life . Not that husband Martin Balsam is not a good man , he's a decent enough fellow , an optometrist and back in my parents generation such a guy would have had their mothers pushing their daughters toward him . But Joanne's true love was killed in World War II and Balsam was a guy she settled for . What brings all her anxieties to a head is the sudden death of her mother Sylvia Sidney while both women were having an afternoon of lunch and a movie . Life seemed a lot more simple back growing up on Sylvia's Connecticut farm . With a second choice husband , a daughter Dori Brenner who's not on the best of terms , a son played by Ron Richards who is gay and living in Amsterdam with another man and only seen in dream sequences , it seems like life is closing in on her . Balsam's sees what's happening to his wife and maybe this optometrist's convention in London is a great excuse for a tax deductible European trip where maybe things can be rekindled . This film is short on plot , but long and deep on characterization with some great women's roles for actresses who've past their ingénue days . Summer Wishes , Winter Dreams got Joanne Woodward an Oscar nomination for Best Actress and for movie veteran Sylvia Sidney for Best Supporting Actress . Joanne lost to Glenda Jackson for A Touch of Class , both of those women were going for a second Oscar and Jackson lucked out . What was a real shame was Sylvia Sidney not winning and losing to Tatum O'Neal for Paper Moon . Those supporting categories have become a really good place to honor veterans like her who have moved on to character parts . Don Ameche's award for Cocoon is a great example and I wish Sylvia had gotten this one , for her great performance here and the work of a lifetime . Summer Wishes , Winter Dreams is a poignant film . The best scenes in it are dealing with Sidney's surviving family and how Joanne wants to hold on to the family homestead when all the rest want to sell . She can't articulate to her family why she feels she could cling to her childhood as embodied in that farm , but we the audience feels what she feels , especially those of who've had a similar experience . For me it was nothing like Woodward's in the film , but I had to face selling our family home in Brooklyn in 1997 . The only survivors of my family were my brother and myself and I had my pangs as Joanne did . Three family members of mine died in that same home . What she was able to convey is the mark of a great actress . Summer Wishes , Winter Dreams gives lie to the idea that they don't write some great parts for the female gender .
A Hopeless World	The only other film besides Soylent Green that has such an air of hopelessness is On the Beach . Both films deal with the consequences for the species and the planet from man made cataclysms . On the Beach with nuclear war and Soylent Green with the environmental poisoning of the planet . Maybe there's cause for some optimism because as of 2007 we haven't reached either of the worlds described in those films and we were supposed to by now . New York City still has about 8 million people not the 22 million by the turn of the millenia as described in Soylent Green . Environmentalists always hail this film as showing the consequence of global warming . For myself it also shows the Right to Life ethic run amuck . Obviously there's no family planning in this world either . Charlton Heston is an NYPD detective who lives with room mate Edward G . Robinson who's old enough to remember the Earth before catastrophe struck . There's been a murder committed , Joseph Cotten an executive with the Soylent Corporation , a multi-national concern that has come up with a food product , some kind of wafer in many colors to feed the world's population . It's latest product is Soylent Green . The investigation finds Charlton Heston getting his man , but also it leads to some horrifying truths about the Soylent Corporation and the future of mankind . As Heston shouts in the end that Soylent Green is made of people , that we've become a race of cannibals , the horrifying thing is that there is no alternative . We've exhausted the planet and we have to eat our dead to survive . This was the farewell performance of Edward G . Robinson and in his memoirs Heston spoke movingly of Robinson even though they had differing political views . A few weeks after Robinson wrapped that final scene of his screen demise by consented euthanasia , he passed away in real life . Not many did , but Heston knew that Robinson was terminally and there was no acting involved in that final death scene between the two of them . Though the timetable was off , it doesn't mean that the world envisioned by Soylent Green may not come to pass . Hopefully we'll have not just the intelligence , but the sense of shared responsibility to keep that from happening .
Teaching The Work Ethic	At the ripe old age of 78 Clint Eastwood is starting on a whole new career of playing tough old timers who are way past the day when they get the girl in their movies . Except as surrogate daughters which he's done in his past two films , four years apart though they be . In Million Dollar Baby Eastwood plays the gruff very blue collar fight manager Frank Dunn who takes on female prize fighter Hilary Swank and she becomes a surrogate daughter to him . In Gran Torino the process is somewhat reversed , Eastwood is a recently widowed retired auto worker Walt Kowalski , still living in the family home in Detroit in a rapidly changing neighborhood . In fact that neighborhood's been changing for decades , the latest influx being Asians . Despite his gruffness , his outright racism , Eastwood almost in spite of himself gets drawn into an Asian family of Hmong people and develops a father / children relationship with a brother and sister , Bee Vang and Ahney Her . He becomes closer to them than he is with his own children whom he feels have forgotten the American work ethic . Actor Clint Eastwood a veteran of over 50 years in film and television is a man who knows himself and knows the limits and changes that age and infirmity have placed upon him . As his most famous screen character so aptly remarked a man has to know his limitations . Director Clint Eastwood is nothing short of a genius in the performances he got from the two young Asian kids , both of whom were making their screen debuts and in fact from the rest of his Asian cast members , most of whom were new . Both the boy and the girl were just fabulous and so real as kids , not at all like Hollywood teen player types . And both kids face some very typical choices that all youngsters face today , especially those growing up in areas at or below the poverty line . Especially the boy who's being pressured to join a gang . Clint himself is facing old age issues , but he still mentors the kids and in the end does what a man's got to do . It took four years for actor Eastwood to reappear on the screen again . But it was worth the wait . With two back to back hits like Million Dollar Baby and Gran Torino , I just hope I don't have to wait another four years for Clint to reappear .
Bud and Lou for the Ages	The wonderful nonsense that made up the comedy of Bud Abbott and Lou Costello is carefully preserved and is to be treasured in this two season television series which I can remember from my earliest days . It seemed like it was in syndication forever on WPIX TV in New York in the fifties , sixties and seventies . Made those Honeymooner episodes look like nothing . A careful viewing of all their feature films will find all their famous routines in them at one point . But if you just want to see the boys do their stuff and not have to worry about the plot of some movie , than by all means try to acquire these shows on VHS or DVD . The plots of these shows are absolutely meaningless . The common thread was the fact that they didn't pay the rent at their rooming-house and as their harassed landlord said on one show , they were going into their second year . Of course the fact that they didn't want to work and when they got jobs , they inevitably blew them up didn't help matters . The landlord was Sidney Fields who went back in burlesque as long as Abbott and Costello did . Fields had one magnificent temper and when Abbott wasn't abusing his hapless partner , Fields was . He got almost as many laughs as the boys did , in fact they could have been a trio act . Another tenant at the rooming-house was Gordon Jones , known as Mike the cop , though in one episode it did slip that his last name was Kelly . He also was driven to distraction by Costello's antics . There was the beautiful and ever patient Hillary Brooke who Costello was crushing out on big time . And there was Joe Kirk , in real life Lou's brother-in-law , who was the ever excitable Italian , Mr . Baciagalupe . Kirk was a poor man's Henry Armetta and the boys constantly made him lose his " temperature " . Somewhere on some cable station these shows are still playing , with comedy that is absolutely timeless and will be enjoyed a thousand years from now . One thing I did wonder when I got older . Why didn't Fields just take Abbott and Costello to Landlord and Tenant Court . He had more than enough grounds .
Vagabonds For A Cause	Watch On The Rhine started as a Broadway play by Lillian Hellman who wrote the film and saw it open on Broadway at a time when the Soviet Union was still bound to Nazi Germany by that infamous non-aggression pact signed in August of 1939 . So much for the fact that Hellman was merely echoing the Communist party line , the line didn't change until a couple of months later . Lillian was actually months ahead of her time with this work . The play Watch On The Rhine ran from April 1941 to February 1942 for 378 performances and five players came over from Broadway to repeat their roles Frank Wilson as the butler , Eric Roberts as the youngest son , Lucile Watson as the family matriarch and most importantly villain George Coulouris and Paul Lukas . Lukas pulled an award hat trick in 1943 winning an Oscar , a Golden Globe , and the New York Film Critics for Best Actor . Probably if the Tony Awards had been in existence then he would have won that as well . The Oscar is even more remarkable when you consider who he was up against , Humphrey Bogart for Casablanca , Gary Cooper in For Whom The Bell Tolls , Mickey Rooney in The Human Comedy , and Walter Pidgeon for Madame Curie . Every one of his competitors was a bigger box office movie name than he was . Lukas's nomination is usually the kind the Academy gives to round out a field . Jack Warner knew that which is why Mady Christians did not repeat her Broadway part and the role of Lukas's wife was given to Bette Davis . Davis took the part not because this was an especially showy role for her , but because she believed in the picture and just wanted to be associated with it . It's the same reason she did The Man Who Came To Dinner , a much lighter play than this one . Davis is the daughter of a late American Supreme Court Justice who married a German national back in the Weimar days . After many years of being vagabonds on the continent of Europe , Davis Lukas , and their three children come to America which has not yet entered the European War . They're made welcome by Lucile Watson who is thrilled naturally at finally meeting her grandchildren . The fly in this ointment are some other house guests , a friend of Davis's from bygone days Geraldine Fitzgerald and her husband who is also from Europe , a Rumanian diplomat and aristocrat George Coulouris . Coulouris is a wastrel and a spendthrift and he smells an opportunity for double dealing when he suspects Lukas's anti-fascist background . His suspicions are quite correct , it's the reason that the family has been the vagabonds they've become . Lukas fought in Spain on the Republican side and was wounded there . His health has not been the same since . His family loyally supports him in whatever decision he makes . Those decisions affect all the other members of the cast . Adding quite a bit more to the Broadway play including some lovely fascist creatures was Dashiell Hammett who was Lillian Hellman's significant other . Coulouris playing cards at the German embassy was a Hammett creation with such loathsome types as Henry Daniell , Kurt Katch , Clyde Fillmore , Erwin Kalser and Rudolph Anders . Coulouris is truly one of the most despicable characters ever brought to screen as the no account Runmanian count . He was a metaphor for his own country who embraced the Nazis with gusto and then equally repudiated them without losing a step after Stalingrad . Lucile Watson was up for Best Supporting Actress in 1943 , but lost to Katina Paxinou in For Whom The Bell Tolls . Dashiell Hammett was nominated for best adapted screenplay and the film itself lost for Best Picture to that other anti-fascist classic , Casablanca . Though it's an item firmly planted in those specific times , Watch On The Rhine still packs a stern anti-fascist message that bears repeating infinitely .
Bumping Heads With Lucy	When Lucille Ball was an acclaimed , but not very widely known B picture actress , Joan Davis was winning a lot more acclaim for her own brand of goofy physical humor on radio and on film . She was a mainstay of support to a lot of the glamor girls and guys at 20th Century Fox . A long term extra marital affair with Eddie Cantor helped push her career along as Cantor featured her on radio and had her co-star in two of his films . Like so many players when the motion picture studios started cutting down production and leaving people out of work , Davis turned to television . Unfortunately one year too late to get credit for originality . Lucille Ball and her real life husband beat her to the tube by a year . They put on a very successful situation comedy about a wacky wife with an exasperated husband that we all know about . So when Joan Davis debuted I Married Joan in 1952 she was accused of copying Lucy . Not so as any viewing of her films will so demonstrate . But Lucy was there first and got the deserved credit . I Married Joan was a very funny show that trailed in the wake of I Love Lucy . It ended in 1955 because her TV husband Jim Backus quit the show . As Judge Bradley J . Stevens , he was her exasperated straight man of a husband . He'd get to show his comic flair later on in Gilligan's Island . Sad that Joan Davis was never able to develop another television show to show her talent before she died . A very funny lady , with a very funny show .
Diogenes , Have You Looked In The NYPD ?	For his second Academy Award nomination and his first in the Best Actor category , Al Pacino essayed the title role in Serpico , the true story of an incorruptible cop and a man who Diogenes could have ceased his search for an honest man with . As I'm sure many idealistic young people do , Frank Serpico joined the New York Police Department with hopes of making a difference in society . What he found was a systemic culture of corruption there and faced his own crisis of conscience . Nobody's ever decided where the line is to be drawn . A free meal at a local diner all the way to big payoffs from drug dealers . The police in this film run the gamut , except for Pacino who won't take a dime . His very honesty makes him a marked man . The only problem that I have with Serpico is that he tends to be too self righteous . I do wonder if the real Frank Serpico , who is very much alive , is that way . He seems to repel all possible allies . Personally , I think at some point he should have put his papers in and taken the lesser pension at a point way before the near tragedy which does happen to him . If the script makes him too self righteous , Al Pacino's skill as a player and Sidney Lumet's direction level it out and make Serpico someone we can sympathize with . There's a lot subtlety there in every move , in every facial expression , Al Pacino has even under that heavy beard . Serpico got a nomination for Best Screenplay adapted from another source , it was adapted from Peter Maas's biographical study . Al Pacino unfortunately lost the Best Actor Oscar that year to Jack Lemmon for Save the Tiger . Oddly enough Save the Tiger is about another man at a crossroads in his life and his choice is break the law . Sidney Lumet does love New York , so many of his good films are based and shot there . This one is no exception . I recognized many of the locations of the scenes . Every New Yorker ought to see this film just for that . And I think Diogenes can end his search .
Edmund Dantes's Code of Street Justice	As a story The Count of Monte Cristo still has great power . Case in point , the movie Sleepers where four young men from Hell's Kitchen were sexually abused in a reform school they were sentenced to . They found in the Alexandre Dumas novel a man they could understand very easily given their street code . Edmund Dantes code of street justice translates very easily to just about every culture in the world , be it the mean streets of New York or the post Napoleonic Era in France . Robert Donat is Edmund Dantes an ordinary seaman who carries a letter from Elba about Napoleon Bonaparte's imminent return to France in 1815 . Now he doesn't know he's carrying the letter , it was given to him by his dying captain . Three men who have their own reasons not to see the truth come out imprison Donat without trial in an island prison off Marseilles . After years there Donat effects his escape and plans to wreak vengeance on them , but not just to kill them , to expose them because all three have risen to importance in France . He's the Count of Monte Cristo now , having been bequeathed a hidden treasure by another inmate . The kids from Sleepers as well millions of others have learned what Dumas tried to convey , that hot blooded revenge killing won't do . If you have to take vengeance make sure it is an extremely calculated series of moves . Monte Cristo is the perfect kind of role for the cerebral Robert Donat . Donat makes us believe his transformation from the young and hopeful Edmund Dantes to the calculating Monte Cristo . If it were not for the Oscar Donat received for Goodbye Mr . Chips this one would have been the signature role of his career . Also look for some good acting by Elissa Landi , Louis Calhern and especially Raymond Walburn in their parts . Walburn especially . He's usually the jovial gladhanding type , often a knave , but never a villain as he is here . Not a Walburn you're used to .
Missionary / Innkeeper	This film concerns the life and achievements of one Gladys Aylward , a Christian woman from Great Britain who conceived early on that her place in the world was in China . She was a remarkable person who let absolutely nothing deter her in her calling . That included a lack of formal education , no support at all from any accredited missionary group and no money of her own . She worked as a maid to get the money to get a one way ticket to China with only an address of an aged female missionary who needed a young assistant . This film marked Ingrid Bergman's complete return to our fickle public's favor . After the scandal of her affair with Roberto Rosellini and her divorce , the public would not accept her in saintly roles like Joan of Arc and The Bells of St . Mary's . But winning her second Oscar two years earlier cemented her comeback from Europe and this part restored her in our fickle public's affections . We'd never get away with casting her as an Englishwoman today , but she overcomes any accent problems with unbridled talent . She soon inherits the whole mission when Athene Sayler dies . And she supports it by working as a foot inspector for the local mandarin . In those days of the twenties among other things the Kuomintang government was trying to do was undo the Chinese custom of footbinding females at a young age so they would have petite feet . It met with a lot of local resistance , but she proves up to the task . The title of the film comes from the idea that Athene Sayler had . Not to open up a formal church as such . Instead she wanted to open an inn in which travelers could stop and hear stories for entertainment . No television in those rooms . The stories they heard were those of the Bible . It was Sayler , Bergman , and their cook Peter Chong who ran the place and soon it was Bergman and Chong . If Bergman's casting seems bizarre by today's standards , the casting of Curt Jurgens as a Chinese Kuomintang Army Colonel is worse . Jurgens's occidental features are written into the script making him bi-racial , Dutch father and Chinese mother . He's a man with little convictions about spiritual matters , except he comes to believe in Bergman , in her innate decency , her dedication to his people , and what she's trying to accomplish . The mandarin is even more bizarrely cast . The part calls for an asthetic actor so they got the best around in Robert Donat . This was Mr . Donat's farewell performance , he died while the film was still in theaters . No one would get away with that casting today , but Robert Donat is also that good a player . I'm sure if the film were remade today , we'd have real oriental players like Russell Wong for the Colonel and James Shigeta for the mandarin and maybe someone like Kate Winslet for Gladys Aylward . But would it be as good as this film ? The subject of missionaries and the good they do is one hotly debated topic . It does take a certain amount of brass to go to a given place and tell everyone your belief system is all wrong . I suppose the best way to lead is by example and Ingrid Bergman as Gladys Aylward set the best example she could . In fact she did one thing most missionaries , good or bad , wouldn't consider . She gave up her British citizenship and became a Chinese citizen . The film was helped a great deal by the inclusion of that children's song This Old Man where Ingrid tries to teach her youngest charges some English with it . It was enormously popular back in the day and Mitch Miller's record of it was heard constantly . The climax of the film and what gave Gladys Aylward her place in history is that trek with a hundred orphans away from the advancing Japanese army . A remarkable achievement indeed from a remarkable dedicated woman who wouldn't listen to anything , but what was inside her soul .
" If We Had The Chance To Do It All Again , Tell Me , Would We , Could We ? "	I recall a line from The Alamo in which John Wayne says to Linda Cristal that political differences don't make for good breakfast talk between a man and a woman . That's a piece of wisdom that Barbra Streisand and Robert Redford should have remembered for their characters in The Way We Were . Meet Hubbell Gardiner and Katie Marofsky from the Thirties at Columbia University . Redford as Gardiner is your all American athlete and the Prince Charming of many a young girl's dreams . An elegant WASP Ivy League future is in store for him if he wants it . One of those girls who thinks Redford is Prince Charming is Barbra Streisand as Katie Marofsky . She's a member of the young Communists and is one eloquent campus radical for her cause . When we see her she's got a picture of Lenin in her dormitory room . We see her talking about the cause of Republican Spain and the budding young Ivy League Republicans on the campus are hooting her down . All , but Redford who's impressed by her convictions even if he doesn't share them . But when the USA does get into World War II and Redford is in the Navy and Streisand now working for the Office of War Information now meet . Politics seem to take a back seat to romance and Streisand lives out a real life fairy tale as a Brooklyn Jewish Cinderella . Their love gets really tested in the post World War II period during the Red Scare . Streisand's not quite the Communist she once was , a picture of FDR is now in her room . That was in fact one of FDR's main contributions to our body politic , winning over budding revolutionaries like Streisand to support our democratic , ( big and small " D " ) way of life . But he's gone now and the Soviet Union has become our cold war enemy . A lot of people are now caught in the post war reaction . Because Hollywood is the glamor capital of the world and right-wing politicos can't get any mileage out of investigating Communist plumbers , it's to the movie capital that the House Un-American Activities Committee turns . Redford is now working in that industry as is Streisand . Redford sees the problem in personal terms , Streisand sees the big picture , but that's all she does see . How things resolve themselves is the basis of The Way We Were . With all the political differences there beats the heart of one of the best love stories ever done in Hollywood . When Redford's around , Streisand lights up the screen with her passion for him . But it never quite covers the different world views they have . With such detail given to the stars by director Sydney Pollack , the supporting cast and it's a good one , never really establish their characters . Maybe that's what he wanted , to have them appear as plastic as Streisand's Katie Marofsky thinks they are . The Way We Were contains the title song written by Marvin Hamlisch and Alan and Marilyn Bregman which became one of Streisand's best loved ballads . Her singing of that song is unforgettable whether heard on record or if fortunate , live at one of her concerts . Bing Crosby also made a nice recording of it for one of his last albums . Hamlisch also won an Oscar for Best overall Musical Score that year , they were the only two Oscars won by The Way We Were . The sad thing about The Way We Were is that Streisand and Redford hold such different views and yet are fundamentally decent people who cannot agree to disagree . It's what makes The Way We Were such a beautiful , yet ultimately sad film .
An All Star Man In the Iron Mask	I am the world's biggest sucker for All Star Films and the genre was never better than during the World War II era , when all the major studios made at least one of them as a morale booster . They all involve getting the stars at the various studios to put on a show for the troops which they do , but with a few problems . Producers of this show Edward Everett Horton and S . Z . Sakall would like to get Dinah Shore for their show . But she's under contract to Eddie Cantor . Today's moviegoers would not be aware of the fact that at the time Thank Your Lucky Stars was filmed , Dinah Shore was a regular on Eddie Cantor's radio show . And in fact he did have her under contract . Cantor was also a man known to have a big ego and known for interfering with every aspect of production in film , stage , and radio . His character though in film was the meek little schnook who somehow triumphs over adversity . Cantor may have had the ego , but he was also a big enough man to allow this public lampooning of his image . He plays two roles in this , as himself and as tour bus driver Joe Simpson who can't get a break because he looks like Eddie Cantor . In between all the musical numbers the plot is simply to have Cantor kidnapped and Joe Simpson to take his place so that Dennis Morgan can get some exposure . Of course there's a young love subplot involving hopefuls Morgan and Joan Leslie , but it doesn't interfere with a plot that's taken from The Man In the Iron Mask . Arthur Schwartz and Frank Loesser wrote a nice score for this film and the big hit was a number talk / sung by Bette Davis , They're Either Too Young Or Too Old . This number was later done in the Jane Froman bio-film With A Song in My Heart with Susan Hayward lipsynching Jane Froman's record . I also liked another number where a major Warner Brothers Star lampooned his image and had a jolly good time , singing That's What You Jolly Well Get . Errol Flynn was reported to have enjoyed himself immensely doing that very funny song . Thank Your Lucky Stars is one of the most pleasant nostalgia trips to a bygone era of the studio system . You couldn't afford to pay all the stars in this film today if they were all free lance independent contractors today . It's why films like this can't be made again .
Criss-Cross	In Strangers On A Train , it's obvious from the start that playboy wastrel Robert Walker has singled out Farley Granger as an unwilling accomplice to a pair of murders . Granger's a semi-public figure , he's a tennis pro , but not an especially high one . High enough however for him to know that Granger is trapped in a loveless marriage and would like to be free to marry Ruth Roman . So when they meet as complete Strangers On A Train one afternoon , Walker knows enough that Granger will at least be intrigued enough with the possibility that if the two of them , complete strangers , did commit homicide on parties that the other would be convenienced by their demise . Though Granger is repulsed by the idea , one of the beautiful things about this film , is that you can see in the performance he gives that Granger just might submit to temptation . In fact when Walker kills Laura Elliot , Granger's wife whose been two timing him and even gotten pregnant by another man , he expects that Granger will in turn murder Walker's father so that Walker can inherit his estate . Today Walker would be called a trust fund baby and a pretty malevolent one at that . Alfred Hitchcock directed Walker to his career role , ironically in his last complete film . Walker died the following year with most of My Son John finished . Hitchcock does not do too bad by Farley Granger either . Of course when Granger does balk at committing homicide on people who never did anything to him , the tension . Strangers On A Train is also characterized by great editing , first in the tennis match in which Granger has to finish the match and waylay Walker before he plants evidence convicting Granger at the crime scene . And also in that final climax with a fight on a runaway carousel between Walker and Granger . Strangers On A Train is Hitchcock at his best , it should not be missed and ought to be required viewing when film classes study editing .
A great story of human dignity .	Jean Renoir managed to flee France because of the Nazi invasion and spent World War II turning out some pretty good films in America . Maybe the best is this heartfelt tribute to his beloved and occupied France . He got the best possible actor for his protagonist . Charles Laughton could play tortured and flawed human beings like no other actor ever could in the English speaking world . Here he is a French schoolteacher , middle-aged , shy , and mother dominated by Una O'Connor . And he's afraid of his own shadow . He also loves neighbor and fellow schoolteacher Maureen O'Hara and she's got a fiancé who's a collaborator and a brother in the resistance played by George Sanders and Kent Smith . It's all these people's story and even the local gauleiter Walter Slezak is not a simple brute as Nazis are so often portrayed . The story involves Laughton's growth as a human being , seeing what is happening to his town , the people around him , and most of all to the school to both the children and the teachers . The last twenty minutes of the film are almost exclusively his . In both a courtroom and a classroom , he has some brilliantly delivered speeches explaining to the town why they must resist the evil upon them . For me the best scene is in the courtroom where Laughton is accused of murder and throws away a carefully prepared script that Slezak has offered him . He tells the town what they need to hear and then declares his love for O'Hara and the reasons for him doing what he's doing . During that part of Laughton's speech the camera focuses totally on Maureen O'Hara and her reactions to Laughton's words . It's a beautiful crafted scene by a great director . A film classic for the ages .
The Military Versus The Scientists	A mixture of scientists and Air Force personnel plus one news correspondent are at a base in Alaska doing research and protecting us from Joe Stalin and the Reds when they soon have something more dangerous to deal with . A spaceship , a saucer shaped spaceship in fact arrives on Earth . And it has a creature piloting it played without dialog , just grunts courtesy of James Arness . Wherever this creature is from , evolution has been turned on its head because it's the plants who developed intelligence on that world . The way we use plants for our food and to feed animals that become our food is the reverse of how it works on Earth . Our blood , human and animal is necessary to for its growth . What to do with it is the subject of a spirited debate between the military and the scientists , represented by Kenneth Tobey and Robert Cornthwaite respectively . It's really the crux of what makes The Thing such a classic . The fact is both men are right . There's a lot to be learned from the creature if he'll stop to communicate in some way . The military is also right in assessing just how dangerous a threat this plant creature is . Christian Nyby standing in for Howard Hawks who produced the film and closely supervised , directed this chilling in every sense of the word science fiction classic . The cast is a group of competent second line professionals , no stars involved here . Nevertheless Kenneth Tobey is a good stand-in for one of Howard Hawks's favorite leading men , John Wayne . Since Wayne never did any kind of science fiction film , I'm wondering if this film might have been offered to him . There's also a romantic subplot involving Tobey and Margaret Sheridan who could have been standing in for Hawks leading ladies Lauren Bacall or Joanne Dru . Maybe such familiar folks would have detracted from the story . The Thing stands well on its own merits as one of the best science fiction stories ever done .
Could Have Been A Lot More Daring	Watching this film I was struck at once with how daring it was and how daring it could have been . A Patch Of Blue is dated very much like that other Sidney Poitier movie , Guess Who's Coming To Dinner , a milestone and daring for its time , but old fashioned today . But that was about as much as America could handle back then . Newcomer Elizabeth Hartman plays the blind and childlike Selena Darcy living with her white trash mother Shelley Winters and alcoholic grandfather Wallace Ford . She's got one miserable existence , living in an apartment she rarely goes out of and stringing beads for necklaces to contribute to the family income . When she decides one day to go to the park for a bit of fresh air , she meets up with Sidney Poitier , an office worker who also likes the park during the day as a change from his night job . Hartman's been blind since the age of five , the result of Winters throwing a caustic substance at her husband during a fight and hitting the child . That child services never took this kid away at some point is beyond me . Shelley makes an extra buck or two as a hooker besides and she brings her tricks up to the apartment . All in all one miserable excuse for a human being . She's abusive drunk or sober and Wallace Ford is usually drunk . The innocent relationship that Hartman has with Poitier and it's abundantly clear no sex is involved opens up a whole new world for Hartman . She's not been taught the most rudimentary skills for coping with the world that a blind person would normally get , such as reading Braille . If this were done today the setting might have been the urban south instead of Los Angeles , some place like Atlanta for instance . And Poitier's lack of sexual enthusiasm would simply be explained with the obvious answer , that his character is gay . But four years from Stonewall that wasn't in the cards . Still A Patch Of Blue is a fine film about a young woman's reach for freedom and responsibility with the help of a new found friend . Shelley Winters won her second Oscar for Best Supporting Actress to go well on her mantel with that one for The Diary Of Anne Frank . Newcomer Elizabeth Hartman was nominated for Best Actress , but lost ironically to a most amoral Julie Christie in Darling . A Patch Of Blue marked the farewell appearance of Wallace Ford , he died as I well remember while A Patch Of Blue was still playing in theaters . A daring film for its time with a timeless message , if a remake was done today a lot could and would be changed .
A Visit From The Virgin Mary	Bernadette Soubirous , 1844-1879 , was a modest , shy , retiring religious girl of strong convictions in her faith who would have passed through this world unnoticed by many , but for an incident in her hometown of Lourdes in France . If you believe it was all a hallucination than this film will mean nothing to you . But there are a great many people who believe that the pious young lady was chosen for a visit from the Virgin Mary one day when she was an adolescent teen . The Virgin Mary appeared to her several times in that location which in fact was the town garbage dump . In that spot an underground spring was discovered that had healing properties . The film is based on a historical novel by Franz Werfel and Darryl F . Zanuck decided on an unknown to play young Bernadette . The girl chosen was Phyllis Isley of Oklahoma whose name was changed to Jennifer Jones and in her third film and first under her new identity , Jennifer Jones walked off with Best Actress Award of 1943 . She beat out such seasoned veterans as Ingrid Bergman , Joan Fontaine , Jean Arthur , and Greer Garson . I'm sure it helped Jones that Fontaine and Garson were the previous two year's winners , that the film was such a hit , and that David O . Selznick had totally flipped for her and used every bit of influence to get that Oscar . With all of that and a great performance as well . Jones captures both the simple beauty and piety of the young girl who may have been given insights into matters spiritual . Playing the Virgin Mary in an unbilled part was Linda Darnell , a fact I believe that did not come out until after Ms . Darnell's death in 1963 . Director Henry King gave his young unknown a lot of support by assembling a thoroughly professional cast without a bad performance in the lot . Such people as Lee J . Cobb , Vincent Price , Charles Dingle , Gladys Cooper , Roman Bohnen , and Anne Revere were just perfect in their parts . As was Charles Bickford in the role of the priest and director of the Catholic school in Lourdes . He's very skeptical at first , but becomes her firm champion . Jones and Bickford became extremely close in this film , she looked up to Bickford for the rest of his life as a father figure in Hollywood . Bickford was nominated for Best Supportin Actor , but lost to Charles Coburn and Cooper and Revere both received nominations for Best Supporting Actress , but lost to Katina Paxinou . Even with a more recent film telling the Bernadette Soubirous story that came out in 1989 with Sydney Penny , this film is still owned and shown in many Catholic churches and schools to this day . But even the most hardened of unbelievers will be blown away by Jones's performance .
Who Is Killing The Great Critics Of London ?	One of Vincent Price's best films is a black comedy that stars a whole slew of talented British players about a classical ham actor who is taking revenge on the critics who have panned his performances for years . It's really the kind of role any player would sell his soul to have , one where he can lose all restraints and feed on a winter's supply of scenery . Price is the only American in the cast in this film set in London , but with his classical training and magnificent speaking voice it's not anything even a critic might find fault with . One thing I do love are the names of the characters , you would think that Charles Dickens might have collaborated with Edgar Allan Poe had this been done a century earlier . Price has saved each bad review he's gotten and dispatches the critics with a method from the play . Some of the Bard's work used are Julius Caesar , Troilus and Cressida , Titus Andronicus , and King Lear and others . Diana Rigg plays Price's daughter and such worthy people as Jack Hawkins , Dennis Price , and Robert Morley are some of the critics . Morley's performance and method of shuffling off this mortal coil are the best in the film . For those who like seeing the light side of Vincent Price , do not miss Theater of Blood .
Iago Instead	I've always felt Othello to be more Iago's play than Othello's . Iago is the guy whose subtle machinations keep the whole thing going . In fact William Shakespeare probably should have entitled the play Iago instead . Othello gets the title because the emphasis is on his reactions to Iago's hints of infidelity in regard to Othello's new wife Desdemona . The proud Moor is destroyed by the ' green eyed monster ' who when he gets a hold doesn't let go . Why's all this happening ? Because Othello , a Moorish soldier of fortune in the pay of the Duke of Venice passes Iago over for a promotion and gives it to another favorite named Cassio . All that sucking up gone for naught , Iago plans subtle revenge . But in order to make this work , it's more than Othello he has to maneuver . He drops lies and suspicions to Othello , Desdemona , Cassio , and even his own wife Emilia , to another suitor for Desdemona named Rodrigo , in short to just about the rest of the cast . It's why I think Iago's character is central . Nevertheless Othello earned for Laurence Olivier another nomination for Best Actor and for Maggie Smith as Desdemona , Best Actress . Frank Finlay as the subtle and clever Iago and Joyce Redman as his wife Emilia got nominations in the Supporting Actor categories . None of them came up a winner though . In one of his earliest screen performances you'll find Derek Jacobi as the loyal , brave , but slightly dense Cassio . And as Rodrigo who Iago plays like a piccolo is Robert Lang , both of whom are cast perfectly . Unlike Olivier's other Shakespearean work , this is essentially a photographed stage play . But the sets are just fine and since it's a story about palace intrigue , the palace sets are more than appropriate . I'd be hard pressed to say whether this or the Orson Welles version is better , judge for yourself .
A Victorian Action Hero	In Murder By Decree fiction's most famous detective goes to work on the most famous real life case of his era , that of the infamous Whitechapel Murders , committed by the man that was dubbed Jack the Ripper . What Sherlock Holmes does to solve the case and where the ultimate responsibility for these murders lies is the basis for Murder By Decree . Christopher Plummer and James Mason play Holmes and Doctor Watson and it's of some interest with the notoriety these killings of women of the lower classes that Scotland Yard has not called in Holmes for a consultation . But involved he gets anyway and Inspector Lestrade is happy to have him for once even though God and Arthur Conan Doyle know exactly how many times Lestrade was proved wrong by Holmes . Lestrade is played by Frank Finlay and a couple of higher ups , Anthony Quayle and David Hemmings aren't real happy Holmes is around . Especially Hemmings who really has his own agenda working . What Holmes does find out shakes the very foundation of British society and what he finds out you'll have to see the film for . One of the Ripper's victims is Susan Clark and the reason for her demise is to be found in the why and wherefore of the incarceration in a mental institution of Genevieve Bujold . Both women deliver outstanding performances in an otherwise mostly male film . You think Sherlock Holmes and usually what comes to mind is a very calculating and observant individual , but something of a cold fish . He has his passions , but it usually is for justice in the abstract . It's certainly is the way he was played by that most famous of Sherlock Holmeses , Basil Rathbone . But Christopher Plummer cares very deeply for the Ripper's victims as real women and real people . His scenes with both Clark and Bujold are the most moving in the film . The biggest criticism of the Rathbone Holmes series that I've ever run across the way Doctor Watson was downgraded gradually until he was just a buffoon that Holmes kept around for laughs . That is most certainly not the way James Mason plays him . Mason offers Plummer some wise counsel and a strong friend to lean on when the pressure gets turned on . Plummer is also a man of action the way Rathbone never was . His final battle with the Ripper is quite something . You couldn't imagine Basil Rathbone in such a struggle . The last 15 to 20 minutes of the film is mostly concerned with a final scene with John Gielgud playing British Prime Minister Lord Salisbury where Holmes lays his evidence and accusations to the parties involved . Gielgud makes a fine Lord Salisbury , pretty much as I've conceived him as a personality . The identity of the Ripper has been speculated on for years and Murder By Death offers a view that does take in some of that speculation . But you don't have to be an expert on British history to thoroughly enjoy this fine film .
Street Justice Dispensed	Ethan Hawke , bright eyed and innocent , reports to his training officer for his first day on the job in narcotics in the LAPD . He never could have fathomed just how much he would learn on that very first Training Day . His training officer is Denzel Washington , a thirteen year veteran on the police who's put in a few years in plainclothes in Narcotics . He certainly has the experience , but just what kind of experience and what he imparts to Hawke is the subject of Training Day . A film like Training Day will rise and fall with the performances of these two characters since one or the other and mostly both is on screen from the beginning . Fortunately both Washington and Hawke complement each other's performances like jigsaw puzzle fit . It is no accident that Denzel Washington won his second Oscar , his first as Best Actor . This performance is working on so many levels it's astonishing . Washington is at all times , charming , capable , corrupt , violent , street smart , and arrogant . What I liked most about it is how the various facets of this character are revealed bit by bit to the audience and to Hawke though not at the same time . As for Ethan Hawke it takes him to realize just exactly what he's dealing with in a training officer . Hawke was nominated himself as Best Supporting Actor , but lost to Jim Broadbent for Iris . Still it remains his career role so far . Corruption in the Los Angeles Police Department isn't exactly a new story . In fact one of the supporting players , Scott Glenn who plays a drug peddler and well , did another film about LAPD corruption in Extreme Justice . LA Confidential also dealt with this issue recently , another fine film . Denzel Washington is a great example in this film of the arrogance of power . He's a guy who dispenses more street justice than going through the traditional system . So with what happens to him here , he gets one of the best comeuppances ever seen on the big screen . And I won't say what it is , but you've got to see Training Day to find out .
" Tell Me You're the Heart of All the Golden West . "	MGM's blockbuster was conceived originally as a vehicle for Jeanette MacDonald to co-star with some non-singing players while her normal screen partner Nelson Eddy was on a concert tour . Mr . Eddy always considered his screen roles secondary to his concert singing which was the reverse of how Jeanette felt . According to a recent book about both Eddy and MacDonald , Clark Gable had been gotten out of romantic dalliance with some hush money MGM paid some woman off with . He didn't really want to do the film , but Louis B . Mayer kind of hammerlocked him into it . MacDonald however chose Spencer Tracy for the part of Father Tim Mullin , Gable's best friend and conscience of the movie . Nevertheless the part of Blackie Norton , impresario of the Barbary Coast in 1906 San Francisco fits Gable perfectly . The man takes his pleasures where he finds them , but has a concern for the folks in his area who are getting the raw end of things from the upper crust on Nob Hill as personified by Gable's rival Jack Holt . Gable and Holt are rivals for Jeanette MacDonald as well . She's fresh from the country , a parson's daughter with a great set of soprano pipes . Both like what they see , but Holt appreciates her voice quite a bit more than Gable at first . Besides Ms . MacDonald , Gable and Holt have their differences over some of the rottenly constructed houses on the Barbary Coast and Gable wants a lot of new construction there . Of course the Earthquake of April 18 , 1906 settles the whole issue of urban renewal . If the special effects Oscar was around at that time , San Francisco would have won it for sure . Even over 60 years after the film came out and with the more modern techniques of special effects available , the sight of the earthquake is still visually stunning . Gable and MacDonald did not get along on the set , Gable was more used to down to earth leading ladies like Crawford and Harlow . MacDonald and Tracy got along just fine . Her intercession with Louis B . Mayer changed the course of Tracy's career forever . Previous to San Francisco , Tracy played a whole slew of roughneck heroes in B films at Fox and his first few at MGM were in the same mold . As Father Tim Mullin , Tracy became the wise father figure ( no pun intended ) that the public came to know so well . He received his first Academy Award nomination for this part . Jeanette has some operatic selections and three hymns to sing during the film , The Holy City , Battle Hymn of the Republic , and Nearer My God to Thee . She also got two original songs , Would You and the title tune of the film . The song San Francisco was adopted by the city fathers of San Francisco as the city's official song . That is until Tony Bennett lost his heart there . Controversy still rages on the bay as to which should be the official song of San Francisco . San Francisco made a whole lot of money for Leo the Lion that year . It in fact inspired Darryl F . Zanuck to burn down Chicago the following year so he could get in on that disaster epic box office . San Francisco still holds up well today , the action , the music , and Spencer Tracy's groundbreaking performance . Something for everyone .
Getting A Good Consultant	It seems as though there is a serial killer out there who's grabbed the daughter of a United States Senator and this guy has zoomed right to the top of FBI's Most wanted . This man's modus operandi is to keep the victims alive for a while before killing them so they're racing against time to find him . Desperate situations call for desperate measures . The desperate measure is , you want to catch a serial killer , bring in one as a consultant . That's why FBI trainee Jodie Foster goes to visit Anthony Hopkins in prison . Hopkins is not just a killer who eats his victims , he's a brilliant psychologist himself with insights maybe no one else has . Of course his price are some cheap insights into Jodie Foster's soul , thrills he probably got when he was in practice . The Silence of the Lambs in less capable hands could have just been another cheap slasher flick . Instead the leads who walked off with the Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress give riveting performances of a sick twisted psycho and a woman who became the biggest feminist icon since Sigourney Weaver by confronting some demons of her own . It's the best work that Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster have ever done and let's not forget the Oscars won by Director Jonathan Demme and the Picture itself for being the Best in 1991 . A couple of players who made their marks on television later on also score well here . Anthony Heald who was Buffy the Vampire Slayer's handler plays the psychiatrist in the institute where Hopkins is incarcerated and who Hopkins makes a fool of and says at the end he's far from done with . Also Ted Levine who is Captain Stottlemeyer on Monk plays the serial killer the FBI is trying to catch . Also look for a good performance by Brooke Smith as Levine's potential victim . The Silence of the Lambs with its taut direction and riveting performances has an appeal far beyond the horror genre . See it and you'll know what I mean .
" Daddy , Buy Me That "	After Marlene Dietrich at a new studio , Universal , had made something of a comeback in Destry Rides Again , the studio was understandably looking for new properties to follow it up . They certainly got one in Seven Sinners , a really great blend of satirical comedy and drama . Certainly Dietrich is no poor man's Sadie Thompson . One wonders why she never did her own version of Rain . She pokes fun at that type of character , but there is a skillful blend of both drama and satire in this film . Stagecoach was done the year before and with it John Wayne finally joined the list of A players . Director Tay Garnett had Wayne in mind for this film , but Dietrich would have the final approval . The story goes he deliberately arranged for Dietrich to have lunch at the studio commissary at a time Wayne would be there . She took one look at Wayne who reminded her so much of former lover Gary Cooper , she said to Garnett in that Dietrich baritone , " Daddy , buy me that . " This is Dietrich's film , but there's enough action to satisfy any Wayne fan . Tay Garnett assembled a good supporting cast with good girl Anna Lee , Dietrich retainers Mischa Auer and Broderick Crawford , befuddled owner of the Seven Sinners Cafe Billy Gilbert , and the very sinister Oscar Homolka . Up until All the King's Men , the part that Broderick Crawford played here was a typical part , the dumb lug who's the hero / heroine's friend . He does it well , but Crawford resented the typecasting . He was quoted as saying that while he never considered himself the world's greatest wit , he did resent playing half a one all the time back in the day . This was Crawford's only film with Wayne and that's interesting because both of them were heavy boozers . Dietrich like in Destry Rides Again has two good songs to sing written by fellow German expatriate Frederick Hollander and Frank Loesser , I've Been in Love Before and The Man's in the Navy . She also sings I Can't Give You Anything But Love , one of the great standards back in the day . Seven Sinners is classic Marlene Dietrich one of her most enjoyable films and John Wayne fans will like it also .
" a mother lovin ' gut busting navy war . "	I've always felt that in these big budget all star epics , the trick is to give each of the star a role of substance as small as the part might be sometimes . That's one of the best things about In Harm's Way , Otto Preminger cast this film with a whole lot of big movie names and each one of them made their presence felt . Case in point the three admirals played by Franchot Tone , Dana Andrews , and Henry Fonda . All three are very different type men . Tone is a man knowing he'll be sitting the war out because it was on his watch that the Pearl Harbor attack occurred . He's not bitter , he knows that's how things work in the navy . Dana Andrews is a publicity conscious admiral who employs the unctuous Patrick O'Neal in that regard . Henry Fonda plays the second commander in chief of the Pacific , Chester Nimitz in all but name . Oddly enough Fonda would play Nimitz again and by name in the film Midway a decade later . All three of these men make a deep impression on the audience despite having limited roles . I'm sure that when Otto Preminger was casting In Harm's Way he must have seen Operation Pacific and saw the easy chemistry that John Wayne and Patricia Neal had 14 years earlier . Playing older and wiser versions of themselves from the previous film , Wayne and Neal show love ain't just for the young . In Harm's Way has the Duke as a father figure for the first time . As Rockwell Torrey , the rock of ages as Kirk Douglas calls him , in addition to the Pacific War he takes on a whole lot of people's problems and they look to him for advice and comfort . In addition to his biological son Brandon DeWilde , the Duke also deals with Kirk Douglas and his problem concerning his tramp of a wife and the problems of young Lieutenant j . g . Tom Tryon and his wife Paula Prentiss . One of my favorite John Wayne scenes is with Prentiss as he brings her the news about Tryon being missing in action . It is so well done from both players I'm still moved after having seen In Harm's Way a dozen times or more . Acting honors however may go to Kirk Douglas as Wayne's chief aide who has the most complex role in the film . Douglas runs the gamut of emotions as he does in so many of his roles , from naval hero to maniacal rapist . Douglas actually hopes the war coming will help him put his personal problems on a back burner . For a while and it does , but only temporarily . Another favorite I have here is Patrick O'Neal who if there is a villain other than the Japanese , he's it . He's a smarmy former Congressman who's looking as the war as a series of photo ops and is already planning his post war political career . O'Neal's not above jeopardizing a naval operation for the sake of a little publicity for his boss Dana Andrews . His confrontation with Kirk Douglas in the latrine is a classic . In Harm's Way is a skilled blend of war drama and soap opera in the best sense of that term . It can be enjoyed and appreciated by fans of both .
If They Couldn't Get The Ark Of The Covenant , They'll Settle For The Holy Grail	When Indiana Jones went on his last crusade in search of the Holy Grail , the adventure took him to such far flung places as Venice , Vienna , Berlin , and the fictitious kingdom of Hatay in the Middle East . Well he wasn't just searching for the Holy Grail . A mysterious millionaire who's been a benefactor of archeology played by Julian Glover has hired the senior Henry Jones , who's always been a Grail seeker to look for it . But he's turned up quite missing and it's up to Harrison Ford to find his father . In an inspired piece of casting Sean Connery plays the senior Doctor Jones and the chemistry between Ford and Connery is fine . Connery is so good in the part that he makes you forget that it's usually Connery who gets to do the action stuff . Ford of course bares the burden of it while rescuing Dad from the clutches of the Nazis . They too are in pursuit of the Holy Grail . I guess if they couldn't get the Ark of the Covenant , they'll settle for the Grail . They've got a lovely female scientist in the person of Alison Doody in on the hunt . While I was watching Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade , the thought struck me that this was also the plot of Abbott and Costello Meet The Mummy . Of course with a budget a gazillion times more . But in that film Bud and Lou are in pursuit of Klaris the Mummy , Marie Windsor and a couple of henchmen are also after it , and so are the followers of Klaris led by Richard Deacon intent from not letting the secret out . Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade also has a group of people who know the secret of the Holy Grail , where it is , and they're not letting ANYONE remotely near it . Indiana Jones regulars like John Rhys-Davies and Denholm Elliott are also here and I also like the performance of 81 year old Robert Eddison in his next to last film as the Grail Knight . His is an astounding story and the last shot of him is for me the most memorable moment of the film . The first Indiana Jones film came out at the beginning of the Eighties and it's fitting and proper that this film came out as that decade came to a close . It's a worthy successor and in some ways superior to the first two films and a grand show .
The Importance Of Being True To Thine Own Self	Two very fine films about Oscar Wilde came out roughly at the same time during the sixties and they starred Peter Finch and Robert Morley respectively as the great literary icon . But those were in the days before Stonewall and you couldn't be all that explicit . I'm not just talking about sex scenes though there are some here . As far as films were concerned homosexuality was the love that really dare not even breathe let alone speak its name . One reason I liked this film Wilde that starred Stephen Fry in the title role is that the others began with Wilde's involvement with Lord Alfred Douglas , played here by a sexy Jude Law . Here we get a bit of background and we discover that Wilde was a latent case for years because society dictated gay was an abomination . He married and fathered two sons whom he no doubt loved . Just some of the beautiful children's stories he did write attest to that . But as the film opens with Wilde in America and touring a mining camp and giving a lecture to miners below the earth's surface , you can see the look of love in his eyes as he beholds some of those hunky miners with their shirts off . Since you know who Wilde was and his story already , you're looking yourself for signs . Wilde was a latent case until he was seduced by Robbie Ross an actor in one of his plays portrayed by Michael Sheen . I can certainly attest to the fact that if gay is your orientation and you've been with women before , when you do it the first time , you KNOW it's right for you . Later on Ioan Gruffud who apparently is his inspiration for Dorian Gray actually falls in love with Wilde . But Wilde's like a kid in a candy store and when he meets the incredibly handsome Lord Alfred Douglas . Unlike the other two Wilde pictures I mentioned this version fleshes a bit more out of ' Bosy's ' character and Jude Law may be pretty to look at , but he's a vain , shallow , selfish , and spoiled young aristocrat . Among other things Law introduces Fry to is the availability of rent boys on the street and at certain posh establishments frequented by closeted Victorians . But it all comes to an end when Bosy's dad played by Tom Wilkinson leaves a calling card accusing Wilde of being a sodomite . In the other two Wilde films , it's Oscar who just arrogantly think he can squash this thing in court with his fabled wit . Here it's Bosy who pushes Wilde into it . The other films concentrated on the trials , civil and criminal . In Wilde the emphasis is on Oscar's character and relationships . The women in Wilde's life are wife Jennifer Ehle and mother Vanessa Redgrave . In watching the two women how they interact it's like watching the families of Ennis and Jack from Brokeback Mountain and how they react to their husband's strange behavior . Also in the film very briefly is Orlando Bloom playing a rent boy . I'm surprised that the film received no Oscar nominations , no pun intended . Though it was honored in the United Kingdom . Some 40 years after Stonewall , the tragedy of Oscar Wilde not being true to his nature as he says he wished he had done from the beginning is still being played out in many areas , in many walks of life . Just look at the number of outings there have been of various political figures on the right and you know it is so . Wilde is a great film which speaks to this generation of GLBT people with current players to tell sadly an often repeated story .
Sensational Murder In The U . P .	Until Reindeer Games a few years ago , Anatomy of a Murder had to be the only film that ever had as a locale , the Upper Peninsula of Michigan . It's a pretty woodsy area as shown in the film with lots of tiny towns and villages and very right wing in its politics . A homicide occurred in one of those towns , an army lieutenant killed the owner of a nightspot who he says raped his wife . The lieutenant played by Ben Gazzara is in need of a good lawyer and he hires James Stewart who was the former prosecutor in the county . Stewart's team such as it is consists of secretary Eve Arden and former mentor Arthur O'Connell , a reformed alcoholic whose hold on reform is shaky to say the least . The prosecution consists of Brooks West and a hired gun from the attorney general's office George C . Scott . There's a lot of resentment against Scott in that maybe the locals don't like the inference their own prosecutor isn't up to the job . Anatomy of a Murder gets James Stewart into a courtroom for the only time in his film career though he did play lawyers in other films . He exudes the same kind of down home folksiness that characterized his later Hawkins TV series in the seventies . Otto Preminger took his cast and they operated like a finely tuned machine , they could have all been from the same repertoire company and played with each other for years . Anatomy of a Murder got seven Oscar nominations including one for James Stewart as Best Actor and George C . Scott and Arthur O'Connell in the Supporting Actor category . Unfortunately this was the year of Ben-Hur which blanked just about everyone else out of any awards which also included Best Picture and Best Director for Otto Preminger . Charlton Heston tells a story in his memoirs that Stewart on the night of the Oscars the following year told Heston he had voted for him and was pulling for him as he had already won one in The Philadelphia Story . Only a man of real class would have done that . Stewart was named Best Actor for 1959 by the New York Film Critics though . Besides all those previously mentioned , kudos should go to Lee Remick as Gazzara's slatternly wife and Kathryn Crosby as the deceased's roadhouse manager who provides some key last minute evidence at the trial . Anatomy of a Murder is one of the best courtroom dramas ever put on film , catch it by all means .
Memories Just Out of Reach	The novels of James Hilton were very popular in America as well as in the United Kingdom . Mr . Hilton created British heroes that resonated with the American public and cerebral actors like Robert Donat and Ronald Colman seem born to play . I do remember as a lad being given a book with Lost Horrizon , Goodbye Mr . Chips and Random Harvest by my mother to read and the stories fascinated me . Random Harvest concerns Charles Rainer who sustained a head injury during World War I and woke up in a hospital in his native country with no memory of who he is . On Armistice Day in 1918 Rainer walks out of the hospital and takes up with another drifting soul , an entertainer named Paula . When you're Ronald Colman , goodness oozes out of you from every pore , so small wonder that Greer Garson accepts him at face value with no idea who he could be . They live together for two years and then one day in Liverpool , Colman is hit by a taxi . He regains his memory when he regains consciousness . He remembers he's Charles Rainer , oldest son of a title and a wealthy fellow at that . But no memory of his life with Garson . The chemistry between Colman and Garson is a thing of beauty . She wants so much to tell him who she is and he was for three years , but she's advised by psychiatrist Philip Dorn not to do so . And Colman becomes even richer and more successful , but with something missing . Memories just out of his reach and Colman exudes a sadness that the most hardened heart will find touching . One highlight for me is Greer Garson performing one Harry Lauder's great music hall numbers , She's Ma Daisy with appropriate Scot's costume . This was the career year for James Hilton . In addition to this film , Hilton did the screenplay for the Oscar winning Mrs . Miniver in 1942 and won a personal Oscar there . In fact Random Harvest ran second to Mrs . Miniver in a lot of categories . Mrs . Miniver was the Best Picture of 1942 , Ronald Colman for Random Harvest and Walter Pigeon for Mrs . Miniver both lost to James Cagney for Yankee Doodle Dandy for Best Actor . And Susan Peters as Colman's step-niece lost to Teresa Wright for Mrs . Miniver as Best Supporting Actress . The film brought Susan Peters her first recognition . But her's was another career cut short due to a hunting accident that left her a paraplegic . Random Harvest as a book and as a film is how the British see themselves and how they like being portrayed on the screen . When you have players the caliber of Ronald Colman and Greer Garson doing it with the help Hollywood's English colony , the results are outstanding .
It Doesn't Get Better Than This	I'm not sure Clint Eastwood shouldn't have just retired after making Million Dollar Baby . Because films don't get any better than this or more poignant . Maybe Clint was influenced by the career of his young co-star Hillary Swank . When Swank got the Oscar for Boys Don't Cry it was said that it was a pity she reached such a dazzling pinnacle in acting , that it wasn't possible to top it . She might not have topped it , but she certainly equaled it in Million Dollar Baby in every sense of the word . Clint is certainly beyond the days of being an action hero , no more Dirty Harrys or the Man With No Name films for him in his seventies . But in playing Frankie Dunn as a senior citizen he's put a coda on his career with a role that leaves those iconic parts in the dust . Million Dollar Baby is a generational love story , but not romance , not hardly in that sense . Clint is a lonely old man , alienated from what family he has left which happens to be a daughter and involved in the running of his gym where prize fighters train . Boxing is integrated now , women do participate against each other to be sure , but it certainly wasn't so when Eastwood was starting . So it was a fateful day indeed when Maggie Fitzgerald played by Hillary Swank showed up to learn the fine points of pugilism . I'm sure that Swank took some of the points of character from Brandon Teena in playing Maggie Fitzgerald . It's not an issue of sexual identity for Swank , but both characters come from this white trash background and both yearn for something more in life . There are dozens of sports stories involving men and women who escaped drab lives through athletic skill . The only difference in Million Dollar Baby is that boxing was not open to women until recently . To use that phrase from another recent film classic , Swank completes Eastwood . She gives him in the family he's lost even if it's ever so briefly and he provides a strong father figure that she lacked in her life . It all ends so horrifically tragic that I can't say more , but that it's here where even the frozen Medusa would thaw out in tears at the powerful performances of Eastwood and Swank . Million Dollar Baby won four of the seven Oscars it was nominated for in 2004 . It won for Best Picture and Best Director for Clint Eastwood and Hillary Swank just as she did for Boys Don't Cry just blew out the competition for Best Actress . And Morgan Freeman who was Eastwood's friend and live-in gym manager and trainer for Swank copped a Best Supporting Actor Award . It's he who narrates Million Dollar Baby , he's the chronicler of the unfolding tragedy . I suppose the moral of the story is never settle for mediocrity , always strive for your personal best . Even if it ends bad you haven't really lived unless you live that way . And family doesn't necessarily have to have related genes . This film will be a classic hundreds of years from now . We can all learn some life lessons from Million Dollar Baby .
" You've Saved My Money " - - - " Can you swim Colonel Darlin ' "	Talk about taking one long chance . The original star of Captain Blood was to be Robert Donat . But health reasons as they did often in Donat's career prevented him from doing this film . So Jack Warner gave the lead in this film to a contract player who had done a couple of bit parts in some B films and had done a lead in an Australian production of the Mutiny on the Bounty story . Jack Warner not only created a star in Errol Flynn , but also created a new screen team in co-starring him with Olivia DeHavilland who hadn't done that much herself at Warner Brothers up to that time . Individually and together they were a vibrant and charismatic screen team and did eight films for the Brothers Warner . They were so successful that they resented the typecasting . DeHavilland fought against it far more successfully than Flynn did . As legend has come down to us , Errol Flynn had other pursuits . The story is that Doctor Peter Blood made a house call on a wounded rebel during the Monmouth rebellion in 1685 against James II . That house call got him a one way ticket to slavery on the island of Jamaica along with many other of the rebels . Olivia DeHavilland the niece of Lionel Atwill , the wealthiest man on Jamaica buys Flynn on a whim . An attack by Spanish pirates offers an opportunity for escape and Flynn and the rest of the rebels become pirates themselves . Jack Warner provided his two unknowns with a good cast of supporting players . Basil Rathbone as Levasseur , Flynn's pirate rival , crew members Ross Alexander , Guy Kibbee , and Frank McGlyn , Sr . , Henry Stephenson as the sympathetic Lord Willoughby , but most of all Lionel Atwill . Atwill played many a screen villain , but I'm not sure he was ever better as the pompous blundering oaf Colonel Bishop . My favorite scene in Captain Blood has always been when after Flynn routs the Spanish pirate attack on Port Royal by seizing the pirate ship . When Atwill comes on board to thank those who turned the tables on the pirates he gets quite a reception . The dialog in this scene and the final result of this oaf being tossed into the harbor is priceless . Love and romance , pirate battles , and a dueling scene between Flynn and Rathbone that was only topped by Rathbone and Flynn again in Robin Hood . It's all here and all for your entertainment for generations to come .
The People's War	With the help of the extensive British colony in Hollywood , William Wyler directed at MGM the best World War II propaganda film to come out of our film industry . Mrs . Miniver won a host of Oscars including Best Picture , Best Actress for Greer Garson , Best Supporting Actress for Teresa Wright , Best Director for William Wyler , all deserved . Forget all the war pictures , this film about the trials of a British family just before and during World War II struck a poignant note with the American public . Showing how they were coping with the attacks on their civilian population made every American family identify with the Minivers . If they fail in their resolution to defend their blessed isle , we in America could be facing these same trials and depredations . Like the people in The Diary of Anne Frank , the Minivers are such ordinary folks , caught up in a thing that was not of their making . The film opens with Greer Garson coming home after a shopping trip to London deciding how to tell her husband Walter Pidgeon about a new hat . On the way home , the stationmaster Henry Travers asks Garson permission to name a rose he's been cultivating for the flower show the Miniver Rose . Pidgeon's splurged on a new car and he's trying to figure out how to tell Garson . The war comes and the Minivers and all their neighbors in their small country town have to deal with rationing and shortages and then the blitz as the ruling malignancy in Germany seeks to terrorize the British people into submission . As London took it as their Prime Minister said it would , so to do the small villages and hamlets , especially if they're located next to an RAF base . Which is where their oldest boy , Richard Ney , is now stationed after having left Oxford . He's involved too , with a radiantly beautiful Teresa Wright as the granddaughter of the local grande dame , Dame May Witty . Wright is involved in two of my favorite scenes . When she first meets the pretentious Ney and gently but firmly puts him down , who could help but fall for this girl . And her final scene with Greer Garson is what I'm convinced got them both Oscars . You have to see it , I can't say more and the hardest of hearts will be moved . Pidgeon's moment comes when he's called away because he owns a small boat , a cabin cruiser we'd call it and ordered to take it to Ramsbottom . It's the beginning of the greatest citizen mobilization of the last century , the evacuation of the British Army from the beach at Dunkirk . He and thousands like him are told what the mission is and they could expect to be under fire at that beach and crossing 40 miles of English Channel . No one flinches and a very nice animated scene at night is showing all of these small crafts filling up the river on a date with history . Garson also comes face to face with Nazism herself as she first is held captive and then turns the tables on a wounded Nazi flier who bailed out played by Helmut Dantine . Don't think all the women in America didn't think about coming face to face with evil right in their kitchens . Both Walter Pidgeon for Best Actor and Henry Travers for Best Supporting Actor got nominations themselves , but lost to James Cagney and Van Heflin respectively . In addition Dame May Witty was also up for Best Supporting Actress , but lost to her fellow cast member Teresa Wright . The valedictory for the film is delivered by Vicar Henry Wilcoxon after a bad raid in which several cast members are killed . With so much death and destruction waged on them at home , it has become the people's war , more a people's war than it was even in the United States with so many civilian casualties . We got a taste of it at Pearl Harbor and a much bigger taste on in New York , Northern Virginia , and on the Pennsylvania countryside . The words of Henry Wilcoxon should be standard reading or viewing . It's what makes Mrs . Miniver such a timeless classic as we deal with another brand of totalitarian malignancy in this century .
Our Own Blessed Assurance Of A Beautiful Garden Of Fellowship	When Robert Benton wrote and directed Places in the Heart he created his own Citizen Kane . Like Orson Welles he will spend the rest of his life trying to better it and won't succeed . Places in the Heart takes place in Waxahachie , Texas in 1935 and our director was born there in 1932 . The film is a personal vision of his childhood in that small Texas town . It bears a whole lot of resemblance to To Kill a Mockingbird , except that the adult protagonist is not a widower lawyer , but the widowed wife of a sheriff left to fend for herself after her husband is killed . Benton creates his characters with a loving hand , but that does not mean he doesn't see the flaws in the people there , the racism , the sexism , the hypocrisy and the pettiness . Field's husband , Ray Baker , is killed by a drunken black man accidentally . Killing a law enforcement official probably would have gotten him legally executed in any event , but the town administers its own brand of justice to the perpetrator . That being said , it still doesn't solve the problem of a woman who has no education or training to support herself and her family . Sally gets the idea to grow cotton on the few acres her husband left her and gets a pair of strange allies in John Malkovich and Danny Glover to help her . Glover is an itinerant hobo who is the one who if he knows anything knows cotton from his sharecropping background . He's who really holds the family together in the crisis . John Malkovich is a blind man whose brother-in-law is unctuous town banker , Lane Smith , who essentially dumps him on Field because he doesn't want to care for him . Malkovich who was nominated for Best Supporting Actor proves to be a faithful friend . Lindsay Crouse was nominated for Best Supporting Actress as Field's sister . There's a subplot in the film involving her and her philandering husband Ed Harris . Robert Benton won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay and was nominated for Best Director and Sally Field won her second Oscar for Places in the Heart . Her character isn't as feisty as her first Oscar winner , Norma Rae , but Edna Spalding certainly has the same grit . Period country and gospel music make up the soundtrack for Places in the Heart . Old line Protestant hymns Blessed Assurance begins the film and In The Garden is the theme for the surreal ending . I can't describe the ending except that it is one of the most beautiful in the history of cinema . It's a vision of what promise we have either in heaven or a utopia we make on earth where the things that divide humankind are washed away and we are in fellowship with each other and our Maker . You have to have a heart of diamond if you are not moved by Places in the Heart .
A " Real " Character	General Lew Wallace , a somewhat controversial commander of the Union forces in the Civil War happened to be on a train with Robert Ingersoll , noted atheist in the 19th century . Wallace was a moderately religious man and attempted to debate Ingersoll . The story has it that Ingersoll whipped him to a frazzle and Wallace knew it . But he resolved to study the Bible and learn about his faith so that he would be better prepared . He never got to debate Ingersoll again , but Wallace got so immersed in religion that he decided to put that knowledge to use . While he was Territorial Governor of New Mexico and while he wasn't dealing with the Lincoln County War and the hunting down of Billy the Kid , he spent his spare time creating what became the widest selling work of fiction in his century , Ben-Hur , A Tale of the Christ . He did his research well . Judah Ben-Hur and his mother and sister are descended from a very ancient family of Hebrew nobility . The founder of this house was Hur who in the Bible was the husband of Miriam who was Moses's sister . Hur pops up as a peripheral character during the whole story of the Exodus . He invested the characters that Charlton Heston , Martha Scott , and Cathy O'Donnell play with a heroic lineage which makes their fall all the more tragic . So on the consciousness of the public were the Hur family that one often thinks of them as real people . Case in point , many years ago a teacher of mine wanted to demonstrate how many true characters Charlton Heston played on the screen . I count 15 in his list of credits on IMDb , some he's played in more than one film or television show . Inevitably more than just one person named Ben-Hur as a real character . A tribute to the timelessness of the character and to Charlton Heston's abilities as actor . The story is that Heston and his family greet an old friend newly arrived back in Judea province , Messala who is now a tribune . Messala played by Stephen Boyd , is one ambitious fellow and he wants Heston to rat out potential leaders of rebellion in this most unruly of Roman provinces . Heston refuses . The next day Boyd frames an incident where a piece of old tile accidentally falls from the Hur family home while the new Judean governor is passing by into an assassination attempt . Scott and O'Donnell are thrown in prison and Heston is sentenced to the galleys . The story is then Ben-Hur's adventures in trying to get back to Judea and set things right . Ben-Hur meets a whole host of people who aid him in his endeavor . Jack Hawkins as a commander of the galley fleet he's serving on , Finlay Currie as Balthazar one of the Three Wise Men now seeking the child whose birth he witnessed in the year Anno Domini , Hugh Griffith as Sheik Ilderim whose horses Ben-Hur races . It's not often mentioned , but among the Oscars collected for this most honored film , besides the ones that the film itself , Wyler , and Heston won , was Hugh Griffith's for Best Supporting Actor . His Arab sheik is a blustering , but very wise and compassionate fellow . The events of this film are taking place some six centuries before the Prophet Mohammed arrived on the scene . The Arab people at that time were involved in a hedonistic animist kind of religion , but it's left up in the air that they might turn Christian . Certainly some of them did and some are Christian to this day as the country of Lebanon attests . Griffith had the wildest pair of eyes in film history next to Jack Elam's and he used them to great effect . Watch his expressions during the film , they're what got him the Oscar . Stephen Boyd also got rave notices for the evil Messala . When he's not stepping on people to move up in Roman politics , Messala likes to race chariots . During his odyssey Ben-Hur becomes a charioteer and the climax of the film is the thrilling chariot race that turns into a race for survival . You'll see in the film , Messala doesn't exactly play by Marquis of Queensbury rules for charioteers . Boyd did some leads after Ben-Hur , but never really took as a hero . But he was one grand villain . While Ben-Hur is a prisoner being led to the galleys the Roman prison convoy stops in a town called Nazareth and a carpenter faces down a Roman guard to give the thirsting Ben-Hur a drink of water . The two men go their separate ways , Ben-Hur's is described in the book by Lew Wallace , the carpenter's way in the first four books of the New Testament . Later on after Ben-Hur discovers his mother and sister and what's become of them , they hear about Jesus of Nazareth , a rabbi with a message of hope and reputation for miracles . Of course when they seek Jesus it's when He's just been tried and condemned and on the way to the cross . It's now Ben-Hur's turn to offer the carpenter a drink of water on the way , to show his trust and faith . And as the sky darkens and Jesus breathes his last , the film depicts what the New Testament describes as the blackest day in Earth's history . But even at that point Heston's new found faith is rewarded , a miracle at the point of death . What was the miracle , for that you buy the DVD or wait until Ben-Hur is on television . Ben-Hur should really be seen in a theater , even a letter box version doesn't do justice to the chariot race or the sea battle with pirates . Ben-Hur is the story of two paths , one of vengeance and one of faith . Our protagonist tries his way and in the end realizes the path of faith is the more rewarding .
Braddock's Story , Not Baer's	Though Cinderella Man got great critical notices it did not do well at the box office which is a shame for those who missed a great sports story and Russell Crowe's performance as James J . Braddock . Between the time Gene Tunney retired in 1928 and Joe Louis ascended to boxing's heavyweight championship , there were a succession of champions who were not among the greatest , but who in and of themselves had some interesting stories . In order they were , Max Schmeling , Jack Sharkey , Primo Carnera , Max Baer and finally the working class champion James J . Braddock . Most of these guys fought each other and Joe Louis in fact on his way up the ladder fought and licked all of them except most notoriously Schmeling . Jim Braddock was a promising light heavyweight in the late twenties who got a title shot against champion Tommy Loughran and lost . As is the usual pattern of things , Braddock went gradually downhill and at the same time injured his right hand . This was the Great Depression and Braddock took work on the docks as a longshoreman to support his wife and family . Ron Howard did a fine job in recreating the era of Braddock and got a great performance out of Russell Crowe as the man . What Crowe gives you as Braddock is the real deal . Crowe nearly won an Oscar on the strength of a very touching scene with one of his children who he caught stealing a loaf of bread . Economics were bad , but Braddock's values stood the test . I suppose it was a matter of necessity , every heroic story has to have a villain and poor Max Baer's reputation suffers as a result of it . Craig Bierko is fine as Max Baer , but he did not give you the real Max at all . Baer was a savage puncher and in fact was responsible for the death of two men in the ring . Ron Howard shows him as a man with no regrets about that . In fact Baer was deeply affected by the deaths and held his punches on many occasions because of it . Baer was however a party animal who loved a good time above all . That was his undoing in his real career and in the film . Viewers will also like Paul Giamatti as Braddock's shrewd and loyal manager Joe Gould . Giamatti's performance might seem a caricature yet boxing manager were and are very much like Joe Gould , at least the best of them . As a personal story and a sports story Cinderella Man rates as one of the best films so far in this new millenia of our's . I wouldn't miss it when it's broadcast . Too bad that so many folks did miss it on the big screen .
More Ale Than Quail In This Club	The Palm Beach Story is one of the best examples of the wonderful nonsense that Hollywood used to turn out in its best comedies . It's only in the movies that circumstances like these happen and it's quite beyond my powers to describe them . Joel McCrea and Claudette Colbert come to a dry patch in their marriage and decide to split . Colbert takes a train to Palm Springs and McCrea pursues her by plane . And they both wind up with a brother and sister pair of gazillionaires in the persons of Rudy Vallee and Mary Astor . I will say that Preston Sturges did kind of reach into left field for his romantic ending , but that's half the fun of The Palm Beach Story . Only half because the other half is the fun of the journey . Not much happens to Joel , but Claudette is on one wild ride when she's adopted by a gang of drunken millionaire sportsmen known as the Ale and Quail Club . The proponents of gun control should get the right to The Palm Beach Story and run it at all opportunities . Seeing these louts , plastered out of their minds and shooting off their weapons is pretty funny and the best argument I know for gun control . Preston Sturges used some of his favorite players from his usual stock company for members of Ale and Quail . Also look for a very funny performance by Robert Dudley as the ' wienie king ' whose encounter with Colbert sets everything in motion . Rudy Vallee gets to sing in this which is also nice . He sings a chorus of Isn't It Romantic and then sings his own hit , Goodnight Sweetheart which has the opposite effect from what he intended . The Palm Beach Story is the object lesson in how to make screen comedy and make it to last .
Life Ain't About Simple Choices	Save the Tiger is about lost illusions of youth and the things some of us have to do to merely keep treading water . Jack Lemmon is the head of a garment factory which has suffered some losses over the past few years and he and partner Jack Gilford see few options that will save them from bankruptcy or worse . The best of these options is to start an arson fire in their factory and hope the insurance payoff will cancel their debts and afford a fresh start . Gilford is against it on moral principles , but Lemmon is a guy who can't afford morals at this stage as George Bernard Shaw once put it . Still he looks back on his youth and the things and people that moved him back in the day and wonders how he got in the mess he's in . It's not supposed to be like this for people like him who've had ideals and tried to play by the rules . In his facial expressions , his vocal intonations , in every move of his body and soul , Lemmon becomes Harry Stoner the latest convert to cynicism . It's what got Jack Lemmon his Second Academy Award , this time for Best Actor . Interesting that this very cynical film came out the year that a whole lot of Americans became very cynical as Watergate was unfolding before them . Arson fire is a tricky business and Lemmon puts himself in the hands of Thayer David who I think gives his best screen portrayal here as the professional arsonist . Listening to him , as creepy as he sounds , he comes off as a man who knows his business . He even at one point offers to return the down payment given him when he explains that insurance will never pay off with all the fire regulation violations Lemmon and Gilford have in their place . It's a business with him and no fatalities must occur , otherwise it's a Law and Order episode . Jack Lemmon was one of the best around , could do all kinds of comedy and drama with equal skill . Building on the characters he created for Billy Wilder , he's an older man now who's in no position to start from scratch again . Lemmon plays a character that all of us over 40 can definitely relate to . Save the Tiger is a serious and thought provoking drama about choices each and every one of us could face some time in our lives . It's universality of theme will make it an enduring classic .
Hollywood didn't know what to do with it	Lou Diamond Phillips deserves a lot of credit for even tackling this subject . A well photographed movie about the lives of the Inuit , this just isn't a commercial item . The fact alone that it was shot on location must have cost a fortune . This film shows a lot of loving tender care in the making and the cast is great throughout . Too bad that it just wasn't commercial enough . I happen to meet Lou in my town when he was appearing as King Arthur in a production of Camelot . I told him how much I liked the film and it was unfortunate that it went straight to video . I also asked him how he liked working with Toshiro Mifune . He replied that it was a great experience , that Toshiro Mifune was a great actor and very good to work with and it was an honor to play his son in the film . It must have been one rugged location , those films set at either of the Earth's poles usually are . The performances by Lou as the young Inuit outcast , Toshiro Mifune as his father the medicine man of the tribe and Donald Sutherland as a Mountie are uniformly excellent . Don't miss this very neglected item .
Winning The Grand Slam And Losing It All	One of the best television movies ever made is about the life and career of Maureen Connolly the first woman to win tennis's fabled grand slam in one year . Both her career and her life were way too short . Before Billie Jean King , before Chris Evert , before Tracy Austin there was a champion from the Fifties , Maureen Connolly . At the age of 19 Ms . Connolly won the US Open , Wimbledon , the French Open and the Australian Open in 1953 . The Grand Slam , the biggest achievement in tennis , and for the first time won by a woman . Glynnis O'Connor as far as I'm concerned got her career role as Maureen Connolly . She was at the right age at the time and later on at the end of the film she was made up well to look the age of 34 when she died . Connolly came from a pretty hard background and tennis was her way out , a sports story told many times with male athletes . Michael Learned does an equally fine job as Eleanor Tennant , Connolly's very strict mentor . The tennis scene of the early Fifties is graphically depicted . Within two years of winning the grand slam , Connolly was injured pursuing her second love horseback riding , a broken leg ended her career permanently . Who knows how many titles and how much money she could have accumulated . In fact I'd read about Connolly when I was a kid and she pretty much dropped out of sight after her career ended . For a lot of people the news of her death from cancer in 1969 was the first thing most had heard about her since she stopped appearing on the sports pages . O'Connor's finale scene as the 34 year old Connolly knowing she was terminally ill and reconciling with Learned is some of the best acting ever done in a TV film . Little Mo is a great tribute to one of the best female athletes of the last century and a role model in sports and in life for us all .
The Denizens of Harry Hope's Waterfront Dive	The Iceman Cometh is one great film to go out on for not one , but two of the best players ever . This turned out to be the last performances for both Fredric March and Robert Ryan . In the case of Ryan he knew he was terminal and his performance has real poignancy . Of course you can't beat the material that was given to them and the rest of the cast . It's been argued that The Iceman Cometh is the greatest work from the pen of America's greatest playwright Eugene O'Neill and I'm not going to argue the point . Some would give the honor of O'Neill's greatest play to Long Day's Journey Into Night . That particular play was Eugene O'Neill's remembrance of his childhood and family . The Iceman Cometh is also about a family of sorts , the community that's been established around Harry Hope's waterfront bar and SRO flophouse . It's owner Harry Hope played by Fredric March , is a former Tammany politician who's not set foot outside his establishment because he's in mourning over his late wife Bessie . The whole usual crowd of boarder / drinkers is awaiting the arrival of one of the regulars who apparently likes to go slumming there . It's Hickey , a gladhanding traveling salesman Lee Marvin who spends like a Diamond Jim Brady and is generally the life of the party . But it's a new and somber Hickey that comes to bar that day . A stranger arrives that day also , Jeff Bridges a young anarchist is on the run he says from the Pacific Coast where his mother among others has been picked up . He's looking for an older leader of the movement Larry Slade who is played by Robert Ryan . Ryan is a beaten and tired man and of all the people in the bar he's the one with the most realistic assessment . It's the last stop for this crowd before the Grim Reaper . But the somber Marvin , still full of salesman's guile gets them all to reassess themselves and their ' pipe dreams ' even for a little while . He also reveals a terrible secret about himself and Jeff Bridges has even bigger cross to bear and Bridges can't bear it . I was blown away by the performances of everyone in the cast . Marvin came in for some criticism at the time , attempting to serious a part and one that Jason Robards , Jr . was given acclaim for as his career role . But there was nothing wrong in Lee Marvin's performance that I could find . Young Jeff Bridges more than held his own with the veteran cast . My favorite among the supporting parts is Bradford Dillman who plays a lawyer who graduated from Harvard Law and for whatever reason , broke down and is now here . One member of the cast in this production was in the original Broadway cast when The Iceman Cometh premiered on Broadway in 1946 . That was Tom Pedi who played the bartender Rocky Pioggi who also doubled as a pimp for some prostitutes who hang out there . Next to Ryan , the women who we don't learn anything about really , seem to have the most realistic ideas about the patrons there . Pedi's performance in a part he grew to own is pretty special also . Bridges is the outsider , he had a cause , a revolutionary cause and O'Neill in his youth hung around with that crowd as we learned in Warren Beatty's Reds . We also learned that while O'Neill liked the people he was less than optimistic about the beliefs they had . If Bridges is a failed John Reed , O'Neill in Ryan's character of Larry Slade is looking back over the years when he drank in such places as Harry Hope's . The rest of the cast is no doubt modeled after people he knew back in the day . In his own way , O'Neill loved these people a whole lot more than he did his own family . And it's to them and for them he wrote The Iceman Cometh . And it's for us to see a small part of New York in 1912 , some folks who might have passed unnoticed by time , but for the fact that a literary genius passed among them .
A Week In The Life Of Two Lifers	My absolutely favorite Jack Nicholson film has always and forever will be The Last Detail . I don't think he was ever better on the screen as William Baddusky of the United States Navy . I enjoyed his performance and the film itself on so many levels . Probably not surprising since the script was done by Robert Towne who would soon be teaming with Nicholson again for the critical and popular success Chinatown . It's a simple story , not really any plot to the film . Two sailors , Jack Nicholson and Otis Young , both of them lifers in the Navy are stationed in Norfolk and get themselves an assignment to escort a prisoner to the Naval Stockade at Portsmouth . Of course with the per diem allowance for the two men and the prisoner and five days to travel in , Nicholson and Young are thinking of a mini-spree at government expense . It comes to that and a lot more . the prisoner is newcomer Randy Quaid whose big crime is that he attempted to steal $40 . 00 from a charity collection box . For that he's getting eight years in military prison and a dishonorable discharge . A dishonorable discharge even today is not a good thing for one's resume . As Nicholson and Young both remark , someone really stuck it to him . Let's face it what Quaid did in civilian life would probably be considered petty larceny and his jail time might be measured in days . Turned out it was the base commander's wife's favorite charity so it got stuck to him good . Sad because the indications we get is that Quaid was a troubled kid in civilian life and probably military service offered him a chance to straighten up and fly right . It's done that for many others including Nicholson and Young who make it very clear even on this disagreeable detail they do like the Navy and like serving in it . They've got five days to deliver Quaid to Portsmouth so the journey becomes quite the odyssey for the three of them up the Atlantic coast . The three men have a great chemistry between them , you get involved with their lives and really feel for young Quaid and his plight . Quaid gets shown a good time and maybe that's not such a good thing considering what he is facing . The Last Detail is a nice realistic look at the military both its flaws and good points . A lot of similarity here in the issues raised to From Here to Eternity and if I mention The Last Detail in the same sentence favorably as From Here to Eternity , you know how good it must be .
Bing was a marketing genius .	Finally Paramount gave Crosby a big budget musical and didn't rely on his charm and personality to carry the film . The budget went to hire such outside talent as Fred Astaire and Irving Berlin . And none of them disappoint . In the first of two films Astaire and Crosby did together the characters are remarkably the same . Astaire is the elegant and charming show business professional who's ambitious for success . Crosby is the talented , but lazy partner who just wants a life of ease and comfort and not to work more than he has to . Small wonder that their double act broke up . But now enter a complication . They both get interested in the same girl who in this film is Marjorie Reynolds . Crosby dreams up the idea of a nightclub / hotel called Holiday Inn where they only work on holidays . He wants Reynolds to help with the shows there . Astaire wants her for his act after his other girl partner Virginia Dale runs off with a millionaire . And the fun starts . Now since this was Crosby's home studio and he's first billed , just who do you think gets Reynolds in the end ? As maid Louise Beavers put it , don't sit and mope because some slicker stole your gal . Irving Berlin writes a majority of new songs to supplement a couple from his vast trunk of songs mostly about our holidays . By that time Berlin had extracted an agreement which became standard for all the films he wrote for . Not one note of non-Berlin music is ever heard in a score he writes . Just listen to this and just about any other film Berlin is associated with . Even music in the background is his . The hit song in this was supposed to be Be Careful It's My Heart , the Valentine's Day song , sung by Crosby and danced to by Astaire and Reynolds . It did have a good deal of success . But the success of White Christmas was exponentially phenomenal . It netted Irving Berlin his one and only Academy Award and for Bing Crosby his number one item on vinyl . In fact everyone's number one item on vinyl . I don't know if Bing Crosby ever set out to become the voice of Christmas , but if he did he was a marketing genius . If he's known and appreciated for anything with today's audience , it's for that . White Christmas became the first Yule song he was identified with although he had recorded some Christmas material before that . After this he started doing the holiday music in serious . Just think , along around Columbus Day , record companies even now reissue his Christmas stuff every year and his totals as largest selling recording artist in history grow once again . That's why the Beatles and Elvis , etc . don't have a prayer of overtaking him . In fact White Christmas's initial success was so great that Decca wore out the original master putting out records to meet the demand . So in 1945 , Decca got Bing , the Ken Darby Singers and John Scott Trotter to re-record it almost note for note . The original 78 had White Christmas with the flipside of Let's Start the New Year Right also from Holiday Inn . The newer version which most people hear has as it's flipside God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen . I don't want to ignore Fred Astaire's contribution here . He does a nice comic turn with I Can't Tell a Lie , the Washington's birthday number where Crosby keeps changing the tempo to upset him and Reynolds . The Fourth of July yields a number for each . Reynolds is kept from the show by Bing's machinations and Astaire has to " improvise " something . He " improvises " Firecrackers and anyone who knows anything about Astaire knows how hard he worked to get that spontaneous feeling in his dancing . Bing sings The Song of Freedom , reminiscent of James Cagney's Grand Old Flag number from Yankee Doodle Dandy also out in 1942 and Song of Freedom is also reminiscent of what Paramount could have given Bing in the 1930s had they hired someone like Busby Berkeley to give Bing some of the production numbers that Dick Powell had at Warner Brothers . So what more is there to say , but sit back and enjoy the fun .
" God Bless This Ship And The Men Who Serve In Her "	It's ironic indeed that in Noel Coward's greatest screen role he played a part so atypical of what we expect from that most witty and erudite of artists . There's a lot good in In Which We Serve , but if you are expecting Coward bon mots , skip this film . Whatever else Coward was , he was one patriotic British citizen who loved his country and wanted to do his bit in World War II . The incident in which In Which We Serve is based on what actually happened to the the destroyer HMS Kelly in 1941 off Crete which was sunk after taking a few of the enemy with her . The ship was commanded by one Louis Mountbatten of the royal family and a good friend of Coward's . Coward's character while not a member of the royal family is still of the upper crust of British society . Mountbatten when war broke out used his considerable royal connections to get into a combat assignment when war broke out . The sequences in which Coward's ship is sunk and the actions of Coward and the crew hews pretty close to what happened to Mountbatten and the men of the Kelly . While we Coward and his survivors clinging to life rafts and bits of wreckage , the audience gets a series of flashbacks revolving around three men , Coward , CPO Bernard Miles , and Seaman John Mills . We see them at peace and at war with the women they are involved with who are Celia Johnson , Joyce Carey , and Kay Walsh . This was total war for Great Britain , something until I don't think Americans could fully appreciate . While the men are at sea , the women live under threat and fact of bombardment by air . Their scenes are every bit as important as the battle scenes at sea , showing a people totally mobilized . In small roles you can find such people as James Donald , Michael Wilding , and Richard Attenborough all part of the crew . Attenborough in particular makes a vivid impression in his part . The Earl of Mountbatten made a series of televised memoirs in the early seventies that didn't reach American television until after his assassination in 1979 . It was about 10 episodes and they dealt with all facets of his career . Before he retired in fact he became the First Sea Lord of the British Navy . But one episode dealt with the sinking of the HMS Kelly and the men of the Kelly who survived year after year got together for a remembrance . Some footage was shown of one of the gatherings . I wonder if they still do that and how many men are left from the ship survivors . In fact it's altogether fitting and proper that this review be dedicated to Lord Louis Mountbatten who not without controversy served his country well and faithfully throughout a long a productive life . And of course this review is also dedicated to the brave men of the HMS Kelly , those that have passed on and those who might still survive . They and the other members of the Royal Navy kept their country from invasion for almost a thousand years and in the case of World War II kept the world from a totalitarian nightmare . And they couldn't have a better film than In Which We Serve to perpetuate the memory of their deeds .
A Tale of Four Soldiers	I've always liked The Young Lions because it has the best explanation for the phenomenon that was Nazism in Germany . Always the question is asked how did they come to power ? At the beginning with Marlon Brando romancing vacationing Barbara Rush in Bavaria on New Year's Eve , he provides one of the most lucid explanations of why people would choose to follow Adolph Hitler . It is one of Brando's finest moments on screen . At the time of course he didn't know he was romancing the main squeeze of Dean Martin who with Montgomery Clift play the two American soldiers who's stories and growth as human beings is told . Martin is a Broadway musical comedy entertainer and Clift is just a department store clerk at Macy's who meet by chance at the draft board . Martin is trying to dodge the draft , Clift is fatalistically accepting what comes . Martin proves to be a man of far more character than we first think . Clift is a Jew and a man who with enough reason to be going to war against Hitler , has to deal with anti-Semitism here in America . Clift and Martin's stories are told alternately with that of Brando and also Maximilian Schell . This was Schell's first appearance in an American production and he scores well as a proud Nazi officer . Let us just say that he gets quite a comeuppance all around during the course of this war he was so proud to be part of . The two male actors who are always cited as the rebel heroes of post World War II America are Marlon Brando and Montgomery Clift . Too bad in their one film together they didn't exchange any dialog . Still I can't praise a film like The Young Lions too highly .
The Object Is After All , Justice	I doubt you will ever see as thorough an indictment of the American legal system as you are brought in the film And Justice For All . Too often the object of that legal system has been terribly lost in the process . This film has become my favorite Al Pacino role . I don't think he was ever better on the screen as Arthur Kirkland , an attorney who cares maybe too much for his clients both for his career and his own mental health . During the course of And Justice For All , Pacino has two clients who for reasons I won't go into here , do not get their proper day in court and both stories end tragically . The clients are Robert Christian as the cross dressing Ralph Agee and Thomas G . Waites as Jeff McCullaugh and both players give stunning performances . The hardest audience heart out there will feel their pain . Their stories are mixed in with Pacino's running feud with a malevolent judge played by John Forsythe . John Forsythe in this film is not the John Forsythe of Dynasty or Bachelor Father or the disembodied employer of three shapely female private eyes . As it turns out this law and order judge thinks he's quite above the law . And he involves Pacino in his effort to prove his innocence after he's accused of rape . Life does have a funny way of imitating art and later on the New York State Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals , Sol Wachtler , was brought down in a similar scandal to what Forsythe is accused of here . Jack Warden is another judge operating out of that same Baltimore courthouse that Forsythe does . He's quite a whack job himself , sitting on a window ledge eating his lunch , wearing a concealed revolver under his judicial robes . It's a crime for the rest of us to do that , but he's another judge who feels himself above the law . Pacino has some very tender scenes with Lee Strassberg who plays his grandfather and Sam Levene who is Strassberg's friend at the nursing home they reside it . They're all such good players that you don't even think while you're watching them that this is a reunion of Michael Corleone and Hyman Roth . His scenes with them are his link to a world beyond his chosen profession . The tragedy of And Justice For All is not so much the personal tragedies of Christian and Waites , bad as they are . It is the arrogant abuse of the rules and procedures of our legal system by the very men who are a bound by it as Pacino is . Pacino finds himself so boxed in that the only way he can see justice done is blow up his own career in a now legendary courtroom climax scene . In the post Watergate Era , And Justice For All found its audience . And its message is still a timely one .
Love Isn't Just For the Young	The African Queen is a significant historical film in two respects . Along with King Solomon's Mines it was the first American film to show the real Africa to the American public . Previously our ideas about Africa were gleaned from studio backlot jungles created for Tarzan films and the like . The African Queen changed all that , no cheap studio sets would do any more . But also , The African Queen dealt with romance among mature adults in their forties . A ne'er do well river pilot on a ramshackle boat and the spinster sister of a missionary , thrown together by the circumstance of war . Humphrey Bogart , our intrepid river pilot , makes a scheduled stop to deliver mail to the mission run by Robert Morley and Katharine Hepburn . And he breaks the news to them that World War I has started . Almost as soon as he leaves them , German troops from East Africa come to call . Bogie comes back and he finds Kate with her dead brother . They bury him and skedaddle . And while skedaddling they conceive of a cockeyed plan to help in the war effort . To say what it is and what happens would spoil the story , but let me say this . The original opening of the film with Bogart coming in as church services are being conducted for a few hundred uncomprehending native Africans is Director John Huston's comment on the usefulness of the lives Morley and Hepburn have led up to that point . What Hepburn and Bogart accomplish by the end of the film makes up for the waste that was Hepburn's life . But The African Queen is a great romance as well . Bogart became a great romantic star in Casablanca and he upholds the tradition here , winning an Academy Award for Best Actor . Katie Hepburn doesn't seem to miss her usual partner Spencer Tracy not a bit , the part of Rose Sayer is a perfect fit . As was remarked , they're going to have stories to tell their grandkids . When I watch The African Queen I'm reminded of what Bogart's friend Frank Sinatra sang in one of his best ballads about how Love Isn't Just For the Young . Kate and Bogie sure prove it here .
" War Is Hell , Even When It's A Cold One . "	Following up on his two previous masterpieces , The Thirty Nine Steps and Saboteur ; Alfred Hitchcock put together his ultimate chase film with elements of both coming into Ernest Lehman's screenplay . I've seen figures that show in terms of box office and later video sales and rentals , North By Northwest was Hitchcock's most successful film financially . At this point Alfred Hitchcock's name over the title could sell a movie , but I'm sure he didn't mind having Cary Grant in it to draw the movie going public . This was Cary's fourth and final appearance in a Hitchcock film and I think it is his best performance in one . Like in the two films I cited , Cary is innocently caught up in a web of intrigue and he got there by just answering a telephone page at a hotel dining room . He took a call right after someone paged a George Kaplan and the bad guys think he's Kaplan . And he gets grabbed . It's a devilishly difficult situation for him because there ain't no George Kaplan . He's a fictitious guy who was invented by one of our spy agencies ( that's never identified in the story ) to take the heat off an agent very close to masterspy James Mason . Mason tries to murder Grant by getting him drunk and putting him behind the wheel of a car . Later on Grant gets framed for murder while trying to find out what's going on and he's on the run from New York to Chicago to Rapid City and the Mount Rushmore monument . James Mason plays the cultured villain Philip Van Dam . Mr . Mason who had some of the most precise diction heard this side of Ronald Colman on screen , could play villain and hero and a lot in between equally well . Among other things he's a bi-sexual and his henchman / boyfriend Martin Landau is jealous of his involvement with Eva Marie Saint . With the Code still firmly in place , it was quite daring for Mason to refer to Landau's suspicions as his ' woman's intuition . Eva Marie Saint joins the list of cool and fiery blonds Hitchcock was so partial to for his films . I'm surprised he never used Eva Marie again , she seemed the perfect successor for Grace Kelly who if she hadn't become a princess would have been playing this part for sure . Bernard Herrman who wrote the acclaimed score for Hitchcock's Vertigo followed that up with an equally good score . Especially during the moments of Grant's tangle with a crop duster plane and the chase across the Mount Rushmore Monument , Herrman made great use of music to help the audience feel the tension . It's a great instrumental piece , violins that seem to pound with a drum counterpoint . The best kind of film music . And why wouldn't it be because North By Northwest is some of the best kind of film making .
Red White and Blue , Cagney for You	James Cagney won his only Oscar for his recreation of George M . Cohgan in Yankee Doodle Dandy . Already terminally ill , Cohan lived long enough to see the film and no doubt he would have approved of it because it sure is how he would like to have been remembered . In 1942 when Yankee Doodle Dandy premiered there was a whole generations of people left alive who saw George M . Cohan perform . Watching the film today Cohan is like a figure from antiquity . But Warner Brothers was lucky to have James Cagney with the studio who's dancing style closely paralleled Cohan's . If it is ever run on Turner Classic Movies , make sure you see George M . Cohan's sound film The Phantom President . You will be astonished to see how closely Cagney captured his style . In the same way that Philip Seymour Hoffman captured Truman Capote and Joaquin Phoenix became Johnny Cash . Cohan's contemporaries are also like names from antiquity . But a century ago when Cohan was just hitting the big time performers like Fay Templeton , Nora Bayes , and Eddie Foy were very big stars and in 1942 plenty of people saw them also . I wish we had some film of them to see how Irene Manning , Frances Langford , and Eddie Foy , Jr . did in their recreations . I'm sure Foy , Jr . did a smashing job with his Dad . The background stuff is true enough . Cohan was born to a pair of vaudeville performers Jerry and Nellie Cohan played here by Walter Huston and Rosemary DeCamp . Later on a sister was added to the Cohan family and here Josie Cohan is played by Jeanne Cagney . They did do all the towns , big and small , in America . Cagney meets wife Joan Leslie at Shea's Theater in Buffalo , New York and Shea's survives to this day . And his first real success was Little Johnny Jones which score included American classics , Yankee Doodle Dandy and Give My Regards to Broadway . What's left out is the fact Cohan had two wives . His second wife survived him and died in the early Seventies . As his songs became popular in patriotic / rightwing circles , Cohan's personal politics reflected that . He fought hard and lost in the battle for Actors Equity . Cohan thought a union of players was tantamount to Communism . But such was his standing among performers that Cohan was granted the unique privilege of being allowed to appear on stage without having to join Equity once the union was recognized as the bargaining agent for players . Cohan is shown in Yankee Doodle Dandy as gracefully having retired when other trends in popular music took over . Far from it , he was a very bitter man and when he did that final comeback in I'd Rather Be Right he fought with Kaufman and Hart over the book and Rodgers and Hart over the songs . But Yankee Doodle Dandy presents the public musical face of George M . Cohan and does it very well . To this day , some forty years after first seeing Yankee Doodle Dandy on television , I love the recreations of Yankee Doodle Dandy , Give My Regards to Broadway , and You're a Grand Old Flag as they were first seen on stage . Plus some of the snatches of the lesser known Cohan songs as performed by the players portraying the Cohan family and others . When all is said and done , George M . Cohan was a great force of nature in the American musical theater . And we thank his father , mother , and sister , and George M . himself for what he left us .
The Yuppie And The Savant	The name of Babbitt has an old but not terribly honored name in American literature . George Babbitt was the creation of Sinclair Lewis as the the self seeking , hard striving archetypal middle class American whose interest is making money above all . If George Babbitt had a grandson he'd be Charlie Babbitt late of Cincinnati , Ohio . As played by Tom Cruise he's a worthy successor to his grandpa . George Babbitt if he were around today would be proud of Charlie . He's a child of the Eighties , looking for paper profits in fast deals . But he's got a cash flow problem . He's on the hook for a pair of expensive Italian Lamberghini sports cars and his customers want either the cars , their money back , or his head . In the midst of these problems comes word that is father who he'd been estranged from for years has died . Back from Los Angeles to Cincinnati goes Tom in the hopes a timely legacy will save his butt . What a shock to find that his father's millions went in trust to an unnamed benefactor and all he got was a used car and rose bushes . But that's not all . The unnamed beneficiary for whom the money is held in trust is Tom's older brother , older by about 15 years who's been institutionalized . He's an autistic , idiot savant , played by Dustin Hoffman . What to do , but break him out of that institution and gain custody of him and his millions . Rain Man's success hinges on the performance of Dustin Hoffman as Raymond ( Rain Man ) Babbitt and it's the best piece of work Dustin Hoffman ever did on screen . We're told that for someone in his condition , he's pretty far advanced . He can count 246 matches falling out of a matchbox that contains 250 and 4 were left inside . He's memorized Abbott & Costello's Who's On First without any idea of what it means . He sees and memorizes , but can't reason or articulate . But Dustin Hoffman did more with those monotone answers and his own facial expressions in interpreting the role than I think most actors would be capable of . It's a world so different for Hoffman than it is for Cruise and for any of us reading my review . Raymond Babbitt would memorize the words I write and not be capable of knowing their meaning . The film is about the growing relationship of the two brothers , one of whom the other didn't know existed . Hoffman does know about Cruise and there was a reason he was kept apart from him , not a good one to keep him unaware of his existence , but a reason . It's something I won't tell you'll have to see the film to find out . Tom Cruise also does a wonderful job in exploring all the dimensions of Charlie Babbitt . Normally I find it a weakness in a film that secondary characters aren't developed . But in the case of Rain Man it really is all about these two brothers . Rain Man got four Oscars , four big ones , Best Picture , Best Actor for Dustin Hoffman , Best Director for Barry Levinson , and Best Original Screenplay and Story for Barry Morrow and Ronald Bass . All richly deserved . Best scenes in the film when Cruise decides to make use of Hoffman's talents by stopping off in Las Vegas . That has to be seen . You will be moved mightily with one viewing of Rain Man .
The start of a beautiful partnership	My favorite movie genre is the western , it's really the only movie genre that is of American origin . And despite Sergio Leone , no one does them quite like Americans . Right at the top of my list of ten favorites westerns is Winchester 73 . It was the first pairing and only black and white film of the partnership of director Anthony Mann and actor James Stewart . It was also a landmark film in which Stewart opted for a percentage of the profits instead of a straight salary from Universal . Many such deals followed for players , making them as rich as the moguls who employed them . Anthony Mann up to this point had done mostly B pictures , noir type stuff with no real budgets . Just before Winchester 73 Mann had done a fine western with Robert Taylor , Devil's Doorway , that never gets enough praise . I'm sure James Stewart must have seen it and decided Mann was the person he decided to partner with . In this film Mann also developed a mini stock company the way John Ford was legendary for . Besides Stewart others in the cast like Millard Mitchell , Steve Brodie , Dan Duryea , John McIntire , Jay C . Flippen and Rock Hudson would appear in future Mann films . It's a simple plot , James Stewart is obsessed with finding a man named Dutch Henry Brown and killing him . Why I won't say , but up to this point we had never seen such cold fury out of James Stewart on screen . Anthony Mann reached into Jimmy Stewart's soul and dragged out some demons all of us are afraid we have . The hate is aptly demonstrated in a great moment towards the beginning of the film . After Stewart and sidekick Millard Mitchell are disarmed by Wyatt Earp played by Will Geer because guns aren't carried in Earp's Dodge City . There's a shooting contest for a Winchester rifle in Dodge City and the betting favorite is Dutch Henry Brown , played with menace by Stephen McNally . Stewart , Mitchell and Geer go into the saloon and Stewart and McNally spot each other at the same instant and reach to draw for weapons that aren't there . Look at the closeups of Stewart and McNally , they say more than 10 pages of dialog . Another character Stewart runs into in the film is Waco Johnny Dean played by Dan Duryea who almost steals the film . This may have been Duryea's finest moment on screen . He's a psychopathic outlaw killer who's deadly as a left handed draw even though he sports two six guns . Another person Stewart meets is Shelley Winters who's fiancé is goaded into a showdown by Duryea and killed . Her best scenes are with Duryea who's taken a fancy to her . She plays for time until she can safely get away from him . Guess who she ultimately winds up with ? There are some wonderful performances in some small roles , there ain't a sour note in the cast . John McIntire as a shifty Indian trader , Jay C . Flippen as the grizzled army sergeant and Rock Hudson got his first real notice as a young Indian chief . Even John Alexander , best known as ' Theodore Roosevelt ' in Arsenic and Old Lace has a brief , but impressive role as the owner of a trading post where both McNally and Stewart stop at different times . Mann and Stewart did eight films together , five of them westerns , and were ready to do a sixth western , Night Passage when they quarreled and Mann walked off the set . The end of a beautiful partnership that produced some quality films .
Sleuthing Among The Rich and Famous	Though five sequel films were made from this very popular original there are still to this day people who will answer the question who is the Thin Man with William Powell . The answer of course is Edward Ellis , an inventor whose disappearance gets a recently retired detective named Nick Charles to solving a case where three murders are committed almost in spite of himself . Ellis is a tall and very skinny man , hence the title . One thing I always liked about The Thin Man . The formula never varied , MGM didn't believe in tampering with success . It was always that Nick and Nora Charles get dragged almost kicking and screaming into some homicide . Nick is always four jumps ahead of the police be it Nat Pendleton or Sam Levene . Two or three other murders are committed before the solution is arrived at . And always the gathering of the suspects at the end when Nick lays it all out for them , the cops and we the audience . And of course Nora whose help except for moral support is somewhat dubious . One thing that was cut down on was Nick's alcoholic consumption . The Thin Man just beat it under the wire with The Code and as the Charles had a baby in later stories , it wouldn't do to have one of the father role models in America be a complete drunk all the time . I always liked the fact that in all The Thin Man stories the murderer is never obvious . A twist in the plot could have made any one of the suspects the guilty party . The Thin Man was nominated for Best Picture and Oscar nominations were given out to William Powell , director Woody Van Dyke , and screenwriters Goodrich and Hackett for adapting Dashiell Hammett's original story . Unfortunately The Thin Man ran up against It Happened One Night and got skunked out of all the top prizes . But amazingly enough Myrna Loy was not nominated for Best Actress . In fact the woman NEVER got an Oscar nomination . If there was every a case where the chemistry between the leads made a film , The Thin Man was it . How you could nominate Powell and not Loy is beyond me . But that's Hollywood for you . The Thin Man is a fresh today as it was over 70 years ago .
Ben Johnson Only Draws on Snakes .	There's a unique place in the pantheon of John Ford films for Wagonmaster , Sergeant Rutledge , and The Sun Shines Bright . It was these three films with no box office names in them that Ford didn't have to tailor the film around the persona of a star being it John Wayne , Henry Fonda , or any of the others he worked with . Not surprising that Ford considered all these as favorites of one kind or another . Ben Johnson and Harry Carey , Jr . a couple of likable cowpokes sign on to guide a Mormon wagon train to a valley in Arizona territory . Along the way they are joined first by a group stranded players from a medicine show and then by a family of outlaws on the run named Clegg . Their stories merge and what happens is the basis of the film's plot . Had Wagonmaster been done even 10 years earlier on the strength of the two performances turned in by Johnson and Carey , both probably would have had substantial careers as B picture cowboys . In the case of Johnson it would have been art imitating life . Johnson was a real rodeo cowboy and came to Hollywood with a string of horses for John Ford to use in Fort Apache . Ford was struck by his presence and the rest is history . But the day of the B western was drawing to a close and Johnson and Carey had great careers as two fine character actors . Ward Bond plays Elder Wiggs leader of the Mormons . Bond is a recent convert though and has trouble remembering to not use some four letter words . But he's the leader because of his strength of character , not his impeccable LDS theology . He turns out to be a wise and compassionate leader . In portraying the Cleggs , Ford only had to reach back four years to his My Darling Clementine . They are the reincarnation of the Clanton gang and pure evil . In fact if Walter Brennan who after My Darling Clementine refused to ever work for Ford again was willing I could easily see him being cast as Shiloh Clegg the head of the family . As it was Charles Kemper did a fine job , this is probably the role he's most noted for . Shortly after this film was done , Kemper was killed in automobile crash . He might very well have worked for Ford in the future . Ford makes the Mormons pacifists here and I don't recall that pacifism was part of LDS doctrine . Nevertheless it works here , the whole idea being that these people who carry no weapons are innocents when dealing with evil people like the Cleggs . It takes some gun toting cowboys to properly dispose of them . I think that this post World War II film is trying to say that pacifism isn't always the best policy . Another carryover from My Darling Clementine is Alan Mowbray playing the same kind of role he did there as head of the medicine show troupe . Part of that troupe is Joanne Dru who's doing another turn as a woman of elastic virtue the same as she did in Red River . Dru used to do so many westerns that she longed to be out of gingham and into some modern fashions . Wagonmaster is great entertainment and I'm willing to wager in the state of Utah it's a pretty popular film .
The Wild Roller-coaster of Fame	In many ways Sunset Boulevard is like the reverse side of the coin of A Star Is Born . In that film we have young Vicki Lester going through all the travails and heartache before achieving her goal of movie stardom . Sunset Boulevard is the reverse . A Star Is Born has its tragic figure in Norman Maine who commits suicide rather than face being a has been . In Sunset Boulevard we have the character of Norma Desmond who has not taken that route . She lacks for nothing in the material world , she wisely saved and invested her money . But the acclaim of the audience is a drug she craves . She's been at the top on the celebrity roller-coaster and now is at the bottom . Into her life comes Joe Gillis quite accidentally . Fleeing from some repo men looking to take his car , Gillis drives into the garage of what he thinks is a deserted mansion . It looks pretty run down from the outside . Gillis compares it to the house of Miss Faversham from Great Expectations , little knowing how right he was . Billy Wilder was a casting genius though in some ways he fell into the cast he had . Gloria Swanson was not his first choice , he approached both Mary Pickford and Pola Negri for the Desmond role first . Gloria Swanson who actually had made the transition to sound well , but had gone on to stage and radio since her success in Music in the Air , drew from the experiences of many of her colleagues . At the time she was cast in Sunset Boulevard she had a radio show out of New York . Bill Holden was sheer serendipity . Originally Montgomery Clift was to do the part , but at the last minute he said no , feeling that this was to similar a part to the one he played in The Heiress . Wilder then went through the list of contract leading men at Paramount . Wilder saw something in Holden , God bless him . Holden had done a whole series of what he termed ' smiling Jim ' roles . He was considered an amiable and non-threatening leading man . Although he had done well in a role as a psychotic killer in The Dark Past , Sunset Boulevard brought him his first real acclaim as an actor . An Academy Award nomination came with the acclaim . Nancy Olson and Erich Von Stroheim were nominated in the Best Supporting Player categories as was Swanson for Best Actress . Von Stroheim was another inspired choice . His is a strange part indeed . He was Desmond's first director in silent films and left his career behind to take care of her . He was also her first husband . Sunset Boulevard for it's time and with the Code firmly in place was a brutal look at the sexual needs of a middle-aged woman . Before Holden knows it , he's giving up his life as an aspiring screenwriter to be a kept gigolo . He doesn't like it , but can't leave it . When he does , it results in tragedy . Nancy Olson plays a reader at Paramount studios where Holden is trying to sell a script . She and Holden had good chemistry and after this they did four more films together . Casting Cecil B . DeMille as himself was of necessity for who could play the great DeMille , but DeMille . DeMille in fact was a former actor and playwright at the turn of the last century . In his autobiography DeMille lets us in on a private joke . He in fact did direct many of Gloria Swanson's early silent films and a pet name he had for her was ' young fella . ' Note that when Norma Desmond comes to the Paramount lot to see him , he greets her with that same expression . Note that DeMille got a plug for his own film Samson and Delilah which was in production at the same time . It is the set of that film where Swanson and DeMille meet . You will never forget the finely etched characters of Sunset Boulevard . You can see it many times as I've done , but if you see it only once you will have it burned in your memory . Especially that last scene before the newsreel cameras where Swanson loses whatever sanity she has left . She descends down the stairs of her mansion and descends into the comfort of insanity . I've often wondered should a sequel have been done covering the trial of Norma Desmond . I'm sure Billy Wilder wanted to move on to other projects . Still that would have been a film to see .
Took His Catholicism Very Seriously	Sir Thomas More , a multi-talented man of letters and law , went to the executioner's block because he would not recognize a temporal king as head of his country's church . Though a friend of Henry VIII and his chancellor he was more afraid of offending God than the king . A man who took his Catholic faith quite seriously . Robert Bolt's play ran for 637 performances in the 1961-1963 season on Broadway and the only two who came over from the Broadway cast were Paul Scofield as More and Leo McKern as Thomas Cromwell . They present quite a contrast indeed as antagonists , Scofield the man of honor and principle and McKern as the sly intriguing Cromwell . This Cromwell was in fact the grand uncle of Oliver Cromwell and he suffered the same fate as More for finding himself out of step politically at Henry VIII's court . That's the way it was in court politics in Tudor England . You stayed in step with the monarch whims or the executioner shortened you a little bit . As Henry VIII , Robert Shaw does actually have reason to be concerned . The only American in the cast , Orson Welles as Cardinal Wolsey , explains it quite clearly . It was only 40 + years since the king's father Henry VII took the throne and reunited the York and Lancastrian claims to the crown . Previous to that for sixty years England went into a steep decline during the period known as the War of the Roses where rival factions fought for the crown . The lack of a strong male heir would guarantee such an event which was fresh in a lot of minds . Why wouldn't the Pope just find some ecclesiastical loophole and give who had been his ardent defender a divorce ? Very simply Henry VIII's first wife Catherine of Aragon was the aunt of Emperor Charles V and his army was occupying Rome after the battle of Pavia a few years back . Catherine's marriage to Henry put England in the Spanish orbit and he wasn't about to let it go . Basically the Pope was going to dance to Emperor Charles's tune . Which still left Henry VIII with a dynastic problem . He made the complete break and said he was head of the Church in England . That is how the Anglican church came into being . A lot like More thought this wrong and paid with their lives . Paul Scofield won Broadway's Tony Award for playing Sir Thomas More and matched it with an Oscar for Best Actor in 1966 . Scofield set a standard for playing a man willing to die for a belief . His More is a man of wit and humor , not a priggish sort by any means . It's what makes More such an appealing character and even non-Catholics can certainly appreciate his sacrifice . Besides those I've already mentioned the cast also includes Wendy Hiller as More's good wife , Susannah York as his daughter and Corin Redgrave of that great theatrical family as his somewhat bumptious , but well meaning son-in-law . Sister Vanessa is her briefly as Anne Boleyn who Henry hoped to marry to begat a son with her . For the story from her point of view see Anne of a Thousand Days or for the whole saga see the fine BBC production of their mini-series starring Keith Mitchell as Henry VIII . Besides Scofield though , my favorite in A Man for All Seasons has always been McKern . To see what a wide ranging player he was apart from being the henpecked barrister Horace Rumpole you have to see A Man For All Seasons . He plays Thomas Cromwell every bit as slimy as he has come down to us in history . Also note the presence of a young John Hurt who plays Richard Rich whose perjured testimony convicts More . A Man For All Seasons , a film for all seasons and lots of reasons .
The Hero As Comedian	In his autobiography , The Name's Above the Title , Frank Capra said that until It Happened One Night drama had four stock characters , the hero , the heroine , the comedian , and the villain . What Capra did and you might notice he followed that in a whole lot of his films , the characters of hero and comedian are combined . Not completely though because Claudette Colbert gets a few laughs herself , especially with that system all her own . But in doing what he did for Clark Gable's character , Capra created a whole new type of screen comedy , the classic screwball comedy and It Happened One Night surely set the mold . Capra's autobiography told the story of the making of It Happened One Night which in itself could be a movie . Capra worked for Columbia Pictures which at that time was a minor studio , along the lines of Republic or Monogram . As Capra tells it he had a vision about this story that Samuel Hopkins Adams wrote and persuaded Harry Cohn to buy it . Capra also had a stroke of good luck . Adolph Zukor at Paramount and Louis B . Mayer at MGM were looking to punish a couple of recalcitrant stars , Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable . The idea was to show these two what it was like to work in a small budget studio without all the perks of Paramount and MGM . In fact the description of Gable arriving to work at Columbia that first day , drunk as a skunk , is priceless . Capra dressed him down good and said that to his credit Gable came to work afterwards and couldn't have been more cooperative . At some point Harry Cohn at Columbia was convinced that maybe Capra had something . He had in fact delivered for Columbia the previous year with Lady for a Day . So the publicity drums were beat . The rest as they say is history . It Happened One Night won the first Oscar grand slam , Best Picture , Best Director , Best Actor , and Best Actress . It won the first Oscars Columbia Pictures ever got and lifted it right into the ranks of the major studios . And it set the standard for screwball comedy . The film could never have gotten off the ground were it not for the chemistry of Gable and Colbert . They're together for most of the film so if it doesn't click between the two of them , you have people walking out in droves . Colbert had already played a wide variety of parts at Paramount , ranging from Poppaea and Cleopatra to comedies with Maurice Chevalier like The Big Pond . Gable had played a whole lot of tough guys on both sides of the law at MGM . It Happened One Night showed he had some real comic talent , a flair MGM exploited in his roles from then on in . Gable and Colbert did only one other film together , Boom Town for MGM . You can't get much more different than those two films . Boom Town had a huge MGM budget , Spencer Tracy and Hedy Lamarr as well , and a lot of special effects involving the oil industry and hazards therein . It's also a great film , but it's not a classic like It Happened One Night .
" Maggie the Cat is Alive "	After a run of 694 performances on Broadway during the 1955-1956 season , Cat on a Hot Tin Roof made it to the big screen in 1958 , just in time for Elizabeth Taylor to get her second Best Actress nomination in two years . Unfortunately Liz was up against Susan Hayward for I Want to Live and nobody was beating Hayward out that year . But Elizabeth Taylor proved something . She was more than just an extraordinarily beautiful woman . That girl had real talent and she proved to be more than a box office name to insure business . In fact of the original Broadway cast only Burl Ives as Big Daddy and Madeleine Sherwood as his other daughter in law were retained for the film version . Paul Newman and Elizabeth Taylor replaced Ben Gazzara and Barbara Bel Geddes as the leads . Newman also got one of his early triumphs playing Brick Pollitt , the favored younger son of Big Daddy Pollitt . Brick's an aimless guy , still living out his dreams of glory from being a football player when he was younger . In fact in a drunken stupor he tried some athletic stuff at his former high school and got a broken leg for his troubles . Newman spends the entire film on crutches , with Ives berating him for being a 30 year old kid . The Pollitts are one dysfunctional family . They are awaiting the arrival home of the patriarch Burl Ives from a big name hospital and the news ain't good . Ives is dying and it's how the estate is to be divided that's his concern . Older son Jack Carson as Gooper with Sherwood has five kids with another on the way . A thoroughly obnoxious little group of ' no-neck monsters ' , but Southern families do like breeders . Brick on the other hand is making a big show of ignoring Elizabeth Taylor and no normal heterosexual male's going to do that for long . Obviously something is eating him , possible infidelity by Liz with his late football buddy Skipper . A whole lot of family skeletons get thrown from the closet before this film is over . Each one of the Pollitts is a deeply flawed human being as Tennessee Williams shows us . Burl Ives as actor was established in this role and in his role in The Big Country for which he got an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor . 1958 was that man's career year on screen . Big Daddy Pollitt is a man who worked his way up from nothing , concentrating so much on making a success he had no time for his family . And Paul Newman really is wonderful as a 30 year old kid who if he doesn't straighten out will soon be a 50 year old kid . It's a performance that really rings true for me because I was pretty aimless in my twenties before settling down to the job I held for 23 years before retiring . Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is one of the great pieces of 20th Century American literature . It has some universal lessons we could all profit by in viewing it .
The Nobility of Conscience	I happen to see Henry Fonda years ago give a lecture and he mentioned that The Ox-bow Incident was one film he was very proud of . As well he should have been . It's a great , but very untypical western at least at the point in time it was made . Henry Fonda , half joking and half serious , said that he did a lot to persuade Darryl F . Zanuck to let him film this story . It was done on a very modest budget and is a short film for what is ostensibly an A picture . Zanuck was right , it did lose money during a time when the public wanted patriotic flagwaving stuff during World War II . But now it is a deserved classic . The plot simply put is that rumor of killing and cattle rustling spark a lynch mob to go and find the culprits . The film is a study of the people in that mob and how they react before , during and after they find three men whom they deem responsible for the crime . This is a story of very ordinary men , no great western heroes here . In fact Henry Fonda and sidekick Harry Morgan are just a pair of ordinary cowpokes who ride into town and Fonda has a mean disposition . The heat and general aridness of Nevada don't help it . He starts a fight with another mean dispositioned individual played by Marc Lawrence and they have a running conflict themselves through out the film . And Fonda's gal has run off . And while the mob is chasing the culprits they run into the woman played by Mary Beth Hughes . She's got herself a snotty rich husband with a hatchet faced sister . That burns Fonda up even more . But the idea of lynching people without trial or some kind of due process rankles a few souls . Fonda's not been exactly a cowboy hero in this film . But conscience can exist in the least of us and it's what makes man a noble creature some times . That's what I believe director William Wellman was trying to convey in this film and he conveyed with grace and style . This modest black and white film is a timeless classic and it will always be so . It will be so because too often is the temptation to shortcut the legal system everywhere and this film is a dire warning against that .
Doing The Deed	I remember back in the day the big buzz about The Family Way was it marked the adult film debut of Hayley Mills . After years of doing fresh scrubbed Disney productions , Hayley was going to do an adult role . And the big news was , it was about SEX . But when they went to see The Family Way , what Hayley's fans got was a touching life drama about a pair of newlyweds who can't seem to get the deed done . Hywel Bennett and Mills play the young couple and they are an appealing pair . Bennett and Mills like any other newlyweds would probably just like some privacy , but they can't get any due to family friends , especially Bennett's father who is played by John Mills . This is a most different Mills than what we saw in such films like Great Expectations , Tunes of Glory or Scott of the Antarctic . He's a working class guy from Lancashire , very coarse and rough in his ways , but in the end does show a kind heart . The game plan is for Hayley and Hywel to get married , spend the wedding night at Hywel's place and then take off for a honeymoon trip . What John Mills decides in a really brilliant move is to keep the party from the wedding reception going over at his place . And then a Hywel's clod of a boss , Barry Foster , sneaks into the newlyweds room and loosens the screws of the bridal bed . All in the spirit of good clean fun , but it does spoil the moment and Hywel has a performance problem . Hayley's character is not all that different from those she played at Disney . She's a sweet young thing who's showing a bit of understandable sexual frustration . Especially after the newlyweds discover the travel agent absconded with their money along with many others . They're now forced to spend two weeks in the house with Bennett's parents . Doubly frustrating because Bennett's younger brother Murray Head is also around . If you'll remember five years later Murray Head was the lust object of Peter Finch and Glenda Jackson in Sunday Bloody Sunday . He's looking just as yummy in The Family Way . Apart from some brief shots of Hayley Mills's derrière which would not raise a ripple today , there's no nudity , no filming of the deed . In fact if it wasn't that it was Hayley Mills I doubt it would have made any noise even back then . Best performance in the film though is that of Marjorie Rhodes as Bennett's very wise mother . She suspects a problem , but has a great deal of difficulty just persuading her husband to just let things work themselves out . In fact during the course of the film she confesses an ancient indiscretion herself , showing she does understand far more than anyone realizes . Best moment in the film is Liz Fraser delivering a truly terrific put-down to Barry Foster who is her husband after he and Bennett duke it out and Bennett is fired . Has to be seen to be appreciated . The Family Way is one of the best British productions of the Sixties . Paul McCartney wrote the original musical score for the production and the film is shot on location in Lancashire giving it a real feel for the British working class . And it was interesting seeing those Beatle inspired fashions from back in the day .
Will We Get More ?	Taking a lot from his previous cop drama Hill Street Blues , Steven Bochco fashioned in NYPD Blue one of the biggest television hits ever . It was the kind of show that even in its last days still wanted its fans begging for more . And we may yet get more , who knows . Two characters remained through the show's run and anchored it until it's conclusion . Dennis Franz as Detective Andy Sipowicz , a very flawed individual , an alcoholic bigot , but the best detective around . And Gordon Clapp as Detective Greg Medavoy , a decent man with a lot of issues of confidence . The rest of the cast came and went through the 15th precinct of Manhattan just like life itself . Sipowicz took over the show after the departure of his first partner David Caruso . He was predicted to be a breakout star and he sought to take advantage of his new found fame with a major movie career . A lot of folks wondered if NYPD Blue would survive at that point . Sipowicz was supposed to be a supporting character with the problems just mentioned , Archie Bunker with a badge . But he went in Alcoholics Anonymous and preached its virtues as did Daniel J . Travanti from Hill Street Blues . And over a dozen years , Sipowicz grew in strength and character . Dennis Franz had three succeeding partners all who had a different character and background . Jimmy Smits , Rick Schroeder , and Mark-Paul Gosselaar were all very good and very different . In the case of Gosselaar he was finally able to shake the casting specter of Zack Morris from Saved By The Bell . The women detectives all had an individuality about them as well . Probably Kim Delaney as the alcoholic Diane Russell was the best . She was counseled by Andy Sipowicz and brought into AA , but she also wound up marrying Jimmy Smits's character Bobby DeSimone and bravely carrying on after his demise . Sipowicz married ADA Sylvia Costas played by Sharon Lawrence and after she was killed in an unforgettable court house shooting episode . Andy later married again to young detective Charlotte Ross and found again some domestic happiness . In fact it was getting to be a running joke towards the end that it was as fatal to be around Dennis Franz as it was to be involved with a Cartright from Bonanza . Partners Jimmy Smits and Rick Schroeder died , wife Sylvia Lawrence died , and his son from an even earlier marriage was killed all during the run of the show . But Sipowicz dealt with it all . The detective squad of the 15th precinct had four heads , James McDaniel , Esai Morales , John O'Donahue , and Graham Currie . One of them actually was a cop , John O'Donahue . He played this mediocre time server Eddie Gibson who was an absolute doofus and originally was a detective on the graveyard shift . When he took the sergeant's test , passed it and wound up succeeding Morales the whole squad was ready to flip . But Gibson wasn't totally stupid , he knew these people and he basically let them have their head . James McDaniel had a wonderful character in Arthur Fancy and he had all the problems and frustrations of being a black man who rises in the NYPD . I remember once in an episode he was asked why he didn't get rid of a bigot like Sipowicz . To which he replied if I got rid of him it isn't like I'm going to get as his replacement some candidate for the brotherhood award . Probably I'll get another white cop with the same attitudes , but who isn't half as good on the job . We got to know all these people and what baggage they might have brought to each case they were assigned to . Probably NYPD Blue could have kept going , but Steven Bochco decided to end it while still on high . And he did in fact give it an ending of sorts unlike Hill Street Blues . It was an ironic ending in fact for Sipowicz . But you'll have to see the final episode in fact you'll have to see the entire series which you can catch on cable television to appreciate why . But the elements are there for a TV movie or six . I've got a good feeling that people would want to see them . We may not have seen the last of the detective squad of the 15th precinct from NYPD Blue .
" Run Dutch , Run "	Ealing studios in Great Britain had a reputation for producing some very droll comedies in the post World War II years and this one was done when Ealing was at its height . Alec Guinness is once again playing a mild mannered schnook of a man who no one notices at all . In fact his own superiors at his job , tell him to his face that his only virtue is a dull , honest dependability with a lack of imagination . Boy how they were wrong . Guinness's job is to supervise the transfer of gold bullion from where it is smelted into bars to the Bank of England . Every working day he accompanies the gold in an armored truck to the bank . And Sir Alec's imagination has been working overtime as to how a robbery could be accomplished . As he's discovered a long time ago , the problem isn't the robbery , it's the fencing of the loot . Well , bigger and more professional criminals have failed to lick that one on occasion . Into Guinness's life walks Stanley Holloway who's the owner of a small foundry that makes lead souvenirs for sale . Another man with a dull life , looking for adventure . Guinness recognizes both a kindred spirit and a solution to his problem . What makes The Lavendar Hill Mob work is the chemistry between Guinness and Holloway . It's so understated , but at the same time , so droll , funny , and touching . These two middle-aged men are living out a fantasy we'd all like to live , even if it means a touch of robbery . Guinness's character name is Henry Holland and Holloway is Alfred Pendlebury . As the friendship grows , they stop referring to each other as Mr . Holland and Mr . Pendlebury . Holloway even gives Holland the gangster nickname of Dutch . They pick up two other amiable allies in petty crooks Sidney James and Alfie Bass . The robbery comes off pretty much as planned , but afterward things don't quite work out . They use Holloway's foundry to make solid gold statues of the Eiffel Tower and send them to Paris to get them out of the country . What follows after that is some pretty funny situations , a mad run down the real Eiffel Tower and also one of the wildest police chase scenes ever filmed . The run down the Eiffel Tower has always been a favorite of mine . When I was a lad , my parents took the family to Washington , DC for a sight seeing tour and I got the brilliant idea of walking down the Washington Monument to see the various commemorative stones in the wall of the Monument . Even after walking down , my whole family felt just like Guinness and Holloway . Sir Alec Guinness got his first Oscar nomination for The Lavendar Hill Mob , but lost the big sweepstakes to Gary Cooper for High Noon . the Lavendar Hill Mob won an Oscar for the screenplay . I understand there will be a remake of it coming out next year . I can't conceive of any remake possibly duplicating the chemistry between Guinness and Holloway .
" Oh What Miracle Has Made You The Way You Are "	The capstone of Arthur Freed's brilliant career as producer of some of the best musicals around was this film which sadly marked the end of the musical era on film . You could never produce something like Gigi directly for the screen because the talent wasn't under contract to any one studio . Nor would any studio take a chance on something original for the screen . Musicals would continue to be made , but they would be 90 % adaptations from Broadway . Though the only thing original about Gigi was the musical score . The novel by Colette had been filmed twice before , the first time a silent film from Brazil , the second a dramatic version by the French in 1949 . One of these days maybe TCM will broadcast that one and we could compare them . Just the fact that Gigi was done at all shows a cracking of Hollywood's all abiding Code . Let's face it , we're talking here about a family that raises their daughters to be courtesans . They pray for daughters and at a last resort marry . Leslie Caron as Gigi is the last survivor and she's being raised by her grandmother Hermione Gingold and her great aunt Isabel Jeans to be the best Madame DuBarry she can be . They have a family friend in Louis Jourdan and the story of Gigi is the story of how Jourdan slowly , but surely starts seeing Gigi in a different light as she grows up and kind of grows on you . Of course the French quality seal on this Hollywood , but shot on location in Paris , production is provided by that grandest boulevardier of all , Maurice Chevalier . He plays Jourdan's aging roué of an uncle who gets from Lerner and Loewe three numbers that are now permanently identified with him . Chevalier thanks the Deity for the blessings of young nubile females in Thank Heaven For Little Girls , he reminisces or attempts to reminisce about old times with Hermione Gingold in I Remember It Well , and thanks the Deity once again for not having to go through the angst of youthful passion in I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore . Anyone who sees Gigi and sees Chevalier perform these numbers will be an instant fan of his the way I became when I saw Gigi on screen way back in the day . But the best song of the score is Louis Jourdan's title song which is the climax of a long musical soliloquy in which Jourdan analyzes his feelings for the audience . I'm sure that one of the reasons that Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe were attracted to the Gigi project was the fact that they saw an opportunity to write another soliloquy capped off with a hit song the way they did in My Fair Lady . The similarities between what Jourdan does in Gigi and what Rex Harrison does in I've Grown Accustomed To Her Face are readily apparent . I half expect Jourdan to end the film with ' Gigi , where the devil are my slippers . ' Gigi was nominated and won in 9 separate Oscar categories which might be a record in terms of percentage of Oscars nominated for and won . Even though the following year Ben-Hur won a few more and has a record of most Oscars still standing after almost 50 years . Gigi won for Best Picture , for Best Director for Vincente Minnelli , and for the Best Song from a film for the title song . Amazingly enough none of the players got an Oscar nomination in any of the acting categories . That shouldn't have worried Minnelli though because in his Some Came Running which also was out that year , Shirley MacLaine , Arthur Kennedy , and Martha Hyer all got nominations in those categories . 1958 would have to be the high point in the career of Vincente Minnelli . One ironic thing I always found with Gigi . It's set at the turn of the last century in Paris and unlike that other MGM Parisian classic , An American in Paris , Gigi was shot entirely on location in the City of Light . The Paris of the height of the Third Republic is captured beautifully , at least our conception of it in the English speaking world . Maurice Chevalier was an adolescent growing up there at this time , but this was hardly his world then . Chevalier grew up in dire poverty in a single parent household with a mother who sacrificed everything so her son could be taught the rudiments of show business where he became an immortal . I'm sure the irony never escaped Chevalier as he was filming Gigi . What's not to like about Gigi , a wonderful musical score , a magical setting , and some fine performances in a perfectly cast company of players . Thank heaven indeed .
The Continuing Saga Of The Corleones	Although most movie sequels never equal the original this is certainly not the case of The Godfather : Part II . Many would argue it surpasses the original . With both films declared the Best Picture by the Motion Picture Academy in their separate years , I'd hate to argue the difference . In this case we should thank the executives at Paramount for retaining both director Francis Ford Coppola and the original The Godfather author Mario Puzo to put their talents to this film . I'd hate to think what would have happened in other hands . Certainly these two men knew their characters and knew how to expand on them . And the best thing about The Godfather : Part II is that one can pick up the story , at least the modern portion of this one without reference to the original . In fact viewing this film will give you a burning passion to see the first . Unlike The Godfather and The Godfather : Part III , this film runs on two parallel tracks . The modern story is a continuation of Al Pacino as Michael Corleone now residing on the shores of Lake Tahoe and now directing the family affairs from Nevada where the Corleone family is heavily into gambling as we well know organized crime was back in those days of the Fifties and Sixties . He's going into partnership with Lee Strassberg playing Hyman Roth , a thinly veiled portrait of Meyer Lansky . But there are a lot of things making Pacino hesitant about this move into Cuba under the Battista dictatorship . The prequel parallel story is how young Vito Corleone came to this country as an orphan and worked his way up to establish himself as a crime boss . Here Coppola does a brilliant job in capturing the flavor of pre-World War I New York in the Italian ghetto . Robert DeNiro is young Vito Corleone and won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar . Remarkable when you consider that two of his rivals were Lee Strassberg from this film and Michael V . Gazzo playing Frankie Pantangeli from this film as well , the Mafia kingpin turned Senate witness modeled on Joe Valachi . DeNiro and Marlon Brando have the unique distinction as players of winning an Oscar for playing the same role . The woman do better in this film as in the original . Talia Shire got an Oscar nomination in the Supporting Actress category as Connie Corleone Rizzi . You remember her husband betrays the family and is killed in the original . She now is a drunken dependent on Pacino . Diane Keaton's character of Kay Adams Corleone is expanded here as well . She's a cultural outsider and the Sicilian vendetta code that she's expected to approve without comment becomes too much to bare . Her scene with Pacino when she tells him she's leaving him is one of the best for both in their respective careers . Overlooked unfortunately at award time was John Cazale as Fredo Corleone . He's the middle son who's passed over for succession after eldest son James Caan is killed in The Godfather . Fredo's big moment in The Godfather is being unable to fire his weapon in defense of his father being shot and how he breaks down . Fredo's got feelings as John Cazale dramatically points out . He does something really stupid in this film and it costs him dear . Cazale has some of the best moments in this film . If the first Godfather film doesn't do it , The Godfather : Part II will have you permanently hooked on the inner workings and dynamics of the Corleone family both in the criminal and personal sense .
John Huston's best film without Humphrey Bogart	I am second to none in my admiration for the acting of Jose Ferrer . A truly international star in every sense of the word , he effortlessly created characters of many nationalities . And one of the best is Henri Toulouse-Lautrec . The real test for me is that I am the last to claim any kind of art expertise , but I can feel Ferrer's portrayal of Lautrec the man and the artist right down to the marrow of my bones . The frightening thought is what that life might have been like if Lautrec did not have art as an outlet for his tormented emotions . According to the films of John Huston , Ferrer was fitted with a device on both legs that allowed him to walk on his knees . He could only wear it a half an hour at a time so I suppose he had to make that first take his best . I love the atmosphere of Third Republic Paris that Huston creates here . Up for a few awards , Moulin Rouge took home the Oscar for Costume design and deservedly so . Huston also used music effectively , both the Can-Can of Offenbach and one of the great movie themes of all time . Known popularly in the English speaking world as Where Is Your Heart , it is lipsynched in the film by Zsa Zsa Gabor , her one foray into real acting . A good cyber friend from France tells me the original song is titled Moulin Des Amours . Because it is an adapted theme it could not be nominated by the Academy for best song . If they had the People's Choice Awards then it would have swept the field . Percy Faith and his Orchestra had the big hit recording of it back in 1952 . I would also recommend a version that Andy Williams did later . That same cyber friend also referred me to a 1998 French film entitled Lautrec . It got mixed reviews here at IMDb , but I would like to see both versions side by side . I'd like to see how accurately Huston really did capture the atmosphere of Toulouse-Lautrec's Paris . Colette Marchand was also nominated in the Supporting Actress category for her portrayal of the streetwalker who breaks Ferrer's heart , but also serves as a model for some of his work . The rest of the cast from Europe is flawless . Marchand lost to Gloria Grahame that year for the Bad and the Beautiful . Ferrer had some stiff competition . He'd already won two years earlier for Cyrano De Bergerac , but he lost to Gary Cooper for High Noon who was getting his second Oscar . Also up that year was Kirk Douglas for The Bad and the Beautiful , Alec Guinness for The Lavender Hill Mob , and Marlon Brando for Viva Zapata . This is Jose Ferrer's finest moment he gave us on the screen . And it's John Huston's best film he ever did without Humphrey Bogart . On a scale of 1 to 10 this is a 15 .
Taking Residence	21 years after Rod Steiger won an Academy Award as gum chewing police chief Bill Gillespie of Sparta Mississippi and Sidney Poitier told the world that in his city , THEY CALL ME MISTER TIBBS , the film was adapted into a successful television series about the new American South . If you remember in the film Rod Steiger has the murder of a rich northern industrialist on his hands and reluctantly uses the expertise of visiting homicide detective Sidney Poitier to solve the murder . Now years later , Virgil Tibbs formerly of the Philadelphia PD Homicide Squad and now played by Howard E . Rollins , Jr . has responded to an offer from Chief Gillespie . Gillespie is now Carroll O'Connor and has made a place for Tibbs on the Sparta , PD as a newly made detective . Rollins IS the Detective Division of the Sparta , PD . Because this show clicked so well these characters were fully developed over the seven year run of the series . We got to know everybody in the small town of Sparta , Mississippi and even the most minute characters were three dimensional , the writing on this show was so good . O'Connor alluded to his racist past and we saw a man in Chief Gillespie who was a work in progress . In the end he fell in love with black city council member Denise Nicholas . Rollins had to adjust too , things don't quite work the same way in Sparta , Mississippi as they do in Philadelphia . And I'm not speaking necessarily of racial attitudes . Alan Autry played Bubba Skinner and he was something of a protégé of O'Connor's and he thought he ought to have been the detective . He was not a stupid guy either by any means . He and Rollins gradually developed a working relationship over the course of the show . Gunsmoke was the first show to put the main characters within the context of the town they lived in . Beyond James Arness and the other principal cast members , Dodge City had a nice group of recurring regular citizens . That was nothing though like Sparta , Mississippi . Watching In The Heat Of The Night was like taking residence in that town for an hour each week . In The Heat Of The Night was television series at its best , sad that it came to an end because of the health and other problems of its two lead cast members . It could still be running today .
" Oh , To Be Torn Twixt Love And Duty "	On Marshal Gary Cooper's wedding day to Grace Kelly , Lee Van Cleef , Sheb Woolley , and Robert J . Wilkie wait at the train station for the noon arriving train . It will be carrying their former gang leader , Ian McDonald who Cooper sent to prison and who's vowing vengeance . From the gitgo it's made abundantly clear that these are four nasty dudes who the town ought to deal with expeditiously . But the good elements of the town have grown fat and lazy and content to throw the responsibility of law and order on Cooper's shoulders . And he's quitting anyway , going on his honeymoon with his Quaker bride . A new marshal is going to arrive the next day . Why get involved . They want Cooper to just take his problem elsewhere . That view is probably best expressed by Thomas Mitchell in the scene at the church . Speaking of the scene in the church my favorite business in High Noon is when preacher Morgan Farley tells Cooper how dare he come into the church because a few hours earlier he didn't see fit to get married in that church . What a set of priorities . Grace Kelly had her breakthrough role in High Noon . She's a Quaker with deeply held pacifist principles . She's marrying a lawman , but one who's quitting that life . Her best scene in the film is with Katy Jurado who is Cooper's former gal pal . Katy explains the facts of life to Grace about marriage and the duty of standing by your man , long before Tammy Wynette ever sung about it . When the time comes , Grace does the right thing . Like his rival in western films , John Wayne , Gary Cooper had one of the great faces for movie closeups . Back in the day it used to be a running joke about how Cooper's dialog used to be just " yep " and " nope . " It was a good deal more than that . But High Noon's plot is carried quite a bit by the many closeup shots of Cooper . His face tells more than ten pages of speech and it keeps the tension of the film going . Man did not win two Academy Awards for nothing . Of course the theme of High Noon is also expressed in Dimitri Tiomkin and Ned Washington's Academy Award winning song , sung at times during the film by Tex Ritter . However the big hit record of the film was from Frankie Laine . I doubt there has ever been a movie theme song that expressed everything you needed to know about the motivation of the central character in the film . I don't think High Noon would have attained the classic status it has without that song . Another great performance in the film is Lon Chaney , Jr . as the former town marshal , old and cynical , who'd like to help Cooper out , but at his age and health realizes he'd be more of a hindrance . He's the only one that Cooper understands and forgives . The final gun battle is choreographed like a ballet , it's that good . Maybe the best ever filmed . Can't describe it , you got to see it . The interaction of the town's responsibilities for maintaining law and order and Cooper's personal pride and integrity have been dealt with in various ways in other films . I'd check out Rio Bravo , Warlock , Death of a Gunfighter , Welcome to Hard Times , all of these take a different slant on the same themes . But personally I've always liked what the townspeople did in a Frank Sinatra film , Johnny Concho . That's what the people of Hadleyville should have done right at the start .
" All right , so I'm flying blind , but I've got you as a bird dog . "	Kansas City Confidential is one of my favorite noir films and films of John Payne . It's one you can watch over and over again and still be entertained . John Payne is a ex-con who drives a florist truck and one of his usual stops is a delivery next door to a bank . Three masked robbers use the same kind of truck to pull off an armored car heist and Payne is suspected of complicity . It don't help he's an ex-con . This robbery has been organized a fourth man and the beauty of his scheme is that the robbers all wear masks with him and with each other so that no one can rat anyone out . They're supposed to meet in a small Mexican fishing village for the split . Payne is freed , but the Kansas City cops are still suspicious . He gets a lead on a possible participant and tracks him down to Mexico . And that's where the fun really starts . The suspense in Kansas City Confidential is not about who did it . The three robbers are Neville Brand , Jack Elam , and Lee Van Cleef , three of the nastiest dudes in film history . The suspense lies whether Payne can put it all together . As he says to one of them , he's flying blind in this one . After all the men don't even know each other or Mr . Big . The viewer knows all , but I won't say more . John Payne gives a riveting performance of a desperate man and one you don't leave holding the bag without consequences . This is one of the best noir films ever done , not to be missed .
Growing Up With Auntie Mame	When his parents are killed , young Patrick Dennis now orphaned is delivered to the tender care of financial trust adviser banker Fred Clark and to the guardianship of his only living relation , his irrepressible Auntie Mame . I'm not sure that young Patrick played by Jan Handzlik would not have wanted a normal childhood , but if fate makes you an orphan , you can do a whole lot worse and most have than to be raised by an Auntie Mame . She's well fixed and like a lot of people in the Twenties lived like there would be no tomorrow . But Russell is made of stern stuff and she meets the Great Depression head on and in the process marries Forrest Tucker who leaves her a wealthy widow with more than she ever thought possible . Mame Dennis is one of those larger than life roles that takes a larger than life personality to fill it . She's certainly done well with those who have played here . Rosalind Russell who played Auntie Mame on stage for 639 performances from 1956 to 1958 made the role her big career role . Certainly Angela Lansbury and Lucille Ball who did the role when Auntie Mame became the musical Mame operated under a tremendous handicap when they were compared . Russell dominates the part , the part never dominates her however . Director Morton DaCosta who directed Russell on stage brought two other Broadway cast members for the screen . Young Jan Handzlik who played Patrick Dennis as a child and Peggy Cass as her mousy secretary Agnes Gooch who goes out and experiences life all too well . Russell's rapport with young Handzlik is an integral part of her performance and DaCosta was wise indeed to make sure he was cast . Best part of the film is when grownup Patrick played now by Roger Smith wants to marry bubble-head heiress Joanna Barnes and Russell takes steps to make sure that doesn't happen . Her intimate dinner party for Barnes and her WASP parents Willard Waterman and Lee Patrick who are proud that they live in an exclusive and ' restricted ' part of Connecticut is a swinging affair for the ages . Russell got her fourth and last nomination for Best Actress , but was unfortunately up against Susan Hayward that year for I Want To Live who many in the Academy also considered way overdue for recognition . In fact that year no one was going to beat Hayward for that particular performance . Still for a play set in a particular time , Auntie Mame is frequently revived today both as a play and as the musical Mame . Rosalind Russell made it a classic for the ages .
Jake Gittes , Right Up There With Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe	In Chinatown , Jack Nicholson gets one of his best roles , definitely in the top five as Jake Gittes , a throwback private eye to the forties of Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe . Had Chinatown been made in the Forties Humphrey Bogart who played definitive versions of Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe would definitely have been cast in the role of Jake Gittes . Nicholson however is one worthy successor to Bogey . Very little action takes place in Chinatown in Los Angeles and only some peripheral characters are oriental . What Chinatown is here is a metaphor for a place you don't want to go and a culture and way of life you cannot penetrate or understand . Back when Gittes was a cop he was stationed in Chinatown and always felt alien there . He couldn't do his job because he didn't understand the people . Gittes goes back to Chinatown so to speak when he's hired by Diane Ladd to shadow her husband . It's the kind of peep job Nicholson is used to and he does . Later the husband turns up dead and it turns out Ladd was posing as the wife . The real wife Faye Dunaway shows up and threatens to sue him . Nicholson keeps on digging and he comes up with a juicy political scandal involving a scheme to defraud essentially the whole city of Los Angeles with their water supply . But he comes up with far more than that involving Faye Dunaway's personal life . The lead villain here is John Huston in probably his greatest role before the camera with only The Cardinal as a rival . Huston is Dunaway's father , a rich gazillionaire who can just about buy everything and everybody and usually does . But as it turns out he's far more malevolent than that , a truly terrifying evil soul . Faye Dunaway does a great job playing a woman carrying one huge burden on her soul . Look for good performances by Perry Lopez as the dogged police lieutenant trying to keep everyone happy and Diane Ladd as the hapless fake Dunaway . Chinatown is one timeless film and will be getting raves centuries from now .
Who Was That Ship's Biggest Fool ?	This is a film to be watched over and over again because something new can be seen in it on each viewing . This may very well be Stanley Kramer's masterpiece film . Kramer put together a perfectly cast group of international players and the wonderful thing about Ship of Fools is that even the tiniest roles are invested with real personality . There are no speaking parts in Ship of Fools that are just functionary . Ship of Fools is set on a German ocean liner sailing from Vera Cruz to Bremen with a stop in Spain to unload the steerage passengers who are a gang of laborers who are returning from Mexico to Spain . The crew members who we get to know are the worldly wise Captain Charles Korvin , the ship's disillusioned doctor with a heart condition Oskar Werner , and the purser with romantic inclinations , Werner Klemperer . Sounds like the Love Boat so far , but it's about 180 degrees the opposite of that . You can best compare Ship of Fools to Grand Hotel which was also in a German setting and set in the same time period that Grand Hotel came out , 1932 . The passengers all have stories and the intricate plot involves all in each other's story . It's a brilliantly woven tale . It's impossible to pick out favorites in this cast , they're all so good . Simone Signoret is the mysterious countess with a morphine addiction being deported to Spain . She befriends Oskar Werner because as a doctor he can give her easy access to her needed drugs . Werner knows this on some level , but he gets involved anyway because he sees her as a last chance for life after the heart attack he sustained . Jose Ferrer is the bellicose Nazi prototype who can't seem to find much good in any other people save the Germans . He's traveling with a statuesque blond who's not his wife . In the latest viewing of this film for me , I noted that Ferrer at a costume party put on a pair of horns that gave him a satanic countenance . George Segal and Elizabeth Ashley are the young people , both artists and in love . Ashley loves Segal and vice versa except that Segal is rather full of himself and his work . Ashley gets herself innocently involved with Jose Greco and his troop of flamenco dancers who double as prostitutes . Greco by the way is outstanding in his role . Lee Marvin's breakthrough year turned out to be 1965 because Ship of Fools together with his Oscar performance in Cat Ballou established him as a leading man , not just a brilliant character actor . He plays a loudmouth southern redneck who spews his own views out about both blacks and Latinos . Marvin is a former baseball player who has a brilliant scene with Michael Dunn as he starts crying in his beer over his inability to hit an outside curve ball which brought lower and lower in the professional baseball world . His was the type of mentality that had to be cracked when Jackie Robinson integrated the game in the next decade . Marvin also has an unforgettable encounter with Vivien Leigh who he drunkenly mistakes for one of Greco's girls . Down the cast list , but a favorite of mine is Alf Kjellin . He's a German who is married to a Jewish woman who is not traveling with him . He listens silently to Ferrer's smarmy anti-Semitism , but says nothing . It comes out about his wife and he's ostracized from the captain's table . He reacts in anger , bitterness , and shame that he was guilty of not loving his wife enough to stand up before . Heinz Ruhmann and Michael Dunn are the outsiders , those who in Ferrer's New World Order would be eliminated . A Jewish man who believes in patience and tolerance and a cynical dwarf whose parents give him spending money so he's not around them . Ruhmann was in fact a star in German cinema during the Nazi era and this film and his role as the Jewish peddler Lowenthal are almost an expiation for him . Ruhmann apparently had no political background and was not a Nazi cheerleader , otherwise he would not have had a career in post war Germany . Dunn tells him he might be the biggest fool on the boat and Ruhmann says if Ferrer's crowd gets in power , what can they do , kill all of them . If I had to pick one stand out for me it is Vivien Leigh as the cynical middle-aged divorcée , mourning her youth that has passed . This was Leigh's farewell performance and so much of her own troubled life was put into this one . It's a complex role , she's self centered , but a survivor much like Scarlett O'Hara . She's also a person not totally tuned out to the problems of others . It was her indiscretion that led people to know about Kjellin's wife and she nails Lee Marvin when he comments about what is everyone's problem with Jews . She comments with deadly accuracy that he was to busy lynching black people to hear about Jews . She becomes a confidante to Liz Ashley as well . It was a grand performance for Leigh . Ship of Fools got several Oscar nominations including Best Picture and acting nominations for Oskar Werner for Best Actor and Michael Dunn for Best Supporting Actor . Hard to even single them out in this brilliant ensemble . This one is a classic not to be missed .
When Audie Comes To Call	In No Name on the Bulllet , Audie Murphy got to star in one of the most unusual and best westerns in his career when he was cast in this off beat tale of a hired killer . As John Gant , Audie reverses type and becomes a coldblooded , yet very philosophical hired killer . His modus operandi is simple . He gets hired by someone to do someone else in and he goes to wherever his target is , baits him into a fight and then shoots him dead . It's pretty well known in the west that's how he operates . So Murphy arrives in a particular town , everyone knows he's there to see that someone dies . The town grows crazy with panic and speculation as to who his target might be . It's a nice original concept for a western and the credit has to go to scriptwriter Gene L . Coon who all Star Trek fans remember as the writer on the original series . Some of the townspeople are blacksmith R . G . Armstrong , doctor Charles Drake , banker Whit Bissell , mine owner Karl Swenson , judge Edgar Stehli , bartender Charles Watts , and store clerk Warren Stevens . Just who has Audie come to dispatch . All of these players fill out the roles of the panic stricken townspeople very well indeed . But it is Murphy's film and one of the best westerns ever done and I believe his personal best .
One of Our Favorite Things	I was fortunate enough to see The Sound of Music on Broadway with the original cast minus Mary Martin , her part had been taken over by Martha Wright at that point . The production was good , but the thing I like best about The Sound of Music was how well Robert Wise transferred it to the screen . I defy anyone to show any trace of stage origin in this magnificently photographed film from that aerial opening with Julie Andrews singing the title song to the end with the Von Trapp family climbing every mountain . The main difference between the stage production and the screen version is that the role of the Baroness Elsa Schrader played by Eleanor Parker is a singing role . With the casting of Ms . Parker , a talented player but no singer , certain songs out of necessity had to be eliminated . Eleanor is fine in her role , but I do wonder if Robert Wise meant to cast a singer in her part originally . On Broadway the Baroness was played by Marion Marlowe . Julie Andrews who became a Broadway star in My Fair Lady and Camelot and didn't do either role for the screen , gives her greatest screen performance in a Broadway role originally written for someone else . There was some criticism that Mary Martin was too old to be playing Maria in the original play , but she certainly was guaranteed box office on Broadway . Julie Andrews was just right for the part and she's in great voice . I always marvelled listening to her at the perfect diction she was able to maintain hitting those high notes . Christopher Plummer took over the role that Theodore Bikel on Broadway and he too gained a signature role for his screen career . I've always felt that the talented Mr . Plummer has never been given the credit due him . He was a perfect Duke of Wellington in Waterloo and his portrayal of Commodus in The Fall of the Roman Empire is the highlight of that film . I like Christopher Plummer because he's also never taken himself seriously though he takes his art very seriously . I don't think too many other actors today could have played that comic villain in the Tom Hanks / Dan Ackroyd Dragnet movie and done it with such obvious zest and enjoyment . A real old timer got into this film with Peggy Wood playing the Mother Abbess at the Convent where Maria is a postulant . Ms . Wood's Broadway career dates back to 1911 and on stage she introduced songs by such people as Victor Herbert , Jerome Kern , Sigmund Romberg , and Noel Coward . You've got to be real good to get folks like that to write for you . And now her art is preserved in one of the most popular films of all time . The charm of the music and the leads and the kids sometimes obscures the anti-Nazi message that The Sound of Music conveys . The story takes place in Austria before and during the Anschluss . Christopher Plummer makes no secret of disgust for the Nazis and all they stand for . The Sound of Music makes it clear he is very much in a minority in terms of Austria uniting with Germany . Of course the irony is that Anschluss did not quite turn out for the Austrians as they hoped it would . The Sound of Music , it's story , it's music , it's lyrics and it's charm will stay with you and never leave after a hundred viewings .
The Dirty Business of Espionage	The Spy Who Came In From the Cold is one of the few Richard Burton vehicles that he did without Elizabeth Taylor in the sixties . Some might argue it is the greatest film performance of his career and I'd be hard pressed to disagree . Taken from the John Le Carre novel , The Spy Who Came In From the Cold is a grim , realistic look at the world of espionage . No glamor , no gadgets involved , no derring-do to save the world , just people trying to acquire information illegally on both sides . The black and white photography in this film gives it a noir like quality and the performances are from a perfectly cast group of players . Headed of course by Richard Burton . He's a man over 20 years in the espionage game , but he knows no other life . Offered a desk job , he refuses and instead gets a dirty mission trying to bring down a crack East German intelligence agent . Burton when he gets the job uses true believer Communist Claire Bloom to gain entry as a defector to the Eastern bloc . Once in East Germany he cleverly plays off rivals in the Communist camp Oskar Werner and Peter Van Eyck against each other . Werner is of Jewish descent and Van Eyck is a former Nazi , so there's history between them that Burton cleverly exploits . Werner and Van Eyck are perfect in their roles . Richard Burton received another Oscar nomination for Best Actor , but lost to Lee Marvin for Cat Ballou . Cat Ballou is a funny film , but I don't think Marvin's performance in any way ranks over Burton in this . Of course Burton probably took consolation in the fact that Sir Laurence Oliver was up for Othello at the same time and he lost . One of the worst decisions ever made by Academy voters . The Code was getting a bit loose in this one and while there are no sex scenes , even in a film where part of Burton's mission was to seduce Claire Bloom . I guess this is the closest The Spy Who Came In From the Cold gets to James Bond . But one thing was also there and that was the performance of Michael Hordern as the explicitly gay man who makes contact with Burton as a supposed defector . Gay was almost invisible during the hey day of the Code and now gay characters were emerging on the screen . Claire Bloom's character is truly one of the most tragic ever put on the screen . It should serve as a warning to starry eyed idealists of the Left and how they can be exploited by their own people and those they are opposed to . In the years after Germany has been reunited , The Spy Who Came In From the Cold stands as a reminder of how dirty the Cold War could get .
Anytime You Want A Husband Turned Into Cold Cash	Billy Wilder's cynical self came to public attention in this classic noir film about a luckless insurance salesman and one coldhearted dame . Double Indemnity skirted the very edges of Code morality and it took years before someone brought James M . Cain's novel to the screen . According to a book on Billy Wilder the casting of Barbara Stanwyck was a must for Phyllis Dietrichson , otherwise the film might never have been made . Barbara Stanwyck was that rarest of players , one who could be good and convincing in all kinds of parts . Look at the films she got her four Oscar nominations besides Double Indemnity , Stella Dallas , Ball of Fire , and Sorry Wrong Number . Not one of those is similar to any one of the others and Stanwyck was acclaimed in all of them . Fortunately for Wilder and for Paramount's budget , their leading man was right on the lot . Fred MacMurray who has been playing comedic foils for folks like Carole Lombard , Claudette Colbert , etc . up to that time , made the most of playing the feckless Walter Neff who gets sucked into a homicidal scheme through passion . Double Indemnity is a landmark film in that it's two leads are really rotten people . Barbara Stanwyck has a husband in Tom Powers she can't stand and would like to bump him off for an insurance settlement and MacMurray's the insurance salesman she beguiles into her plot . Funny thing is that when the mechanics of the murder plot are discussed and formulated , the ideas are all MacMurray's . Billy Wilder made two other films similar to Double Indemnity where a weak protagonist gets caught up in a filthy scheme . In Sunset Boulevard William Holden plays the gigolo way to well and can't break from unto pain of death . And Kirk Douglas's scheme about exploiting the tragedy of a man trapped in a cave brings him down all the way in Ace in the Hole . I'd be hard pressed to say which of the three men was worse . The man who brings them down is Edward G . Robinson , the claims investigator in the insurance office where MacMurray works . Robinson is gradually putting the whole thing together and Wilder is at his best with the scenes of Robinson explaining the progress of his investigation to MacMurray with Fred trying to stay one step ahead . Robinson doesn't usually get enough praise for Double Indemnity . He's got a little man , Hercule Poirot has those little grey cells . Either way both are up to the challenge of solving what looks like a perfect crime . Lot's of Agatha Christie's Belgian sleuth in James M . Cain's Barton Keyes . Wilder for the one and only time in his career worked with another great mystery writer in Raymond Chandler on the script . It was not a pleasant experience for either . Chandler complained about the working conditions of Hollywood and Wilder complained about Chandler's dissipation . Both were probably right . Among the supporting cast look for a nice performance by Porter Hall who turns out not to be as valuable witness as Robinson originally thought . The man from Medford may not lie , but he's not above a little chiseling . Double Indemnity is one eternal classic it will be studied and dissected by film students for centuries .
Commy's Chicago Chiselers	One of the best baseball films ever made was about the sport's darkest hour , the fixing of the 1919 World Series . Eight of the heavily favored members of the Chicago White Sox threw the World Series as a result of payoffs and bigger promises of payoffs to gambling interests . In the background of those interests was the notorious Arnold Rothstein who was never brought to trial . The eight players were the Eight Men Out , banned for life by the newly appointed Commissioner of Baseball , Kenesaw Mountain Landis played here most impressively by John Anderson . Anderson even looks like Landis . The whole unvarnished truth is laid out there , owner Charles Comiskey a pioneer owner in the American League who treated his players like field hands as he assiduously courted the press and through them the fans . A little more generous with the profits this story might never have occurred . Clifton James plays the greedy and rapacious Comiskey . The incident where Eddie Cicotte is not started so that Comiskey can save on a promised bonus if he pitched and won 30 games has come down in legend . Cicotte and Lefty Williams played by David Strathairn and James Read were the key to the conspiracy . They lost the five games in that best five out of nine series to the Reds to throw the series . The bad play in the field by the others insured the result . Two things that are not mentioned in the film , but are very important ; viewers ought to know . The best pitcher the White Sox had was Hall of Famer Urban ' Red ' Faber who had led the team to a World Series win in 1917 , the last one they would have until 2005 . Faber came up injured and was disabled and was not available to pitch in the 1919 series . Had he stayed honest and not been injured , the result might have been different . Eddie Collins the second baseman was played here by Bill Irwin and what's not mentioned here is that Collins started out with Connie Mack's Philadelphia Athletics , part of his fabled $100 , 000 . 00 infield . When Mack broke up his team and sold off the players in 1941-1915 , Collins got a guaranteed salary of $15 , 000 . 00 , way above what his teammates were getting . Collins was one of Mack's favorites and he got that salary guaranteed for him by Comiskey before parting with him . That caused a lot of the jealousy you see portrayed in Eight Men Out . The real ringleaders were shortstop Swede Risberg and first baseman Chick Gandil as is shown here . They roped the others in . They're played by Don Harvey and Michael Rooker . The two that come down to us as the biggest tragedies are John Cusack as Buck Weaver and D . B . Sweeney as Shoeless Joe Jackson . Weaver knew about the fix , but would not rat out his teammates , hoping they'd come around and play on the square . He was treated as if he were a conspirator himself and suffered the same banishment . As for Shoeless Joe Jackson , his lifetime average of . 356 and the fact that he is one of the select group of . 400 hitters would put him in the Hall of Fame . During the teen years he was overshadowed by Ty Cobb in the American League , but in the Twenties might have come into his own . He showed signs of adapting to the lively ball era that Babe Ruth was just inaugurating . He was also illiterate and was easily manipulated into the fix . Despite that his play like Weaver's was outstanding in that series , he hit the only home run recorded by either side in that next to last series of the dead ball era . What you see with D . B . Sweeney is exactly how poor Jackson was . Baseball like other sports is a business and some of those businessmen are greedy indeed . Sad that it was the players who paid the ultimate price to clean up the sport in the mind of the public . Eight Men Out captures the era and mood of the times and even non-sports fans will enjoy this film immensely .
Survival	Bend of the River is the second Anthony Mann / James Stewart western and the first in technicolor . The technicolor is used to best advantage here with some great footage of the Columbia River and surrounding vicinity . And Mann used in support of Stewart , Jay C . Flippen , Harry Morgan , Arthur Kennedy and Rock Hudson all of whom had appeared in Mann films before and / or would again . Anthony Mann is never given credit for the stock company he had . Like John Ford , Mann liked using the same players in his films . Jimmy Stewart is guiding a group of settlers west and along the way saves Arthur Kennedy from a lynching . Turns out they're both former border raiders from the Missouri / Kansas area , but Stewart's decided to go honest . When they arrive in Portland , the settlers are warmly greeted and a deal is made by settler leader Jay C . Flippen for needed supplies for his people during the winter . When Stewart and Flippen return for the supplies , there's been a gold strike and the town is mad with gold fever . They have to take what was due them and then have to fight to get the supplies back to the settlers . Seems some prospectors want them also . The point is that there are no options for Stewart and Flippen . These supplies have to get to their colony or they will freeze and starve during the winter . They have to fight prospectors , townspeople and treachery in their own group to get the goods where they are needed . There's no law here to help them . It's broken down totally along with all kinds of behavioral virtues when gold fever has struck . One of the best performances in the film comes from Howard Petrie town merchant who can't do enough for the settlers on their first arrival . When we see him next when Stewart and Flippen come for their goods , it's like we're seeing a totally different human being . Petrie has practically morphed into Fred C . Dobbs . I don't think Jimmy Stewart has ever been more ruthless on the screen than he is here . His characters in Anthony Mann films are always purpose driven whether it's revenge like in Winchester 73 , an outlaw bounty so he can start a new life in The Naked Spur , or even an idea he has like offshore oil drilling in Thunder Bay . But in Bend of the River it's a matter of survival and to prove to himself that he can and has changed his character for the better . It's as much an internal struggle for Stewart as it is with the forces allied against him . It's another ten star winner for the Stewart / Mann team .
A Role That Comes Along Once in a Lifetime	I Want to Live was a film from it's inception was guaranteed to create controversy . There are all kinds of opinions about the death penalty and it's application all over the world . Barbara Graham's story , so fresh in the minds of the movie going public in 1958 , was going to be a source of controversy . Did she actually kill the widow Monahan ? The film cleverly sidesteps that issue in the screenplay . What exactly was Graham's role in the botched robbery ? All the people who could actually tell us are dead . Should a woman be subject to capital punishment . Ethel Rosenberg went to the electric chair on less evidence than Graham and for a crime that was not a homicide . But all these questions aside , there is one absolute in this film . Susan Hayward gave a performance that must have been inspired by the angels . From the first half of the film dealing with her early life , the homicide she was charged with until the second half covering her sentence and her attempts to avoid the gas chamber , Hayward will keep you glued to your seat . I can't imagine another actress in this part . She of course was the Best Actress for 1958 , but in my lifetime only Hillary Swank in her role in Boys Don't Cry was the Oscar ever conceded before the envelope was opened at the ceremony . EVERYONE knew that both Hayward and Swank were winners going in , that's how good both of them were . Susan Hayward was simply the best at her job . She had a number of great parts in Fifties and a few clinkers at the height of her career . But to get the Oscar for the part that was her signature role , made the ceremonies in 1959 a great occasion . She's got a good cast of supporting players in I Want to Live , Simon Oakland , Theodore Bikel , Wesley Lau , Phillip Coolidge . But it is Hayward's film totally . A part like Barbara Graham given to an actress like Susan Hayward only comes along once or twice in a lifetime . Don't miss this one , however you feel about capital punishment .
The Love's No Longer There	Kramer vs . Kramer is the story of a marital breakup and the consequences of same . They can be devastating to the partners and even more so to a minor child which in this case is played by Justin Henry . What I really did like about Kramer vs . Kramer , it's greatest strength as a film is the way that parents Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep are presented to the audience as whole people with many sides to their nature . Though the film is slanted in Hoffman's direction and more about his relationship with his son , he's not presented as any kind of saint , nor is Streep a completely black villain . Hoffman's a career oriented man in the advertising game . He's pretty much ignored his wife's dreams and aspirations , still it's a big shock to him when Streep says the love's no longer there and she wants out . She also wants out of being a mother , at least for a while . Hoffman and Henry make do the best they can . The pressure of being both parents causes Hoffman to lose his job and he has to take a lower paying one in another agency . At that point after over a year , Streep decides she wants custody . Both parents make compelling witnesses and state their case beautifully , but in these situations , the tie is always broken in favor of the mother . Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep won their first of two Oscars respectively for this film , her in the Supporting Actress category . I'm not sure how these things are decided , Streep does get less screen time than Hoffman if that's the determining factor . The film does focus on Hoffman's relationship with his son and his evolving realization that he has his share of the blame for the marriage failure . As for Meryl it's a Hob's choice for her as it is for many women , to balance a career and motherhood . The conflict in her psyche registers for all to see on the screen . Dustin Hoffman may have won that Oscar partly for the same reason that Spencer Tracy picked up his first , by performing the impossible task of not letting a scene stealing child steal the film . Children with their lack of inhibitions are natural actors and Henry is great because he comes over as a real kid , not a Hollywood kid . I wonder if Hoffman saw Captains Courageous and saw how Spencer Tracy dealt with Freddie Bartholomew . Dustin could have done a lot worse than channel Spencer Tracy in his performance . Kramer vs . Kramer also won Oscars for Best Picture , Best Director for Robert Benton and Best Adapted Screenplay . It's an intelligent and compelling drama about adults falling out of love and trying to deal as best they can with it for themselves and their child . Don't miss it if ever broadcast .
Working The Big Con	The Sting , evoking a bygone era of gangsters and con men , was the deserved Best Picture of 1973 . The Sting won that Oscar plus a whole flock of technical awards . One award it didn't win was for Robert Redford as Best Actor . That must have been tough for the Academy voters because to single out Redford as opposed to Paul Newman must have felt a bit unjust . For though Newman was nominated many times over his career and finally did win for The Color of Money , did not get a nomination for The Sting . Robert Redford is a small time grifter who while working a bait and switch street con takes off a numbers runner carrying the weekly take . The orders come down from the head man himself , Irish-American gangster Robert Shaw to kill those who did this as an example . Redford's mentor , Robert Earl Jones , is in fact killed , mainly because Redford starts spending a lot of that newly acquired loot that tips them off . Redford wants revenge so he looks up big time con man Paul Newman who himself is dodging law enforcement as is Redford also . They work the big con on Shaw and it's a beauty . The scheme they have is something to behold . They also have to do a couple of improvisations on the fly that lend a few twists to the scheme . The costumes and sets really do evoke Chicago of the Thirties and director George Roy Hill assembles a great cast to support Newman and Redford . My favorite in the whole group is Charles Durning , who plays the brutally corrupt , but essentially dumb cop from Joliet who nearly gums up the works and has to be dealt with . Special mention should also go to Robert Shaw . He's got a difficult part , maybe the most difficult in the film . He's not stupid , he would not have gotten to the top of the rackets if he was . But he also has to show that hint of human weakness that Newman , Redford , and the whole mob they assemble that makes him vulnerable to the con . During the sixties and seventies Robert Shaw was really coming into his own as a player , getting more and more acclaim for his work . His early death was a real tragedy , there was so much more he could have been doing . Can't also forget another co-star in this film , the ragtime music of Scott Joplin that was used to score The Sting . It probably is what most people remember about The Sting . Music from the Theodore Roosevelt era , scoring a film set in the Franklin Roosevelt era made while Nixon was president . Strange , but it actually works . The Sting still works wonders today .
" I've Always Depended On The Kindness Of Strangers . "	When the history of American theater is written for the 20th Century the two most prominent names will be Eugene O'Neill and Tennessee Williams . Both men pushed the exploration of the human soul to the very limit in their work . Writing drama will never be the same because of the work of these two men . Williams's masterpiece is A Streetcar Named Desire which ran over 860 performances in three years . When Warner Brothers bought the film rights , they did the highly unusual thing of bringing almost the entire Broadway cast over . That included Marlon Brando for whom this was his second film . Brando was not a movie name yet and the decision was made to recast the female lead with Vivien Leigh instead of Jessica Tandy who played Blanche Dubois on Broadway . In doing so this gave Vivien Leigh the very unique position of having played opposite the two men who are held up as male acting icons for the last century , Marlon Brando and Leigh's husband at the time Laurence Olivier . Certainly Blanche Dubois was unlike anything she ever did opposite Olivier . In fact Blanche is opposite that other southern belle that Leigh got her first Oscar for , Scarlett O'Hara . Scarlett may come on like a spoiled brat at first , but she turns out to be made of some real stern stuff when the chips are down . Blanche Dubois however retreats into her own fantasies when trouble brews . She's left the plantation home in a small Mississippi town where she doubles as an English teacher and comes to live with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley Kowalski . Brando is Kowalski and for years impressionists did him by yelling from the pit of their abdomens , " STELLA , STELLA . " That is until The Godfather and then they stuffed their cheeks and said how one day a favor would be asked in return . But impressionists only make a living because of the impressions made by the players . On Broadway and Hollywood , Stanley Kowalski made Marlon Brando a superstar and an icon for a couple of generations . Kowalski as done by Brando is a force of nature , primeval impulses that bubble to the surface in all of us sometimes . Kim Hunter as Stella Kowalski and Karl Malden as Mitch Mitchell also won Oscars in the Supporting categories to go with Leigh's . Hunter is a torn women fighting both suspicions about her husband and her sister . The real reason why Blanche has come to live with them and the affect her silly flirtations are having on her husband and their marriage . Malden as Mitchell starts out as passive and as nice as Jim Connor , the gentleman caller from that other Tennessee Williams masterpiece , A Glass Menagerie . But he proves to be something less than meets the eye in his dealings with Leigh . A Streetcar Named Desire won all kinds of Awards , the three acting Oscars , one for Elia Kazan as Best Director and a whole bunch of technical ones . But An American In Paris won for Best Picture and Hollywood decided young Brando could wait for his and they gave it that year to Humphrey Bogart for The African Queen . This film is still the best adaption to the screen of a Tennessee Williams play and is an absolute must to see .
Errol at his best	My favorite Errol Flynn movie has always been The Sea Hawk . Flynn made this in 1940 at the height of his career . All it is missing is Flynn's usual screen partner in that period , Olivia DeHavilland . Errol Flynn plays the fictional privateer Geoffrey Thorpe who with the well known real characters like Drake , Frobisher , and Hawkins , raid the rich Spanish commerce from the New World which is what Europeans of the day were referring to the western hemisphere as . Queen Elizabeth of England gave all knowing wink to their activities and the realm took a cut of their loot . One day Flynn attacks the ship carrying the Spanish ambassador Claude Rains and his niece Brenda Marshall who's English on her mother's side . That's it for Flynn . But Queen Elizabeth has some traitors in her midst . The clever Lord Wolfingham played by Henry Daniell is in the Spanish pay . Daniell was one of the best screen villains ever . He was always a cold and calculating individual and had a voice with a built in sneer . He very cleverly deduces Flynn's future plans and lays a trap for him . See the film and find out , but suffice it to say Daniell is no fool . Jack Warner saw that Flynn's films were always well scored musically . Flynn swashbuckled to some of the best film music ever composed . Here the composer is Erich Wolfgang Korngold , in other films with Warner Brothers , it's Max Steiner . Korngold's score isn't quite on par with the one he did for Robin Hood , but it's one you will not forget . This was the last film Errol Flynn did with director Michael Curtiz . David Niven in his memoirs made of Curtiz a figure of some fun , he was the guy with the fractured English who uttered the memorable phrase that became Niven's title for his memoirs , ' bring on the empty horses . ' Flynn in his memoirs hated him with a passion in that Curtiz put his players in some dangerous situations without regard for safety . After this he refused to work with him . But between them , Curtiz and Flynn did some grand entertainment . Curtiz later won an Oscar for directing Casablanca . Flora Robson repeats her role as Queen Elizabeth , she had previously portrayed Elizabeth in Fire Over England back in the old country . It's probably the part she's most identified with in her career . Brenda Marshall who is probably better known for being Mrs . William Holden , pinch hits for Olivia DeHavilland . Olivia was trying to get some better acting roles that she knew she could do and not be a crinolined heroine all the time . Jack Warner refused to see her as anything else for a long time . Others in the cast who stand out are Alan Hale , Una O'Connor , Gilbert Roland and William Lundigan has a death scene that will haunt you for a long time . The Sea Hawk is also a film that made use of a film process known as sepia tone . It's probably the film best known for it . The whole sequence of when Flynn sails his ship , the Albatross , to Panama is photographed in sepia tone . It makes the film come out a kind of brackish yellow . Since Warner Brothers didn't want to spring for full technicolor , this process is effective in demonstrating the jungle heat that Flynn and his men and the Spaniards for that matter operate under . It is also no accident that this film was made in 1940 showing brave England refusing to buckle under to a tyrant from the European continent . Phillip II of Spain , played by Montagu Love , controlled a whole lot of the world's real estate at that point in time and wanted more . The meaning for the audiences of 1940 could not have been more clear . The Sea Hawk is grand entertainment . In my humble opinion Errol Flynn's best film and one of the best of the swashbuckling genre .
" The Kind of Gentlemen It's A Pleasure to Wait on . "	When we talk about adaptions of Show Boat for the screen , we talk first about this one and then the others . If for no other reason than it gives us a chance to see three of the original performers from the original Broadway cast , Charles Winninger , Helen Morgan , and Francis X . Mahoney . Their performances on stage and on the screen became career roles for each . Also Allan Jones and Irene Dunne are as perfect a Gaylord Ravenal and Magnolia Hawkes as you'll ever find . Irene was THE Jerome Kern girl on the silver screen , she was lucky to be in three musical adaptions of his shows , this one and Roberta and Sweet Adeline . His songs and her voice seem to be made for each other . Ravenal's part is one of the most difficult to do in musicals . In the 1951 Show Boat Howard Keel sang wonderfully , but he projects too strong an image for the part . Gaylord Ravenal is a charming , but a very weak character . Allan Jones was the one who really got it right and it's on Ravenal's performance that the whole plot of the show turns on . He really rings true in Hattie McDaniel's assessment of him as the kind of gentlemen it's a pleasure to wait on . James Whale as director really captures the spirit of 20 years on each side of the turn of the last century with warts and all . Show Boat as a play was bold in its day in tackling racism and miscegenation . Even when this was produced first in 1927 there were still miscegenation laws on the books . He gave Helen Morgan the career role she was most identified with . Helen Morgan personified the phrase torch singer . From 1927 until this film she had descended into alcoholism and five years from this film she would have passed away from the effects of same . She had a career in Hollywood as well as Broadway and this was her final effort . How fortunate we are to have a filmed record of her performance and her singing of Can't Help Lovin ' That Man and Bill . Ravenal and Magnolia are given three great ballads to sing , classics all , Make Believe and You Are Love and Why Do I Love You . The first two are sung by Jones and Dunne and the third was eliminated from the film although it is heard on the soundtrack . Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein wrote another song I Have the Room Above which is also a most charming duet . Of course no discussion of Show Boat is complete without Paul Robeson and Ol ' Man River . Believe it or not Robeson wasn't in the original Broadway cast . The Broadway opening was delayed and Robeson had some other contractual commitments in 1927 . Another black baritone concert singer named Jules Bledsoe introduced Ol ' Man River , arguably the greatest song Jerome Kern ever wrote . It became a signature song for Paul Robeson in both stage performances of Show Boat and in this film . His presence in singing Ol ' Man River is another reason for this being the greatest Show Boat of all . Robeson also has a duet with Hattie McDaniel in I Still Suits Me another song Kern and Hammerstein wrote for this film . It's a nice comedy duet . In fact I would say that Show Boat and Annie Get Your Gun are the two shows with the most hit songs in them ever written . Show Boat is a grand American classic . Somewhere as I write this review there is a company performing right now on this planet . It will be so for generations to come .
Zither Thou Goest	The Third Man refers to another witness to a crime that no one seems to know anything about . The crime of course is the hit and run murder of Harry Lime played by Orson Welles . But is Welles dead . One of the things I like about The Third Man is that it makes a nominal hero out of one of the biggest bunglers ever put on screen . Let's just say that if Holly Martins played by Joseph Cotten were bumping into furniture on top of everything else , he'd be Inspector Clouseau . Holly arrives in occupied Vienna in the late Forties at the invitation of an old college classmate Harry Lime . Literally upon arriving in Vienna , Martins learns that his friend Lime was the victim of a hit and run accident and the funeral is going on at that moment . He goes to the funeral and is smitten by Lime's girlfriend , Alida Valli . Martins is a writer of western stories and it's bad when a writer starts believing he's one of his own heroes . Maybe Jessica Fletcher is capable of it , but not Holly Martins . Martins decides to start his own investigation into Lime's death much to the consternation of the British occupying force which doing its own inquiry . Trevor Howard plays Major Callaway of the British Army in charge of the investigation . Martins turns out to be right that there is something more afoot than a simple traffic accident . But he's so terribly wrong about everything and everyone else it is frightening . I really can't say more at this point . Someone reading the plot description I've given might think The Third Man is some kind of comedy , but it is not . It is in fact one of the most finely crafted dramas ever put on the screen . The location photography in Vienna is fabulous and contributes so much to the authenticity of the story and its characters . Joseph Cotten gives one of his best performances as the bull-in-the-china-shop amateur detective . As for Orson Welles , it's a virtual tie in my opinion with Compulsion for the distinction of his finest performer as an actor without working for director Orson Welles . Harry Lime turns out to be the harbinger of a cynical age we were entering . And if nothing else grabs you about The Third Man , that theme on the zither will stay with you forever . Definitely one of the ten best known movie scores ever .
Maytime On The High Seas	Who says that old fashioned romantic films don't sell . They certainly do if they're done right as the story in Titanic certainly is . This blockbuster version of the most famous shipwreck in history is a homage to Maytime . In fact in casting Gloria Stuart as old Rose through whose eyes we see the disaster unfold , Director James Cameron went back to a contemporary of Jeanette MacDonald and Nelson Eddy . The film begins with the discovery of the wreck of the Titanic in the middle Eighties which did cause great excitement at the time . Searching the wreck divers come upon a safe and a nude portrait of a woman wearing a necklace with a diamond thought to be lost and the portrait is dated April 14 , 1912 . The woman is still alive and its Gloria Stuart who tells her tale the way an aged Jeanette MacDonald did in Maytime . Winning a card game that got him a third class passage aboard the maiden voyage of Titanic , itinerant artist Leonardo DiCaprio gets on board the vessel . He meets and woos a younger version of Gloria Stuart who is played by Kate Winslet . Unfortunately she's about to enter a loveless marriage for money urged on by her mother , Frances Fisher , who wants her declining years not be spent in the poorhouse . Her prospective fiancé is Billy Zane a rather arrogant young robber baron heir of his time who has a factotum / bodyguard in David Warner who has one of the best roles in the film . Still Leo and Kate get a few stolen hours of romance before the disaster strikes . One thing that James Cameron did is that he never allowed the spectacle of the disaster nor even the issues of wealth and class that were omnipresent in the Titanic story to overwhelm his romantic leads . In fact they are an integral part of the story as young Leo reaches for what was unobtainable . Leonardo DiCaprio remarked that his part of Jack was the least complex role he ever did . The part is a romantic lead , the guy has no secrets or hidden issues , he's just a young man in love . Maybe that was the reason he was not nominated for Best Actor in the face of all those nominations Titanic did get . It won for Best Picture and Best Director and a flock of Oscars in the technical area . Kate Winslet and Gloria Stuart were nominated and lost for Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress respectively . Titanic is a story that's been filmed since the silent days almost in the wake of the disaster itself . The Germans made a propaganda film of it in 1943 which Nazi inspired though it was , did make a few points against the British upper classes and that the first class got saved and those in steerage mostly drowned . There was a fine version in 1953 with Clifton Webb and Barbara Stanwyck as an older married couple with problems on the doomed ship . And the British did the classic , A Night to Remember which is a documentary like recreation from the ship's officers point of view . Still they'll have to go some beat this one . Titanic is a film for lovers of all ages and run Maytime back to back with Titanic if you can get DVDs and / or VHSs of both films .
Friends Put to the Test	This is one of the finest political movies ever done . And if he doesn't decide to return to the screen post his 90th birthday , it is a fitting swan song to the career of Richard Widmark . James Spader's Tim Gerrity and John Cusack's Peter Burton meet on the first day of law school and get assigned to be roommates . The film follows the career paths each take , the same woman they both are involved with and the values each takes from his background and develops along the way . Spader is the idealistic upper middle class kid who is born to a tradition of public service and attracted by the idealism of it . He's good in his part , but it's John Cusack's portrayal that really drives this film . Driven is the word for it , that is exactly what Peter Burton is . He's from a lower middle class background and he's desperate to escape . In fact , he's invented a background for himself that's phony and the scene where that is revealed is one of the movie's high points . I will not say any more . I've known a few Peter Burtons in my time too . Desperate to succeed at any price , willing to sacrifice friends and family to do it . It's what makes John Cusack's performance so real for me . I think it is the finest thing he's ever done on film . Richard Widmark plays United States Senator Joseph Stiles , a Yankee blue blood type to the manor born . Harry Carey , Jr . , in his memoir , In the Company of Heroes described Widmark as one of the smartest and most literate men he's ever encountered , a man able to talk intelligently on a variety of subjects . Because of that , I have to believe that this role must have been a personal favorite . The best scene in the movie is when Cusack , who Widmark has made a protégé of , essentially blackmails Widmark into supporting Cusack for an open Congressional seat . Widmark is a politician and one who has he himself describes can play hardball if needed . But he's also there to try and do some good . He has to give into the blackmail for reasons I won't go into , but he does rip open the character of Cusack in some unforgettable dialog . I would also commend to other actors in this . Mandy Patinkin who plays an unscrupulous businessman / racketeer with an understated malevolence and Paul Guilfoyle who is Widmark's chief of staff , who has Cusack's number , but is unable to do anything about it . I'm surprised that no Oscar nods came with this film , especially for Widmark as a supporting actor . I couldn't give this film a higher recommendation .
The Bible Tells Many Things	The sad thing about For The Bible Tells Me So is that the people who need to see this most are the ones who will be forbidden by their church to watch this very timely documentary . But for those who do get to see it they will be inspired and uplifted . As a gay 60 year old man who has lived in the last half of the last century I saw many marvelous changes at how Gay / Lesbian / Bisexual / Transgendered people have been viewed in American society and in the world at large . Growing up as I did in the fifties and sixties it would never occur to me to do something as courageous as young Jacob Reinert , not only coming out in Mankato , Minnesota , but bringing his parents into the fight for equality . For too many still gay is something where emotion kicks in and reason just flies out the door . Why is it so , religion and those few bible verses put down for an ancient tribe to make sure they multiplied and dominate , have become the touchstones to justify all kinds of hatred and bigotry . A distinguished group of religious scholars talk about how this came to be in western monotheist religions . There not names you know associated with Christianity or Judaism because there not on the air and in your pocket to stay on the air . They present quite a contrast with the bible thumpers where we see video going back as far as Billy Sunday . The man who comes in for the most scorn is James Dobson , pop psychologist and big kingpin on the religious right . Young Jacob Reinert attempts to confront him , but the most moving story in the film concerned Mary Ann Wallner who listened to Dobson's advice about rejecting her lesbian daughter who later kills herself . For The Bible Tells Me So makes it abundantly clear the political nature of the anti-gay religious right . GLBT people are the ' other ' the straw villains you create to justify why the populace should empower your crowd . As Hitler did to the Jews , so the religious right has done to us . My favorite moment in the film was when one of the scholars challenges these religious leaders to obey Jesus's commandment to sell all you have and give it to the poor and then you can follow him . Talk about selective Bible reading , can you see a Pat Robertson doing that ? It can never be forgotten that these folks place different emphasis on certain bible verses as opposed to others . My working life consisted in large degree of working at NYS Crime Victims Board as an openly gay investigator . I saw the most manifest examples of anti-gay hate , culminating in violence with serious injury and death . The religious right who keep talking about how our sin is so horrible are the ones who give justification to those who would do us bodily harm . I wish they could see their handiwork from where I sat for 23 years . For The Bible Tells Me So , is an excellent documentary that will hopefully win an Oscar in that category next year . And this review is dedicated to the young people from Soul Force I met and broke bread with in my city this past spring . As long as there are people like these confronting the hate and getting the message out , I have no worries about a movement or its ultimate success .
The Underside of John Doe	Just imagine if instead of rebelling against the new order of things that Edward Arnold planned for the country , Gary Cooper had collaborated and eventually took it over in Meet John Doe . Then you have some idea of what Elia Kazan was trying to say in A Face In The Crowd . A few years later there's no way on the planet that Andy Griffith could have been cast as Larry ' Lonesome ' Rhoads the John Doe of American nightmares . Griffith had starred on Broadway in No Time for Sergeants , cut some comedy albums , did some television appearances , but he was not a big or a small screen name . So with no image to counteract , Elia Kazan could cast him and he gives one powerful performance . But it never would have happened had he been Sheriff Andy Taylor first . Local radio station manager Patricia Neal discovers this country boy philosopher in the local jail in her Arkansas home town . Seeing he's got charisma , she puts him on the air . She figures she has another Will Rogers on her hands , but Griffith proves to be a far more malevolent person than Will Rogers ever was . Rogers was the guy who said he never met anyone he didn't like . Griffith feels there isn't anyone he ever met he couldn't clip . The frightening thing is he comes real close to proving it . Some future stars make some early appearances in A Face In The Crowd besides Griffith . Anthony Franciosa is the smooth talking ad man who rides a good thing when he sees it and that comment can be taken a lot of ways . Lee Remick is the wide-eyed cheerleader seduced by Griffith , and the good life . Walter Matthau who in his early years played a lot of hoodlums in this case is the writer who catches on early what Griffith is all about . My favorite is Kay Medford however . She has only one scene in the film with Patricia Neal . But she really scores with it as Griffith's forgotten wife who even when tipsy knows exactly how much of a piece she can get on his celebrity . A Face In The Crowd is written by Budd Schulberg who along with Elia Kazan were friendly witnesses at the House Un American Activities Committee . The ironic thing is that both these guys considered themselves as men of the left and certainly A Face In The Crowd wasn't written by any Republican . The unkindest cut of all to Elia Kazan was the fact he got booed at the Oscars when he received a deserved Lifetime Achievement Award and was eulogized eloquently by Pat Buchanan when he died . What a world . Eleven years after A Face In The Crowd came out , Kazan and Schulberg proved to be prophets of sorts when George C . Wallace ran for president . If his campaign wasn't a ' Lonesome Rhoads ' special I don't know what was . Of course Griffith falls , but how he falls is something else . I won't reveal it , but think back to that much imitated ending from another Elia Kazan masterpiece , A Streetcar Named Desire . A Face In The Crowd is a very relevant film today considering the influence some of these pious country types have in the religious right of today .
