The Worst Movie I Have Never Seen	A crazy scientist called Anton Lupesky develops a drug called Anphorium , which makes the soul leaves the body and enters in any corpse with eyes . It affects the nerve center , causing madness as side effect . I was able to watch exactly fifteen minutes of this crap . This thing is so awful that I was tempt to watch more , to see how far is the mental incapability of this moron amateurish Pat Bishow . I do not know who the worst is : this director , the writer or the producer , maybe all of them together . These guys deserved to be sued for such a horrible crap . It certainly is the worst flick I have ever tried to see . I borrowed this VHS from my friend Ricardo , and I advise him : get rid off this garbage , do not waste your time on this trash . My vote is zero ( one in IMDb lowest rating ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Embrulhador de Almas " ( " The Soul Wrapper " )
Awful	Today I have lost about two hours of my Saturday afternoon watching this crap . This trash is so awful and ridiculous that does not deserve my review . It is enough to read the summary of other IMDb users : - No toilet bowl is large enough to hold the crap this movie produces - Avoid this movie at all costs - So Unfunny - This movie is so bad the producers would not let it be released into theaters - The worst movie I've ever seen . . . - Avoid at all costsTitle ( Brazil ) : ' As Aventuras de Frank McKlusky ' ( ' The Adventures of Frank McKlusky ' )
What Else Could I Expect ?	The librarian of the university Xenia ( Stefania Bonafede ) schedules a S & M blind date with the masochist Ghost ( Davide Devenuto ) to satisfy her fantasies and sexual desires . They spend the night in his apartment having kinky sex and on the next morning Ghost is dead with slashed throat . Xenia cleans her evidences and leaves the place , but Ghost's friend Silver ( Rocco Siffredi ) investigates the murder of Ghost and finds her files in a CD . Later he discloses that sergeant Ghost was investigating the site SexServices . Silver contacts Xenia and they meet each other , when he finally discloses who the killer is . " Amorestremo " is a boring and confused movie , with an awful screenplay without development of characters and terrible cinematography and acting . I was curious to see the porn star Rocco Siffredi in a non-adult movie and it was really disappointing . The DVD released in Brazil is dubbed in English or Portuguese , and the original language is not available . In the end , what else could I expect of this film besides satisfying my curiosity ? My vote is one ( awful ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Amores Proibidos " ( " Forbidden Loves " )
I Was Induced to Buy and See This Crap Due to the Ilogical IMDb User Rating	This horrible action ? sci-fi movie is a crap . I have just spent 90 minutes of my life watching one of the worst movies I have ever seen . The story does not make any sense , there are lots of flaws in the screenplay , the characters are badly developed , the unknown cast is horrible , the lead ham actor seems to be too old for his role . I was induced to buy this VHS , which has a magnificent cover , and see this crap due to the illogical IMDb User Rating and some " ten stars " reviews . I have just checked the authors , and each one of them has just one short review ( of " L . I . N . X . " ) issued in IMDb , and nothing else . Why are they promoting such a garbage ? Title ( Brazil ) : " L . I . N . X . Conexão Letal " ( " L . I . N . X . Lethal Connection " )
Awful Amateurish Crap	In the dusty little town of Furlough in Texas , an animal is slaughtering the cattle and the locals . When the teenager Tommy ( Michael Carreo ) is killed , their friends Anna Furlough ( Erika Fay ) , her Mexican-American boyfriend Miguel Gonzalez ( Gabriel Gutierrez ) , Jill Gillespie ( Sara Erikson ) and Rosie ( Martine Hughes ) finds that a Mexican werewolf Chupacabra is the killer and they plot a plan to kill the beast . " Mexican Werewolf in Texas " is an amateurish crap and among the worse movies I have ever seen , if not the worst . Nothing works in this movie : the screenplay is laughable , with some of the most terrible lines I have ever heard . The direction does not exist and the camera follows the " style " of " The Blair Witch Project " . The amateurish acting seems to be a prank of high-school students or a high school play . The " special effects " are gruesome and extremely poor and the " werewolf " is the cheapest I have ever seen . Ed Wood movies are cult , but this " Mexican Werewolf in Texas " is pure garbage . In the end , Jill says that no man can resist her teats ( actually the most beautiful thing in this flick ) . But I believe the correct quote should be " no man ( or woman ) can resist to watch this movie to the end " . I was driven by my curiosity to see how bad a movie can be and I lost 88 minutes of my life , but I believe most of the viewers will stop seeing with less than 20 minutes running time . My vote is one ( awful ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Lobisomen Mexicano no Texas " ( " A Mexican Werewolf in Texas " )
An Awful Politically Incorrect and Sexist Crap	The narrator of a radio show called " Barulho na Cidade " ( " Noise in the City " ) tells five erotic episodes : ( 1 ) " Sexo Diferente " ( " Unusual Sex " ) : Carla dos Anzóis Pereira ( Malu ) writes a letter to the show , telling that her little husband Sérgio ( José Carlos Sanches ) is no longer sexually interested on her , and requested she finds a lover to " heat " their marriage . ( 2 ) " Rapto do Ônibus " ( " Kidnapping the Bus " ) : while robbing the passengers of a bus , a thief has a big surprise . ( 3 ) " Como Vai o Seu Peru ? " ( " How Is Your Turkey ? " ? obs : in Portuguese , a " dick " is called " piru " , therefore there is a low-level joke with the words ) : The cuckold Seu Nenem is married with the unfaithful Terezinha Machadinha , who cheats him with many men . His neighbor Zeca Mentira , who is married with Mariazinha Levatrouxa , tries to have an affair with Terezinha . ( 4 ) " Sonhos Que Matam " ( " Dreams That Kill " ) : Aristides and Aristeu are vagabonds and best friends . When Aristides finds the picture of a beautiful girl , he dreams on her . ( 5 ) " Bacanal Sangrento " ( " Bloody Gang-Bang " ) : When the Almeida family travels to Cabo Frio , their maid organizes a gang-bang in their apartment , with tragic consequences . Yesterday I found this movie by chance in cable TV , and it was so awful that I decided to watch it . I believe it is probably one of the ten worst movies I have ever seen . The writing credits indicates the name of the unknown " Cláudio Barreto " , and I believe this guy has not completed the elementary school . The episodes are indeed a politically incorrect , sexist , racist and full of prejudice crap , indicated for persons with amoeba brain . The narrator is unbelievably horrible , committing serious mistakes in Portuguese . The cast is totally amateurish , and the music score is boring . The low-level title adequately completes this crap . This empty trash was released in a period of military dictatorship , when masterpieces of the Brazilian cinema were mutilated or not allowed to be exhibited to the public by the censorship . My vote is one ( awful ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " As Taradas Atacam " ( " The Sex Maniac Women Attack )
One of the Worst Movies I Have Ever Watched	I read the comments of this ' thing ' ( can I call it movie ? ) not only in IMDb , but also in other video guides , and they were very consistent . I became curious and decided to spend my time and check whether it could be so bad : indeed , it is worse . What a ridiculous trash ' movie ' ! Certainly it is one of the worst movies I have ever watched . And my average is above seven hundred movies per year . The horrible and ham ' actors ' and ' actresses ' and the amateurish direction , screenplay , effects and make-up are among the worst ever . What about the dialogs ? This flick is indicated for students of cinema : watch it to see how bad a film can be may be worthwhile . The sponsors and producers should be in an asylum : even being a low budget movie , it cost some money from investors . My vote is null , zero ( one in IMDb ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Troll 2 "
Boring , Pointless and Unpleasant Mess	In New York , detective Alex Scott ( Christian Camargo ) is investigating with his partner Sergio Perez ( Carlos Leon ) the disappearance of several children . When they visit the Mexican witch Gloria ( Miriam Colon ) , the woman advises that a powerful evil force is chasing the reincarnation of her son and drowning the other children to bring pain to their mothers . " The Cry " is a boring , pointless and unpleasant mess about a Mexican legend called " La Llorona " . This is the first time that I see a reference to this legend , and maybe this movie might make some sense to those that are familiar with " La Llorona " . However , the screenplay is terrible , without development of characters or situations , and there is an absolute lack of explanation about everything that happens in the story . Why the evil spirit is attacking children in New York ? Why the former Wall Street broker Scott has become a New York detective after losing his son ? Why Maria was able to protect her son and why she blinded herself in the end ? The lead character Scott is absolutely boring ; maybe the actor has felt the turkey he was hired to work . Last but not the least , the theme of mothers drowning babies and children is of an extremely bad taste even for a pseudo-horror movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gritos da Morte " ( " Cries of the Death " )
Did I Press the Replay Button of the Original " Funny Games " ?	In 1997 , Michael Haneke became worldwide known with his masterpiece of sadism , alienation and cruelty " Funny Games " and I recall how disturbed I was after watching that impressive movie . " Funny Games U . S . " has just been released on DVD in Brazil , and I have decided to check what this version could present to the viewers . The answer : absolutely nothing but the language , spoken in English , and the cast . The performances of Naomi Watts , Michael Pitt , Brady Corbet , Devon Gearhart and Tim Roth are outstanding , but they have added no value to the original movie since it is a remake frame by frame of the original film , giving me the sensation that I pressed the replay button of the original " Funny Game " . Does it worth to remake a movie just to satisfy viewers that can not read subtitles and to fill the pockets of the author ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Violência Gratuita " ( " Free Violence " )
The Perfect Title	In general , parody movies are entertaining and recommended when the viewer is upset , expecting to shutdown the brain and laugh with silly jokes . That was my expectation with when I selected " Disaster Movie " on DVD this Friday . Unfortunately this flick is AWFUL and I was incapable of laughing during the long 88 minutes running time . With the due respect the retards deserve , the " directors " and " writers " of this crap certainly have mental or education issues ( or both ) , and I can not imagine how someone sane can produce and put money in this terrible production . The only thing that works perfectly is the original title of this disastrous flick . My vote is one ( awful ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Super-Heróis , A Liga da Injustiça " ( " Superheroes , The League of the Injustice " )
Messy , Noisy and Boring Crap	In Kentucky , five sexy students are trapped to spend the night in an abandoned sanatorium , where many people were killed in the 30's when the location was devastated by an infectious white plague , as a prank of their school mates . Along the night , while trying to escape from the asylum , they are haunted by ghosts and the survivors disclose that they are descendant of the victims and are reviving their deaths . " Death Tunnel " is a messy , noisy and boring rip-off of many other movies , with a group of students trapped in a haunted building . The screenplay and the edition are terrible , using unsuccessfully noise to startle the viewers . The acting is not bad , but the best of this forgettable crap are the girls wearing lingerie . The conclusion is simply awful . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Túnel da Morte " ( " The Death Tunnel " )
Awfully Boring , Annoying and Senseless	The scientist Charles and his wife ( or assistant ) Marissa receive some objects and a skull from an ancient Indian cemetery , and while cleaning a vase , they are attacked and murdered by a mysterious being , the Skeleton Man . Then , a military squad commanded by Captain Leary ( Michael Rooker ) seeks out two groups of four soldiers each that vanished in the jungle . They face the Skeleton Man , shooting him while he kills each soldier . Then the Skeleton Man goes to a power plant , and Captain Leary explodes the facility destroying the supernatural being . I bought " Skeleton Man " on DVD expecting to see a funny trash , but I found an awfully boring , annoying and senseless crap , with shoots and explosions . The imbecile story is totally disconnected and does not make any sense , and the military team is composed of imbeciles , insisting in shooting the supernatural Skeleton Man until they are totally slaughtered . Their leader is also the most stupid , with the blow-up of an entire facility in the end to destroy the supernatural rip-off of the extraterrestrial warrior Predator . On DVD , it is possible to use the fast forward button along the movie and reduce the suffering of the viewer . Title ( Brazil ) : " Skeleton Man "
A Complete Mess	Rebecca Haster ( Taturn Adair ) blames herself for the death of her parents and decides to spend sometime alone in the lakeside cottage of her parents in Rushford Lake . She meets Stan James ( Timothy Prindle ) on the road and gives a lift to the stranger . Later they become friends , while Rebecca sees supernatural events with drowned people in the lake . While searching the accidents in the library , she finds that mysterious deaths happen in the spot every thirteen years . I bought this DVD without any previous reference and only based on its creepy cover , since I love zombie movies . Unfortunately , this film is simply awful , with a messy and flawed screenplay . I have no problems with low budget movies with simple special effects , but with good story , direction and performances and this is not the case of " Ghost Lake " . Further , I am not moralist but the lead character Rebecca has the behavior of a slut , having casual sex with two strangers in a couple of days and while grieving the death of her parents . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Retorno dos Mortos " ( " The Return of the Dead " )
Awful Mess	The snoopy reporter Jackie ( Kelly Sue Roth ) proposes the television producer Gilbert ( Nitin Adsul ) to investigate the small town of Buckeystown , Maryland , where in the last twenty years dozen of disappearances have occurred . Gilbert accepts and Jackie together with a cameraman drive to the local inn . Meanwhile , a young couple arrives in the inn since the husband will have a job interview in a video company of the town . Jackie interviews the reluctant locals and realizes that the common sense is that travelers and non-residents are abducted by UFOs in the haunted highway Route 180 . However , she unravels a dark hidden secret from the elders of Buckeystown . I am a fan of horror movies and also low-budget movies , but unfortunately " The Inn " is an awful mess . The concept of the dark story is not bad , with a small town that had serious difficulties in the past and the population to survive eats human flesh and becomes addicted insane cannibals , killing foreigners to satisfy their needs . However , the screenplay is completely dissociated between scenes and without a previous development ( and even names ) of the characters . The time-line is also confused , mixing day and night , i . e . , in one scene it is day , and the next one it is night . The amateurish camera and lighting are terrible , using weird angles , and the edition is illogical . The unknown cast is reasonable , and the beautiful Kelly Sue Roth deserved a better make-up , since the DVD highlights the acne in her face . The movie seems to be dubbed in English , without the use of ambient sound . Title ( Brazil ) : " The Inn - Mistérios na Pousada " ( " The Inn - Mysteries in the Inn " )
Lame , Annoying , Confuse , Awful ? Impossible to Be Understood	Two sisters , Violet ( Alicia Silverstone ) and Grace ( Sienna Guillory ) , very bounded to each other , live in an old mansion with ghosts of their past . Violet meets Luke ( Joe Anderson ) in a bar , and brings him to her mansion . Along the days , she seduces him , and they have sex many times as part of a plot with Grace . When Luke decides to leave the house with Violet , Grace tries to avoid , and Luke finds that they are trapped in the place . This lame film gave me the sensation that a part is missing . I saw it on DVD , but if it was on VHS , I would believe that the tape might have broken and missed the part with the explanation of the plot of Grace and Violet . I am not sure if the screenplay is awful , or the characters are badly developed or both , but I was not able to understand the confuse story . The soundtrack in many parts is annoying , Alicia Silverstone is not sexy in the sex scenes , therefore nothing but the beautiful cinematography works in this awful direction . I would not recommend this flick even in a rainy and boring Saturday afternoon in Rio de Janeiro . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vítima da Sedução " ( " Victim of the Seduction " )
A Boring and Very Silly Comedy , Which Is Not Funny	Mary Katherine Gallagher ( Molly Shannon ) is an orphan raised by her grandmother and student of a catholic school . She decides to participate in a competition of new talents , where the winner will travel to Hollywood and may have a chance to act in a movie . She is also interested in kissing Sky ( Will Ferrell ) , the boyfriend of the selfish Evian ( Elaine Hendrix ) . This movie is a crap . It is a boring comedy , which is not funny . Molly Shannon is not beautiful , not funny , not charismatic and too old for the role of Mary . Her smile , showing the teeth , is horrible ! I hated this trash . I spend the whole film without any laugh . It really deserves a spot in IMDB Bottom 100 . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Superstar - Despenca Uma Estrela ' ( Superstar - Falls a Star ' )
Awful Crap	What could I expect of a movie with Sean Astin in the lead role of a scientist ? I have just watched " Slipstream " and I am amazed how awful this movie is : it is incoherent , with bad acting , full of holes in the screenplay and with some of the worst dialogs I have ever heard in a film . I read the excellent lead review from smash016 called " Mere pretentiousness " that practically exposes and summarizes everything I wanted to say about this crap , in a very funny style . As a movie lover , I usually try to see the good and positive points of a movie , but in " Slipstream " I have nothing good to highlight . Do not waste your time and money with this garbage . Title ( Brazil ) : " Contra o Tempo " ( " Against the Time " )
The Screenplay of this Amateurish Flick With Improvement , Actors , Actresses and Director Could be the Basis for a Reasonable Movie	Gary is a guy who lives in a trailer and he is trying to be a writer . His girlfriend Maris works as a waitress and wants him to have a real job . Gary receives Ozzy , a relative ' self - guest ' in his trailer ( by the way , this character has nothing to do with any plot along the story . Maybe he has lent some money for the ' production ' of this amateurish movie and required to participate somehow in the story ) . His best friend is Bud and his neighbor is a neurotic veteran from Vietnam . Gary realizes that persons in his community are being killed by The Sandman . This film is almost as bad as ' Troll 2 ' and ' Satanic Attraction ' : amateurish cast and direction , poor effects and locations . The greatest work on me is that Sandman made me sleep at least four times along the story and I , instead of going to the bed , used the ' rewind bottom ' to watch the missing parts . However , the screenplay with improvement , actors , actresses and director could be the basis for a reasonable movie .
I Am Trying to Figure Out Why or How Rosanna Arquette and Nastassja Kinski Accepted to Participate in Such Awful , Amateurish and Trash Movie	Sammy Horn ( Michael Des Barres ) is the head chef and owner of a famous restaurant in California . He has a lovely wife , Grace Horn ( Rosanna Arquette ) , who is pregnant , and a beautiful son of about five years old . Sammy indeed loves his family , but like Dr . Jeckyll and Mr . Hyde , he has a double life , having sex with many different women . Dr . Jane Bordeaux ( Nastassja Kinski ) is trying to help him . OK , it is my fault : I read the summary of the other IMDB user comments , I saw the IMDB user rating , but I really did not believe that Rosanna Arquette and Nastassja Kinski could participate in such a bad movie . I decided to check it , and actually some comments are very complacent . The storyline , the screenplay and the dialogs are so silly and laughable that even in some X-rated movies we can find more intelligent stories . The photography is so amateurish and naive that in some parts it seems to be taken through a VHS camcorder . Michael Des Barres does not have sense of ridiculous : being an old man , bald , would be acceptable in an advertisement of Viagra or grandfather of the small boy . But as an attractive man who gets and has sex with any woman , it is scary . In Wood Allen's comedy , maybe he got a chance , but in a ' serious ' movie , it is funny . I am trying to figure out why or how Rosanna Arquette and Nastassja Kinski accepted to participate in such awful , amateurish and trash movie . Do they need money ? Lack of chances in better movies due to their ages ? Are they friends of the ' director ' ( sorry for using this word ) and decided to help and promote him ? I do not know whether the intention of Rosanna Arquette was to show her breasts full of silicone , but it is unacceptable that such a great actress accepts such a script . The same is applicable to the gorgeous Nastassja Kinki . She is presented fat , without make-up , without any glamour . A total lack of respect with one of the most beautiful actress in the cinema history . A fact is really intriguing me : how can a reader , without any personal interest , promote this trash , giving higher ratings or writing favorable comments about this movie ? Are they friends of the ' director ' ( again , I am using this word . . . ) or the cast ? It sounds very strange to me that a normal IMDB reader can like such a film . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Viciado Em Sexo ' ( ' Addicted In Sex ' )
A Movie Where the Best Scene is the Injection of a Tetanus Vaccine in Andrea Roth	An airplane transporting some scientists and a prototype of a DNA machine , a powerful and revolutionary invent , fall in a jungle in Pacific . The insurance company sponsors a rescue expedition , commanded by Harlan Knowles ( Lance Henriksen ) , the owner of a huge corporation , which owns the prototype , and father of one of the scientist . There , the group finds the rests of the plane five miles far from the expected location and the machine and the remains of the persons . Further , they realize that a Sasquatch , a kind of Big Foot , is chasing them . This movie is so ridiculous that I do not know what I am doing , spending my time again in this garbage . The direction is awful , the actors and the lines are horrible , copying parts of ' The Predator ' and even ' The Blair Witch Project ' . To summarize how bad this movie is , its best scene is when Marla Lawson , the character of Andrea Roth , is wounded , and the guide of the expedition says that she needs to have an injection of tetanus vaccine . Andrea undresses her jeans , and the guide says : ' Nice butts , but the shot needs to be in your arm ' . Ridiculous ! Title ( Brazil ) : ' Sasquatch , O Abominável ' ( ' Sasquatch , The Abominable ' )
Disappointing B-Movie	A team of parapsychologists is invited by John Stoker ( Sergio Jones ) to research the evil Fischer Manor , an ancient brothel where the owner Alfred Fischer ( Aldo Sanbrell ) was a gigolo that practiced black witchcraft . While investigating , the men are attacked by flesh-eater succubus and the psychic Erin Cooper ( Jane Scarlett ) seeks a powerful amulet for John Stoker . When they meet the trio of succubus , John discovers a lethal secret . " Flesh for the Beast " is a disappointing B-movie with a different type of succubus that eat flesh , instead of drawing energy from the men during the intercourse ; in this regard , the Canadian " La Peau Blanche " is better and better . In " Flesh for the Beast " , the characters are not well-developed ; the acting is weak and the story uses the all the clichés of " haunted house movies " , with a group of psychics gathered to investigate supernatural phenomena in an old house . The best parts are the gore and erotic attack of the naked succubus , but they are not enough to make this flick satisfactory . Title ( Brazil ) : " Carne Para o Demônio " ( " Flesh for the Devil " )
Cast in the Red Light District	1 ) " Alibi " ( " Alibi " ) While celebrating the seventh anniversary of marriage in a hotel in Casablanca , Morocco , Gianni convinces his wife Gianni to do a threesome with the room servant Ali . 2 ) " Double Trouble " ( " Dupla Confusão " ) While playing tennis with Bruno , Stefania has intercourse with him in the bathroom . Meanwhile , Bruno's wife Erika does with Stefania's husband Luigi in his office , to get the position of guest in a talk show . 3 ) " Two Hearts and a Hut " ( " Dois Corações e Uma Cabana " ) The maid Katarina is tipped with a high amount and prostitutes with a couple of sadistic & masochistic . 4 ) " Jolly Bangs " ( " Casos " ) While on the beach , Raffaella fantasizes erotic affairs to the satisfaction of her husband Ugo . 5 ) " Honni Soit Qui Mal y Pense " ( " Que a Maldade Fique com Aquele que Pensa Maldade " ) The photographer Franco wishes to have anal sex with Anna , who tells him that he can do only after marrying her . When they are invited to a party , she loses her virginity . 6 ) " Call me Pig ? Cause I Like It ! " ( " Chama-me de Porca ? Porque Eu Gosto ! " ) While in London in their honeymoon , Rosy and Oskar disclose the real intentions of a voyeur . Tinto Brass writes , directs and edits six erotic tales of extremely bad taste and low level . My first impression is that this film was cast in the red light district , in a brothel or in the porn industry . Most of the " actresses " shows cellulite and have flaccid bodies , or are simply wasted . I do not know the target audience of this crap , but I believe that even the most fanatic fan of Tinto Brass will be disappointed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Faça Isto ! " ( " Do It ! " )
A Confused Screenplay and an Awful Lead Actress	First of all , this movie is so confused that it is almost impossible to summarize it , since I myself did not understand this horrible story . Further , the unknown cast , leaded by an actress called Laura Mennell , is simply awful . The expressions and screams of the character Sara Tobias are laughable and ridiculous , confusing grimaces with acting . Last but not the least , there are many favorable reviews about this flick in IMDb as follows : - Top Notch - Can't wait to see more of the directors work ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 24 September 2004 ; - Incredibly shot , amazingly intense ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 12 August 2004 ; - Not your typical blood and gore , in fact better . ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 13 February 2005 ; - As intense as Asian horror ! ! - the author has only one review in IMDb on 14 November 2004 . Coincidence ? Or are they the parents , relatives , friends or people hired by the production to promote this crap ? Title ( Brazil ) : " 11 . 11 ? A Nova Profecia " ( " 11 . 11 ? The New Prophecy " )
Boring and Uninteresting Monologue	In February , the heat melts the snow in the Alpes and Ile-de-France , flooding the area of Villeneuve Saint Georges . A young woman ( Caroline Dim ) wants to go to Paris , but she finds that the buses are not traveling . She takes a lift in a car driven by a young man ( Jean-Claude Brialy ) . While trying to find a way out of the flooded area , they get close to each other until they finally reach the Eiffel Tower . What a boring and uninteresting monologue this experimental " Une Histoire d'Eau " is ! Fortunately it is a short and there is no time to sleep . I was absolutely disappointed with such fiasco , since the authorship is signed by Jean-Luc Godard and François Truffaut . The originality is in the final credits narrated by Caroline Dim ; and that is all . Title ( Brazil ) : Not available
Boring Low Budget Movie	The crew of a television of a small town composed of the reporter Jesse St . Claire ( Rachel Leigh Cook ) , her lesbian supervisor Jane Berger ( Annabella Sciorra ) and the intern cameraman Rob Latrobe ( Kip Pardue ) are investigating the disappearance of the stripper Diana Cox ( Julie Cialini ) . Rob received a videotape and found the shooting of another woman , Linda Mitchell ( Amy Arce ) , in the same video , and he is convinced that the killer stalked his victims while filming them . When Jesse vanishes without a trace , the reporter Albert Bodine ( Cary Elwes ) from the syndicated television show " American Crime " joins the team in their investigation . First of all , I can not say if " American Crime " is a thriller supposed to be funny or a dark comedy . Indeed , it is a very boring low budget movie , with a promising beginning , but silly in the end story . Cary Elwes is simply awful , being a caricature of the most important character of the plot with one of the worst performances I have ever seen . Consequently , the direction is terrible , wasting what could have been a good story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crimes em Série " ( " Crimes in Series " )
So Imbecilic and Absurd That Becomes Funny	Ted Grey ( Milo Ventimiglia ) is a brilliant medical student graduated in Harvard with a training period in Lagos , Africa , and a lovely fiancée , Gwen Williamson ( Alyssa Milano ) , from a wealthy and influent family . When he joins the Medical Center of the Metropolitan University for a residence in Pathology and Forensics , he becomes the pride and joy of his professor Dr . Quentin Morris ( John de Lancie ) ; however the star of the residence Jake Gallo ( Michael Weston ) becomes jealous with the newcomer . Nevertheless sooner he invites Ted to participate with four other residents in a deadly game , where each participant should commit the perfect crime without any clue of the " modus-operandi " of the murder , and the others investigate the corpse in the dungeon of the hospital . Further , Ted has wild sex with Jake's girlfriend and teammate of the game Juliette Bath ( Lauren Lee Smith ) . When Gwen decides to move to Ted's apartment , he decides to leave the group , but he finds resistance . " Patholog " is so imbecilic and absurd that becomes funny ; unfortunately the intention of the writers and the director is not a black-humor movie , but a suspenseful thriller with elements of horror . The plot begins with a citation of The Hippocratic Oath , and then there is a brief description of the curriculum-vitae of Ted Grey , but never a character development . Therefore , it is totally unreasonable his attitude joining the deranged Jake Gallo and his friends in a sick game . There is no explanation why a future doctor with his profile ? Harvard , experience overseas , gorgeous and wealthy fiancée ? would throw his future in the garbage for a dysfunctional resident that is not his friend ? actually he is his enemy . And how could the six residents frequently access the morgue for autopsies without any control from the staff of the hospital ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Autópsia de um Crime " ( " Autopsy of a Crime " )
A Salad of Paradoxes	The mess goes on ? with less favorable reviews in IMDb this time . It is amazing how the incompetent " lost " writers of " Lost " have depleted the best TV series and turned into the most confused , paradoxical and incoherent story without resolving the mysteries of the previous seasons . ( I copied this sentence from my review of the last episode to complete the minimum ten lines required by IMDb ) . This season definitely does not have a storyline , and each week it is released repetitive pieces of paradoxical sequences to satisfy some smart fans of this series . It is impossible even to write a summary of this boring salad of paradoxes . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Original , Messy and Boring	In a totalitarian society in a near future , the undercover detective Bob Arctor ( Keanu Reeves ) is working with a small time group of drug users trying to reach the big distributors of a brain-damaging drug called Substance D . His assignment is promoted by the recovery center New Path Corporation , and when Bob begins to lose his own identity and have schizophrenic behavior , he is submitted to tests to check his mental conditions . The adaptations of novels of Philip K . Dick to the cinema usually result in great movies : " Blade Runner ' , " Total Recall " , " Screamers " , " Impostor " , " Minority Report " and " Paycheck " . I have not read " A Scanner Darkly " , but based on the foregoing listed tales , I dare to write that probably the screenplay writer and director Richard Linklater spoiled a great novel in an original , but messy and boring adaptation to the cinema . The development of the story is very confused and the ending is pointless . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem Duplo " ( " The Double Man " )
Awful Characters in a Terrible Jurassik Park Rip-Off	In the Fiji islands , the greedy and unscrupulous owner of the Valalola Resort Primal Park invites investors and guests for an opening party of his compound composed of hotel and zoo aiming to find partners for his discoveries . When a bunch of college smalltime thieves puts a virus in the security system to participate in a scavenger hunt , the greatest attractions of the zoo ? sabretoothes from the prehistoric age developed from DNA found in fossils ? escape , killing the hosts and guards for pleasure . The incredibly lame and cheap " Attack of the Sabretooth " is one of the worst movies I have recently seen . The characters are awful and not funny or pleasant and the story is a terrible Jurassik Park rip-off with a bad collection of clichés . Basically all the lines and situations are poor and stupid , but the winner is when the guard explains that the sabretoothes are bulimic and like to kill for pleasure . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Ataque do Dente de Sabre " ( " The Attack of the Sabretooth " )
Bad Collection of Cliché , 12 February 2008	A group of college students travels to the cottage of their psychology professor Barren ( Peter Carey ) in an isolated island as a reward of their teamwork in the research of Barren . They expect to spend the weekend with lots of sex , but a serial-killer turns their party in a nightmare . " The Retreat " is a B-movie with a screenplay that shows a bad collection of the usual clichés of horror movies : a place in the middle of nowhere with a serial killer ; cell phones do not work ; the killer murders one by one , and when they discover the bodies of their friends and consequently the menace , they split to make easier to the assassin ; the killer damages their cars and they become trapped in the house ; when the killer is dominated , nobody shoots him in the head or hits him with an ax , or try to see his face ; they just leave the guy alone with an ax close to him ; the girl meets the policeman , but has the most unreasonable attitude ; there are many beautiful breasts ; the twist in the end is ridiculous . There are more flaws or clichés , but I believe these examples are enough to give a big picture of this film . In addition , there are many stupid lines that seem to be written by a moron or a fan of " American Pie " franchise . The result is the fair IMDb Rating of 2 . 8 with 228 votes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Grito de Pânico " ( " Scream of Panic " )
Awful and Boring Collection of Clichés Combined With Bad Acting	A group of animal rights activists ? Jade ( Andrea Lui ) , Tim ( Dylan Taylor ) , Fix ( Andrew Hachey ) and the hacker Izzy ( Kristin Pellerin ) ? invades the complex of Chapel Pritchard to liberate subjects , with the support of the daughter of Dr . Woods ( Andrew Gillies ) , Ali ( Ellen Furey ) , and her boyfriend and security guard Chris ( Edward Furlong ) . Dr . Woods is in charge of an unsuccessful experiment for the cure of cancer in the facility , and when they use his access card . , the security system is activated . They try to escape using an elevator to the underground laboratory , and when the guards trap them , Izzy opens all the doors of the compound trying to provide a escape route for the group . However , she actually liberates an assassin mutant in the same floor as her friends and the guards . " Warriors of Terra " is an awful collection of clichés with a predictable story repeated in many B-movies with minor variations . The worst are the acting and the characters : Edward Furlong looks like a drugged junkie with a terrible face , in spite of performing a security guard ; Jade is a real bitch with her attitudes and Andrea Lui does not have a good performance ; Izzy makes grimaces trying to look like an intellectual hacker and Kristin Pellerin also does not have a good performance ; Ali makes all of this confusion to call the attention of her father , but Ellen Furey's acting is not bad ; Dr . Woods is absolutely unreasonable as a scientist , disclosing his secret experiment to a security guard ; Fix smokes marijuana while being chased by the security guards in a ridiculous attitude ; and Tim is also an unreasonable character . Do not waste your time watching this movie , you will have a sensation of Déjà vu ( for the worse ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mutação Assassina " ( " Assassin Mutation " )
Overrated and Pretentious Mess	Part One : The Prisoner ? In Los Angeles , the television actor Gary ( Ryan Reynolds ) accidentally burns his house while burning the belongings of his ex-girlfriend . Then he drives drinking booze , uses crack and capsizes his car . He is sentenced to home imprisonment under the surveillance of the public relation Margaret ( Melissa McCarthy ) and befriends and flirts with his neighbor Sarah ( Hope Davis ) . However , weird things happen in the house haunting Gary . Part Two : Reality Television ? The screenplay writer Gavin fires his old friend Melissa , the lead actress of his reality show , following the advice of Susan , who is the liaison with the direction of the network , and finds that he has been betrayed . Part Three : Knowing ? The car of the video game designer Gabriel runs out battery and he leaves his wife Mary and his daughter , seeking a signal in his cellular to call a tow truck . He meets the drifter Susan that tells Gabriel who he is . " The Nines " is an overrated movie , actually a pretentious mess , with three tales entwining the lives of three lead characters . The first part is intriguing , but the other two and the conclusion are awful . Title ( Brazil ) : " Número 9 " ( " Number 9 " )
The Long and Boring Road	The photographer Greg Ross ( Rand Gamble ) has an argument with his wife Amanda ( Laura Putney ) about his affair with the Japanese model Yumi ( Hinano Yoshikawa ) and he accidentally kills her . He decides to get rid off Amanda's body dumping it in the Black Lake . While driving in a road during the night , Greg recalls moments of his relationship with Amanda and Yumi and is haunted by their ghosts , driving him insane with a tragic conclusion . The feature " Death Ride " is a long and boring journey to insanity through the guilty complex of a character that becomes delusional , blending reality and imagination . The eerie story could be a good short , but the director used a slow pace to make the movie last 84 minutes running time ; as the consequence , I found it too long and repetitive , apparently going nowhere for a long time . In addition , the accent of Hinano Yoshikawa is terrible . Title ( Brazil ) : " De Carona Com a Morte " ( " Riding with Death " )
Boring , Shallow , Artificial ? Looks a Sequel of the Awful " Prêt-à-Porter "	I bought this VHS attracted and curious by the beautiful and unknown Estella Warren , highlighted in the cover of the Brazilian VHS , and the long list of famous actors and actresses , including Sonia Braga . However , this movie proves that quantity will never mean quality ( only in " IMDb User Rating " ) ? " Perfume " is indeed a boring and shallow movie , with very artificial lines . This crap looks like a sequel of the awful Robert Altman's " Prêt-à-Porter " . The characters are not well developed , most of them only appear to give their names to the credits and create expectation of a good movie ; the storyline about the world fashion is terrible and ambitious ; and the awkward actress Leslie Mann , who plays one of the lead roles , has unpleasant and terrible tone of voice and corporal posture . Title ( Brazil ) : " Perfume "
A Poor Quality Movie Where Everything Fits : Bad Acting , Ridiculous Dialogs and Cheesy Screenplay	The fourth part of Friday 13th , called ' The Final Chapter ' , is amazingly bad : ham actors and actresses , ridiculous dialogs and situations and a cheesy screenplay . The special effects are very poor , and the performance and direction are very amateurish . It looks like a movie made by a class of students of cinema . The first three parts of this series were reasonable , but this one is a trash . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Sexta-Feira 13 ? Capítulo Final ' ( ' Friday 13th ? Final Chapter ' )
A Huge Waste of Talented People	' Full Frontal ' is maybe my greatest deception this year . Directed by Steven Soderbergh and having such a cast , I would not believe that the film could be such a crap . There are lots of characters , but none of them is well developed . Therefore , the viewer sees many famous actors and actresses on the screen and is not able to understand who they are , what are their motives , where they are . The plot is very confused , and some actors and actresses perform more than one role . The image and photography are horrible , using a kind of fake Dogma ' 95 style . I do not know how such talented people could be part of such a mess : friendship or big money ? Anyway , a huge waste of talented people and of my time and money , in a film that never works . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Full Frontal '
Terrible Story Associated to Awful Acting	In Halloween , three friends seek an ancient cemetery in the suburb for fun and remove a cross from a tomb , where Jack-O was buried many years ago by the farmer Arthur Kelly . The evil creature is unleashed , kills the trio and seeks the descendants of the Kelly family for revenge . The cheesy " Jack-O " is a combination of a terrible story with awful acting . I was curious with the name of John Carradine in the credits and I can not imagine how a relative authorizes the use of archive footage in such a bad movie , showing a total lack of respect with the name of this great actor . It is impressive how bad the acting is , shifting the film to a comedy instead of the proposed horror genre . This is the type of movie good to see with a group of friends , drinking beer , making comments and laughing a lot . Title ( Brazil ) : " Jack-O ? Demônio do Halloween " ( " Jack-O ? Demon of the Halloween " )
Illogical and Imbecile Screenplay That Might Be Recommended for Morons Only	The yuppie Adam ( Adam Garcia ) decides to quit a successful career and work in a research company , in order to create something tangible in his life . He is assigned to develop a US$ 99 . 00 computer and joins three weird nerds rejected by the other team . The group accepts the challenge to build the piece of equipment , is well succeeded and cheated by another engineer . " The First $20 Million Is Always the Hardest " has a so illogical and imbecile screenplay that might be recommended for morons only . The premise of a very young man , in the beginning of his career with such a prestige in his company with his boss and deciding to twist his profession to create something and follow his dreams is so ridiculous that does not deserve my time writing a review . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Primeiros 20 Milhões " ( " The First 20 Million " )
The Island of the Zombies	While working in a research for the cure of brain damage , a group of scientists are attacked and killed by a horde of zombies unleashed by a voodoo priest , and only a little girl saves . Twenty years later , she returns to the island with a group of mercenaries , while three researchers find a Book of the Dead and release the flesh-eater zombies again . The lame and cheesy " After Death " has an awful screenplay with a terrible development of characters and their motives ; the acting is laughable with histrionic movement of lips of the ham actors and actresses ; the dubbing in English is unpleasant ; the cinematography and locations are very poor and the soundtrack is annoying . The gore special effects are reasonable considering the extremely low-budget of this flick . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
How to Waste a Magnificent Cast in a Dull Movie	Ruby ( Laura Dern ) and Claude Montgomery ( Billy Bob Thornton ) is a very insecure jealous couple , because of their past sentimental life : Claude has had an affair with Ruby's older sister Rose ( Kelly Preston ) , when Ruby was a young girl ; and Ruby has had many muscled boy-friends in the past . When Claude's uncle Hazel ( Jim Varney ) is arrested for attempting of murder a local , Ruby and Claude travel with Rose and Jewel ( Diane Ladd ) to Arkansas to give their sympathy to the Montgomery family . While traveling , Jewel recalls all the time many events between Claude and Jewel , irritating Ruby . Finallt they arrive in their destiny in the breast of the Montgomery , a low middle class family with total lack of communication . " Daddy and Them " could be called " How to Waste a Magnificent Cast in a Dull Movie " . Having names such as Jamie Lee Curtis , Laura Dern , Billy Bob Thornton , Ben Affleck , Kelly Preston , Diane Ladd and the always boring with her horrible crying timbre of voice , Brenda Blethyn , I really expected an excellent dark comedy . However , the result is a complete disappointment , with a very tedious screenplay . It seems that Billy Bob Thornton , without Angeline Jolie in his personal life , is living based on his magnificent past and presently is down of the hill in his career , with very bad choices in his movies . With due respect , some IMDb users surprisingly liked this flick , and apparently most of them are from the south of USA . Maybe this kind of humor , with this horrible accent , works in that area . But for an overseas viewer not used with such culture , it is an uninteresting and tiresome film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tudo em Família " ( " All in Family " )
Boring and Dated	In the deep space , the crew of the spaceship " Palamino " composed of Capt . Dan Holland ( Robert Foster ) , Dr . Alex Durant ( Anthony Perkins ) , Lt . Charles Pizer ( Joseph Bottoms ) , Dr . Kate McCrae ( Ivette Mimieux ) and Harry Booth ( Ernest Bornine ) , finds a huge black hole and the missed U . S . S . Cygnus close to the edge of the black hole . They go aboard of " Cignus " and finds that the only human is the scientist Dr . Hans Reinhardt ( Maximilian Schell ) and the rest of the crew is composed of robots and humanoids . Dr . Reinhardt intends to enter the black hole with the crew of " Palamino " , and they realize that he is actually mad . " The Dark Hole " is an absolutely boring and dated sci-fi . Ironically this flick was nominated to two Oscars ( Best Cinematography and Best Effects , Visual Effects ) and to five categories in some minor festivals ( Academy of Science Fiction , Fantasy & Horror Films , USA and Hugo Awards ) . The coward character of Harry Booth recalled me Dr . Smith of " Lost in Space " . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Buraco Negro " ( " The Black Hole " )
Messy , Noisy and Boring	While working in the night shift in an isolated morgue alone with the night watchman George ( Bill Cobbs ) , the janitor Margo ( Lisa Crilley ) is interrupted by Peter ( Chris Devlin ) , his wife Nan ( Heather Donahue ) and their young daughter Jill ( Taylor Lipman ) that has run out of gas on the road . Suddenly the strangers Jacob ( Brandon Quinn ) and his wounded friend Samim ( Sammy Sheik ) break into the house asking for a telephone . Margo gives attention to the strangers and they are unexpectedly attacked by the ghost of a former worker that committed suicide . The stranded group fights to survive and Margo discovers the truth about the weird night . I love horror movies and I had great expectations with " The Morgue " . Unfortunately I found a terrible movie with a messy screenplay ; a boring story ; noisy and annoying soundtrack and edition ; and some bad acting . The story is confused , with an awful development and a predictable twist and a great disappointment in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cadáveres 2 " ( " Cadavers 2 " )
A Boring and Stupid Rip-off of " Ils "	Along the night in the cottage of his father , James Hoyt ( Scott Speedman ) and his girlfriend Kristen McKay ( Liv Tyler ) are terrified by a trio of sick trespassers . It is amazing the capacity of destroy good movies that some pretentious writers and directors have . This unknown Bryan Bertino made a rip-off of the gem " Ils " , which is one of the scariest movies I have ever seen , without any credit to the original movie , and destroyed the frightening atmosphere of that film with many stupid scenes . For example , why James did not believe on Kristen ? Why Mike did not call the police when the arrived in the partially destroyed house ? Why the couple , armed with a powerful gun , did not lock themselves up in the bathroom ? Scott Speedman has an awful performance , and Liv Tyler has a good work . And that is all . Prefer watching the French ? Romanian movie ( http www imdb com title tt0465203 ) instead of this crap . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Estranhos " ( " The Strangers " )
Stupid , Gore and Messy Collection of Clichés	In Louisiana , a soldier returning from Vietnam finds his wife in bed with her lover and he kills him , her and a couple of friends , but he is attacked by a bird and he loses his eyes . Years later , the bodies have not been found and the former soldier is the specialist in birds Dr . Fred Brown ( Robert Vaughn ) , living in a house nearby the swamp . When a group of college students is assigned for a research of a woodpecker near extinction , they head to Dr . Brown's house to get some tips of how to find the rare bird . Then they drive through the swamp where they find the house where the murders happen and they decide to stay there . During the night , weird things happen and they are attacked by the victims of Dr . Brown . " Zombie 5 ? Killing Birds " is a stupid , gore and messy collection of clichés . The acting is terrible and histrionic ; the screenplay is imbecile with mistakes in the continuity ; the soundtrack is annoying and inappropriate for a horror movie ; and the sets are very poor . Indeed it is an awful end of career of Robert Vaughn . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Hilarious and Messy Trash	In New York , body parts are missing in a hospital where Dr . Dreylock ( Walter Patriarca ) teaches anatomy . When one cannibal worker is killed after taking the heart of a corpse , Dr . Dreylock's assistant and anthropologist Lori Ridgeway ( Alexandra Delli Colli ) recognizes the signal of a tribe in the Moluccas Island that worships the god Kito on his body . Dr . Peter Chandler ( Ian McCulloch ) organizes an expedition to Moluccas with his assistant George Harper ( Peter O'Neal ) and invites Lori and the journalist Susan Kelly ( Sherry Buchanan ) to travel with him . They meet Doctor Obrero ( Donald O'Brien ) that asks his servant Molotto ( Dakar ) to guide the group to Moluccas . Once in the island , they are hunted by hunger cannibals and zombies , and they find a dark secret about the spot . " Zombi Holocaust " is a hilarious and messy trash movie , with a lame story , awful screenplay and edition and terrible acting . The lead female character is a complete mess with her doctorate in medicine and also in anthropology , performed by the sexy Alexandra Delli Colli that is shot naked most of the time without any reason . The lead male character is performed by the ham actor Ian McCulloch that makes the story hilarious with his ridiculous acting . In spite of the countless flaws and the awful edition , this forgettable movie is cult for many viewers and entertaining . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Noisy , Boring , Violent and Confused Movie	The daughter of an actor with a high-society woman , Domino Harvey ( Keira Knightley ) , bored with her life , decides to join the team of Ed Mosley ( Mickey Rourke ) and becomes a bounty hunter . But she gets in trouble when the Mafia's money is stolen from an armored truck , while Mosley and his crew are in action participating of a reality show produced by Mark Heiss ( Christopher Walken ) . The situation becomes out of control when the sons of a rival mobster are kidnapped while FBI is monitoring the two gangs of mobsters . " Domino " is a noisy , boring , violent and confused movie based on a true story . The major problems are the very confused screenplay and the awful edition . Director Tony Scott probably wanted to give the rhythm of a video game or video clip , but in the end , in spite of the good cast and resources , the result is deceptive , with irritating noise and images in a complete mess . Title ( Brazil ) : " Domino , A Caçadora de Recompensa " ( " Domino , the Bounty Hunter " )
How Can a Producer Approve a Budget for Such a Stupid TV Movie ?	The engineer Richard Thornton ( Timothy Busfield ) , his wife Laura ( Jennifer Dale ) and his son Michael ( Dan Petronijevic ) come to live and test a house designed by him and fully controlled by the computer Helen . He invested all the family savings in this project , and expects to have some Japanese investors supporting it . Meanwhile , his absent daughter Jenny ( Lisa Jakub ) , the black sheep of the family , returns home with the intention of robbing the family with her boyfriend Ray ( Brennan Elliot ) . However , Helen finds out the truth , eliminates Ray and jeopardizes the whole family . " Dream House " is a very silly , predictable and stupid movie . I do not understand how can a producer approve a budget for such a TV movie . I lost my Sunday morning watching this crap , and of course I do not recommend it to any viewer . The users who recommended this garbage through good reviews are insane or maybe collaborators of the producers . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Casa Assassina " ( " The Killer House " )
A Waste of a Good Cast	The stranger Jack ( Matthew Lillard ) arrives in the studio of the crook collector of antiques Max ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) and tells his ambitious companion and specialist in poisons Jamie ( Valeria Golino ) that he is Jack's brother . Jamie does not buy his story , dominates Jack and ties him up to a chair . When Max arrives , Jack proposes US$ 100 , 000 . 00 for each one to protect him in a negotiation of the antiques " Spanish Judges " with a wealthy and dangerous collector . Max invites his stupid acquaintance Piece ( Mark Boone Junior ) , who comes with his retarded girlfriend that believes she is from Mars , to compose the backup team . However , Jack double-crosses the collector and then he intrigues Jack , Jamie and Piece . The low budget " Spanish Judges " is a movie with a reasonable screenplay with an awful conclusion that wastes a good cast . Valeria Golino is astonishingly beautiful but together with the good actor Vincent D'Onofrio , they are not able to save the stupid story . Further , the scenes that are supposed to be funny unfortunately do not work , and actually they are silly and not funny . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tudo Por Dinheiro " ( " All For Money " )
Flawed and Corny	In Algiers , New Orleans , after the explosion of a ferry transporting the sailors from the USS Nimitz and their families with 543 casualties , the lonely AFT agent Doug Carlin ( Denzel Washington ) is assigned to investigate the terrorist attack . Without any lead , he is informed by Sheriff Reed about a corpse of a woman that was found one hour before the explosion , but burnt with the same explosive . He is invited by FBI Agent Pryzwarra ( Val Kilmer ) to join the surveillance team leaded by Jack McCready ( Bruce Greenwood ) in the investigations , using a time window and Einstein-Rosen bridge through seven satellites to look back four and half days in time . He discloses the identity of the mysterious dead woman called Claire Kuchever ( Paula Patton ) and decides to follow her last moments trying to find the criminal . Along the surveillance , Doug falls in love for Claire and tries to change destiny , saving her life . " Déjà Vu " is a great deception , with a flawed , shallow and corny screenplay . The paradoxical story is full of inconsistencies , but the worst is the ridiculous and incoherent conclusion . I like time travel movies , but the plot of this overrated flick is full of holes . I believe the misleading title " Déjà Vu " refers to the role of Denzel Washington , very similar to many others of his movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Déjàvu "
How to Waste a Promising Story With Horrible and Confused Screenplay and Direction	An evil force called Zatteen fertilizes many women from Earth with his seed before being eliminated , and their children inherit and perpetuate his power . Barbara Collins ( Joanne Nail ) is the last woman on Earth with this gift , and her daughter Katy Collins ( Paige Connor ) has an evil telekinetic power . A battle between good and evil forces settles on Earth . " The Visitor " has a very promising story and a great cast , with names such as John Huston , Glenn Ford , Shelley Winters , Sam Peckinpah and Lance Henriksen . I bought this unknown VHS expecting a great movie . However , the screenplay and the direction are horrible and completely confused , and it is impossible to understand many parts of the story . The characters are also horribly developed , and in the end , this movie is a complete mess . Title ( Brazil ) : " Herdeiros da Morte " ( " Inheritors of the Death " )
Disappointing Technological Crap	The pregnant wife of the architect Jonathan Reeves ( Michael Keaton ) is missed after a car accident near a cliff , and the police do not know whether she is dead or abducted . Some weeks later , a mysterious man comes to Jonathan and tells him that his wife is dead and had communicated with him through Electronic Voice Phenomena . Sooner Jonathan is informed by the police that her body was found in the sea near a harbor , and the tormented grieving Jonathan decides to try to contact her using uncontrolled E . V . P and jeopardizing his own life . I bought this DVD expecting to see a great movie . What a waste of time and money ! " White Noise " is indeed a disappointing technological crap , with a ridiculous and pretentious story , although having an intriguing beginning , and a merchandising of Ford and other manufacturers of electronics apparatus . I like Michael Keaton a lot , but he seems to be downhill with his last choices , selecting terrible screenplays . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vozes do Além " ( " Voices From Beyond " )
A Mixed Bag of Western , Violence and Mystery in a Deceptive Low Budget Movie	In 1865 , while traveling with her family close to the city of Sogus , Sarah Jenkins ( Denise Crosby ) is raped and her husband and son are cowardly killed by a group of outlaws . Sarah and her daughter survive and walk to Sogus , where they are advised by a local to leave the place , which is dominated by the bandits leaded by the maleficent Blade ( Robert McRay ) . However , tired and starving , they decide to stay in the town and the owner of a store and his wife lodge them . The gang of evil criminals rules the city with fear and violence , killing people without motive . Pelgidium , a mysterious rider with a deformed face , appears in the town as if he were listening to the prayers of the locals , and faces the bad guys . " Legend of the Phantom Rider " is a mixed bag of western , violence and mystery . This deceptive low budget movie was released on VHS in Brazil , the art of the cover is prepared to attract the viewers as if it were a horror film , but indeed it is a violent western . The soundtrack , with the constant sound of drums usually used in the climax of the story , is very boring . I did not like this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Lenda do Cavaleiro Fantasma " ( " The Legend of the Phantom Rider " )
Very Silly Low Budget Mystery Film	" The Bat " is indeed a very silly low budget mystery film . There are very few male characters , therefore it is not difficult to guess who " The Bat " is . Vincent Price , in the role of Dr . Malcolm Wells , has a good performance and a well developed character . The banker John Fleming has a minor but also very important participation in the plot . However , the motives of the behavior and double-identity of Lt . Andy Anderson are not explained ; Cornelia van Gorder , played by Agnes Moorehead , unsuccessfully tries to be an Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot , resolving the murders , but her character is simply awful . The cold reaction of the women in the mansion when their close friend Judy Hollander dies due to the insistence of Dale Bailey to leave their locked room is a shame . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Mansão do Morcego " ( " The Mansion of the Bat " )
Dumb , Unpleasant , Silly and Shallow	In Maceió , the dysfunctional pothead Roberta ( Mariana Ximenes ) , who was abused by her mates in the elementary school , has a deep hatred against her grandmother Judite ( Laura Cardoso ) because of her treatment in the summer holidays of her childhood and adolescence . She kidnaps Judite and puts her in the trunk of her car ; then she visits her sister Suzana ( Paloma Duarte ) , who is scheduling the birthday party with a clown for her son , and she prepares some shots to dope Judite . While waiting for Suzana on the street , Roberta goes to a bar to calm down drinking whiskey and she meets the dumb lawyer Renato ( Ângelo Paes Leme ) , who has just been stolen . Roberta creates a big mess in the bar and they do not pay the check ; while escaping from the police , she invites Renato to travel with her sister and her to her grandmother's beachside home for the weekend . When Renato discovers that the sisters plot revenge and plan to torture Judite to get even , he tries to convince the girls to call off their plan . Meanwhile , Suzana's husband Francisco ( Thiago Lacerda ) finds the drugs in a desk in his bedroom and decides to chase his wife , believing that Roberta is persuading Suzana to use drugs , getting into serious trouble . " Muito Gelo e Dois Dedos D'Água " has a dumb and unpleasant storyline and screenplay , with one of the most imbecile stories I have ever seen . The motive for the revenge of Roberta and Suzana is not funny ; on the contrary , it is stupid and does not justify their act . The shallow and fool metaphor used for the title of the movie seems to be written by a person with elementary school only . The characters are awful : Roberta is a dysfunctional pothead ; Suzana is an amoral bitch ; Renato is a dumb man with a weak character ; Dr . Francisco is a caricature of a man ; Cleusa is a bitch ; and Judite is not well developed and it is impossible to imagine her as a villain or a child abuser , just an old woman with some silly ideas . The good points are the locations in and nearby Maceió , one of the most beautiful cities in the world , and the great cast leaded by the gorgeous Mariana Ximenes and Paloma Duarte that unfortunately is not able to save with their talents such awful story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Muito Gelo e Dois Dedos D'Água " ( " Lots of Ice and a Little Bit of Water " )
Awful Screenplay	After a snowstorm , the roads are blocked and the highway patrolman Jason ( Adam Beach ) comes to the diner of his friend Fritz ( Jurgen Prochnow ) and advises his clients that they will only be able to follow their trips on the next day . Among the weird strangers , Jason meets his former sweetheart Nancy ( Rose McGowan ) , who has just left her husband in Los Angeles . Along the night , without any communication with his base , Jason faces distressful and suspicious situations with the clients , and finds some corpses , indicating that among them there is a killer . " The Last Stop " could be an average thriller , but the screenplay is simply awful . Most of the characters are despicable persons and the motives of the surprising serial killer are never disclosed , and the viewers have no further explanation why the killer decided to kill the guests . Title ( Brazil ) : " Encurralados " ( " Trapped " )
Bad Acting , Bad Story , Even the Beauty of Bobbie Phillips Cannot Save This Clone of Die Hard	A group of VIPs including Henry Kubica ( John Waters ) , a high-executive of the Corporation , is kidnapped by a gang of robbers in a building of a casino , which is protected by a state of art security system . Kam ( Bobbie Phillips ) , the human hybrid and IBI ( International Bureau of Investigation ) agent , together with another IBI agent , infiltrate in the group , trying to get enough information to organize the rescue of them without jeopardizing the safety of Kubica . However , she realizes that there are much more interests for the Corporation that the safety of the persons . This movie is really a bad clone of Die Hard , having bad story and ham actors and actresses . The beauty of Bobbie Phillips is not enough to save this film . Anyway , Bobbie Phillips and the surprising end of the plot are the best this movie can offer . The parts I and III of Chamaleon are better and better . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Sedutora e Fatal II : Inimigo Mortal ' ( ' Seductive and Fatal II : Mortal Enemy ' )
Deceptive Sophisticated Porn	The structure of my reviews in IMDb usually begins with a summary of the plot in the first paragraph and my personal opinion in the next one . However , how to summarize " 9 Songs " using more than the storyline ? A man and a woman meet each other in a rock concert , and along the days they have sex , use drugs and go to rock and roll concerts . Michael Winterbottom , the director of the sensitive " Jude " ; the powerful " Welcome to Sarajevo " ; the original " I Want You " ; the dramatic " Wonderland " ; the intelligent " Code 46 " , among others good movies , seems to have decided to shoot porn . Using and abusing of the unknown actress Margo Stilley , who practices fellatio , masturbation , bondage and explicit sex in front of the camera , the story makes an analogy with the solitude of the Antarctica to give an intellectual appearance to the shallow , pointless and silly screenplay . I expected much more from such a great director , who should know that what happens inside four walls of a bedroom belongs to the lovers . Title ( Brazil ) : " 9 Canções " ( " 9 Songs " )
Unrealistic and Corny	In New Orleans , while the Lila hurricane approaches , three convicted prisoners , Simpson ( Thomas Cavanagh ) , Juke ( Marcus Lyle Brown ) and Tad ( Ritchie Montgomery ) , escape from the forced labor . In their getaway , they come to the house of Cassie Broadbeck ( Melissa Gilbert ) , who has just left her husband and chief of the local fire department Wayne Broadbeck ( Brian Wimmer ) , and is moving to Chicago with her two daughters , the slow Hayley ( Azure Dawn ) and Nicole ( CiCi Hedgpeth ) . The tension increases when Wayne breaks in the house trying to save his family . " Heart of the Storm " is not a good movie . Exploring the theme of the 1955 and 1990 " The Desperate Hours " , with criminals trapped inside a house with a defenseless family , this story is unrealistic and absolutely corny . Living in Brazil , we frequently read on the news how criminals behave when they invade a family house . Imagine three guys in the middle of nowhere with three women challenging the criminals the way they did ! The guys had never made any insinuation of sex or tried to rape the women in the story , and Cassie makes a totally unnecessary sexual offer to Simpson , acting like a bitch most of the time . The ham actress CiCi Hedgpeth has one of the worst performances I have ever seen in a movie . Most of the dialogs are also terrible , and it is funny that the most sympathetic characters are Juke and Hayley . The good performance of Thomas Cavanagh is the best part of this forgettable flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " No Olho do Furacão " ( " In the Eye of the Hurricane " )
Humanization of Drug Dealers ? A Deceptive Abel Ferrara's Movie	In New York , in a morning close to Christmas , an upper class father and mother go in their BMW to a private school to see the play of their daughter . Then they go shopping and later they return to their fancy apartment in Manhattan . In the night , they move to a simple apartment in a dangerous neighborhood , where they prepare drugs for distribution . On the Christmas Eve , while buying the Christmas gift for their daughter , the father is kidnapped , and his wife desperately tries to raise a high amount of money to pay the requested ransom . " R Xmas " is a deceptive movie of Abel Ferrara . The lead characters do not have names , are anonymous , and maybe his intention is to tell that in the breast of a neighbor family in your building may have drug dealers ; or that drug dealers may also have families and may be loving persons ; or that there are many dirty cops , probably worse than the criminals ; or is it a simple apology to crime ? Whatever ! However , this humanization of criminals is a horrible message , and I really did not like this movie . In Brazil , for example , many drug dealers and criminals help their communities , due to the absence of the State in poor areas and slums , but this procedure does not make them model citizen . In this movie , we see a loving upper class family in the day , providing drugs as means of living , but the destruction of the members of other families is not shown in the story , and it is impossible to feel sympathy for any characters . In the end , I wished all of them dead . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gangues do Gueto " ( " Gangs of the Ghetto " )
Awful Screenplay	While opening the abandoned south wing of the Blackgate Prison to receive three hundred new inmates , one security guard and one prisoner enters in the furnace room . In the evening , the guard commits suicide and later the inmate is found dead in his cell in weird circumstances . Detective Michael Turner ( Michael Paré ) investigates the suicide case and he notes that the guard had just lost two fingers . He drives to the prison , where he discloses an uncanny event in the furnace room . " Furnace " is a lame movie with an awful screenplay that does not develop well the characters or the situations , which are absolutely disconnected , senseless and without explanation . The conclusion is terrible , with many people dying ( security guards , coroner , prisoners etc . ) and the only action is sealing again the wing of the prison without any further consequence . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fornalha " ( " The Furnace " )
The Story , Screenplay , Direction and Acting Are So Bad That Become Funny	The scientist of the powerful and evil corporation Hybra-Tech Charles ( Peter Coyote ) goes to Chernobyl to buy some gallons of toxic waste to perform experiments with zombies . When a teenager has an accident with his motorcycle and vanishes , his teenager's friends , leaded by Charles ' nephew , find that he was moved to Hybra-Tech . They break in the facility trying to find their friend and accidentally release a group of zombies starving for brains . " Return of the Living Dead : Necropolis " is incredibly awful . The absurd story and the screenplay are among the most ridiculous collection of clichés I have ever seen . The lame direction works with a group of young actors and actresses that seem to be amateurish . It is amazing how bad the acting is , leaded by Peter Coyote , who seems to have had a neurological problem that deformed his lips . I guess the level of the sequel of this crap . In the end , this flick is so dreadful that becomes funny . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Volta dos Mortos Vivos : Necrópolis " ( " The Return of the Living Dead : Necropolis " )
Disappointing Conclusion	While investigating some primitive chambers of an ancient civilization , Hoshi and Trip are advised by Captain Archer to return to Enterprise due to the arrival of two storms . They have no time to use the shuttle pod and they have to be beamed to Enterprise . The reluctant Hoshi asks Trip to go first , and after his response that he arrived safe and sound , she is beamed . Hoshi feels weird and uncomfortable after using the transporter , and talks twice with Dr . Phlox about her sensation . When nobody can see Hoshi , Trip and Reed find a problem in the transporter and Dr . Phlox in her molecular examination . Later Hoshi finds two aliens installing bombs in Enterprise and she unsuccessfully tries to communicate with Captain Archer . " Vanishing Point " is an intriguing and suspenseful episode that unfortunately has a very disappointing conclusion . I was anxious with the situation of Hoshi , and I found the resolution of the story ridiculous . It seems that the author did not know how to end a great plot . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ponto de Fuga " ( " Escape Point " )
A Bad Clone of Godzila and ET With Poor Special Effects and Terrible Story	In a small island in Polynesia , the widow biologist Jack Ellway ( Adam Baldwin ) is developing some type of marine research . Meanwhile , some locals have disappeared and pretty soon , Jack realizes that a family of mutants lizards have escaped from an opening in the bottom of the ocean and the male ( ' father ' ) is trying to rescue its family . Jack and some other scientists give their best effort to save the animals and return them to their environment . Wow , I did not believe in the rating of IMDB and have decided to check this movie . It is indeed a crap , being cheesy and corny . The monsters are clones of Godzila , and the baby lizard has the eyes of ET , recalling Sean Young's 1985 ' Baby . . . Secret of the Lost Legend ' . The story has some very ridiculous points . For example , when the marines are called to save the locals from the lizards . The marines basically destroy the island with their weapons , while the poor animal is only trying to gather its family . Therefore , the marines are indeed the greater menace for the persons and their possessions . When some soldiers are smashed by the foot or bitten by its teeth , nobody feels sorry for their deaths ; however , when the female dies , there are many tears . Maybe children may like this predictable story .
Bad Collection of Clichés	In the deep woods of Echo Mountain , Pine Creek , three poachers are slaughtered by a predator and the survivor , Ed , organizes an illegal hunting with three other hunters . Meanwhile , the teenagers Rich ( Dylan Purcell ) and Jay ( Brandon Henschel ) are assigned by their biology teacher to prepare a seminar about species in danger of extinction . Jay invites his girlfriend Shea ( Casey LaBow ) and his cousin Jenny ( Chelsea Hobbs ) to camp with Rich and him in the forest to research animals for their work . Meanwhile the Indian Ranger John Eagleheart ( Nathaniel Arcand ) is also in the woods tracking the Sasquatch . When Ed and his men are attacked by the Big Foot , the teenagers try to escape to save their lives . " The Unknown " is a bad collection of clichés and completely disappointing . The story begins without any previous development of the characters , and we see a group of illegal hunters being chased by a creature . Then we see the Sheriff and his Indian Ranger trying to protect the locals while the Mayor preoccupied with the season of tourism , in a situation repeated in many movies ( " Jaws " , for example ) . The biology teacher joins a nerd with a bully in an absolutely illogical situation . The conclusion is silly and ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Desconhecido " ( " The Unknown " )
Very Weird French B-Movie	A group of artists , composed of the young actors Wilfried ( Vincent Lecoer ) and Matthieu ( Clément Sibony ) and the actresses Sophie ( Clotilde Courau ) , Mathilde ( Maud Buquet ) and the dumb Jeanne ( Alexia Stresi ) , is hired by a millionaire , Axel de Fersen ( François Bérleand ) , to present a performance of Little Red Riding Hood in his isolated castle to celebrate the birthday of his grandson . Meanwhile , the police advises that a serial killer is raping and killing young women in the woods around that area . During the night , the group feels trapped and threatened in the castle , guessing who is and where might be the killer . " Deep in the Woods " is a very weird French B-Movie . The characters are badly constructed , the troupe of actors and actresses are very stupid , the locals are very bizarre , the story has many clichés and flaws , the screenplay is a complete mess and the acting of a great part of the cast is ridiculous . The photography is good , and probably this is the best this movie can offer . For Brazilians , I would like to present one additional remark : last year , the distributor Play Arte released the DVD " Wrong Turn " with the title " Pânico na Floresta " ( which means " Panic in the Forest " ) . Now , the distributor " Europa Filmes " has just released " Deep in the Woods " with the same title in Portuguese ( " Pânico na Floresta " ) . Therefore , the reader can imagine the confusion for a common Brazilian users , when he or she goes to a rental or to a store and gets the wrong DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pânico na Floresta " ( " Panic in the Forest " )
Walking Contradiction - The Story of a Spoiled Ungrateful Daughter	Elizabeth " Lizzie " Wurtzel ( Christina Ricci ) is a teenager accepted in Harvard with a scholarship in journalism . She has been raised by her divorced mother Mrs . Wurtzel ( Jessica Lange ) since she was two years old , but she misses her father and feels needy and depressive . When she joins the university , she lives with the roommate Ruby ( Michelle Williams ) and has her sexual initiation with Noah ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) , and her article for the local column in Crimson newspaper is awarded by Rolling Stone magazine . Lizzie becomes abusive in sex and drugs , and her existential crisis and depression increases and she hurts her friends and her mother that love her , while dating Rafe ( Jason Biggs ) . Mrs . Wurtzel sends her to an expensive psychiatric treatment with Dr . Sterling ( Anne Heche ) , in spite of having difficulties to pay for her medical bills of her therapy sessions . After a long period of treatment under medications , and an attempt of suicide , Lizzie stabilizes and adjusts to the real word . " Prozac Nation " is a successful book that I have never read ( and I do not have the intention ) , but the movie is a complete deception . The direction is good , inclusive with some great sequences with the camera , and Christina Ricci , Jessica Lange and Anne Heche have great performances . Jason Biggs is miscast in a dramatic and romantic character , having a flat performance . The lead character of Elizabeth " Lizzie " Wurtzel is unpleasant , and in the movie she is a spoiled ungrateful daughter , confused and contradictory , and does not have motives to have such destructive behavior . I really did not like this boring film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Geração Prozac " ( " Prozac Generation " )
Weird and Pointless Exploration of the Underworld of Sex	A writer is interviewing prostitutes , porn stars and gigolos for her latest book . Meanwhile , in Los Angeles , the scholarship of the student of PHD of anthropology Rebecca ( Denise Richards ) finishes and she has financial problem to keep her apartment . Her neighbor and call-girl Adrianna ( Daryl Hannah ) introduces her to prostitution . " Yo Puta " is a weird and pointless movie that explores the underworld of sex through interviews . In 1991 , the sexy Theresa Russell filmed the good Ken Russell's " Whore " talking to the camera in a pseudo-documentary style , and the result was an original movie . Unfortunately " Yo Puta " wastes interesting information in a dull screenplay . I have recently watched " Lilja 4-Ever " , " Anjos do Sol " and " Human Trafficking " , and all these movies are related to the contemporary slavery of the traffic of women . " In Yo Puta " , this subject is approached and lost in the shallow screenplay . The story of Rebecca and Adrianna is awful and ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Garotas de Programa " ( " Call-Girls " )
A Complete Mess	In China , Lau Sing ( Stephen Fung ) leaves his wife and their young daughter in his province and travels to the big city with his friends to raise money in pharmacology business . Four years later , he becomes well-succeeded and raises a small fortune , but a scum gambler burns the building . killing his friends and accusing him of the criminal act . Lau Sing is arrested and the young lawyer Siu Chin ( Gillian Chung ) defends him in court , but she does not succeed and her client is sentenced to decapitation . However , Lau Sing escapes on the day of his execution and travels with Siu Chin to his province , where along forty-nine days he unravels dark secrets . " 49 Days " is a complete mess , with an absolutely confused screenplay and is based on the belief of many Chinese people of reincarnation and karma . Further , there are serious inconsistencies and mistakes in the subtitles in Portuguese that makes the story tougher to be understood , The intention of the writer and the director is also never clear , blending drama , romance , mystery , comedy and horror and making in the end a salad of genres . Title ( Brazil ) : " 49 Dias " ( " 49 Days " )
Terrible Direction , Messy Screenplay , Awful Conclusion	The Russians smalltime crooks Sergei Akotia ( Brian McCardie ) and Yuri ( Alexis Denisof ) plan to hold up two million dollars from a casino with the inside information of the security guard Troy ( Steve Harris ) and the support of two dirty cops . When the two cops are killed , they decide to call off the heist and they kick out their girlfriends Misha ( Nastassja Kinski ) and Lexi ( Alison Hannigan ) . Misha and Lexi meet an old friend of Misha , Helena Toretti ( Jennifer Esposito ) , who is in a divorce process with the bored and upset detective Jack ( Todd Field ) . The trio plots revenge against the guys and decide to rob the casino with Troy . But the plan turns upside-down with unpredictable events . When I saw the names of Alison Hannigan ( from Buffy ) , Alexis Denisof ( from Angel ) and the gorgeous Nastassja Kinski and Jennifer Esposito in the cast of this movie , I decided to ignore the bad reviews and IMDb Rating and watch it . Unfortunately , the reviews are right and this movie is really bad , with a messy screenplay and awful conclusion . The story is very confused , with a terrible direction that is not able to make a funny , or dramatic , or violent movie . There are some ridiculous parts , like for example when the two " Russians " argue in English with a weird accent . If they are Russians , wouldn't they speak in their native language while alone ? The character of Alison Hannigan , Lexi , is awfully developed and never clear of her objectives and feelings . Brian McCardie looks like a cartoon with his character ( or caricature ? ) . I tried to find good and positive points in this movie , but with such unpleasant end with the fate of Misha it is impossible to like it . I have never read anything about this director , Gigi Gaston , but he was able to waste a good cast and I had a really bad experience watching this confused flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Além dos Limites " ( " Beyond the Limits " )
A Remake for Fans of Tom Cruise Only	In 1944 , a group of high command officers plot an attempt against Hitler , and one of the leaders of the conspiracy , Stauffenberg ( Tom Cruise ) , goes to a meeting with the Fuhrer in charge of exploding the place . However , Hitler survives and the conspirators are executed . The 2004 " Stauffenberg " with Sebastian Koch in the lead role is another great example of the powerful German cinema . Based on a true event , with remarkable performances , tight direction and excellent reconstitution of a dark period of the contemporary Germany history , it is highly recommended ? indeed a must-see film - for fans of war movies . This shallow and unnecessary remake , with Tom Cruise in the lead role and spoken in English , is only recommended for fans of Tom Cruise and viewers that do not like to read subtitles . Prefer watching the 2004 German version for television that is better and better . Title ( Brazil ) : " Operação Valkiria " ( " Valkyrie Operation " )
SS ? Sick and Sadistic Movie	Yesterday I bought this imported DVD in a sale offer . It is not available in Brazil , I had no reference about this title and the price was not expensive . I decide to try and I found a too sick and sadistic movie , not so nasty as Pier Paolo Pasolini's " Salo , or The 120 Days of Sodom " , but also very disgusting . There is no story , only violence against the prisoners , most of them women . I noted that the 42 years old ( in 1974 ) ' star ' Dyanne Thorne participated of one episode of Star Trek . The persons who voted excellent in this film are joking , or needing to go to a psychiatrist . This type of ' cult ' movie is not for my taste . Title ( Brazil ) : Movie not available in Brazil .
Good Premise , Bad Execution	In 1991 in Nicaragua , an American reporter recognizes four soldiers he met in the World War II who have not aged . He realizes that the group is a vampire platoon . The premise of " The Lost Platoon " is very interesting , and there is a good camera work that recalls " Evil Dead " . However , the screenplay is silly and direction and the performance of the cast is very weak . The ideology hidden in the plot , defending the intervention of the American government in the Civil War of Nicaragua is also a crap . The cover of the DVD is very attractive and probably is the best of this forgettable flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pelotão Vampiro " ( " Vampire Platoon " )
Silly and Non-Sense Parody	While traveling with a team of misses for the dispute of the Miss Galaxy , the airplane piloted by Maximus Powers ( Eric Roberts ) and Mike Saunders ( Charlie Schlatter ) crashes in an isolated , where lays Noah's Ark protected by the Jurassic Pork . While the group fight to survive , alien apes plot to use the ark to destroy the human race and dominate planet Earth . I like parodies , but " Miss Castaway " is an offense to human brains . The awful story and the special effects are very , but really very bad . There are spoofs with " Lost " , " Castaway " , " Jurassic Park " , " Sixth Sense " , " Titanic " , " Planet of the Apes " , " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , " Congo " , " MIB " , " Perfect Storm " , " Austin Powers " , " Jaws " , " Mission Impossible " , " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " , " Star Wars " and " Hulk " , but the problem is that most of them are very silly and not funny . In the end , the trailer is better than the film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Missão Quase Impossível " ( " Mission Almost Impossible " )
Silly Merchandising	Josie and the Pussycats ( Rachel Leigh Cook , Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson ) are hired by a big Record Label to become a great success . Josie realizes that their CDs have a subliminal message , forcing the youths to consume many products . A very silly movie , used for merchandising of many trademarks . There are some funny situations that could be improved , but it is not worthwhile watching this great advertisement . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Josie e as Gatinhas ' ( ' Josie and The Pussycats ' )
Silly Romance	In 1945 , while in a temporary assignment in London , the " The New York Standard " journalist Sara Scott ( Lana Turner ) has a torrid love affair with the reporter of BBC Mark Trevor ( Sean Connery ) and she falls in love for him . Just before the end of the war , they cover a sapper disassembling a bomb and Sara is informed that her boss and fiancé Carter Reynolds ( Barry Sullivan ) is coming to London to meet her . When she tells the news to Mark , he surprisingly discloses to her after three months of relationship that he is married and has a son in St . Giles , Cornwall , and he loves and will stay with his family . Mark leaves Sara and travels to Paris with his assistant Alan Thompson ( Terence Longdon ) , but the plane crashes and he dies . The grieving Sara has a nervous breakdown and is interned in the Headway Nursing Home for treatment . Six weeks later , Carter buys a ship trip to her from Plymouth to New York ; however , Sara decides to visit St . Giles by train before returning to her country . When she meets Mark's wife Kay Trevor ( Glynis Johns ) and his son Brian ( Martin Stephens ) , she is invited by Kay to stay with them until the next morning . During the night , Sara has a crisis , faints and Kay invites her to stay at her home during for recovering . The silly " Another Time , Another Place " is an unconvincing romance , with a laughable screenplay . The story begins without a previous development of characters , but sooner the viewer understands that Sara is an experienced American correspondent that writes a column for her newspaper and is engaged of her boss . Mark is a married man that broadcasts news about the war and is having an affair with Sara , and disapproved by his friend and assistant Alan . When Sara tells that her fiancé is coming to London , Mark decides to end his affair since he loves his family . This revelation , associated to the shock of the death of Mark lead Sara to a breakdown . Up to this point , the story is convincing and I have no remarks . However , the decision of Sara to travel to St . Giles is the beginning of an unthinkable attitude of an experienced woman living overseas . The rest of this forgettable movie is pure crap with a corny conclusion , despite the good performance of Glynis Johns and the magnificent locations in Cornwall . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vítima de uma Paixão " ( " Victim of a Passion " )
A Waste of a Good Cast in a Movie That Is Not a Comedy , Not a Drama and Not Erotic	Tony ( Daniel Baldwinn ) has a brothel with three gorgeous prostitutes that satisfy any fantasy from any costumer . Francesca ( Julie Delpy ) is addicted and spends all her money on drugs . Mimi ( Georgina Cates ) is religious and donates all her money to the church . Dolly ( Pamela Gidley ) is bisexual and saves all her money with the intention to raise US$ 57 , 000 . 00 and buy a restaurant . She lives with her girlfriend Wendy ( Yancy Butler ) . The story ends in a party for an important politician with a certain black humor . There is also a mushy situation with the character of Julie Delpy . And of course Dolly will raise the money she needs . But even being conclusive , the story does not satisfy the viewer . This movie wastes a good cast in a shallow screenplay without humor or drama . Further , it is not erotic and none of the actress shows her bodies . There is no scene with any of them naked . Only the beauty of Julie Delpy and Georgina Cates is not enough to support the plot . The front cover of the Brazilian VHS lists Valeria Golino as part of the cast , but I have not located her in the film . I looked also in the credits and in the IMDb cast and I believe this information is completely wrong . One more mistake presented in a mistakable movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Clube dos Prazeres " ( " The Club of the Pleasure " )
A Mediocre Remake	In North America , after getting married , the photographer Benjamin Shaw ( Joshua Jackson ) and his wife Jane ( Rachel Taylor ) travel to Japan for a job opportunity with Ben's friends Bruno ( David Denman ) and Adam ( John Hensley ) . While driving on a lonely road in Japan during the night , they have a car accident with Jane hitting a girl first and crashing a tree . When they awake , the police do not find any body and Ben believes that Jane imagined the situation . Later when Ben reveals his latest pictures , he finds some mysterious shadows , while the couple is systematically haunted by the ghost of the girl . Jane investigates and finds that the victim was Ben's former shy and weird girlfriend Megumi Tanaka ( Megumi Okina ) , who worked as translator for Ben . Later Jane discloses deep and hidden secrets about the relationship of Megumi , Ben and his friends Bruno and Adam . The American version of " Shutter " is a mediocre remake of a great Asian horror movie . Actually it is ridiculous , with the author poorly using the same storyline and transforming a creepy and dark story in another Hollywoodian standard of silliness ? shallow screenplay but with beautiful actresses , handsome lead actor and wonderful locations in Japan . If the viewer has never seen the original " Shutter " ( 2004 ) ( http www imdb com title tt0440803 ) watch it instead . If the viewer has already seen the Thailand's movie , prefer watching it again . It will be better than wasting time watching this terrible remake . Title ( Brazil ) : " Imagens do Além " ( " Images from Beyond " )
Low Budget Script and Movie	In 1974 , two American agents are sent to Hungary by his superior Miller ( Barry Bostwick ) to get werewolf blood for a secret project for the creation of an invincible warrior . One of the men dies and the other decides to inject the blood in himself , being killed by Miller . There is a shutdown of the project . Twenty years later , the scientist Anne de Carlo ( Kim Delaney ) is carrying out a research under the command of Miller , and the body of the dead agent is delivered for the experiment . The agent is transformed in a kind of killing metallic werewolf . The screenplay of this low budget movie has no originality . I do not know how many films I have seen with this storyline . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Metalbeast '
So Cheesy and Silly that Becomes Funny	In 2020 , after the colonization of the moon , the spaceships Vega , Sirius and Capella are launched from Lunar Station 7 to explore Venus under the command of Professor Hartman ( Basil Rathbone ) , but an asteroid collides and explodes Capella . The leader ship Vega stays orbiting and sends the astronauts Kern ( Georg Tejkh ) and Sherman ( Yuri Sarantsev ) with the robot John ( John Bix ) to the surface of Venus , but they have problems with communication with Dr . Marsha Evans ( Faith Domergue ) in Vega . The Sirius lands in Venus and Commander Brendan Lockhart ( Vladimir Yemelyanov ) , Andre Ferneau ( Robert Chantal ) and Hans Walter ( Georgi Zhzhyonov ) explore the planet and are attacked by prehistoric animals . They use a vehicle to seek Kern and Sherman while collecting samples from the planet . Meanwhile John helps the two cosmonauts to survive in the hostile land . " Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet " is so cheesy and silly that becomes funny . The effects are awful even for a 1965 movie , and the dialogs are very poor . Maybe the director and writer wrote this story and these lines in the elementary school so ridicule they are , specially the lines spoken by scientists . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Planeta Pré-Histórico " ( " The Prehistoric Planet " )
Terrible Screenplay , Awful Direction , Deplorable Acting	An American family moves to the countryside of Spain to live in an isolated house . Regina ( Anna Paquin ) , the teenager daughter of Mark ( Iain Glen ) , who is sick and has some mental problems , and the nurse Maria ( Lena Olin ) , notes that weird things is happening in the house and with her young brother Paul ( Stephan Enquist ) , but her mother does not believe on her . Reggie decides to investigate with her boyfriend Carlos ( Fele Martínez ) the origins of the house , and they find that forty years ago , the place was the stage of the death of six children . Reggie decides to ask for support to her grandfather Albert ( Giancarlo Giannini ) to protect her brother against the house and her father . I bought this DVD expecting to see a good horror movie of haunted house mainly because of the names of Anna Paquin , Lena Olin , Fele Martínez ( from " Thesis " and " Abre los Ojos " ) and Giancarlo Giannini . Further , I like very much Spanish cinema . In spite of , I found a terrible screenplay , an awful direction and a deplorable acting of excellent actors and actresses . The intention of the story is good , slightly recalling " The Shinning " in some moments , but unfortunately it is badly developed , never being clear , for example , the reasons and motives why the American family moved to Spain or the horrible relationship between the members of the family , mainly the situation between Maria and Reggie . The direction is confused , poorly trying to use dark and shadows to give scary effects to the story . I love Anna Paquin , but her expressionless face never works in this flick . Lena Olin is a caricature of the great actress she is ; and Stephan Enquist is too much weak for such important role . Only Fele Martínez has a good performance in his support character . I liked the open end of the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Sétima Vítima " ( " The Seventh Victim " )
Increasing the Population	While traveling in a van with their teacher for a contest , a group of college friends are abducted in a lonely road by the criminal Earl ( Gregory Bastien ) , who forces them to go to the ghost town of Sunset Valley to meet his partner that was transporting drugs and money of their own . Once in the town , they realize that the dwellers are zombies and their leader is the evil Bloody Bill ( Jeremy Bouvet ) , a Confederate soldier seeking revenge for the execution of his sister that was hanged by the population that was cursed by Bloody Bill for the eternity . " Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill " could have funny lines and situations but it is too serious for a zombie movie . Further , the zombies move very fast , breaking the style originally adopted by George Romero in " Night of the Living Dead " and followed in other films of this genre . The story is predictable and the characters are forgettable , but the worst is the total lack of humor . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vale da Morte : A Vingança de Bloody Bill " ( " Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill " )
Predictable and Forgettable With a Deceptive Ambiguous Conclusion	The graduation student Mark ( Daniel Gillies ) is developing a monograph work about contemporary myths , and he interviews the psychiatrist Dr . Theodore Rosen ( Kurtwood Smith ) , who was treating Carl Bryce ( Jeff Galpin ) , a deranged teenager that killed his parents twenty years ago . The body of Carl has never been found and there is an urban legend that the spot is a cursed place since slavery times , causing madness and death to those that trespass the area . Mark invites his friends Eric ( Jeff Davis ) , Tyler ( Clayne Crawford ) , Kristy Goodman ( Estella Warren ) and Sharon ( Ashley Scott ) to help him in his research in the old real estate . Once there , a mysterious killer starts to execute and chase the group , with the survivors trying to escape alive . " Trespassing " is a predictable and forgettable low-budget movie , with a promising beginning and a deceptive ambiguous conclusion . The story is another rip-off of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , but with an awful handy cam that shacks and trembles the images , most of them too close and without permitting to see the surroundings . Ashley Scott performs the annoying and totally incoherent character Sharon , taking the worst possible attitudes under stress . The conclusion is ridiculous , probably with the intention of a sequel . Title ( Brazil ) : " Invasão Mortal " ( " Mortal Invasion " )
Disappointing Supernatural Romance	The musician and writer of the comic book " Ghost with Heart of Stone " Eduardo ( Vladimir Brichta ) meets the gorgeous Laura ( Aline Moraes ) , who is engaged and close to her marriage , in a bookstore and immediately they fall in love for each other . Sooner they get married , and one night , Eduardo unexpectedly dies , but his soul does not move to the Third World . He meets the Ghost with Heart of Stone ( Gustavo Falcão ) stranded in his house , stalking his beloved next door neighbor D . Mariana ( Laura Cardoso ) and he asks to the ghost how he can communicate and say farewell to Laura . " Fica Comigo Esta Noite " is a disappointing supernatural romance about love after death , with confused and not-well developed characters and situations . The dark humor is weak , the repetition of theme song is boring but the lighting and the atmosphere are great . The Brazilian cinema has many better movies than " Fica Comigo Esta Noite " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fica Comigo Esta Noite " ( " Stay With Me Tonight " )
Absurd and Corny Hollywoodian Tale	The single and successful executive of the fashion world , Helen Harris ( Kate Hudson ) , becomes the guardian of her two nieces and one nephew after the death of her sister and her brother-in-law . She moves from Manhattan to Queens , and faces difficulties trying to raise the children . " Raising Helen " is another absurd and corny Hollywoodian tale , or fairytale , or st tale . There are some few funny moments , but the story has an absolute lack of logic and coherence . The changing of the character of Helen , from a fashionable independent single woman of Manhattan developing her successful career in the fashion world into a suburban mother of stepson and stepdaughters is one of the most ridiculous and corny I have ever seen . I like Joan Cusack , Hector Elizondo , Kate Hudson and John Corbett , I tried to like this movie , but the screenplay is a shallow unbelievable crap . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Presente Para Helen " ( " A Gift For Helen " )
Pretentious Narcissism	In Rio de Janeiro , the actresses of forty and something years Diana ( Priscilla Rozenbaum ) , Isabel ( Dedina Bernardelli ) , Eugênia ( Clarice Niskier ) and Babi ( Cacá Mourthé ) reunite to write a play about their life experience . Along the afternoon , they disclose confidences about their lovers , husbands , affairs and personal and professional lives . But the director and Diana's husband Mariano ( Domingos de Oliveira ) is not satisfied with the story , since he believes that women in the mid-forties do not confess the truth about their feelings . I bought this DVD expecting a good kind of tropical story à la " Sex and the City " , with four women from Rio de Janeiro of forty and something years and their " adventures " in the wonderful city . Unfortunately I found a boring and pretentious exposition of Narcissism of Domingos de Oliveira , in the role of an intellectual director that is always right in his shallow arguments , even when he totally changes his opinion . The insecure and submissive Babi is concerned with her relationship with Theo ; Eugênia with Guido ; Bel with Caco ; and the ambiguous Diana with Mariano , but all of them in a very confused way and going nowhere . The style of documentary does not present any worthwhile opinion or advice in the interviews , and the messy use of black-and-white alternating with color has no explanation . The charming actresses are excellent and deserved a better movie but the screenplay is absolutely weak and pointless . Title ( Brazil ) : " Feminices " ( " Feminine Things " )
Original , But Overrated , Pretentious and Extremely Boring	I was very curious to watch " Waking Life " and I expected a great movie . I was wrong ! There are positive aspects , practically the originality and the adopted technique in the animation . Unfortunately , the shallow plot is simply awful , based on philosophy of readers of cartoons and pseudo-intellectuals . The wavy animations and the tedious story make the eyes very tired , and I slept many times along this 101 minutes running time , a nightmare with dreams . I do not recall how many times I had to press the rewind button to see the scene again . By the quantity of persons related in the cast , I believe that director and writer Richard Linklater is very well connected with people of the cinema industry that probably helped him promoting this overrated , pretentious and extremely boring film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Waking Life "
A Forgettable Joke With Alfred Hitchcock's " Rope " That Does Not Work	Nick Collier ( Rick Otto ) is a student of criminology , who has never completed any achievement in his life . When his teacher , Prof . Hal Evans ( Glenn Quinn ) , discuss serial killers in class , Nick invites his friends to a party in a penthouse and kills each one of them . " R . S . P . V . " has the intention of joking with Alfred Hitchcock's " Rope " . However , this parody does not work , having a very silly screenplay , being watchable and forgettable . The party is in a building as if there were no neighbors to listen to the shootings and screams . It is funny calling Jason Mewes of " actor " . His character " Terry " has the same behavior of " Jay " , using drugs , smoking grass and speaking bulls all the time . Title ( Brazil ) : " R . S . P . V . Confirme Sua Presença " ( " R . S . P . V . Confirm Your Presence " )
Unpleasant Anti-Hero	The hit-man Chev Chelios ( Jason Statham ) is poisoned by the criminal Verona ( Jose Pablo Cantillo ) and his friend and doctor Miles ( Dwight Yoakam ) advises him that he must keep his adrenaline in an upper level to stay alive . Chev meets his girlfriend Eve ( Amy Smart ) and together he looks for Verona to kill him . " Crank " at least in Brazil is one of the blockbusters in every rental and I expected to see a great action movie , since I am a fan of Jason Statham . Unfortunately the film is awful , paced like a video-clip or a video game , but the worst , with an unpleasant anti-hero . The guy kills , threatens , rapes , steals , summarizing , breaks all the rules of a civilized society to survive . In some moments , the situations are funny , but the black humor is supported by a criminal that trespasses the law practically in every action , therefore I personally hated this character . When he dies in the end , I was relieved . In times of great violence worldwide and specifically in my country , I would never like the apology to crime and lack of respect to the law demonstrated by Chev Chelios . The proposed black humor does not work . Title ( Brazil ) : " Adrenalina " ( " Adrenaline " )
Boring , Confused and Not Funny	In the 60's , the admiral Sampaio Barroso ( Anselmo Duarte ) returns to his farm for the wedding of his daughter Bebel ( Maitê Proença ) . She will get married with her cousin Toni ( Paulo Cesar Grande ) , in a marriage arranged to save the wealthy of the family . On the wedding , they meet with their cousin Ticão ( Edson Celulari ) , who lives in the farm and loves Bebel . Ticão tries to sabotage the ceremony to avoid the wedding of Bebel and Toni . " Brasa Adormecida " is a boring , confused and not funny comedy . The story is very silly and the screenplay does not develop well the characters . I did not understand the conclusion , with Tião dressed like a priest . Was the whole story a dream of Bebel ( " Burning Coal Asleep " ) ? The song of Antonio Carlos Jobim is the best part of this movie . I read in an article that the title " Brasa Adormecida " is a homage to 1928 " Braza Dormida " of the great Brazilian director Humberto Mauro , of " Ganga Bruta " . However , he deserved more than that . Title ( Brazil ) : " Brasa Adormecida " ( " Burning Coal Asleep " )
Boris Quercia's " Sexo Con Amor " Retold Without Credit	After watching the Brazilian remake " Sexo Com Amor " , I was surprised with the lack of credit to Chilean " Sexo Con Amor " ( 2003 ) from Boris Quercia . The original story is retold with minor modifications in the screenplay , but no credit to the author ( a . k . a . plagiarism ) . See http www imdb com title tt0363292 Rene Belmonte seems to be specialist in rewriting other screenplays without giving the credit to the original author . The same plagiarism happens with the Mexican " Sexo , Pudor y Lágrimas " ( 1999 ) from Antonio Serrano ( http www imdb com title tt0164877 ) and the Brazilian " Sexo , Amor e Traição " ( 2004 ) ( http www imdb com title tt0376873 ) Title ( Brazil ) : " Sexo Com Amor ? " ( " Sex With Love ? " )
Pointless and Pretentious Eroticism and Voyeurism	The French filmmaker François ( Frédéric van den Driessche ) decides to make a movie about female pleasure and break of taboos in sex . He interviews many young women about their secret fantasies and proposes auditions , with each woman naked and masturbating in front of a camera until they reach orgasm . He finally casts Julie ( Lise Bellynck ) , the unstable Charlotte ( Maroussia Dubreuil ) and the compulsive liar Stéphanie ( Marie Allan ) to the lead roles and creates a sexual tension among them in a threesome . The relationship with the three actresses affects his marriage , while two fallen angels and the spirit of his protective grandmother follow him . " Les Anges Exterminateurs " is a pointless and pretentious soft-porn with lots of eroticism and voyeurism . The movie is pure exploitation , with the exposition of the gorgeous unknown naked actresses , and disguised of " art-movie " with the beautiful cinematography and the omnipresence of two fallen angels which existence is never explained and the ghost of the director's grandmother . It is funny to see intellectual explanations to such a silly and messy story of female orgasm . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anjos Exterminadores " ( " Exterminating Angels " )
Silly , Inconsistent and Absurd Plot	Nate ( David Keith ) , Sarah ( Mel Harris ) , Elisha ( Leighton Meester ) and Elijah Springfield ( Douglas Smith ) are members of a secret government project called ' Veritas ' . Their works is investigating and try to solve mysteries . They are assigned to work as undercover students and janitor in the Rogers High School , where a ghost is apparently haunting and threatening the students . In the end , the Springfield family finds a hidden secret and reveals the truth . ' Hangman's Curse ' has a silly , inconsistent and absurd plot , plagiarizing ' Spy Kids ' . The participation of the writer Frank Peretti in the role of the scientist Algernon Wheeling is so ridiculous that irritated me . The guy is horrible , trying to be funny but indeed being very unpleasant . The inconsistency of the silly character of Elisha Springfield , supposed to be a highly trained teenager agent , but screaming and acting like a moron is another terrible point in this film . The exaggerated attack of spiders in the end of the story is so amazingly absurd that certainly destroys any good opinion that a viewer might have about this movie . ' Hangman's Curse ' is a watchable and very forgettable flick . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Maldição da Forca ' ( ' The Curse of the Hang ' )
Freddy Krueger Is Back	Kristen Parker ( Tuesday Knight ) , Roland Kincaid ( Ken Sagoes ) and Joey Crusel ( Rodney Eastman ) are having normal lives and studying in Springwood , Ohio , after defeating the evil Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) . Kristen is very close to her boyfriend Rick Johnson ( Andras Jones ) and his sister Alice ( Lisa Wilcox ) is her best friend . Kristen has a premonition with Freddy Krueger , who has resurrected and is chasing the trio of survivors of the Elm Street . When Freddy kills the three survivors , Kristen transfers her ability to draw other people to her dreams to Alice , and Freddy uses the power of the teenager to gather the souls of her school friends . " A Nightmare on Elm Street art 4 : The Dream Master " is a weak sequel to the classic " A Nightmare on Elm Street " . Patricia Arquette , who performed Kristen Parker in the previous " A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors " , was pregnant and not able to film this sequel . The actress and musician Tuesday Knight that replaced Patricia Arquette recorded the song " Nightmare " used during the film's opening credits . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Hora do Pesadelo 4 ? O Mestre dos Sonhos " ( " The Hour of the Nightmare 4 ? The Master of the Dreams " )
A Too Much Long and Confused Fairy Tale , Where Something is Missing to be a Good Movie	Gerda ( Chelsea Hobbs ) lost her mother when she was a child . Her father , musician as a hobby and owner of a hotel , lost his happiness with the loss of his beloved wife . Close to her eighteenth anniversary , Gerda meets Kai ( Jeremy Guilbaut ) , the bellboy of the hotel , and they fall in love for each other . On the day of the party of her birthday , the Snow Queen ( Bridget Fonda ) kidnaps Kai and Gerda commits suicide , jumping in the river , trying to recover Kai . This is the beginning of Gerda's adventure through the reigns of the four seasons . This confused story has some crazy parts that recall Alice in the Wonderland . Although having good special effects , the story is very confused , cold , slow and too much long . It is not clear why many things happen .
A Boring Story Very Difficult to Be Understood	Márcia ( Barbara Laage ) is a married woman with a son . She finds that her husband has an affair . She cheats him too and decides to go to Itaipava ( a Brazilian city on the hills ) with her son . A black horse , free in the fields , attracts her . In the end , she comes back home and memories come back while watching the footage made by her son . In my opinion , this movie is boring , specially because the characters are not well developed . I have not caught on the intention of the director in such plot . The soundtrack , with a jazz band , is very monotonous . Although being an expensive DVD , this film has not been restored . The Brazilian distributor Cinemagia has just release a box of Walter Hugo Khouri composed of three titles : ' As Amorosas ' ( which I watched two days ago ) , ' O Corpo Ardente ' ( which I watched yesterday ) and ' Noite Vazia ' ( which I intend to watch today ) . Although having a terrible quality of sound and image , the photography in black & white is very beautiful , having beautiful actresses in the cast and showing beautiful landscapes . One situation is not clear for me : in accordance with the information on the cover of this DVD , its runtime would be 98 min . The DVD has 83 : 25 min . In accordance with the information of IMDb , it would be 85 min . And in accordance with the Brazilian video and DVD guide ' Guia de Video e DVD 2003 ' , page 161 , it would be 133 min . Therefore , this movie is polemical since its runtime . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Corpo Ardente " ( " The Heat Body " )
A Boring Movie for a Very Specific Public	This low budget French movie is not bad . However , it is highly recommended for a very specific public only , especially those involved in and fans of literature . Marie ( Miou-Miou ) is in bed with her mate reading a book . There , she fantasizes being the character Constance , a woman who offers her services in reading books for peculiar costumers . The story is so flat , the soundtrack is monotonous and even the genre of this movie is difficult to be defined . Is it a romance , a drama , a comedy , art-movie ? I respect the viewers who enjoyed it , but for common public this movie is boring . Better off reading the novel . Title ( Brazil ) : " Uma Leitora Bem Particular " ( " A Reader Very Private " )
Excellent Cast and Budget Wasted by a Confused Screenplay and a Terrible and Pretentious Direction	This movie could be an excellent film , having a great cast and budget , photography and soundtrack , but it does not work well . Why ? Because of the confused screenplay and a terrible and even pretentious direction . There are two stories , one of them excellent . In 1873 , two women are ax murdered in an isolated island in New Hampshire . A man is accused of the crime by the survival , Maren Hontvedt ( Sarah Polley ) , and condemned to be hanged . This story , presented through flashbacks , is wonderful , with an outstanding performance of Sarah Polley . In the present days , the newspaper photographer Jean Janes ( Catherine McCormack ) is researching this murder . She is married with the famous writer Thomas Janes ( Sean Penn ) , and she convinces her brother-in-law Rich Janes ( Josh Lucas ) to sail to the island in his yacht . Rich brings his girlfriend Adaline Gunne ( the delicious Elizabeth Hurley ) , who is a fan of Thomas and tries to seduce him , playing erotic games . This story is totally confused , spinning and never reaching a point . The intention of the director was to have a parallel narrative , linked by common points . But in practice , it becomes a mess , with unresolved situations and characters not well developed . In the end , I felt sorrow for such a waste of a talented cast . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Peso da Água ' ( ' The Weight of the Water ' )
A Typical Trash Movie of the 50's	In a skiing station in Dakota , a gang of criminals leaded by Alexander " Alex " Ward ( Frank Wolff ) plans the heist of golden bars from a small bank . While the lover of Alex , Gypsy Boulet ( Sheila Carol ) , goes to an isolated cabin with the ski instructor Gil Jackson ( Michael Forest ) , a time bomb explodes a cave to divert the attention of the locals and the gangsters steal the gold . But the explosion releases a spider-like monster and due to a storm , the group becomes trapped in Gil's cabin and threatened by the creepy beast . The debut of Monte Hellman as director is a typical trash movie of the 50's . The story is not bad ; the low budget effects are very poor and laughable ; the heroine is gorgeous ; the sudden conclusion gives the sensation that the shooting was interrupted ; and the cover of the Brazilian DVD is extremely funny with the following text : " Young girls scared and sucked by a maze of horror and blood of a hunger beast from hell " , which is delightfully funny and ridiculous , since the story has nothing to do with it . In spite of these remarks , I like this type of film , which are part of mine childhood , therefore " Beast From Haunted Cave " is a good entertainment at least for me . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Besta da Caverna Assombrada " ( " The Beast From the Haunted Cave " )
Promising Beginning , Weird Development , Confused and Disappointing Conclusion	In Paris , after winning the lottery , the clerk François ( Bernard Campan ) goes to a bar in Pigalle and offers one hundred thousand Euros per month to the prostitute Daniela ( Monica Bellucci ) to live with him until the end of his money . François is a lonely man , with heart problems and Daniela stays with him for eight days . Then , she decides to come back to her man , the mobster Charly ( Gérard Depardieu ) , but she misses François and returns to his place . But once a whore , always a whore . The promising " Combien Tu m'Aimes ? " is a great deception : having Monica Bellucci , Gérard Depardieu and Bernard Campan in the cast , and directed by Bertrand Blier , this " dramatic romantic comedy " has a weird development and a confused and disappointing open conclusion . I honestly did not understand the last quarter of this movie , which is simply awful . The screenplay wastes a good and original idea , and the character of Gérard Depardieu is absolutely dull and ridiculous . The beauty of Monica Bellucci , even with forty-one years , is the best this mislead movie can offer . Title ( Brazil ) : " Por Amor ou Por Dinheiro ? " ( " For Love or For Money ? " )
Gives the Sensation of Déjà Vu , but the Conclusion is a Good Surprise	In Landis , the college friends Shawn ( Austin Hines ) , Amber ( Tiffany LeShai McMinn ) , Whitney ( Leah Marie Parker ) , Jesse ( Austin James ) , Madison ( Kelly Ray ) and Kyle ( Catori Swann ) organize a party in the Steen's Textile Mill that has been bankrupted and closed a couple of months ago and is abandoned . They invite the son of the owner , the silly Nick ( Robert Rainbolt ) , only to have access to the facility , and the geek Cari ( Blaire Welch ) to be his date . They go to a convenience store to buy some packs of beer and they humiliate the gentle attendant . Once in the spot , they separate to different places with the intention of having sex . However , their night party becomes a tragic nightmare . While watching " The Mill " , I had the permanent sensation of déjà vu , due to the usual clichés and the similarity with the storyline of " Death Factory " . The character Nick with his puppet is absolutely annoying , and the screenplay anticipates the fate of the college students . However , the unexpected conclusion surprised me , and I confess that one of the killers was a good surprise . In the end , " The Mill " is entertaining and the viewer with lesser expectations may enjoy it . The DVD was released in Brazil a couple of months ago , and I do not understand the status " In production " indicated in IMDb . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fábrica do Terror " ( " The Factory of the Terror " )
A Good Metaphor of the Real Business Life Wasted in a Silly Screenplay	Four web designers and a trainee are gathered in a computer company for a challenge : if they succeed in developing a scary game within a month , they will earn a bonus of US$ 1 , 000 , 000 . 00 . The group does not have sense of teamwork and all of them are moved by greed only , generating an uncontrolled monster and being destroyed in the end . The trainee learns how to become a monster worst than the existing one , wins the prize and becomes a businesswoman . I believe the intention of the writer of this story was to create a metaphor of the real business life . The title ' How to Make a Monster ' has a double sense with the creature and the trainee . There are many messages between lines in some dialogs and situations . Unfortunately , although having reasonable special effects in the movie , the screenplay is very silly and is only recommended for killing time . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Criação de um Monstro ' ( ' The Creation of a Monster ' )
Silly and Funny B-Movie	In the small town of Peckham , California , many men die for excessive effort during sexual intercourse . When a scientist from the Brandt research laboratory is found dead in a motel , the government sends Agent Neil Agar ( William Smith ) to investigate the mysterious deaths . He suspects that the deaths may be related to some experiments of Dr . Susan Harris ( Anitra Ford ) , who is researching bees in the Brandt facility . " Invasion of the Bee Girls " is a delightful and enjoyable B-movie . The dark cinematography is awful with very bad lighting and horrible direction ; the flawed screenplay and dialogs are silly and very funny ; most of the actors and actresses are ham , with terrible acting and ridiculous dialogs ( when one of the guys , referring to his friend that has just died in a motel , says to his colleagues in the bar " - Imagine , coming and going at the same time " , I laughed a lot ) ; there are many beautiful naked women , free nudity with lots of breasts and hilarious scenes , like , for example , the unique shot of the hero along the whole story is in a lever of a computer that provokes fire and lethal smoke everywhere in the room where the bee girls are gathered together . The actresses undress practically in every scene , without any motive , being a film of soft sexploitation . If you like trash-movies and beautiful nude women , see this flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Invasão das Mulheres Abelhas " ( " Invasion of the Bee Women " )
Silly , But Also Funny Vampire Adventure / Comedy Movie	In Hong Kong , Reeve ( Ekin Cheng ) is a vampire slayer , who belongs to a league that fights against vampires , living with his sister Helen ( Charlene Choi ) . When his partner dies , killed by the powerful vampire Duke Dekotes ( Mickey Hardt ) , Gypsy ( Gillian Chung ) , who has a crush on Reeve , is assigned as a replacement to work with him . Meanwhile Helen falls in love for Kasaf ( Edison Chen ) , a vampire that belongs to a royal family and does not attack human beings . However , the powerful Duke Dekotes is chasing Kasaf to increase his powers . " Chin Gei Bin " is a silly , but also funny vampire adventure / comedy movie . Showing many special effects and a nice cast , the story is not so bad , following basically the idea of Buffy , being watchable and forgettable . I regret only that " Universal " cheats the Brazilian consumers with a huge picture and the name of Jackie Chan on the cover of the DVD released in Brazil . I expected to see a Jackie Chan movie , and in the end his participation is limited to two scenes to give his name to the credits , being the first one of his wedding totally ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Liga Contra o Mal " ( " The League Against Evil " )
Although Predictable and Forgettable , Evolver Entertains	Kyle Baxter ( Ethan Randall ) is a teenager who plays very well a video game called ' Evolver ' . This game was developed by Dr . Russell Bennett ( John de Lancie ) . He wins a competition of Evolver where the prize was a robot similar to the game . What nobody knows is that Evolver indeed is a war machine with artificial intelligence . Therefore , the friends of Kyle are playing against a dangerous weapon . Although being a very predictable and forgettable movie , Evolver really entertains . It has some good special effects and a reasonable thriller .
Funny and Entertaining Low-Budget Flick	In Guatemala , a team leaded by the lunatic scientist Dr . Schroeder ( J . Patrick McCormack ) gets rare specie of killing wasps by force from some Indians . They hire a drug dealer to bring the insects to Mexico , and provoke an accident with his truck , releasing the wasps . The truck is followed by a snoopy American journalist , Sandra ( Kaarina Aufranc ) , that is covering a matter about traffic of cocaine . In the location , coincidently the American entomologist Daniel Lang ( Shane Brolly ) is making a research with mosquitoes . When the wasps attack the locals , Daniel sees how dangerous the species is and tries to help the population with the support of Sandra . " Deadly Swarm " is supposed to be a horror movie , but is so absurd and has so many flaws that become funny . I found this low-budget flick very entertainment , and laughed a lot . Therefore , if you shut-down your brain and stop thinking , you may find this movie a great joke and have a good time . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vespas Assassinas " ( " Assassin Wasps " )
" Rosemary's Baby " and " Godsend " Cloning	The low middle class and young school teacher Samantha ( Heather Graham ) and her husband , the unknown writer Craig Howard ( James Purefoy ) , move to an insemination clinic in Lakeview , a small town two hours far from New York City , for a free insemination treatment in the " Spiritus Reasearch Clinic " . Samantha gets pregnant of twins and the life of the couple economically improve with the unexpected success of the book of Craig . However , Samantha notes that a hooded stranger is stalking her , and she becomes paranoid when she realizes that the place is indeed a cloning clinic and she was impregnated with the devil's seed . Yesterday , when I saw " Blessed " , I felt myself in a " déjà vu " situation , with the feeling that I have already seen this movie before , which is indeed a clone of " Rosemary's Baby " and " Godsend " . There is nothing new in this plagiarized screenplay , which is dedicated to the memory of David Hemmings . This great British actor deserves a better homage to his name than this non-original story . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Too Many Targets ? In the End , Hunger Kills Ideology	Innocenti Totò ( Totò ) and his son Innocenti Ninetto ( Ninetto Davoli ) are drifting in a road in Italy , when they meet a Marxist speaking crow . The trio travels together in a long journey , but when hunger increases , the crow is simply eaten by the drifters . " Uccellacci e Uccellini " is an original and critical surrealistic fable about the fate of the leftist ideology in the view of Pasolini . Although dated , the lead story is good , using the successful style of road-movie of the 50's explored by other Italian directors , like Fellini or Rossellini ; but like a machine gun , Pasolini shots everywhere making the plot diffused , confused and sometimes boring . Totò has good performance , but Ninetto Davoli in his debut is very silly , with a forced smile on his face . The DVD released in Brazil by the minor Brazilian distributor Mediagroup is surprisingly good , presenting restored image and having lots of extras inclusive a documentary of 28 minutes running time about Pier Paolo Pasolini . There is a mistake in the Audio Menu : the 5 . 1 option shows indeed the movie with comments in Italian . But this minor mistake does not diminish the value of the Brazilian DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gaviões e Passarinhos " ( " Hawks and Sparrows " )
Silly , Predictable But Entertains	Tripp ( Matthew McConaughey ) is a thirty-five years old bachelor man that still lives with his parents , Al ( Terry Bradshaw ) and Sue ( Kathy Bates ) . Al and Sue hire the manipulative interventionist Paula ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) to play Tripp's girlfriend and seduce him , convincing Tripp to move out of their home . Paula and Tripp fall in love for each other , but Tripp's best friends Ace ( Justin Bartha ) and Demo ( Bradley Cooper ) accidentally find the truth about Paula and Demo discloses to Tripp , spoiling the plan and their relationship . When Tripp and Paula miss each other , their friends plot a scheme trying to arrange an encounter to fix the situation . " Failure to Launch " is a silly and predictable romance , but entertains only because of the excellent cast . There is a great chemistry among the actors and actresses of this movie , keeping the interest of the viewer , in spite of a terrible and forgettable screenplay . The gorgeous Zooey Deschanel is the best in this flick performing Kit , the funny and complicated roommate of Paula . Title ( Brazil ) : " Armações do Amor " ( " Tricks of Love " )
Boring and Miscast	In Manhattan , while walking on the sidewalk talking to his wife Gwen ( Téa Leoni ) through the cellular , the wealthy Frank Herlihy ( Greg Kinnear ) is hit by a bus and dies . Meanwhile , the outcast , lonely and anti-social dentist Bertram Pincus ( Ricky Gervais ) is submitted to a colonoscopy and has a heart stop for seven minutes but is resurrected . When he leaves the hospital , he finds that he can see dead people on the streets . The spirits chase him asking to help them in unresolved issues ; however the unpleasant Bertram does not pay attention to their requests . Frank proposes a deal to Bertram : he would keep the ghosts away from him if Bertram separates his former wife from her fiancée that is interested in her money only . Bertram accepts the proposal , but falls in love for Gwen . " Ghost Town " is a boring story absolutely miscast . The unknown Ricky Gervais performs not only a repugnant character , but is also ridiculous to compose a romantic pair with the gorgeous and sexy Téa Leoni , with his painted hair and eyebrows that give a gay look to him . Further , there is a total lack of chemistry between them , and Bertram is one of the most unpleasant characters I have ever seen in a romantic comedy . The conclusion is corny , silly and predictable . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ghost Town ? Um Espírito Atrás de Mim " ( " Ghost Town ? A Spirit Behing Me " )
Disappointing : Extremely Silly and Gross	The idealistic lawyer Botelho Pinto ( Murilo Benício ) is suing the powerful Tabajara Organizations with his secretary Priscila Tsunami ( Maria Paula ) using the testimony of Lindauro das Dores ( Bussunda ) , who had been evicted and fired , and accepted a job offer as a subject of an experiment of a new pill developed by the Tabajara Organizations . The pill Borogodol proposes to seduce women , no matter how ugly or clumsy the man might be , but as a side effect it also attracts dogs like a female heat . When Lindauro dies in an accident with an elephant in the zoo , Priscila meets another man that had troubles with a belt from the Tabajara Organizations . Meanwhile Botelho tells Pricila why he has problems with the Tabajara Organizations . When the golden fish of the judge of the case is kidnapped , Botelho and Priscila seek the pet and the lawyer accidentally meets his missing father . " Seus Problemas Acabaram ! ! ! " is very disappointing . I have bought this DVD with great expectation of a funny movie , but I found it extremely silly and gross . The intellectual level of the jokes recalled my period of elementary school , so dreadful most of them are . The best moments in this film belong to the sexy Maria Paula that shows an awesome shape after the delivery in June 2004 and her character is really erotic and funny . For viewers overseas , this movie does not make sense since most of the jokes are related to Brazilian pop-culture . Title ( Brazil ) : " Seus Problemas Acabaram ! ! ! " ( " Your Problems Have Finished ! ! ! " )
Dated and Disappointing Propaganda	After resolving a case related to an explosion of an airplane with forty-nine casualties by a swindler using state-of-art technique , the experienced agent Chip Hardesty ( James Stewart ) gives a lecture at FBI Headquarter in Washington . He tells the story of the agency entwined with his own personal life since 1924 , when FBI was a bureaucratic department that gave employment to god nephews of politicians . Along the years , the agency modernizes and faces Ku Klux Klan ; deaths of Indians enriched with oil ; the organized crime , when the agents are authorized to use weapons for the first time ; the period of World War II ; and the Cold War , acting as a counter-espionage agency . In his personal life , he gets married with Lucy Ann Hardesty ( Vera Miles ) ; they have three children ; he loses his best friend and also agent Sam Crandall ( Murray Hamilton ) , killed in action ; his marriage has a crisis due to his dedication to the Bureau ; his older daughter gets married ; and he loses his son in World War II . " The FBI Story " is a dated and disappointing propaganda of the FBI of Mr . J . Edgar Hoover , who certainly sponsored this flick . The idea is to show that the omnipotent and powerful FBI is composed by human beings , with flaws and family like any other ordinary American person . Chip and Lucy are the typical middle-class American family of the 50's . However , this film is bureaucratic and too long , and does not bring any emotion to the viewer , in spite of the good performance of James Stewart . The greetings in the very end are ridiculous . The DVD released in Brazil by Ocean distributor has a total lack of synchronization between sound and image . Title ( Brazil ) : " A História do FBI " ( " The FBI Story " )
A Silly Adventure of James Tong	Jimmy Tong ( Jackie Chan ) is hired as the driver of Clark Devlin ( Jason Isaacs ) , a millionaire , who is also a secret spy . One they , Clark Devlin is hurt , and Jimmy decides to help him , trying to solve a mystery with Dietrich Banning ( Ritchie Coster ) , a great supplier of potable water . Banning is indeed a villain , who intends to poison the reservoirs of water and become richer , providing good water for the population . Jimmy wears a high-tech tuxedo of Devlin , with capability of improving the most different performances . Del Baline ( Jennifer Love Hewitt ) is a rookie agent , who is assigned to work with Devlin . This silly movie has the attraction of the charismatic Jackie Chan and Jennifer Love Hewitt . Entertains , being very forgettable .
Readers of IMDb do not Deserve This Movie . . .	This cable television movie was released on VHS in Brazil a couple of months ago , in 2003 . It has good actors and is well produced . The characters are well developed and it could be an above-average interesting action-drama movie about the outbreak of WW3 ; but it is not . It is a very disappointing movie , with a cheap message against many nations . First , there is no World War 3 , as the title suggests . Indeed , the plot is based on a terrorist attack through a virus released first in an American passenger vessel and then in an American Stadium of baseball . Timothy Hutton is an FBI agent that has the mission to contact his uncle , who may have experience with this type of virus . There is an amazing poor dialog between Eric , the character of Terry O'Quinn ( an FBI agent ) and his director , that can summarize the quality of this movie . The FBI director says : " - It is official , Eric , we bombed the wrong people ! " , and Eric ( Terry O'Quinn ) replies : " - I am sure they deserved it for something . " Enough ? No , the movie seems to have no end . It ' fades out ' , without any conclusion . I would not recommend this movie to other readers : I am sure they do not deserve it ! Title ( Brazil ) : " WW3 "
Lost Indeed	In this sequel , Sayid is attacked in a motel and wounded by a dart ; he kills the aggressors and Hurley brings him home . When Hurley's father seeks help for Sayid with Jack , he calls Ben and tells the location of Hurley . Kate escapes with Aaron and meets Sun in Los Angeles . Meanwhile the island is jumping through time and the survivors are in danger . This episode is worse than " Because you Left " , and it seems that in this season the camera will hide the face of the character , showing only hands or legs or the body , trying to give tension to the scene . The introduction of time traveling by the authors and consequently many paradoxes is not intriguing but messy . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Promising Beginning of a Messy and Dull Soap-Opera	In 1989 , in Medellin , the prostitute and killer Rosario Tijeras ( Flora Martínez ) has an affair with the playboy Emilio ( Manolo Cardona ) and is introduced to his best friend Antonio ( Unax Ugalde ) in a night-club . The relationship of Rosario with Emilio is limited to sex and she befriends Antonio , who is in love with her . After the death of her brother Jonhefe ( Rodrigo Oviedo ) , Rosario and Antonio become closer and she falls in love for him . But Rosario is chased by her enemies from the past . I had a great expectation for this movie based on the awards highlighted on the cover of the DVD but after watching it , it became a huge disappointment . The plot has a promising beginning , mostly because of the erotic scenes with the sexy Flora Martínez and her naked body . Her mysterious character is intriguing in the beginning . However , the dull story goes nowhere and I had trouble to write a summary since nothing happens but a silly triangle of love in the landscape of the underworld of Medellin in a messy soap-opera . The characters are awfully developed : for example , Rosario Tijeras is one of the most ambiguous characters I have ever seen . Is she an expensive prostitute and a killer , and also a drug-dealer or what ? Where is her money charging large amounts for sex and murders ? She seems to be a powerful and cold woman in the beginning , but she is disclosed extremely fragile like a housewife along the story . Is the upper-class Emilio just a playboy ? And who is Antonio ? Why are these guys connected to the underworld of drugs ? The celebration with the dead body of Jonhefe is funny but totally out of the context . The dinner at Emilio's home is another terrible moment of this forgettable flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rosario Tijeras "
Recommended For Gays Only	In New York , while having sex with his partner , the condom bursts and the gay waiter and unemployed actor Jeffrey ( Steven Weber ) , afraid of AIDS , decides to have no more sex in his life . In the gym , he meets the handsome gay Steve ( Michael T . Weiss ) , who is HIV positive , and they fall in love for each other . However , Steve does not want to have an affair , believing that sex is dangerous . " Jeffrey " is a dramatic romantic comedy , with a very well structured screenplay , good cast and direction . However , this low budget movie is recommended for gays only . I read many good professional reviews about this film , and I decided to watch it . I recognize it is a good movie , but not for my taste . Title ( Brazil ) : " Jeffrey , De Caso Com a Vida " ( " Jeffrey , In an Affair With Life " )
Again ?	While camping in Jasper Park up North California , the couple Tom Alan Smithee and Gwen Marie Holden ( Willow Geer ) are attacked by a group of strangers ; Tom is immediately killed and Gwen is abducted by the men to an underground facility to breed . A couple of months later , in Los Angeles , the manager of a video game company Johnny Dash ( Craig Zimmerman ) invites the employees Adam Benson ( Ryan Merriman ) , Lee ( Haylie Duff ) , Maggie ( Mimi Michaels ) , Perry ( Danny Nucci ) , Chris Basso ( Troy Winbush ) , Paul ( Jonathan Slavin ) and Mike Chen to participate of a Battle Royal with paint-ball in a corporate retreat in the Jasper Park to practice executive tactics . When they arrive in a gas station owned by weird rednecks , they refuel their trucks and see a poster telling that Gwen and Tom are missing since 30 February 2008 and have been last seen in Jasper Park . They head to a former military reservation area in the national park and camp . During the night , Adam has the sensation that the group is under observation and he unsuccessfully warns his colleagues . When the game starts on the next morning , the group finds that their training is more than a paint-ball game , but a fight for survival in a hostile ground whose inhabitants are maniac lunatics . " Backwoods " is not a bad movie , meaning that the acting , direction and effects are decent . However , there is a total lack of originality in the story , which is a rip-off or remake of " The Hills Have Eyes " , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Wrong Turn " , " Timber Falls " and others less famous movies . The character Perry is extremely stupid to be considered a " top-executive " , and I could not see how this stupid game could improve " executive tactics " . I could understand if the isolation could improve teamwork increasing friendship , but what we see is the leader shagging one employee and great rivalry and competition among coworkers . The unusual 7 shots revolver does exist ; therefore , the seven shots of Adam Benson is not a mistake . The date on the poster ( 30 February 2008 ) is a big joke , The open end is scary since it seems to indicate a possible sequel . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Bosque " ( " The Bush " )
Mad Cow Disease Makes Ravens Intelligent	On the last working day of Sheriff Wayne ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) , his small town is attacked by blood thirsty ravens that eat human flesh . Meanwhile his wife Cynthia ( Kristin Booth ) visits a farm where a Mennonite family lives to say farewell to her friend Gretchen ( Megan Park ) and discloses a dark secret about the origin of the fierce ravens . " Kaw " is entertaining , but the plot is quite ridiculous . The explanation that the ravens had eaten flesh of cattle with mad cow disease could explain their aggressive behavior or they hunger for flesh ; but the ravens are smart , using for example stones to break the windows of the school bus , and the scientific conclusion is that mad cow disease makes raven intelligent . That is too much , isn't it ? Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Silly , but Very Entertaining Adventure	In India , the backpackers American friends Gina ( Emma Catherwood ) , John ( Cian Barry ) , Stacy ( Lisa Livingstone ) , Geraldine ( Jane Perry ) and Phil ( Michael Smiley ) hike in the woods with their guide Brian ( Mike Rogers ) . When Geraldine is bitten by a poisonous spider , the group decides to seek an American doctor that lives in the jungle in a tribe . Dr . Lecorpus ( Lance Henriksen ) treats the girl and while Gina , John and Phil return to the village in the civilization , Brian and Stacy stay with the native . They decide to visit a temple in the forest while waiting for the recovering of Stacey ; however , they find a dark secret about the evil Dr . Lecorpus . " In the Spider's Web " is a silly , but very entertaining adventure . It is funny to see the short clothes that Gina wears in the jungle , very adequate for a place with vegetation , mosquitoes , bugs and spiders ; or to discover that spider's web is combustible , and a torch provokes fire with explosion ; or that a person should shout in a cave while chased by men armed with daggers . But in the end , this movie was better than I expected and I liked it . Title ( Brazil ) : " Aranhas Assassinas " ( " Assassin Spiders " )
Something Is Missing to Be a Great Movie	In New York , Alex Bernier ( Ledger ) is a young priest and one of the three last members of an arcane order called Carolingians . When the old leader of the order dies , Alex goes to Rome with his friend Mara Sinclair ( Shannyn Sossamon ) , a troubled painter who tried suicide in the past and for whom Alex is in love with . Thomas Garret ( Mark Addy ) , the other member of the Carolingians , meets them in Rome . Alex notes that the body of the old priest bears two marks on the chest and a further investigation reveals that they are the symbol of the ' Sin Eater ' , a renegade priest called William Eden ( Benno Fürmann ) who exchanges absolution per money . Lots of mystery surrounds Alex , Mara and Thomas while they stay in Rome . This movie has a good premise , cast , director , photography , budget , locations , but something is missing or does not work well , and in the end the plot is very confused and quite boring . A waste of a good idea . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Devorador de Pecado ' ( ' Sin Eater ' )
I Expected Much More From This Story	In Italy , the middle age Tom Ripley ( John Malkovich ) is retired and lives in a huge village of his own with his gorgeous wife Luisa , who plays clavier and piano in an orchestra . When his former associate Reeves ( Ray Winstone ) seeks for him to use an outsider to kill a Russian and an Ukrainian mafia bosses in Berlin to start a war between the gangs , Ripley convinces him to use the innocent framer Jonathan Trevanny ( Dougray Scott ) , who has leukemia and is terminal , as a hit-man . The argument is US$ 100 , 000 . 00 , which Jonathan could leave for his wife Sarah ( Lena Headley ) and their son . Indeed , the amoral Ripley wants revenge against Jonathan , who insulted him in a party , corrupting an honest man as if it was a game . Tom Ripley is a fascinating character from the book " The Talented Mr Ripley " and magnificently developed in 1960 by Alain Delon in the outstanding " Plein Soleil " . In 1999 , Matt Damon gave a great performance in the good remake , called " The Talented Mr . Ripley " . Yesterday I saw " Ripley's Game " with a great expectation : Liliana Cavani is one of my favorite directors , and John Malkovitch is one of the best actors in Hollywood . Lena Headley , from " Anazapta " , is also an excellent actress . Therefore , my expectations of watching an excellent film were too high , and in the end I was very disappointed . " Ripley's Game " has great locations in Europe ; John Malkovitch is perfect in the role of a cynical , amoral and sophisticated cold-blood killer , but the story is not good , there are many flaws and at least for me it did not work well . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Retorno do Talentoso Ripley " ( The Return of the Talented Ripley " )
Unpleasant Inconclusive Story About a Group of Scumbags	The porn star John Holmes was the idol of fans of X-rated movies in the 70's . His legend was based on his 14 in . length penis , and the number of women he had intercourse ( about 14 , 000 ) . " Wonderland " is an unpleasant inconclusive movie about his probable involvement with many scumbags in a savage murder of four people in Los Angeles . Although having a great number of good actors and actresses , the awful story shows only thieves , killers , whores , drug dealers and addicted persons , and therefore , there is no " good guy " . In the end , I wished they were all dead . Further , the screenplay is very confused . The music score is excellent and probably the best in this movie . I have not recognized Christina Applegate in the role of Susan Launius ( I have just read her name in the cast in IMDb ) . The second disc of the American DVD shows people from the porn-industry talking about John Holmes . When a lady said that he broke her tooth with his penis while shooting a film , I stopped watching this crap-documentary . The Brazilian DVD is single , and I hope the distributor has spared Brazilian audience of such waste of time . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crimes em Wonderland " ( " Crimes in Winderland " )
Beautiful , Young , Rich and Virgin ? The Perfect Widow	In Minas Gerais , the powerful " colonel " Alexandrão ( Carlos Imperial ) gets married with the young and virgin Cristina ( Adriana Pietro ) and promotes a huge wedding party in his farm . He eats and drinks a lot along the day , and in his " first night " with the bride , he dies before consummating his marriage . The marital status of Cristina becomes very unusual , being a virgin widow . Her doctor advises her to travel to Rio de Janeiro to rest , and she moves with her aunt to an inherited apartment in Leme . Once in Rio de Janeiro , the rascal Constantino ( Jardel Filho ) , who is aware of her wealth , courts her and borrows money , clothes and a Mercedes Benz from his friends , pretending he is businessman man . His friends release " stocks " in a parallel stock market , based and supported in the expectation of the possible marriage of Constantino with Cristina . However , the ghost of Coronel Alexandrão appears for her whenever she intends to have sex with Constantino . " A Viúva Virgem " is an erotic comedy from a dark period of Brazilian cinema history . The military dictatorship installed in my country stimulated this type of silly erotic movie called " pornochanchada " to the population . " A Viúva Virgem " was very famous and one of the best , indeed a milestone and a symbol of a successful " pornochanchada " of those times . All of them were very appellative low budget movies , having ham actors and actresses , and many naked models and popular low level jokes . This was one of the last movies of the gorgeous Adriana Pietro , who died in a road accident in 1974 , when she was only twenty-four years old . This movie is a good opportunity also to revisit the wonderful city of Rio de Janeiro in the 70's , before being partially destroyed by the slums and the construction boom . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Viúva Virgem " ( " The Virgin Widow " )
A B-Movie Full of Clichés	Nick Randall ( Rutger Hauer ) is a bounty hunter . He chases ' very bad guys ' , gets the reward and is saving for buying a vessel . He intends to retire and travel around the world with his girl friend . He is assigned to catch an evil terrorist , Malak Al Rahim ( Gene Simmons ) , who has killed more than 140 persons in his last explosion of a movie theater , and intends to blow-up a chemical facility and kill thirty thousand persons . This is an authentic B-movie full of clichés . The plot is totally predictable , but supported by good actors . It may be watched only for killing time .
Predictable Twist	The medical student Eve ( Kelly Overton ) is assigned to care of Don Wake ( James Haven ) , a catatonic patient of a psychiatric Cape State Hospital who was found covered with blood near his dead mother . She must succeed in disclosing the truth about the murder of his mother and improve his conditions to conclude her medical course . She secretly changes his medications and he starts talking to her about a theory of conspiracy leaded by the mysterious Malachi . Eve becomes obsessed and paranoid with her patient while Don dominates her mind deeper and deeper . When she breaks with Don out of the mental institution , she finally discloses the truth about the crime . " Breaking Dawn " is reasonable and too long , since the twist is very predictable . In spite of having good performances of Kelly Overton and James Haven , the screenplay is very weak and does not work well . Title ( Brazil ) : " À Beira do Abismo " ( " Near to the Abyss " )
' Big Brother ' Meets ' The Blair Witch Project ' in the Environment of ' The Shining '	Three young men and two young women are participating in a reality show broadcasted through the Internet . The rules are very simple : they are in an isolated house , surrounded only by snow , and all of them must stay in the show for six months . In return , each of them would receive one million dollars . If any of them quits , the group does not receive the money . However , mysterious deaths happen and the survivals question whether they are part of a snuff film scheme . ' My Little Eye ' is a non-original horror movie , indeed a collection of clichés , using the idea of the reality show ' Big Brother ' , the camera of ' The Blair Witch Project ' and the environment of ' The Shining ' . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Olho Que Tudo Vê ' ( ' The Eye That Sees Everything ' )
Promising Story with a Terrible Conclusion	When four police officers from the 31st Precinct are slaughtered in a raid in Washington Heights , Chief of Police Francis Tierney Sr . ( Jon Voight ) assigns his son , Detective Ray Tierney ( Edward Norton ) , in the task force that is investigating the murder under the command of his brother and Chief of 31st Precinct , Francis Tierney Jr . ( Noah Emmerich ) . Ray uses his common sense and knowledge of the streets to chase the criminal Angel Tezo ( Ramon Rodriguez ) that survived the slaughter and is the main witness of the crime . However , he also discloses a network of corruption in the police department and has a moral dilemma when he finds that his brother-in-law and also officer Jimmy Eagan ( Colin Farrell ) is dirty and a drug-dealer . The complex " Pride and Glory " has a confused beginning , where many situations are disclosed without the necessary development of the characters . However , after fifteen , twenty minutes , the viewer has the big picture of the events and sees many parallel dramatic sub-plots and the promising movie is highly engaging . Unfortunately the conclusion is terrible from the moment that Ray decides to meet Jimmy in a bar and bring his brother-in-law arrested with him . Why doesn't he go to the Internal Affairs and tells the truth instead supported by his brother ? The fight and the subsequent death of Jimmy would be enough to sentence him guilty in any court . I do not understand why the writer decided to spoil the excellent plot with this stupid conclusion , transforming my exhilaration in a great deception . " Dark Blue " has a similar theme ( multi-generation of detectives , corruption in the police department etc . ) and is more solid and consistent . Title ( Brazil ) : " Força Policial " ( " Police Force " )
A Weird Movie , With a Great Performance of Julianne Moore	Carol White ( Julianne Moore ) is a woman living in a wonderful house , apparently wealth and well married with Greg ( Xander Berkeley ) . She has a stepson and spends her time decorating the house , in the gym classes or with her friends . Apparently without any reason , she becomes ill , although all the exams show her in a perfect shape . She goes to the family doctor , to the psychiatrist and finally moves to a commune clinic , managed by a man with Aids . There she realizes that she has a sort of ' environmental disease ' and she apparently feels safe . This weird film has a very positive point : another great performance of Julianne Moore . It is amazing the capacity of acting of this actress : she can be evil , like in ' The Ideal Husband ' , a strong FBI agent , like in ' Hannibal ' or a fragile housewife , like in this ' Safe ' . This unconventional , very slow and too long movie is at least intriguing . The ' clinic ' seems to be escaped from ' Billy Jack ' or other movie from the 1970's . The last part of the story , when Carol joins the ' clinic ' , is boring and disappointing . This movie also offers the opportunity of seeing Jessica Harper , the star of Brian De Palma's ' Phantom of Paradise ' , with a minor participation as Joyce , a patient in the clinic .
Nature Reaction	When people start to kill themselves in the Central Park and then three blocks from the original location , the government announces a terrorist attack and evacuates New York . In Philadelphia , the high school teacher Elliot Moore ( Mark Wahlberg ) , his wife Alma ( Zooey Deschanel ) , his colleague and best friend Julian ( John Leguizamo ) and his daughter Jess ( Ashlyn Sanchez ) embark in a train to Harrisburg , but the service is disconnected in Filbert , still in Philadelphia . Sooner they see on the news that the government denies a terrorist attack , and that the affected area has spread out to Rittenhouse Square Park in Philadelphia and then to the Northeast of the United States of America , from Philadelphia to Boston . Julian decides to take a lift to Princeton to seek out his wife Yvette and leaves Jess under the care of Elliot and Alma . The trio moves to a lonely area in the Arundel County where they meet the lonely and weird Mrs . Jones ( Betty Buckley ) , who lodges them . But sooner the nature reaches them ? I had good expectation with " The Happening " , but unfortunately it is another mediocre work of the overrated director M . Night Shyamalan that became famous with " The Sixth Sense " , a good movie that uses the twist of " Haunted " ( 1995 ) in a great screenplay . " The Happening " has an intriguing beginning à la " Night of Living Dead " , i . e . , something is happening to the population of the East Coast of the USA forcing them to kill themselves , and the media is only speculating what might have happened . Therefore , the suicides in this movie are very similar to the zombies in George A . Romero's classic ? the menace does exist but nobody knows why . The development is reasonable , in spite of the absolute lack of chemistry between the miscast Mark Wahlberg and the gorgeous Zooey Deschanel . However the conclusion is simply awful and of course disappointing . As mentioned in the title of the review below , " Shyamalan needs to stop ! " or at least to rethink his career . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fim dos Tempos " ( " End of the Time " )
Free Violence , In an Unnecessary Sadistic Version of the Last Moments of Jesus Christ Recommended for Butchers and Vampires	There are many excellent movies about the life and death of Jesus Christ . Any reader of IMDb site can make a search to check it . I am not religious , but I liked ' Jesus ' ( 1999 ) , ' King of Kings ' ( 1961 ) and some other versions , which I do not recall the original title . I really believed that this theme had been depleted in the cinema industry . Mel Gibson , however , decided to innovate and make a polemic sadistic version of this biblical story . In his movie , there are only torture , blood , beating , blood , free violence , blood . . . and more blood . The performance of the cast is magnificent , the aesthetic and photography is wonderful , the locations are stunning . But this Mel Gibson's version is highly recommended for butchers and vampires . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Paixão de Cristo ' ( ' The Passion of Christ ' )
Facing the Guilty and Fear	In 1944 , in the Belgian ? German border , seven German soldiers survive an American attack in the front and lock themselves in a bunker to protect the position . Under siege by the enemy and with little ammunition , they decide to explore underground tunnels to seek supplies and find an escape route . While in the tunnel , weird things happen with the group . I have recently seen the South Korean movie " R-Point " ( 2004 ) , which efficiently explores the idea of " The Bunker " ? scary and ambiguous journey to hell of the innermost fear of a group of soldiers , in an intelligent screenplay . Now I find that " The Bunker " is a 2001 movie , which has the originally of the concept , but unfortunately the confused screenplay does not work well . The acting is good , but the development of the plot could be better and better . For those viewers that also find that something is missing in the story , I strongly suggest seeing " R-Point " for comparison of what " The Bunker " could have been with some improvements . Title ( Brazil ) : " The Bunker ? Em Guerra Contra o Medo " ( " The Bunker ? In War against the Fear " )
A Waste of an Excellent Cast and Budget in a Very Silly Movie	First of all , let me explain that these characters ( Rocky ? Dentinho & Bullwinkle ? Alceu ) are completely unknown in Brazil . My son , my daughter , my wife and I , i . e . very different generations , have never heard anything about this animated cartoon . Therefore , part of the jokes are lost for us . Maybe in North America or in other countries where this cartoon is popular , the viewers may have a different approach . But this is not the unique problem , otherwise we would not like the yearly released new character , for example , by Disney studios or Dreamworks . The cast of ' The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle ' is excellent , having names like Robert de Niro , Whoopy Goldberg , John Goodman , Rene Russo , Randy Quaid , Jason Alexander and Janeane Garofalo and the effects are great meaning very high budget . However , the story is so horribly silly , that maybe even children may find it imbecile . Title ( Brazil ) : ' As Aventuras de Alceu e Dentinho ' ( ' The Adventure of Alceu and Little Tooth ' )
Predictable and Forgettable	Samantha Owens ( Mara ) is the editor of the high school newspaper and was blacklisted with her two friends , Gina ( Haley McCormick ) and Mindy ( Olesya Rulin ) , by the football players after an article about them , so they do not go to a high school party . Samantha tells to the other girls an urban legend told by her mother : in 1969 , in Salt Lake City , the two girlfriends of Mary Banner ( Lilith Fields ) are drugged by their dates in a prom , but she understands the situation and runs from her date , who kills her and hide her body in a trunk in the basement of the school . Like the Candyman , Samantha speaks " Bloody Mary " three times , evoking the evil spirit of Mary . Along the night , the three girls are drugged and kidnapped in a prank of the players , but Samantha has visions and premonitions about Mary . When her school mates are killed , Mary visits Grace Taylor ( Tina Lifford ) , one of the girls abused in 1969 , and finds that the victims are the descendants of the trio that killed Mary and harmed her friends , and that Mary spirit is seeking for revenge . I bought this DVD full of good expectations , based on the name of director Mary Lambert , since " Pet Sematary " is one of my favorite horror movies ever . Unfortunately , the predictable and forgettable story of " Urban Legends : Bloody Mary " is very bad and full of clichés . Mary crawling from the bottom of the bed is a rip-off of Samara in " The Ring " . It seems that there is only some care with the gore deaths , but the same does not happen with the characters . For example , Samantha's mother Pam ( Nancy Everhard ) , who told the story of Mary to Samantha , vanishes and Samantha and David never ask for additional information about Mary to her . David is stupidly killed and Samantha in the end of the story with Grace does not miss or even mention him . The death of Heather Thompson , attacked by spiders , is the best moment of this disappointing flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lendas Urbanas 3 : A Vingança de Mary " ( " Urban Legends 3 : Mary's Revenge " )
Promising Idea , Disappointing Vampire Movie	In Barrow , Alaska , seventy percent of the population of five hundred and some dwellers travels on the day of the last sunset , since the town will stay along the next thirty days without sun light . Sheriff Eben Oleson ( Josh Hartnett ) and Deputy Billy Kitka ( Manu Bennett ) find many cell phones burned on the road . Then they receive a phone call from the local creator telling that his dogs have been slaughtered ; later Eben finds the operator of the cell tower decapitated . He arrests a troublemaker drifter ( Ben Foster ) and the stranger frightens him telling that " they are coming and the locals will be dead " . Sooner Eben discovers that the town is under siege and attacked by a gang of bloodthirsty vampires , and together with a few survivors , they hide in a empty cellar expecting for the next sunrise . " 30 Days of Night " has a promising idea , a reasonable beginning and development but a disappointing conclusion . The stupid decision of Sheriff Eben , injecting the contaminated blood to fight against the leader of the vampires , is one of the most ridiculous situations I have ever seen in a movie . The guy transforms himself in a vampire , and after a fight where he is beat-up , he destroys the evil leader . Then the other vampires simply leave the spot and a few minutes later the sun rises . But the hideout where Stella was has not been destroyed by the fire and the vampires had not noted her presence . Therefore his attitude was absolutely unnecessary ? he should only wait for a couple of minutes to save the whole team ; further , how could the gang of vampires survive to the sun light if they burned the whole town ? Why didn't they leave Barrow before ? Why did they kill most of the inhabitants in the very beginning in bloodshed if they should stay for thirty days in the town and the dwellers were stranded , with no place to go ? The strength and the speed of the vampires in the beginning of the story are also very silly . Title ( Brazil ) : " 30 Dias de Noite " ( " 30 Days of Night " )
Deceptive Lucio Fulci's Gore Movie	In 1486 , in Sicily , five nuns are crucified in their nunnery by the superstitious locals that believe they are evil and worship devil . In 1990 , in Toronto , the skeptical archaeologist Professor Paul Evans ( Brett Halsey ) and his superstitious colleague Liza Harris ( Meg Register ) explore with their team the medieval dig where the nuns were killed . Liza has dreadful nightmares with the nuns while members of the expedition mysteriously die and the locals are against the research in the archaeological site . " Demonia " is a deceptive Lucio Fulci's gore movie . The terrible story is never scary or intriguing ; actually it is boring , with the low pace of the first half , and ridiculous with an awful conclusion associated to an annoying soundtrack . It is funny to see , for example , the blonde archaeologist that is superstitious , participates in séances and is scared after finding coffins with bones in a crypt . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Shallow , Silly and Fake Tropical Version of ' Sex & the City '	In Rio de Janeiro , the thirty-four years old graphic designer Laura ( Giovanna Antonelli ) is trying to find a perfect boyfriend and get married to have children . Laura has three great girlfriends , and they meet in their vacant time for talking , gossips and looking for men in bars . Laura decides to go to the blind date agency ' Honeymoon ' , where she meets and dates Miguel ( Caco Ciocler ) , a funny Arab descendant merchant but having a different level of education . Meanwhile , in the firm where she works , the new employee Thiago ( Reynaldo Gianecchini ) is having affairs with all the women of the office and is sexually arresting her . ' Avassaladoras ' is a shallow , silly and fake tropical version of ' Sex & the City ' , showing four women of thirty and something years in Rio de Janeiro in the same situations of Carrie , Samantha , Charlotte and Miranda in New York . The film is totally stereotyped and full of clichés : everybody is beautiful , has futile concerns with life and lives in wonderful houses and apartments with landscapes of tourist areas of Rio de Janeiro . This movie seems to be a version of the Brazilian useless magazine ' Caras ' , specialized in housing and gossips of the rich and famous persons , on screen . The worth parts of ' Avassaladoras ' are those where the characters of Laura's grandmother and Miguel participate . The beauty of Giovanna Antonelli is also very special and great to be seen . The performance of the ham ' actor ' Reynaldo Gianecchini is simply ridiculous . In the excellent present moment of the Brazilian cinema industry , this movie is a shame . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Avassaladoras ' ( ' Overwhelming Women ' )
Watchable , Predictable and Forgettable	Five thousand years ago , in Sumer , the fallen angels had intercourse with human females and their offspring were a race of giants called Nephilim , destroyed by the great flood . The evil angel Ammon ( Navid Negahban ) mummifies his son Aramis to save him , and hides in hell . In the present days , the archaeologist Matt Fletcher ( Casper Van Dien ) finds Aramis tomb with excavating for building a resort for the entrepreneur Morton ( Robert Wagner ) . The engineer Angela ( Kristen Miller ) joins the team , giving support in the diggings . When some workers mysteriously vanish , Morton hires the security force of Ammon to find the missing men . However , his real intention is to resurrect Aramis in the eclipse of the moon and dominate the human race with a new breed of giants . " The Fallen Ones " has a promising idea , recalling those sci-fi horror movies from the 50's , but unfortunately it is badly executed . This low budget movie is leaded by Casper Van Dien , a promising actor in " Starship Troopers " that fell to a synonym of star of low quality films , and " The Fallen Ones " is no exception in his terrible filmography . The plot has many flaws and terrible lines , but contradictory entertains , with some laughable scenes . The funniest one is when Matt throws one dynamite banana precisely in the mouth of a 12 m ( i . e . , a height of a four floors building ) mummy in movement , blowing up Aramis . The best in this watchable , but predictable and forgettable movie , is the beauty of Kristen Miller . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Anjos do Mal " ( " The Angels of Evil " )
I Love Iranian Movies , But This One is Very Boring and Overrated	I am a great fan of Iranian films , and I have many titles in my collection . They are usually low budget , but very creative and sensitive movies . However , I found " Bad Ma Ra Khahad Bord " very boring and overrated . I do not know whether today it was not the right day for me to watch it , if I was too tired , or if I missed the point , but I did not like the story . For Western viewers like me , it is very interesting to see this total different culture of an ancient people , the geography of their country , their costumes and mainly their great concern with education , presented in most of the Iranian movies . Further , Abbas Kiarostami is a recognized and awarded director . And in accordance with the cover of the VHS , this movie awarded the Venice Festival in the category Best Film . But all of these elements together are not necessary or sufficient to make me like this movie . I have some friends of mine that will certainly criticize my review , but this is my honest opinion . " Bad Ma Ra Khahad Bord " is interesting while shows a different culture and geography , but also too long and tedious . Anyway , I intend to see it again in a near future in a Saturday or Sunday afternoon to reevaluate my present opinion . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Vento Nos Levará " ( " The Wind Will Carry Us " )
The Sword and the Dog From Hell	In Bucharest , Romania , the priceless breastplate of Attila , the Hun is robbed from the National Museum of Antiquities by a gang leaded by the despicable Marcus Cutter ( Greg Evidan ) , and the curator Radu ( Gelu Nitu ) is killed by one of the thieves . Meanwhile , in New York City , the former assistant of Professor Radu , Dr . Samantha Gaines ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) , is waiting for the valuable piece for an exhibition . The agent Jake Adams ( Sebastian Spence ) visits Samantha in the museum to tell about the heist and the death of her friend , and she tells about the legend that the breastplate would have the inscription of the location of the Sword of Mars , which is guarded by Cerberus and made Attila invincible . When Samantha's brother and addicted gambler Jack ( Brent Florence ) is kidnapped , she believes his debt of US$ 2 , 000 . 00 could be the reason , and travels to Romania invited by the evil kidnapper Kul Jae Sung ( Garret T . Sato ) , getting involved in a supernatural adventure with Jake . " Cerberus " is a reasonable and entertaining adventure , unfortunately " sold " to the viewers as a horror genre by the distributor . I bought this DVD expecting to see a trash movie , and actually it is an action movie with a supernatural dog and sword . The screenplay is flawed and predictable , and also too serious while it should have jokes and humor with the unbelievable situations , but this film is not so bad and does not deserve the IMDb User Rating of 3 . 9 . I only believe that it does not reach the target audience with the scary monster and tagline inducing to horror genre on cover of the DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cerberus - O Guardião do Inferno " ( " Cerberus - The Guardian of Hell " )
Boring and Non-Sense	In the Nineteenth Century , in Bahia , the bandit Francisco Manoel da Silva aka Cobra Verde ( Klaus Kinski ) is feared and respected by the locals . He is hired by the lord Octavio Coutinho ( José Lewgoy ) to work as henchman in one of his plantations of sugar cane , supervising the slaves and the production of sugar . When the three daughters of Octavio are pregnant of Cobra Verde , he is sent to Almeria , in the West of Africa , to negotiate slaves with the crazy African King Abomey , in times when this trade was prohibited by Great Britain . The loneliness associated to the fact of being the only white man in Almeria drives Cobra Verde to insanity . " Cobra Verde " is boring and non-sense , and certainly the worst movie of Werner Herzog that I have seen so far . Watching this movie actually gives the sensation of seeing a samba-school in the carnival of Rio de Janeiro , with absurd inconsistencies like , for example , the blonde Klaus Kinski performing a Brazilian ; the Brazilian and African characters speak German , but the natives sing in their dialect ; the title " Don " is not used in Brazil . Last but not the least , Klaus Kinski insane character seems to be a déjà vu of Don Lope de Aguirre . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cobra Verde " ( " Green Snake " )
Trespassers Will Be Eaten	While returning to Los Angeles in a trailer through the desert , the driver Neil ( Brent Taylor ) convinces his friends Tara ( Ashley Elizabeth ) , Harmony ( Danna Brady ) , Loopz ( Aaron Buer ) , Michelle ( Jessica Osfar ) , Lee ( Ryan De Rouen ) and Cashie ( Kelsey Wedeen ) to take a detour to an isolated mine where it could have a plantation of peyote . The owner of a gas station advises the group to not go to the place , but the stubborn Neil does not pay attention to his words . While driving in a secondary road , Neil sees a girl and wrecks the car in a rock . He decides to walk back to the gas station to call a tow truck , while Michelle and Lee climb a hill trying to get signal to their cell phones . Sooner the teenagers find that they are under siege of a group of sadistic deformed cannibals and they have to fight to survive . " Detour " is a teen rip-off of " The Hills Have Eyes " , using the same storyline but with many silly dialogs and situations . I like horror movies , and " Detour " is not among the worse that I have seen , having beautiful and sexy actresses and a good conclusion with the scary little girl in the best scene of the movie . Unfortunately the annoying character Loopz spoils what could be worthwhile in this movie , plagiarizing the way of speaking of Eminen and having imbecile lines and attitudes . In a certain moment I was so irritated with this actor that I almost stopped the DVD . The screenplay is very weak , without suspense or tension . If you have not seen this movie yet , better off watching " The Hills Have Eyes " instead . Title ( Brazil ) : " Detour - Rota 666 " ( " Detour - Route 666 " )
A Very Erotic Low Budget Movie With A Disappointing Moralist End	Stefan ( Julian Sands ) is a successful screenwriter and has an open marriage with the delicious , sexy and unfaithful Alina ( Joanna Pacula ) with an agreement : she stays with him from Sunday night until Friday night . The other two days , she stays with her lover Paolo ( Tchéky Karyo ) . It is not clear , but it seems that his love for her is very platonic and she fulfills her sexual needs with her lover . Or maybe he has some kind of perversion that pleasures him when she tells what she did with Paolo along the weekend . Paolo starts practicing kinky sex , Alina becomes masochist , and in some part of the story , Stefan does not accept this situation any longer . This low budget movie is very well produced , with wonderful landscapes , costumers from Armani , fancy locations and soundtrack of Ennio Morricone . The plot is darer , but unfortunately the end is very moralist and disappointing . Joanna Pacula , one of the most gorgeous and sexy actresses of the cinema industry , spends most of the film undressing her beautiful clothes and exposing her astonishing body . Maybe this is the best that this movie can offer to the viewer .
Pointless Alienation	The teenager and skateboarder Alex ( Gabe Nevins ) is interviewed by Detective Richard Lu ( Daniel Liu ) that is investigating the death of a security guard in the rail yards severed by a train that was apparently hit by a skate board . While dealing with the separation process of his parents and the sexual heat of his virgin girlfriend Jennifer ( Taylon Momsen ) , Alex writes his last experiences in Paranoid Park with his new acquaintances and how the guard was killed , trying to relieve his feeling of guilty from his conscience . " Paranoid Park " is a disappointing movie of director Gus Van Sant . Like in " Elephant " , Gus discloses the alienation of the youths through the accidental death of a security guard , showing how the killer deals with his guilty following the advice of his friend and easily resolves his issues showing no remorse . But the story is too short and and maybe more adequate for a short . For a feature , it is pointless going nowhere along 85 minutes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Paranoid Park "
To Make the Viewers Become Vegetarian	In the periphery of Paris , the fate of horses , cows and other animals in a slaughterhouse is detailed in this short documentary . My first comment about this disgusting short is that fortunately it is not in color . I believe that there are two possible views of this short : technically , my opinion is that it is perfect . The shootings of Paris , the cinematography , the camera , the skill of the workers , in this regard everything is perfectly shown . However , the theme is simply awful and of a completely bad taste . I do not know if George Franju was vegetarian , but probably his intention showing the slaughter of animals , inclusive of an offspring , was to make the viewers become vegetarian . I believe most of the pseudo-intellectual readers will not like my review , but that was my impression of this documentary . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Sangue das Bestas " ( " The Blood of the Beasts " )
The Ice Cream Man and the Demon Children	Prue has a melody in her head and when she sees a girl humming the tune , she finds that it belongs to the ice-cream truck . Prue and Phoebe follow the girl and the trio is sucked by a vortex inside the van . They find a playground in the middle of the snow and several children hiding from The Nothing . They rescue the children and once back in San Francisco , they realize that they are demon children . Meanwhile , their father Victor Bennett returns and helps his daughters to fix the situation , capturing the dangerous demons and sending them back to The Nothing . " We All Scream for Ice Cream " is a very silly episode of " Charmed " . The corny return of the father of the Halliwell sisters and the explanation for his absence are totally unreasonable and boring . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Sorveteiro " ( " The Ice Cream Man " )
The Dark Past of Phoebe	Phoebe is attacked by some invisible force , and Leo advises that it might be some signal from her past life . Phoebe casts a spell to live her former life , and she discloses that she was evil . Her boyfriend Anton was a warlock that wanted to kill her cousins and good witches Prue and Piper to steal their powers . Phoebe finds also that she used an amulet to protect herself against her cousins . " Pardon My Past " is a silly episode of " Charmed " , with a weak explanation for the attack to Phoebe . Further , how Leo could be Piper's lover if he died in World War I ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Desculpe-me Pelo Meu Passado " ( " Sorry for My Past " )
Fairies and Trolls	Piper has a nightmare with Leo and tells Prue that The Powers That Be have ordered Leo to disappear from her life . Meanwhile Phoebe meets Kate , a young girl that claims that she saved the fairy princess Thistle and now the trolls come in the " tween time " to scare her and capture the fairy . Prue and Phoebe uses magic fairy powder and revert to little girls to see Thistle . Cole Turner visits Phoebe in her house and tries to steal the Book of Shadows disclosing his true appearance , of the demon Belthazor . In the end , Leo returns to Piper telling that The Powers That Be have given a second chance to them . " Once Upon a Time " is a very silly and boring episode of " Charmed " , where the transformation of Cole into Belthazor is the best part . I had good expectations for this show after " Magic Hour " , but I was really disappointed with the fate of Piper and Leo . Title ( Brazil ) : " Era Uma Vez ? " ( " Once Upon a Time ? " )
The Return of Barbas , the Demon of Fear	A hit-woman tries to kill the Halliwell sisters on Friday , 13th , shooting their house but she dies when Prue protects herself and her sisters from the bullets . They find that she was Ms . Hellfire , and Prue goes undercover to investigate why a mortal woman wished to kill them . Prue discloses that she was hired by the gangster Bane Jessup , who associated to the Demon of Fear Barbas , to kill the Halliwell sisters and other witches before midnight . In " Ms . Hellfire " , Barbas returns but is again vanquished by the Halliwell sisters . Prue develops the ability of astral projection and the sisters disclose to Darryl Morris that they are good witches . I do not know how Prue was able to get the fortune of Ms . Hellfire to Buckland's Auction House . The silly Marcie Stedwell is annoying , and this episode is very weak . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Sra . Hellfire " ( " The Mrs . Hellfire " )
The Guardians of the Bad Guys	Piper and Leo have vanished for one month , and Piper and Prue are wondering if they will ever come back . When the sisters save Darryl from the killer Emilio Smith , the prosecutor Cole Turner builds a case with the testimony of Phoebe . However , Judge William Hamilton uses the pretext of the missing weapon to release the criminal . Piper returns with Leo , and he proposes her . When Emilio attacks Cole , Prue and Phoebe save him , and in the court the Halliwell sisters find that Guardians are protecting the bad guys . In this Third Season , the mysterious new character of Cole Turner is introduced and I believe this is the greatest attraction of this show . In this moment , the questions certainly are if he is a good or a bad guy , and what are his objectives . The story has the usual flaws and silly lines , but entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Acabou a Lua de Mel " ( " The Honeymoon Is Over " )
Bizarre , Grotesque and Dark	The unfertile Virginia ( Brooke Adams ) and her husband , Brad Marshall ( Jeff Hayenga ) , decide to join an experimental in-vitro fertilization program developed by Dr . Richard Meyerling ( James Karen ) . The trial succeeds , but along the pregnancy , Virginia finds that something weird is happening with the fetus . " The Unborn " is a very reasonable low-budget horror movie . Bizarre in some moments , grotesque in others , and dark as a whole , this movie has a very strong and disturbing scene , when a pregnant woman stabs herself in the belly . Therefore , it is certainly not recommended to pregnant women watch this film . I do not agree with the comparison with the masterpiece " Rosemary's Baby " , since the stories are totally different , having in common only the pregnancy of something weird . I found this movie a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Bebê Maldito " ( " The Damned Baby " )
An Eye for an Eye ( Literally )	After the installation of an alarm system by the twenty-three year old low-class Adam ( Danny Dyer ) in her fancy upper class apartment , the sophisticated owner Alice ( Gillian Anderson ) invites him to go with her in her boss ' " opening house " boring party in the countryside . Adam dates Alice and has a dream night in the fashionable party inclusive having sex with her . While driving back home in a lonely cobblestone road in the middle of the night , Alice hits a moose and the couple parks the car to remove the wounded animal from the road . However , a van stops and a gang brutally assaults Adam and rapes Alice . One month later , Adam is impotent with Alice , has awful scars in his face and a blind eye and the traumatized Alice returns to her work . However , she is informed that her father has passed away and she travels back to the countryside to visit her father's home . While driving back home , she meets one of her rapist by chance and she discovers where he lives . Alice meets Adam and convinces him to come with her to take revenge against the violent man . " Closure " is a weird movie , with a promising premise wasted in an awful and pointless screenplay . The story begins with an absolutely poor development of the lead characters : who is upper-middle class Alice ; what is her profession ; and how is her relationship the " alarm guy " Adam ? I understand that they might have had a past since Alice has a suit that fits perfectly in Adam ; otherwise she is simply a woman seeking for one night stand . In the story , Alice is a tough character seeking revenge while Adam is weak ; however , the situation reverts in the end , and Adam's attitude is totally plausible and believable ; but Alice seems to feel sorry and sympathy for the violent rapist and the whole plot becomes senseless and pointless . In my opinion , Dan Reed lost the opportunity to make a great revenge movie like , for example , Neil Jordan's " The Brave One " of the same year ( 2007 ) is . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Future in 1936	Along one hundred year , mankind lives a long period of war from 1940 to 1966 ; then a plague destroys half of the worldwide population ; and finally a group of scientists reconstruct the society bringing progress . Each one of these eras is disclosed in the city of Everytown , in England : during the war , the city is completely destroyed . Then with the plague , the ill people called wanderings are killed by the survivors . One day , a weird airplane lands and the pilot tells that he belongs to a scientific community called Wings Over the World and their mission is to rebuild the societies , using a gas to make people peaceful . In 2036 , in a modern Everytown , an opponent of the progress raises the population against the system . " Things to Come " is a weird and pessimist view of the future in 1936 . The scenarios and special effects are amazing for a movie of the 30's , but the screenplay is messy in the conclusion and the perspective is completely dated in the present days . However for fans of cinema and sci-fi genre , it is worthwhile watching this original concept of the future . Title ( Brazil ) : " Daqui a Cem Anos " ( " In One Hundred Years " )
If You Do Not Have Nothing Better To Do In a Rainy Saturday Afternoon , You May Watch and Even Appreciate This Movie	Jake Mellows ( Michael Keaton ) is a divorced American banker sent to Monaco to investigate the possibility of laundering of money . Apparently the laundry of money was made through the production of films . In Monaco , he meets Lela Forin ( Judith Godrèche ) , the financial manager of Miramax films , and Michael Caine , a decadent , alcoholic and gambler previously famous actor of action movies . Being in Europe , makes him promise his teenager daughter to visit her in London . Then , he gets absurdly involved in the murdering of the ports chief of police of Monaco . Then he realizes that most of the high level characters of the story are somehow involved with corruption . Next , his daughter is kidnapped . Jake will have to fight against powerful persons trying to save his daughter and himself and prove his innocence . This plot is so absurd and has so many ' holes ' that becomes funny . The murdering of the ports chief of police ' à la Kennedy ' and how and why Jake is blamed are ridiculous . Anyway , if the viewer do not have nothing better to do in a rainy Saturday afternoon , there is a chance to enjoy this flick . The excellent Michael Caine is not decadent yet like his character , and Michael Keaton is a good actor .
A Bizarre and Weird Trip to a Disturbed Mind	While in the hospital for a tomography of the brain of his autistic daughter Sarah ( Skye Bennett ) , Ben ( Noah Huntley ) becomes upset when there is a power failure . He decides to leave the hospital with Sarah , while the nurse Emily ( Dominique McElligott ) tries to convince him to leave Sarah for further treatment . They get the elevator with three other passengers , and suddenly the elevator stops ; when the door opens , people has vanished from the hospital , the environment is creepy and they are chased by devilish monsters . They find that they are trapped in the hospital , and the creatures seem to be hunting Sarah . " Dark Floors " is a bizarre and weird trip to a disturbed mind of an autistic girl . The dark story is intriguing and has a promising beginning , but the conclusion is disappointing . The performance of Skye Bennett , the eerie atmosphere and the special effects are the plus of this movie ; Emily is a nice character well performed by Dominique McElligott ; however , it is impossible to feel any empathy for the lead and important character performed by Noah Huntley . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alma Diabólica " ( " Devilish Soul " )
Distant From the War	In 1989 , when Iraq invaded Kuwait , the USA sent countless troops to Middle East deserts to combat Saddam Hussein army . " Jarhead " is based on a book written by one Marine , who joined this force due to lack of professional options , since he was not able to go to college . This movie shows the Marine Corp trained by stupid and sadistic leaders , and the troop completely alienated , in a war without seeing the enemy , or knows the country or the costumes of the locals , and even the reasons for their action , being trained like pawns , aiming to kill an enemy . I do not know the reality of the Marines , but the way the story is presented it is not compatible with the worldwide image they have , mostly due to Hollywood movies . I was a little disappointed with director Sam Mendes , after " American Beauty " ( 1999 ) and " Road to Perdition " ( 2002 ) . With the usual interval of three years to make a movie , he should have selected a better screenplay . Title ( Brazil ) : " Soldado Anônimo " ( " Anonymous Soldier " )
Watch the Original Firestarter - Do not Spend Your Time With This Sequel	A Minor SpoilerIn the 80's , Stephen King's Firestarter was a successful movie in Brazil , with the lovely Drew Barrymore . However , this sequel is horrible : bad actors , senseless screenplay and a waste of unnecessary special effects . The name of Malcom McDowell in the credits is a synonym of a bad movie . Remove the wonderful ' A Clockwork Orange ' , ' Cat People ' and ' Star Trek Generation ' from his extensive filmography , and what rests ? Danny Nucci keeps a dummy expressionless face along the whole story , no matter what he is doing . Charlie ( Marguerite Moreau ) seems to lose control of her power only when having sex . And why destroy the whole town in the last scene ? Wouldn't it be enough to kill her enemy John Rainbird ? Dennis Hopper keeps his arms down in the most of his scenes . Does he have a problem with his arms ? Title ( Brazil ) : " O Jogo dos Espíritos " ( " The Spirit Game " )
Reasonable Sequel of " Dracula II : Ascension "	Father Uffizi ( Jason Scott Lee ) and Luke ( Jason London ) travels through a Romania destroyed by the civil war and the vampires . Luke is trying to save Elizabeth ( Diane Neal ) from the claws of Dracula , and Uffizi to terminate with the vampires . Along their journey , they meet the British television journalist Julia Hughes ( Alexandra Westcourt ) covering the war , and the trio follow together facing dangerous situations with the rebels and the vampires . " Dracula III : Legacy " is a reasonable sequel of " Dracula II : Ascension " . The cinematography is beautiful , the special effects work well , but the facial expressions of the ham actor Jason London almost spoil the film . In the end , this forgettable movie entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Drácula 3 : O Legado Final " ( " Dracula 3 : The Final Legacy " )
The ' Ringu ' of Internet ? A Ghost Story	After some mysterious deaths showing the same symptoms in the victims , Terry Huston ( Natascha McElhone ) , from the Department of Health , investigates the possibility of a virus in the city with Homicide Detective Mike Reilly ( Stephen Dorff ) . However , they realize that all the victims have visited an Internet site called ' www . fear . com ' forty-eight hours before dying . A further investigation shows that there is a ghost on the web killing its users . Meanwhile , Detective Mike Reilly is also investigating a murderer called Alistair Pratt , ' The Doctor ' ( Stephen Rea ) . This movie has good and bad points . The story is plagiarized from the excellent and original Japanese ' Ringu ' , but the American ' The Ring ' was a copy and became a success . There are some flaws along the confused plot . But there are also interesting points . For example , the dark and rainy atmosphere recalls ' Seven ' . There is a sort of contrast between the modern ( computer , Internet , cars ) and life in the 30's or 40's ( old buildings , classic costumes and furniture ) , recalling a film-noir , with a beautiful photography and style . There are also some reasonable special effects . The cast is slightly above average , with Natascha McElhone , Stephen Rea and Stephen Dorff . Therefore I dare to say that it is a watchable movie and I do not agree with the User Rating . Title ( Brazil ) : ' MedoPontoCombr ' ( ' FearDotCom ' )
Important in Brazilian Filmography , But Also Very Dated	In the slums of São Paulo in the 30's , Carmen ( Carmem Violeta ) is a young woman abused by her stepfather ( Humberto Mauro ) . She leaves her home and finds that her boyfriend Milton ( Milton Marinho ) is married . While looking for a job , she faints on the street and is helped by the writer Flávio ( Celso Montenegro ) . She moves to his house and maritally lives with him . Flávio becomes shared between the love for Carmen , the desire for his former fiancée and the passion and self-interest for a wealthy young daughter of a powerful judge . " Mulher " is an important movie in the Brazilian filmography , since it was shot after the Revolution of 1930 and presents a powerful woman character , Carmen . One of the greatest transgressions of this film is the fact that she lives with her beloved mate , but they are not married . In the end of the story , they stay together , but also without a wedding . In the hypocrite Brazilian society of the 30's , a woman of such behavior would be unacceptable . Nevertheless , this story is very dated in the present days . This film was restored with the support of the Brazilian oil company Petrobras , and the destroyed parts were completed with inter-titles to avoid breaking the soundtrack . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mulher " ( " Woman " )
Anarchic and Outrageously Silly , Weird and Funny	In the suburb of Hartford Road , the middle-age Sylvia Stickles ( Tracey Ullman ) is a sexually repressed woman that hates sex . She refuses to have sex with her husband Vaughn Stickles ( Chris Isaak ) and locks her daughter with huge breasts and night-club dancer Caprice Stickles ( Selma Blair ) in her room , since she is in probation for moral attempt . Sylvia together with her mother Big Ethel ( Suzanne Shepherd ) lead a group that self-entitles neuter and promotes a decency rally . Sylvia accidentally hits her head on the floor , changes her sexual behavior and follows the sex addicted and sexual healer Ray Ray Perkins ( Johnny Knoxville ) , becoming his twelfth apostle of sex in a journey of pleasure and orgasm . " A Dirty Shame " is another anarchic and outrageously silly , weird and funny trash movie of John Waters . The non-sense story has many hilarious moments , supported by a great cast with the comedians Tracey Ullman and Johnny Knoxville and a surprisingly comical Selma Blair with her huge mammary glands . Title ( Brazil ) : " Clube dos Pervertidos " ( " Club of the Perverts " )
Disappointing Musical With a Corny Conclusion	In the end of the Nineteenth Century , the show boat " Cotton Blossom " owned by Captain Andy Hawks ( Joe E . Brown ) flies along the rivers in the South of North America with the lead stars Julie LaVerne ( Ava Gardner ) and her husband Stephen Baker ( Robert Sterling ) and musical entertainment . When Julie and Stephen are accused of miscegenation , they have to leave the boat , and Captain Hawk's daughter Magnolia ( Kathryn Grayson ) and the gambler Gaylord Ravenal ( Howard Keel ) take their places . They fall in love for each other , get married and move to Chicago , living in a fancy and expensive hotel . However , the jinx of Gaylord consumes all their money , and later Gaylord completely broken leaves Magnolia without knowing she is pregnant . She struggles to survive , returns to her father's boat and business and raises her daughter with her parents . Years later , Julie accidentally meets Gaylord and tells him about his daughter . " Show Boat " is a disappointing musical with a corny conclusion . The predictable story is supported by dated musical numbers , but the worst is resolution of the drama of Magnolia , with the return of Gaylord and her immediate acceptance . The despicable racism that is the lead of the story , the relation between a woman with mixed blood with a white man , was probably usual in the end of the Nineteenth Century , therefore it is acceptable in the story , but Ava Gardner never convinces as a half-black woman . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Barco das Ilusões " ( " The Boat of the Illusions " )
A Fable About Individualism and Solitude of the Modern Men and Women	A group of New Yorkers just have contact through telephone , fax and Internet . The conversation among them are only through telephone . The foods are ordered by telephone . Even sex is made by telephone . They are not able to go to the funeral of a common friend , or to join in a restaurant , or even to open the door for the others in a party . A creative critic to the individualism and solitude of the contemporary human beings . The difficulties of having a relationship and interact with another persons is presented in this acid comedy . A great work of edition , in a movie not indicated for all tastes . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Denise Está Chamando ' ( ' Denise Is Calling ' )
Intriguing , Weird and Bitter Romance	When Jackie ( Heather Graham ) was thirteen years old , she spoke through a wind tunnel through the desert with a young man 500 miles apart . Seven years later , the romantic Jackie and the skeptical Eugene ( Michael A . Nickels ) make contact again with each other , when they exchange their hopes , failures , expectations , frustrations and life experiences . ' Desert Winds ' is a low budget movie , having an intriguing , weird and bitter romance through the dialog between Heather Graham and Michael A . Nickels . The story is disclosed in a very slow pace and it is recommended for viewers who like to find different and unknown movies like me . I bought this VHS just because of the name of Heather Graham and I do not regret . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Ventos do Deserto ' ( ' Desert Winds ' )
Reasonable , But Absolutely Unnecessary Remake of a Great Japanese Movie	In New York City , Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) has just divorced from her husband and is disputing the custody of their daughter Cecilia ( Ariel Gade ) . She has a very restricted budget , so she moves with Cecilia to an old small apartment in Roosevelt Island near Manhattan . She does not pay attention to a stain of water on the ceiling of the bedroom , but once living in the place , she realizes that there is a drip of dark water in the bedroom and she asks the landlord to repair the leakage . Meanwhile , Cecilia finds a red Hello Kitty bag on the terrace , and Dahlia returns it to the administrator . In school , the teacher tells Dahlia that Cecilia has an imaginary friend called Natasha . Along the days , Dahlia has severe migraines and nightmares , while disputing her daughter in the justice and having troubles in the apartment . Dahlia decides to investigate further , and she faces a tragic accident . The original " Honogurai Mizu No Soko Kara " ( 2002 ) is a tense low-paced scary Japanese movie . Following the present fashion of Hollywood , i . e . , remake of Japanese horror movies , Brazilian director Walter Salles made a reasonable , but absolutely unnecessary remake of the great Japanese original movie . This version is more dramatic , while the Japanese one is scarier and spookier . The good thing of this remake is the presence of Jennifer Connelly , of whom I am a great fan , and the young actress Ariel Gade , with an excellent performance . If you have the chance to make a choice , prefer the original Japanese movie , in spite of the subtitles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Água Negra " ( " Black Water " )
Fourth Season Lost in Stall	Locke , Ben and Hurley wander in the woods trying to find Jacob's cabin . Meanwhile , Keamy is extremely violent on the vessel , killing the doctor and the captain to force Frank Lapidus to fly back to the island . However Sayid escapes in a Zodiac boat back to the island to tell the survivors what is happening in the vessel . " Cabin Fever " is another disappointing episode of this awful Fourth Season that again goes nowhere . I do not know the real intentions of the writers and producers of this successful series , but I see two possibilities : the authors are lost with the complexity of the plot , or the producers intend to drag " Lost " along many seasons as possible thinking in money only and forgetting the quality of the shows and satisfaction of the fans and viewers like me . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Mafia War	When the mobster Iwaida Nishikawi is executed by the hit man Takeshi , his family chases the killer . Takeshi's brothers Takashi and Hideshi Miwa try to find Takeshi , who is hidden with the nurse Rie Ishibashi , to protect him and Hideshi discovers that Takeshi was secretly sent by their Yakuza boss to eliminate Iwaida . Meanwhile , the mobster Kenmoshi abducts Takashi's wife Mariko and rapes her , trying to force Takashi to deliver his brother to him . " Family " is a reasonable movie of Yakuza war directed by Takashi Miike . However , the screenplay is very confused and there is no conclusion of the story that ends with Hideshi seeking his brother Takeshi . There are also flashbacks of the Miwa family and I am not sure whether this film is a sequel with a sequence not released in Brazil . The acting is excellent and the violent scenes are very well choreographed in unusual angles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cena Mafiosa " ( " Mobster Scene " )
The Oceanic Six	In the future , Hurley is scared and questioning his own sanity . After a police chase to his Mustang , the paranoid Hurley , who is a celebrity and called one of the Oceanic Six , is arrested and sent to an asylum , where he has a vision of Charlie and is visited by Jack . Meanwhile in the island , when Desmond informs that Charlie had advised that it was not Penny's boat and the rescue team has actually other intentions but rescuing the survivors , the group splits between the leaderships of Jack and Locke . Eight months and eight days after the last episode , in a complete lack of respect of the producers with the fans and viewers of this series , the fourth season begins without any answer to the many questions in the previous seasons , and raises more questions showing the future of Hurley and Jack . I am really afraid that the writers are lost and expecting that the fans forget the countless questions left open along these three years . In my opinion , it would be better off resolving the mysteries instead of raising more . With regard to " The Beginning of the End " , it is intriguing as usual , but I honestly would rather see the answers . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Good Acting , Intriguing but Flawed Plot	While flying to the supply vessel through a storm with Frank following the instructions of Faraday , Desmond loses conscience and his mind returns to 1996 , when he joined the Scottish Army . When he awakes in the present , he has no recollections from Sayid or the last years in the island . Sayid calls Faraday and he ask Desmond to visit him in Oxford with some key information to prove their contact in the future . In 1996 , Faraday asks Desmond to find a constant in both periods and Desmond visits Penny and asks her phone number , promising to call her eight years later . " The Constant " has good acting with an intriguing but flawed plot . There is an absolute lack of coherence in the story with the time travel of Desmond and his meeting with Daniel Faraday in the past . The resolution with Faraday finding a reference in his journal is absolutely predictable but never satisfactory , since an important encounter like that should bring recollections to Faraday even having memory problems , and not just a reference in his diary . I noted that many viewers enjoyed and worshiped this episode , but in my opinion it is overrated . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Although Having Many Clichés , Some Bad Acting and Exaggeration in the Plot , It is an Efficient Low-Budget Thriller	The truck driver Eddie Madden ( Jere Burns ) loses his family in a car accident while driving leaving town on vacation . Some months later , he becomes a deranged man , and his boss waives his faults and keeps his job expecting for his complete recovery . When the real-state agent Ellen Carson ( Yasmine Bleeth ) accidentally cuts his truck off , Eddie threatens her with his vehicle . Ellen calls the 0800 and presents a complaint against his aggressive behavior in the traffic . Eddie is fired , finds her identity , and stalks Ellen , her husband Jim Carson ( John Wesley Shipp ) and her fifteen years old stepdaughter Cynthia Carson ( Alana Austin ) , manipulating them and menacing their safety . Although having many clichés , a ham actor ( John Wesley Shipp ) and an actress completely miscast ( Alana Austin ) , and lots of exaggeration in the plot , " Road Rage " is an efficient low-budget thriller . It is hard to believe the inefficiency of the police to arrest Eddie , or the lack of safety in the Carson's house , but anyway the story hooks the attention of the viewer until the last scene , mostly supported by the excellent performances of Yasmine Bleeth and Jere Burns . I saw this movie on VHS , I had the chance to repeat the scene and I noted the terrible edition of the car accident in the beginning of the film : there is a cut , when the red car stops , and in the next scene , it crashes Eddie's truck . See this movie without a great expectation , and the viewer may have a reasonably good surprise . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pânico na Estrada " ( " Panic in the Road " )
A Weird and Original Movie About Faith	On the Fourteenth Century , a small community is threatened by the black plague , which is soiling Europe . Griffin ( Hamish McFarlane ) is an eight years boy with visions . These visions show the salvation for his people : digging a hole to center of the earth and putting a cross on the top of a church . Griffin , his brother Connor and some locals starts their quest that brings them to the Twentieth Century . This is indeed a weird movie . Only yesterday I decided to watch it , and I do not dare to say that I liked or disliked it . First , because although being a very strange film , it is also very original . The black & white for the scenes of the dark Middle Ages and the colored ones for the present days is a technique very unusual . Second , the plot is totally unpredictable , with no clichés . And last but not the least , the unknown cast has a great performance .
Reasonable Pilot of a Show	In 2084 , a nuclear war wasted Earth , making the sky red of chemicals and the former United States of America becomes Deathlands . Breeds of mutants and half-mutants share what was left on Earth with humans . The vile of " Front Royale " is ruled by a good man , but he is killed by his wife Lady Rachel Cawdor ( Traci Lords ) , and his evil son Harvey Cawdor kills one of his brothers and blinds one eyes of his fifteen years old brother Ryan , who escapes . Twenty years later , the one-eyed leader Ryan Cawdor ( Vincent Spano ) returns to " Front Royale " with his girlfriend and half-mutant Krysty Worth ( Jenya Lano ) , his human friend and specialist in weapons JB Dix ( Cliff Saunders ) and the teenage mutant Jak Laurent ( Nathan Carter ) to face his brother and his stepmother . " Deathlands " is another entertaining post-apocalyptic story à la " Mad Max " and probably a pilot of a show . In spite of the bad reviews , I found this low-budget movie very reasonable and in the end I liked it . The lead character Ryan Cawdor recalls Snake Plissken , from " Escape from New York " and " Escape from L . A " and the red-haired Jenya Lano is very gorgeous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Deathlands ? Terra em Fogo " ( " Deathlands ? Earth on Fire " )
Scary Story , Deceptive End	Joey Cheng ( Qi Shu ) attempts to suicide using an overdose of sleeping pills , when her boyfriend breaks up with her . However , she is saved by the staff of the hotel and from this moment on , she has visions of dead people . When she finds that she is pregnant , she decides to have the baby and protect him against the frightening ghosts . " Jian gui " is one of my favorite horror movies , and " Jian gui 2 " has also a very scary story , with one of the strongest scenes I have ever seen . Although having the same title , this movie is not a sequel of " Jian gui " . Unfortunately , the deceptive end is completely related to the Buddhist beliefs of reincarnation and too much straight for my taste . I was expecting for some last scary surprising scene , but I was completely disappointed with the correctness of the conclusion . The beauty of Qi Shu , an actress unknown for us Westerns , with her thick lips is amazing and a great attraction . Title ( Brazil ) : " Visões " ( " Visions " )
The Zombie Rave	While illegally selling one canister of Trioxyin-5 , Charlie Garrison ( Peter Coyote ) is murdered by a zombie . His nephew Julian Garrison ( John Keefe ) finds two canisters hidden in the attic of his house with his girlfriend Jenny ( Jenny Mollen ) and they ask their friend Cody ( Cory Hardrict ) to analyze and research the chemical product . Cody finds that the composition of the product is very similar to ecstasy and he processes the chemical , making a large quantity of a drug that he called " Z " to make money . Using the services of the local drug dealer , they sell " Z " in the college campus . In the Halloween , the DJ and Jenny's brother Jeremy ( Cain Mihnea Manoliu ) organizes a rave party . Meanwhile , Julian , Jenny and Cody disclose that the drug transform the users in zombies , and with the support of two weird agents , they try to stop the distribution of " Z " . " Return of the Living Dead : Rave to the Grave " is flawed and the two men in black try to be funny but they are not . However , there are funny moments and for a B-movie , I had a great surprise and I liked it . The character of Peter Coyote dies maybe with less than 10 minutes and his participation has only the intention to lure the viewer with his name in the credits . I liked also the performance of the gorgeous Jenny Mollen , and I expect to see her again to evaluate her skills . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Retorno dos Mortos-Vivos : Rave " ( " The Return of the Living Dead : Rave " )
Underrated	The unethical surgeon Dr . Bill Cortner ( Herb Evers ) is developing a technique of transplantation of organs and members using a serum against rejection . When he has a car accident with his girlfriend Jan Compton ( Virginia Leith ) , he saves her head only , and tries to find a woman with a beautiful body to transplant Jan's head against her will . I found the low budget movie " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " very underrated in IMDb . The story is not so bad , and certainly inspired " Frankenhooker " and " The Man with Two Brains " . The acting and the direction are very reasonable , and there are some mistakes of edition ( for example , when Dr . Bill Cortner is having a conversation in the car with his friend on the sidewalk ) , but these errors just contribute to make the movie funnier . The make-up of the creature is great . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Cérebro Que Não Queria Morrer " ( " The Brain That Did not Want to Die " )
Teaching Wrong History	Archer , T'Pol and Trip visit a planet with six thousand humans still living in the Wild West style and one thousand Skagaraans living marginally . They disclose that humans had been abducted three hundred years ago to slave work , but they have reverted the situation and killed most of the Skags . The alien survivors presently does not have right to education and they a loathed by most of the population . When Archer and the teacher Bethany are arrested for teaching Skags , he decides to interfere in the society . " North Star " is so far the most inconsistent and the worst episode of this Third Season . The story is not original , and Archer violates the principle of not interfering in other societies . Further , the writer shamefully forgets the " Father of Aviation " Alberto Santos-Dumont , the first man to build and fly experimental aircraft , giving the credit to the Wright Brothers . Maybe a side effect of the Delphic Expanse . Title ( Brazil ) : " Estrela Polar " ( " North Star " )
Entertaining Adventure	Professor Trevor Anderson ( Brendan Fraser ) receives his teenager nephew Sean Anderson ( Josh Hutcherson ) that will spend ten days with him while his mother Elizabeth Anderson ( Jane Wheeler ) prepares to move to Canada . She gives a box to Trevor that belonged to his missing brother Max Anderson and Trevor finds a book with references to the last journey of his brother . He decides to follow the steps of Max with Sean and they travel to Iceland , where they meet the guide Hannah Ásgeirsson ( Anita Briem ) . While climbing a mountain , there is a thunderstorm and they protect themselves in a cave . However , a lightening collapses the entrance and the trio is trapped in the cave . They seek an exit and falls in a hole , discovering a lost world in the center of the Earth . This nth version of the classic novel of Jules Verne is an entertaining adventure . The characters are nice and there is a strong chemistry between Brendan Fraser and the unknown Anita Briem . However , the strongest part of this enjoyable movie is certainly the special effects . I have just seen this movie on DVD , but for those viewers that saw it in 3D in the movie theaters , the impact was certainly bigger and bigger . Title ( Brazil ) : " Viagem ao Centro da Terra " ( " Journey to the Center of the Earth " )
Unoriginal Episode	The Enterprise reaches Terra Nova , the first planet in the deep space colonized by humans in the beginning of the human colonization in a project called " The Great Experience " . Due to the long round trip of eighteen years , the explorers have been forgotten by Earth . The Enterprise scans Terra Nova and finds fifty-eight humans living in the underside . When Archer , T'Pol , Malcolm and Travis reach the planet , they are treated as if they were hostile aliens by the locals . However , they find that Nardet , the mother of the leader of the human mutants , has lung cancer , and they bring her to be treated in Enterprise . But Dr . Phlox finds that their water is contaminated by a poison rain . Captain Archer suggests the relocation by force in the non-contaminated south hemisphere of the planet , but T'Pol advises that this procedure would destroy the Novan's culture . However fate helps Archer to find a solution . " Terra Nova " is the weakest episode of this series up to this moment , with a non-original . It is amazing the silly and quite stupid decision of Captain Archer , believing that he could bring a breed of mutants to Earth without thinking in the consequences of his unreasonable act . Title ( Brazil ) : " Terra Nova " ( " New Land " )
Three Stories Having the Theme of Seduction and Victoria Principal Performing Four Roles	Victoria Principal and John Terry are the lead actors of three tales about seduction . The first ( and the best ) one is an amoral film noir , where Victoria Principal is a blonde fatal woman and John Terry is a fool in love with her . The second one ( and worst ) , John Terry is a depressed painter and Victoria Principal is her mate , trying to promote his career . The last one , John Terry and Victoria Principal are husband and wife , playing some erotic games with her sister . These stories are reasonable and are a good entertainment . The first one is certainly the best , and hooks the attention of the viewers .
Contaminating a Pre-Warp Culture	Captain Archer , Reed and Hoshi returns from a period of observation of a pre-warp civilization split in a war . Lieutenant Reed notes that he lost his communicator somewhere in the planet , and together with Archer , they return to a tavern where his scanner indicates the location . However , they are captured by militaries that have found the unknown technology and imprisoned in a military compound . Meanwhile , Trip and Travis try to find the means to activate the cloak of a Suliban ship to rescue their friends in the hostile planet . I did not like the predictable " The Communicator " episode . The story is silly and the preoccupation of the contamination of a pre-warp culture is not applied when the rescue team fights against the militaries . Further , the capture of Reed with a weapon is worse than lost of a simple communication apparatus . In my point of view , this episode is not well resolved in spite of the explanation of T'Pol in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Comunicador " ( " The Communicator " )
Summer in Barcelona	The conventional Vicky ( Rebecca Hall ) , who is engaged of Doug ( Chris Messina ) , travels to Barcelona for summer vacations in the house of their parent's friends Judy ( Patricia Clarkson ) and Mark Nash ( Kevin Dunn ) with her unconventional and open-minded friend Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) . While in a restaurant , the divorced painter Juan Antonio Gonzalo ( Javier Bardem ) flirts and invites them to travel to Oviedo with him , and also to go to bed with him . The reluctant Vicky does not accept the invitation but Cristina says yes and Vicky travels with her girlfriend . Once in Oviedo , Cristina has a crisis of ulcer and Vicky goes to sightseeing with Juan Antonio ; then they go to his father's house and later they go to a guitar concert . Vicky falls in love with Juan Antonio and has sex with him . However , back in Barcelona , she does not tell anything to her friend and Cristina moves to Juan Antonio's house , while Vicky marries Doug . When the unstable former wife of Juan Antonio , Maria Elena ( Penélope Cruz ) , has an OD , the painter brings her to his house and their troubled relationship harmonizes with the presence of Cristina , living a threesome . When Cristina asks for a time to travel to Paris and rethink their relationship , Vicky feels in doubt about her sentimental love . I had a great expectation with " Vicky Cristina Barcelona " , first because I am a great fan of Woody Allen , and also because of the Oscar of Penélope Cruz . Unfortunately I found this movie overrated , pretentious and annoying , with excessive narrative in off . The performance of Penélope Cruz is great , as usual , but not to be nominated and win an Oscar . Rebecca Hall has a better and better performance in this movie and Vicky is the most credible character . I like Scarlett Johansson very much , but I believe she needs to give a break in filming with Woody Allen , since her way of speaking and gestures are repetitive , like a female alter-ego of this director . Further , the yellow hair is awful . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vicky Cristina Barcelona "
Troubled Leave	The Enterprise finally arrives in planet Risa where the crew will have a leave for resting . T'Pol stays in the ship , while Captain Archer rents an apartment at the sea shore and intends to read ; Travis intends to climb a very difficult mountain that moves ; Commander Tucker and Lieutenant Reed seek out females in a club ; and Hoshi intends only to practice her skills in languages without the use of a computer translator . Meanwhile Dr . Phlox intends to hibernate for two days in Enterprise . However , their plans fail and Travis has an accident and breaks his leg ; Dr . Phlox is awakened to give medical assistance to Travis ; Trip and Reed are trapped and robbed by thieves ; and Archer meets an attractive woman that actually is a Tandaran interested in his knowledge of Sulibans . Only Hoshi has good-time with a handsome and gentle alien . " Two Days and Two Nights " shows the troubled two days of leave of some members of Enterprise . The story should be a comedy , but it does not work well and becomes very silly and predictable . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dois Dias e Duas Noites " ( " Two Days and Two Nights " )
Decent Prequel	In 2004 , the redneck managers of the Meadow View Motel Gordon ( David Moscow ) and Reece ( Brian Klugman ) use room 6 to videotape the intimacy of the guests to sell porn movies . When the mysterious Mr . Smith ( Scott G . Anderson ) checks in with a young woman , they witness the sadistic psychopath guest stabbing and killing his mate . The footage is a success and they decide to make other snuff movies with Smith . When Caleb ( Trevor Wright ) , who is traveling from Chicago with his fiancée Jessica ( Agnes Bruckner ) and his best friend Tanner ( Arjay Smith ) , decides to rest in Meadow View , they have a nightmarish night and try to survive from the sick intention of the gang . The underrated " Vacancy 2 : The First Cut " is a decent prequel to the original " Vacancy " ( which is also a reasonable movie , nothing more than that ) . There are some stupid scenes , like for example Jessica beating on the window instead of escaping ; or the attitude of Tanner in the house of Otis and Doris ; or the conclusion with the police finding no evidence of the murders ; but the final result is not bad or mediocre like mentioned in some reviews . The screenplay and the story could be better but work on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Temos Vagas 2 - The First Cut " ( " Vacancy 2 : The First Cut " )
A Reasonable Thriller , Ruled by Greed	While having a bath in her bathtub , the millionaire Claudia Parr ( Lindsay Wagner ) is assaulted by a person wearing black and almost dies . She stays in coma for fourteen months , when suddenly she recovers conscious . All the persons around her are suspicious for committing the attempt of murder : her husband Sloane ( the ham actor David Dukes ) , her stepmother Noelle ( Frances Sternhagen ) and her half sister Alix ( Maureen Mueller ) . All characters have greed and envy Claudia . This thriller is not exceptional , but hooks the attention of the viewer until the end of the plot .
The Beginning of a Criminal Life	In the 60's , the Puerto Rican Carlito Brigante ( Jay Hernandez ) , the Afro-American Earl ( Mario Van Peebles ) and the Italian Rocco ( Michael Kelly ) become best friends while in prison . When they are released , Rocco intermediates a heroin business with a family of the Italian Mafia leaded by Artie Bottolota Sr . ( Burt Young ) . Carlito negotiates with the lord Leroy " Hollywood Nicky " Barnes ( Sean Combs ) the area where the trio could operate in his neighborhood and sooner the three friends become powerful . Later , Carlito dates and has an affair with the beautiful Leticia ( Jaclyn DeSantis ) . When Earl decides to move to Barbados with his girlfriend and leave the heroin business , his stupid younger brother causes a situation with the Italian mobsters , and Carlito and Rocco have to resolve the mess to save their lives . " Carlito's Way : Rise to Power " is not as bad as written in many reviews in IMDb . Actually it is a good story , with the beginning of the criminal life of Carlito , showing his ability to negotiate . The story has good doses of humor , a decent plot and a surprising twist in the end . I do not dare to compare this movie with the excellent Brian De Palma's Carlito's Way , but I personally liked the explanations of the criminal life of Carlito and his friends . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Pagamento Final : Rumo ao Poder " ( " The Final Payment : in the Way to the Power " )
A Reasonable Mystery Tale of Revenge	Mário Velasquez ( Gracindo Júnior ) is a powerful , successful and wealthy businessman , having a ruined marriage with Gabi ( Estér Goes ) . In a fancy party , he meets a mysterious woman , who advises him that his is precisely going to die in seven years from that day . In the scheduled date , he is kidnapped by a gang leaded by his former employer Peçanha ( Osmar Prado ) , who had defalcated his company and was sent to the prison in the past . While arrested , Mário tries to negotiate his own life , when the mysterious woman comes again to discuss with him . Although having a great performance of Gracindo Júnior and Osmar Prado , and a reasonable direction of Marcelo Taranto , the screenplay of ' A Hora Marcada ' is full of flaws . Firstly , there are many characters that are not well developed , and the first line happens only after 5 : 32 min running time . The character of the mysterious woman is not well explained : if she is Ms . Death herself , she is physical , since she drinks champagne with him in the bar , being served by the bartender . Why did she predict and advised Mário about the day of his death ? However , the personality of Mário Velasquez and the motives of Osmar Peçanha are very clear and make this movie a reasonable mystery tale of revenge . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Hora Marcada ' ( ' The Scheduled Hour ' )
Friendship , Sexual Tension and Humbleness	Trip advises that the Enterprise needs one additional plasma injector for safety reasons , and Captain Archer contacts the Kreetassans , who produce a high quality device . However , the aliens end their conversation feeling offended again with some unknown attitude of the diplomatic group and Archer returns upset to Enterprise . While in the contamination chamber , Dr . Phlox finds that the immunologic system of Porthos is affected by a pathogen from the planet , and puts the dog in quarantine in the sickbay . Archer spends the night in the sickbay with Pathos and Dr . Phlox , and learns about the life of the Deobulans , sexual tension and humbleness to say I am sorry . " A Night in the Sickbay " is a different episode based on the friendship of Captain Archer with his pet and the revelations of Dr . Phlox . The unbalanced attitude of Archer , prioritizing his dog over the needs of the Enterprise , is weird and unexplainable , disclosing a total level of lack of professionalism and childish behavior . The low paced story has funny moments but also silly ones , and I liked the dream of Archer with the gorgeous and sexy T'Pol . Title ( Brazil ) : " Uma Noite na Enfermaria " ( " A Night in the Sickbay " )
Mexican Legends Sometimes Are True	While driving a van through Mexico looking for a location for shooting a low-budget porn , Alphonse ( Adam Huss ) , Steve ( Jeremy Radin ) , Dallas ( Leyla Milani ) , Debbie ( Margaret Scarborough ) , the alcoholic Daisy ( Catherine Wreford ) and the pothead Jimbo ( Zack Bennett ) get lost and meet a stranger ( Irwin Keyes ) in a remote gas station run out of gas in the middle of nowhere . The man gives the directions for the nearest gas station , and advises the group to avoid the ghost town La Sangre de Dios . Steve recalls the Mexican legend about the best Mexican wrestler , El Mascarado , who became crazy and started killing his opponents , and was sent to this town later . The director Alphonse decides to trespass the gate of La Sangre de Dios and shoot the film in the local bar . Sooner the group discovers that Mexican legends sometimes are true . " El Mascarado Massacre " is a great example of how to make a good B-movie of horror . The story is funny , there are lots of gore and beautify and sexy women partially naked . The director and writer Jesse Baget made a great debut in the cinema industry and I sincerely look forward to see his next work . The unknown actresses are really sexy ; the actors are funny and the killer is really bad , and in the end I really liked this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem Mascarado " ( " The Masked Man " )
When Fame Supersedes Man	While heading for a leave in Risa , the Enterprise acknowledges a distress call and changes the course to check . They meet and help Kobral , who invites Captain Archer and Tucker to visit his planet Torothan for a feast and a game of Geskana . They accept the invitation and while having a good time with Kobral and his men , T'Pol receives a message from Torothan chancellor Trelitt . telling that Zobral is a wanted terrorist . " Desert Crossing " , the fame of Captain Archer with his assistance to the Sulibans in " Detained " supersedes himself . Kobral is an ambiguous character , and it is difficult to evaluate how honest he is . Title ( Brazil ) : " Travessia do Deserto " ( " Desert Crossing " )
A Matter of Revenge	Captain Archer is contacted by Admiral Forrest asking him to turn back to investigate a distress call from the cargo freighter ECS Fortunate . Archer finds that the freighter had been attacked by the Nausicaans , a race of space pirates . Archer provides supplies , manpower and medical assistance to First Officer Matthew Ryan , who is in command since the captain is injured . When T'Pol detects an alien form in the ship , the reaction of Ryan is violent and the Enterprise discovers that the officer is plot revenge against the Nausicaans , jeopardizing the space route for other freighters . " Fortunate Son " is the weakest episode of this good series so far . The story of revenge of Officer Ryan is silly and pointless , since the guy is not totally wrong . The Nausicaans are pirates and attack the freighters , and the Starfleet does not take any action , therefore his attitude of despair seems to be very reasonable . The moral message of this episode in the end is blurred . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mercadores do Espaço " ( " Merchants of Space " )
Trial Without Justice	Archer is being judge by the Klingon court accused of conspiracy against their empire because he had responded a distress signal and helped the survivors of a Klingon colony . Archer convinces his lawyer to really help in his defense and stop the farce of his trial . " Judgement ' is an episode with a terrible beginning , since it is never disclosed how Archer was captured by the Klingons , and an awful conclusion , with Archer escaping from the mine of the penal colony . This is maybe one of the weakest episodes of the Second Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " Julgamento " ( " Judgement " )
The Chaotic Italy in the Last Days of WWII	In the autumn of 1944 , in Northern Italy , the German soldiers resist to the advancement of American forces in an Italy divided in fascist soldiers , communist partisans supported by the civilians and thugs . An American platoon leaded by Sergeant Malone ( John McVay ) is assigned to deliver supplies to the front . Meanwhile , the German Lieutenant Gunther ( Thomas Pohn ) tries to keep the morale and discipline of his needy soldiers , and faces many other problems when the Italian troop leaded by the aristocratic Lieutenant Gianini ( Fabio Sartor ) joins his doomed troop . The thugs leaded by Rossini ( Carmine Raspaolo ) act like vultures , plundering the remains after the battles . " The Fallen " is a different war movie that gives the big picture of the chaotic situation of Italy during the last days of the World War II , showing a country divided in civil war , with an unusual code of ethics between the Italian soldiers and the partisans . It is nice to have a humanistic view of the war through the three sides ? Italians , Germans and Americans - at the same time . The lack of discipline of the Italian soldiers breaks the tension and gives humor to this dramatic story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Guerra Sangrenta " ( " Bloody War " )
The Military Dictatorship and Amnesty in South America	In the 70's , in the military dictatorship in Uruguay , the boy Pablo witness the death of his father by General Díz ( Walter Reyno ) . After the amnesty , Pablo ( Gael García Bernal ) challenges General Díz for a duel , using an ancient law forgotten by the authorities , with tragic consequences . " El Ojo en la Nuca " shows the effect of the military dictatorship in South America in a man that lost his father when he was a boy . The unfair amnesty that released torturers and criminals of this period and the price for the principle " an eye for an eye " is sadly shown in this reasonable short . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Olho na Nuca " ( " The Eye in the Nape " )
Good Story , Disappointing Conclusion	After a suspicious fatal car accident in Hastings where the identity of the victim was forged , the Quality Life insurance company sends their smart investigator Abe Holt ( Forrest Whitaker ) to identify the body . The unique beneficiary of the one million dollars death benefit is the sister of the victim , Isold ( Julia Stiles ) , who lives with her son Thor and her husband Fred ( Jeremy Renner ) in a poor cabin in the middle of nowhere . Along the investigation , Abe discloses the truth about the fraud , but feels sorry for Isold and Thor and tries to help them with tragic consequences . " Little Trip to Heaven " has a good premise , showing both sides of the insurance policies , with some fraudulent cases of clients and questionable procedures of the companies themselves . The story is good , with a suspenseful atmosphere in a dramatic and tense situation . In spite of the very disappointing conclusion , this movie worth watching . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fraude " ( " The Fraud " )
Loyalty , Greed and Betrayal in Tokyo	In Tokyo , the gangster Tetsu ( Tetsuya Watari ) regenerates when his yakuza boss Kurata ( Ryuji Kita ) decides to quit his criminal life . However , the mobster family leaded by Otsuka ( Hideaki Esumi ) threatens Kurata's legitimate business , and Tetsu decides to leave Kurata to relief the pressure on him . He leaves also his girlfriend Chiharu ( Chieko Matsubara ) and becomes a drifter moving to the country . When Tetsu is betrayed , he returns to Tokyo to resolve his situation . " Tôkyô Nagaremono " is a different gangster movie , with a stylish and beautiful cinematography and also a very confused screenplay . The story recalls those spaghetti westerns , with the hero Tetsu looking like an invincible and invulnerable cowboy , never being mortally shot , and with the same type of conclusion , with Tetsu killing all his enemies and going away alone . This flick is not a masterpiece but entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tóquio Violenta " ( " Violent Tokyo " )
A Deceptive and Forgettable Story With Total Lack of Credibility	The doctor and soccer player in the leisure time Jo Hauser ( Barnaby Metschurat ) decides to move to Berlin and be an intern in a famous clinic , expecting to increase his knowledge and expertize , and help his handicap brother Willi Hauser ( Hanno Koffer ) . He joins a secret fraternity of doctors , under the leadership of Prof . Müller-LaRousse ( Herbert Knaup ) , who is researching the use of bionic muscles in human beings without any ethics or respect to the laws . The team is also volunteer to the experiences , and is under investigation of Paula Henning ( Franka Potente ) . When Jo gets close to a Filipino nurse , and becomes addicted in the drugs used in experience , he realizes the truth hidden in the methods used by the secret society in the development of science . " Anatomy 2 " is a deceptive and forgettable story with total lack of credibility . The participation of Franka Potente is ridiculous , only to give her name to the credits and to attract her fans . The implausible story is very imbecile , but anyway if the viewer shutdown the brain , the film entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anatomia 2 " ( " Anatomy 2 " )
The Dramatization of One of the Most Hideous Crimes of the Mankind History	In Nagasaki , Japan , on 09 August 1945 , at 11 : 02 AM , 80 . 000 dead and thousand of persons wounded or contaminated by radiation were victims of one of the most hideous crimes of the mankind history . This low-budget movie is a dramatization of this deplorable event , based on the report of one of the survivors of the ' day after ' of Nagasaki . Tomorrow is the sad anniversary of this massacre and I decided to see this movie for the first time . Unfortunately , the quality of the image of the Brazilian VHS is not good . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Nagasaki 1945 . . . Deixem Viver as Crianças ' ( ' Nagasaki 1945 . . . Let the Children Live ' )
Another Very Predictable and Full of Clichés , But Funny , Teen Movie	Ryan Woodman ( Shane West ) and Maggie Carter ( Marla Sokoloff ) are neighbors and best friends . Ryan is a very sensible guy , his nerd friends are very weird and has a crush in Ashley Grant ( Jodi Lyn O'Keefe ) . Ashley is a shallow but popular , beautiful and sexy girl in their high school . Her cousin Chris Campbell ( James Franco ) is a brainless and dumb American football player , who wants to have a date with Maggie . Ryan and Chris make a deal : each one of them will introduce and help the other to be with the girl of their dreams . This movie is so predictable that around six minutes of story I could foresee the end . The story is full of clichés , but there are some funny ( but also expected ) situations . The teen cast is not bad and in the end it becomes a reasonable and forgettable entertaining . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Correndo Atrás ' ( ' Running After ' )
Delightfully Naive and Silly	The government employee and family man Felismino Tinoco ( Oscarito ) is awarded with one million in his job due to his assiduity , and his colleagues force him to go to a night-club to celebrate the prize . The showgirl Arlete ( Sonia Mamede ) and her smalltime crook boyfriend decide to steal the money from the naive Felismino , plotting a scheme with a fake murder and then blackmailing Felismino . When his greedy family finds that her earned the prize , his wife and his mother-in-law decide to spend the money in luxury . Meanwhile , his smart niece Sueli ( Miriam Teresa ) discloses the fraud and she is kidnapped by the bandit . This chanchada is delightfully naive and silly , but has action and many funny lines , specially for Brazilians . Following the standard of this popular Brazilian musical comedy of the 40's and 50's , there are many critics hidden in the jokes that are still valid in 2007 . The civil servant awarded with a huge prize just because he is never absent of his work ; when he believes that the police is chasing him , he comments that he does not have parliamentary immunity ; the consumption dream of the financially repressed middle-class , these are only some samples of a sharp criticism to the ethics and behavior of our society . Unfortunately the VHS released in Brazil has troubles with the sound in many parts , being impossible to understand many dialogs . Title ( Brazil ) : " Esse Milhão É Meu " ( " This Million Is Mine " )
A Very Personal Night Shared with the Viewers	In the end of the 60's or in the beginning of the 70's , Rich Cooper ( Tobey Maguire ) goes with his mother Rebecka ( the gorgeous and sexy Kate Capshaw ) to a crazy party , where Janis Joplin and other stranger guests are present . He gets a bootleg tape of his idol Bob Dylan from the host ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , a kiss from a beautiful girl he met in the party , Maya ( Uma Thurman ) and a news in the end : that night , his father had left his mother . This short story seems to be the experience of probably some important person in Hollywood when he was young . It is very personal . It is about a very special night of a teenager , an ' asshole ' in the eyes of the girls as mentioned by Rich to Maya , who goes to a party , makes success with a beautiful girl , gets a great gift and receives unpleasant news .
Promising Story , Bad Acting , Disappointing Conclusion	The school teacher Amy ( Christine Taylor ) has been proposed by her boyfriend Nick ( Shane Brolly ) early in the morning and she promises her answer later in the afternoon . After her class , while coming back home , Nick has a car accident in a crossroad with a truck driven by Lucas Dylan ( Jerry O'Connell ) . He breaks his leg and an ambulance takes him to the hospital . Amy has phobia with hospitals , but she gets a taxi and goes to the nearest hospital . However , Nick is not there , and she meets Lucas , who is also looking for his sister that has disappeared in the same weird circumstance . They decide to team up and search together where the victims might have been interned , while Amy experiences the most bizarre and scary situations . " Room 6 " is a movie with a promising story , bad acting and a very disappointing conclusion . The idea is not totally bad , in spite of using a rip-off of " Jacob's Ladder " , with a troubled woman having to confront with her innermost fears to resolve her traumas and phobias to go peacefully to another life . I have startled many times , reason why I did not totally dislike this flick . However , the screenplay uses lots of unexplained and unnecessary situations just to mislead the viewer , like for example , the girl Melissa Norman , the nurses drinking blood or even the nightmare of Amy with the mysterious St . Rosemary's Hospital in the very beginning . The performances of Christine Taylor , Shane Brolly and Jerry O'Connell are terrible , and the lead actress spends a great part of the film with the most dreadful and annoying screams . Consequently the direction is not good . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quarto Seis " ( " Room Six " )
Madness and Philosophy of Life	In the periphery of Rio de Janeiro , the sixty and something years old Estamira is an insane but happy woman that has been working for more than twenty years in the city dumpster in Gramacho , collecting remains for recycling or personal use . Along the documentary , we see the madness of this woman through her philosophic principles and concepts of life and religion ; but further than that , we see that she was a normal married woman abused by her husband and with three daughters and one son , all of them well-raised and normal . In accordance with her older daughter , she told that she was a religious woman that worked in a supermarket ; after being raped for the second time in Campo Grande , she became delusional and insane , giving up and blaming God . " Estamira " is an awarded and overrated documentary about the sad and depressive life of this crazy , but happy and proud dump collector . The introduction of this documentary has one of the most impressive cinematography in grainy black and white I have recently seen , following Estamira from her home to her working place in the landfill . The runtime of 121 minutes is excessively long and boring , disclosing too much insanity for my taste . Title ( Brazil ) : " Estamira "
Good Sci-Fi B-Movie , Using a Similar Storyline of " The Hidden "	Detectives Jack Breslin ( Joe Cortese ) and Frank Dileo ( George Dzundza ) are investigating a serial-killer , who slaughters his victims and removes their internal organs . While in the crime scene , Jack notices the constant presence of a beautiful young woman , Ta'Ra ( Maryam d'Abo ) . He finds her and is convinced that she is a doctor from a prison in the outer space . She explains that the murderer is a powerful alien , who is able to change his appearance , that escaped from prison , and she is chasing him . They join forces trying to eliminate the menace to planet Earth . " Something Is Out There " is a good sci-fi B-movie , using a similar storyline of " The Hidden " ( 1987 ) . The story mixes crime , horror , sci-fi and action , and has in the beauty of the British Maryam d'Abo one of its greatest attraction . There are some good lines , and the movie is a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Criatura Infernal " ( " Infernal Creature " )
An Irregular and Confused Screenplay and Direction Where the Genre of the Movie is Never Defined	Katie ( Andie MacDowell ) is the head mistress of a school , Molly ( Anna Chancellor ) is the doctor and Janine ( Imelda Stauton ) the chief of police in a small England town . They are above forty , best girl friends and are together most of their vacant time . They like to dispute the most unsuccessful and unhappy affair with the local men in the week . One day , Katie meets Jed ( Kenny Doughty ) , her former student and at least sixteen years younger than she and they fall in love for each other . She hides this love from the locals and her two friends do not accept such a situation . In order to avoid a spoiler , I cannot comment further than that . This movie has one of the most irregular and confused screenplay and direction I have ever seen . It starts as a romantic comedy , then goes to a free dramatic tragedy , goes to a comedy and ends mushy . The unnecessary tragedy in the middle of the plot does not fit to the movie . Further , the circus in the marriage of Gerald and Kate is ridiculous . If the viewer expects to watch a comedy or romantic comedy , will be very disappointed , and if he expects to see a drama , will be also disappointed .
A Weak and Silly Episode	Clark Kent is completely worn-out , rebuilding Metropolis during the night , and he has a cold with a powerful sneeze . Meanwhile , Lana Lang moves to Lex Luthor's mansion , who is worried about someone that is following him . When Luthor is kidnapped by two former government agents that had seen his powers through a satellite and wants to know how he could be so powerful , the weak Clark tries to find him . Lionel Luthor has a meeting with the millionaire Oliver Queen and advises him that if something bad happens to Lex , there would be a payback . " Sneeze " is a very weak and silly episode of " Smallville " . I was completely disappointed with the predictable situations disclosed in this story . The good news are the arrival of a new criminal in Metropolis , Oliver Queen , and the proximity of the marvelous Chloe Sullivan to Clark . The rest is totally forgettable . Title ( Brazil ) : " Resfriado " ( " Cold " )
He Comes Back to Life With Another Vision	While traveling on the road with his wife Lindsay ( Christine Lahti ) and his daughter Regina ( Alicia Silverstone ) , Hatch Harrison ( Jeff Goldblum ) has a car accident , hitting a truck and falling with his wife in a river . He dies for more than two hours , but the specialist Dr . Jonas Nyebern ( Alfred Molina ) successfully brings him back to life . Hatch has some weird premonitions and becomes able to see through the eyes of the psychopath serial killer Vassago ( Jeremy Sisto ) , a young man that killed his mother and his sister and committed suicide and was also brought back to life and now is killing young women and teenagers . When he foresees that Vassago is trying to capture his daughter , Hatch tries to find the criminal first , in spite of Lindsay , Regina and the detective in charge of the investigation believe that he needs psychiatric help . " Hideaway " is another rip-off of " Eye of Laura Mars " , I believe the first movie to explore the idea of a person connected to a serial killer through his eyes . " Hideaway " has a good cinematography and special affects , the cast is great and the sequence of the accident of Hatch and Lindsay is excellent . Although not being an original storyline , this attractive movie entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Esconderijo " ( " The Hiding Place " )
The Dramas of Some Strip-Dancers in a Night-club Called Blue Iguana	The dramas of some strip-dancers in a nightclub called Blue Iguana are the theme of this movie . Angel ( Daryl Hannah ) is a dancer wishing to adopt a child . Stormy ( Sheila Kelley ) is a dancer with a secret with her brother Sully ( Elias Koteas ) . Jasmine ( Sandra Oh ) is a poetess who fells in love with Dennis ( Chris Hogan ) . Jo ( Jennifer Tilly ) is a dancer who became pregnant and Jessie ( Charlotte Ayanna ) is a woman fighting to survive in Hollywood . The link between them is the fact that they dance at Blue Iguana , a strip-club managed by Eddie ( Robert Wisdom ) . This movie is not a bad movie , but the shallow dramas of each dancer are not enough to support the story in a higher level . A woman who decides to work as a strip-dancer certainly has had some trouble in her past ( or present ) . The viewer has a chance to see beautiful breasts , butts and naked bodies of many beautiful actresses , especially Charlotte Ayanna , Sheila Kelley and Daryl Hannah . The fat of Jennifer Tilly is justified since her character is pregnant . On the DVD , the director Michael Radford explains that when he joined the actors and actresses , there was no screenplay . The cast developed each character and this type of creative activity seems to be very unique . Further , on DVD there is a documentary directed by Daryl Hannah showing how she developed the character of Angel that is worthwhile . Title ( Brazil ) : " Divas do Blue Iguana " ( " Divas of the Blue Iguana " )
Bad Trip	In a high school in the suburbs , the teenager Richard ( Michael Mandell ) is very popular , good student and successful with the women . His younger brother Tommy ( James M . Hausler ) is weird , outcast and jealous of Richard , and his best friend is the aggressive Colby Francis ( Christopher Clark ) , who is hated by the other students and speaks like the rapper Eminem . When the slut cheerleader Sacha decides to have sex with Tommy , she invites the trio of friends for a party at her home . Colby buys mushroom from the drug dealer Brent ( Jason Williams ) and after sniffing cocaine with Richard , he prepares a cocktail with the dope . Richard , Tommy and Colby drink the mushroom and have a bad trip with tragic consequences . " Trip Out " is an amateurish movie with a good potential . The screenplay is interesting , following the individual actions along the day of Tommy , Richard , Colby and concludes showing the revenge of Brent against Colby . However , the relationship between Richard and Tommy should have been better developed to make more sense the tragic and violent conclusion . The acting is very reasonable considering that the cast is amateur ; the camera work in Tommy's block is confused , but works better in Richard and Colby modules ; the edition is probably the best in this movie , perfectly entwining the scenes and giving consistency to the story . Considering that this is a low-budget movie , written , directed and performed by a young and green cast , and the low price of the DVD ( US$ 4 . 00 ) , I liked it . I really enjoy finding this type of original and refreshing work , in my opinion better than many blockbusters . Title ( Brazil ) : " Viagem Suicida " ( " Suicide Trip " )
Weird and Intriguing	In the Christmas Eve in the Styxx Club in Paris , the troublemaker Bart ( Olivier Bartélémy ) and his scum friends Thaï ( Nicolas Le Phat Tan ) and Ladj ( Ladj Ly ) meet the bartender Yasmine ( Leïla Bekhti ) and the costumer Eve ( Roxane Mesquida ) , and after a fight of Bart in the nightclub , Eve invites the group to go to her house in the country . While in the road nearby the cottage , they are introduced by Eve to the weird shepherd and housekeeper Joseph ( Vincent Cassel ) , whose wife is pregnant . Joseph feels a sort of attraction for Bart , and along the Christmas night , Joseph discloses his real intentions . " Sheitan " is a weird and intriguing French horror movie , with an atmosphere of nightmare . The creepy and odd story has many points open to interpretations , very bizarre characters and situations , good performances of the cast and a gorgeous and sexy unknown French actress , Roxane Mesquida . I am not sure if I missed some point , since there are references to Eve , the serpent and the apple ; Joseph and the new born child on the Christmas day . I liked this refreshing movie , in spite of the non-clear screenplay , but I do not dare to recommend it except for specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Satã " ( " Satan " )
Entertaining and Gore Zombie Action Movie	In Guesta Verde University , the deranged Professor Curien ( Sid Haig ) is trying to bring back the dead , killing students for the experiment . There is an outbreak of zombies in the campus , and the government sends a NSA medical research team , formed by Dr . Alexandra Morgan a . k . a . Nightingale ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) and lieutenant Ellis ( Ed Quinn ) , with a special force leaded by lieutenant Dalton ( Sticky Fingaz ) , trying to get the zero sample from the first generation zombie . The team has a very short time to accomplish their mission and leave the place before missiles are sent to destroy the area . However , the place is crowded of hyper sapiens and the group has to fight to survive . " House of the Dead 2 " is not so bad as indicated in many reviews in IMDb , actually it is an entertaining and gore zombie action movie . The silly beginning recalls " American Pie " , with many partially naked women , and then the story shifts to a funny zombie movie . The choreography of the movements of the undead , the makeup and the special effects are good . I do not play the game , but I like zombie and trash movies , therefore I believe this film is underrated for fans of this genre . Title ( Brazil ) : " House of the Dead 2 - A Casa dos Mortos 2 "
A Good Movie About the Apocalypse	Detective Tom Canboro ( Gary Busey ) is a skeptical atheistic man , who is very close to his family . His sister Eileen ( Matgot Kidder ) and his wife Suzie ( Sherry Miller ) are Christians , his brother seems to be Christian and his brother-in-law Jason ( Howie Mandel ) is agnostic and quite crazy . One night , Tom is called to investigate two similar occurrences , both of them of domestic aggression and attempting to suicide , being one of them committed by Jason , who becomes totally insane . Tom realizes that something weird and unexplainable is happening , and he finds that the men of the leader Franco Macalousso ( Nick Mancuso ) , who is indeed Lucifer , are threatening his family . Tom tries to go home to help his family , but a mysterious force controls his car and it crashes on a truck . Many years later , Tom awakes from his coma in a hospital and realizes that most of the worldwide population is now dominated by the Anti-Christ Franco Macalousso , who intends to destroy the Christians , and is marked with the number of the beast 666 on one hand . Tom tries to find what happened to his family and how to fight against Macalousso . " Tribulation " is a good movie about the Apocalypse . I noted in IMDb that it is the third part of a sequence of Christian films about the text of the Bible . The first one of this movies I saw was " Judgement " , the fourth part of this series ; now I have just watched the third part , which is much better than " Judgement " . " Tribulation " is a good movie and the story can be understood without watching the first two parts . I liked the analogy made by Tom in the beginning of the movie , when he compares a person who speaks with aliens , with one who speaks with God . Title ( Brazil ) : " Forças Diabólicas " ( " Evil Forces " )
Promising and Intriguing Beginning , Weak and Very Disappointing Explanation	In England , Ian Stone ( Mike Vogel ) finds himself trapped in a weird situation : everyday , he meets the same persons in the most different situation , including Medea ( Jaimie Murray ) and Jenny ( Christina Cole ) ; around 5 PM , the watches stop and Ian is haunted by creepy beings with claws and has a painful death , waking again in another life . When an old man meets him and tells that he must protect Jenny to resurrect again , Ian begins to unravel a great mystery . " The Deaths of Ian Stone " has a promising and intriguing beginning that recalls " Groundhog Day " , " 12 : 01 " and " The Matrix " , with the lead character awaking every day in a different reality after dying . Unfortunately the explanation of the Harvesters is weak and very disappointing . There are many points that deserve better clarification , like why the existence of parallel lives ? Or how can the realities change and how could Ian return to the initial life if he died ? With a better development of the story , resolving the flaws in the screenplay , this movie could be excellent . But it entertains and is original and my vote is six . Title ( Brazil ) : " Prisioneiro da Morte " ( " Prisoner of the Death " )
A Rip Off of Constantine in the Environment of Buffy and Angel	After resolving a situation of exorcism , the half-breed demon hunter Jake Greyman ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) reports to Cardinal White ( William Bassett ) and they realize that the demon Asmodeus ( Billy Drago ) is impregnating many mortals trying to raise offspring . Cardinal White calls Sister Sarah Ryan ( Colleen Porch ) to assist Jake in his hunting for Asmodeus and his spawned women . Meanwhile , Asmodeus sends the delicious and sexy Succubus ( Tania Deighton ) to seduce Jake . A battle between good and evil is in course . " Demon Hunter " is an entertaining rip off of Constantine in the environment of Buffy and Angel . The demons have fangs like vampires , and the face of the surprising last monster is very similar to those in Buffy and Angel . The story seems to be a pilot of a television show and has some good moments . The unknown Tania Deighton is very seductive in the role of Succubus , the greatest attraction of this movie . I saw it with very low expectation , and I surprisingly liked " Demon Hunter " . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available .
Reasonable Hammer Movie	When his brother Charles Spalding ( David Baron ) mysteriously dies , Harry Spalding ( Ray Barrett ) and his wife Valerie ( Jennifer Daniel ) decide to move to the inherited cottage in a small village in the country . They are coldly received by the locals , with the exception of the bartender and owner of a pub Tom Bailey ( Michael Ripper ) , who welcome them . His weird neighbor Dr . Franklyn ( Noel Willman ) , who lives with his beautiful daughter Anna ( Jacqueline Pearce ) , tries to persuade them to sell the house and leave the place , but the couple decides to stay . Harry and Valerie find that the locals are being killed by some snake and they feel threatened . When Anna asks for help and they trespass Dr . Franklyn's house , they find the horrible truth hidden in the place . I have grownup watching Hammer horror movies in the movie theaters , mainly when I was a teenager . Therefore , Hammer movies have been and are very pleasant for me . " The Reptile " is only reasonable : the atmosphere is great , the snake-woman Jacqueline Pearce is really a very beautiful woman and the suspenseful story , although having many flaws and a weak conclusion , is attractive . The shape of snake woman recalls 1954 Universal's " Creature from the Black Lagoon " . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Serpente " ( " The Serpent " )
Silly and Dated Melodramic Romance	Lelita is a wealthy and rebel young woman , who meets the stranger Paulo Morano in a cab , and after an initial resistance , she falls in love with him . Meanwhile , her younger sister Didi tells her that she has an infatuation with a man called Paulo . Lelita believes that Paulo is cheating her with her sister and she breaks with him . Later , she realizes that her sister is dating indeed a homonymous and she committed a mistake with her boyfriend . " Lábios Sem Beijos " is a very silly and dated melodramatic romance in 2005 . However , in 1930 , this movie was completely aligned with the latest tendencies , visibly inspired in " Berlin : Die Sinfonie der Großstadt " . The narrative begins showing the wonderful city of Rio de Janeiro in 1930 , and there many external scenes . The characters are presented as part of a big city . This movie would be filmed by the screenplay writer Adhemar Gonzaga , inclusive some shootings were made by him . But for some unexplained reason , the direction ended in the hands of Humberto Mauro . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lábios Sme Beijos " ( " Lips Without Kisses " )
Opening the Heart , Damaging Relationships	On the Valentine's Day , Clark and Lois are alone with broken hearts and meet each other in a party in The Talon . A woman in a stand offers a red-colored lipstick made of red kryptonite to Lois telling her that she would fall in love for the first guy she put her eyes on . When Lois sees Clark , she has a crush on him and full of desire , she kisses him . Clark is affected by the red kryptonite transferred through her lips and crashes Lex and Lana's engagement dinner party with Lois ; he tells his true feelings to Lois , Martha , Chloe and Lana , and kidnaps Lana , opening his heart and damaging relationships . The episode " Crimson " seems to be a plot point in the whole " Smallville " series . The " bad Clark " affected by the red kryptonite spoils his relationship with his mother and girl friends , inclusive the romance of Chloe and Jimmy . How his reckless speech will affect Martha , Chloe , Lana and Lois in future ? The mystery about Lana's baby is intriguing with the last line of Lex to her doctor , but this episode has a huge flaw . How could a wrench or spanner be bent by a regular man without superpower hitting Clark ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Carmim " ( " Crimson " )
An Only Reasonable David Mamet's Movie	Scott ( Val Kilmer ) is an agent of the American secret service assigned to investigate the kidnapping of the daughter of a high member of the US Government . What seemed to be a traffic of white slaves discloses a darker plot . " Spartan " is quite a deception , considering that was written and directed by David Mamet . The characters are not well developed , and in the beginning is hard to understand that Scott is not a military , but a secret agent . Further , for a cold guy like him , I have not understood how he gets involved with the abduction situation of Laura Newton ( Kristen Bell ) , and jeopardizes his agents Curtis and Jacqueline ( Jackie Black ) is such a mission . I saw this movie in an American DVD , since it has not been released in Brazil yet , and I found it only reasonable , maybe overrated because of the name of David Mamet . When is mentioned in the movie that the president's daughter was kidnapped ? I did not see this information in any part of the story , only in IMDb comments . Title ( Brazil ) : This movie has not been released yet .
An Above Average Horror Movie	In 1815 , the curious monk Tomas Alcala ( Greg Serano ) releases two evil female succubi called Munkar ( Mary Mara ) and Nakir ( Rebecca Harrell ) from a prison with the shape of a sculptured ball . The demons kill his brother eating his arm and escapes to the Twenty-First Century using a weird device stored in the monastery . Tomas is marked on his hand by a dagger , and the priests understand that , in accordance with God's wish , this would mean that he would be a saint and should travel in time to destroy the succubi , using the dagger as a kind of compass to direct him towards the demons . In the present days , he is helped by detective Rachel Dressler ( Gina Ravera ) , who is grieving the loss of her father and believes on his words . Meanwhile , the two evil demons are feeding themselves of blood of human beings and fighting against Tomas and Rachel . I have just seen this movie on cable television and certainly it is above average . It has a reasonable screenplay and good special effects . The cast is not bad , but something is missing to be a good or excellent movie . Maybe with a better lead actor , and some more fun in the scenes of the two succubi might improve the story . Anyway , I am a great fan of horror movies and I found ' Saint Sinner ' a worthwhile entertainment , specially considering that it is made for TV . I do not know why most of the present horror movies uses the expression ' God's Plan ' . As far as I know , the Catholic Church does not have this cliché , but it is used in many stories to designate what God expects from a character or situation . Does God have a plan for the humankind ? I find this expression not appropriated , but maybe it is my misunderstanding of language or lack of knowledge of religion . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Santo Pecador ' ( ' The Saint Sinner ' )
Unpleasant Theme , but Surprisingly Entertaining	In Manhattan , when a client is bitten by a rat in the dressing room of the Garsons Department Store and contracts Weil's disease , the manager Susan Costello ( Mädchen Amick ) is assigned to hire and give all the necessary support to the best exterminator in New York , Jack Carver ( Vincent Spano ) . The efficient Jack and his assistant Ty ( Shawn Michael Howard ) find a colony of mutant rats and try to convince the health department administrator and former partner of Jack , Ray Jarrett ( David Wolos-Fonteno ) , how serious the infestation is . But the politician Ray is interested in covering the problem to protect economical interests of powerful groups . The theme of " The Rats " is absolutely unpleasant , but the way the story is approached in this movie is surprisingly entertaining . The chemistry between Mädchen Amick and Vincent Spano contributes to make this film work . I do not know if there is any veracity in the scary statistic of nine rats per dweller in New York , but if it is true , the reality is scarier than this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ratos em Nova Iorque " ( " Rats in New York " )
Highly Recommended for Fans Like Me of British Horror Movies of the Seventies	In 1795 , in England , the young woman Catherine ( Stephanie Beacham ) moves to the house of her fiancé Charles Fengriffen ( Ian Ogilvy ) in the country to get married with him . When she arrives , she feels interest in the portraits of the Fengriffen family , particularly in the one of Charle's grandfather Henry Fengriffen ( Herbert Lom ) , which seems to have a sort of evil entity possessing it . While admiring Henry's face , a severed hand attacks Catherine through the picture on the wall . Later , she gets married with Charles , beginning her journey of mystery , eerie apparitions , secrets and deaths , and having her days filled with fear and the nights with horrors in a cursed family . " And Now the Screaming Starts " is a good movie from Amicus , the greatest competitor studio in England in the 60's and 70's of the famous and cult Hammer . This is a low-budget production ( as usual ) , supported by an interesting low-paced story , and highly recommended for fans like me of British horror movies of the seventies . When I was a teenager , I usually went to all Hammer and Amicus movies in the theaters , and now I feel like in a time machine to my youth when I revisit a movie like " And Now the Screaming Starts " . However , this ghost story is not recommended for fans of gore and explicitly violent horror movies . The locations and costumes are great ; the cast has good performances , highlighting the lungs of Stephanie Beacham ; and the atmosphere and photography fits perfectly to the story , although being sometimes too dark on the VHS and having a bad edition , with abrupt cuts . I found , in some moments and angles , the resemblance of Stephanie Beacham with Rachael Leigh Cook amazing . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Gritos Que Aterrorizam " ( " The Screams That Terrify " )
Something Does Not Work Well in This Movie . . .	In a near future , the existence of a city of vampires is disclosed to the human race . However , some killings of humans jeopardize the integration of the races . Detective Steve Grant ( Bokeem Wooddbine ) and the vampire Detective Aaron Gray ( Adrien Paul ) join forces investigating the murders . This movie has many essential components to be a great film : a wonderful photography , something between Gothic and noir , recalling ' Dark City ' and even ' Matrix ' ; an intriguing and original plot , discussing the problems of integration of two very different races , which can be extrapolated for the present intolerance in the world ; great costumes , good special effects and some good actors and actresses . However , the screenplay is confused , with an unnecessary romance , and the direction is cold , and in the end , we have a movie without emotion or vibration , basic elements for this type of story . Anyway , it is watchable and is a reasonable entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Cidade dos Vampiros ' ( ' Vampires City ' )
Not Bad , For Such a Low Budget Movie	Dan ( Josh Hammond ) joins the University of Drake and shares a room with the handsome abstemious athlete Chris Chandler ( as Nathan Watkins ) . They become close friends . They meet Megan ( Elizabeth Bruderman ) , who invites them to a party in the best fraternity of the campus , leaded by Devon Eisley ( Bradley Stryker ) . Chris in invited to join the brotherhood , where deep dark secrets are disclosed . " The Brotherhood " is a kind of " Lost Boys " and " Buffy " in the same plot , and it is not bad for such a low budget movie . The story uses unknown teen actors and actress and only a few locations , but there is a good chemistry between the characters of Chris and Dan , some good lines and the film works on DVD , being a good entertainment for the fans of this genre ( probably teenagers girls will love this movie , since the male cast is very handsome ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Irmandade de Sangue " ( " Brotherhood of Blood " )
Pleasant Surprise	The orphan Mandy Lane ( Amber Heard ) is a beautiful , virgin and pure teenager raised by her aunt , desired by her schoolmates and a close friend of the outcast Emmet ( Michael Welch ) . After the death of their high school mate in a pool party , Mandy befriends Chloe ( Whitney Able ) , Marlin ( Melissa Price ) , Red ( Aaron Himelstein ) , Bird ( Edwin Hodge ) and Jake ( Luke Grimes ) . Red invites the group for a weekend party in the isolated ranch of his family , with all the boys disputing who would succeed in having sex with Mandy Lane . They meet the henchman Garth ( Anson Mount ) that takes care of the ranch and he asks the group to go easy on the drugs and booze . In the middle of the night , a stranger wearing a hood attacks Marlin in the barn ; when Jake seeks her out , he faces the killer , beginning a night of bloodshed and terror . The slasher " All the Boys Love Mandy Lane " is a pleasant surprise , with a good story and a predictable killer . However , the unexpected last twist is not totally clear since the motives for the attitude of Mandy Lane are not explained . Her intriguing character deserved to be better developed , but probably the intention of the writer is to give arguments for a sequel disclosing the reasons why Mandy Lane is so ambiguous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tudo Por Ela " ( " All for Her " )
Almost a Good Action Movie	A group of four young and daring thieves leaded by Slim ( Stephen Dorff ) commit heist against a bank and an armored truck without any shooting . Their problems begin when they steal some possessions that belonged to a bad guy and they are blackmailed by the dangerous bandit and by the dirty Lt . Macgruder ( Bruce Payne ) . Karen ( Natasha Henstridge ) is a detective who has just been transferred to the jurisdiction and command of Lt . Macgruder and has an affair with Slim . After many plot points , the conclusion of this amoral story is very reasonable . This flick is almost a good action movie . There are many good elements , such as the action scenes themselves , the soundtrack ( on DTS , it is great ! ) , the beauty of Natasha Henstridge , who looks like wine and some funny situations . However , Bruce Payne is horrible and ridiculous as usual , the character of Steven Berkoff is boring and not funny , and the story , full of clichés , has many flaws . The ' actress ' who performs a policewoman in the scene on the bridge is showed a couple of minutes on the screen and has an amazingly bad short performance . Further , Natasha Henstridge is ' too much sand for the truck ' of Stephen Dorff , isn't she ? This 1 . 78 m very good-looking and perfect body Canadian woman does not fit well with this 1 . 77 m evil face actor in a romantic couple . Anyway , a watchable and forgettable entertainment especially on DVD , recommended for killing time . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Steal ? Fuga Alucinada ' ( ' Steal ? Crazy Getaway ' )
Silly , But Entertaining	In Manhattan , Ashley Albright ( Lindsay Lohan ) is a lucky woman and very successful in the agency where she works . The clumsy Jake Hardin ( Chris Pine ) is an unlucky aspirant manager of the rock band McFly , who is unsuccessfully trying to contact the entrepreneur Damon Phillips ( Faizon Love ) to promote his band . When Ashley meets Jake in a masquerade party , they kiss each other , swapping her fortune with his bad luck . " Just My Luck " is a very silly and predictable comedy , but also entertaining . Lindsay Lohan is charming and adorable as usual and shows a good chemistry with Chris Pine making this movie work . Further , the story has no villain and all the characters are nice . Forget the private life of Linday in the tabloids and enjoy 103 minutes of fun in this forgettable fell-good movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sorte no Amor " ( " Luck in Love " )
The Day the World Changed	On September , 11th 2001 , four domestic flights are hijacked by terrorist in United States of America . After the collision of three against selected targets , the passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93 fight against four terrorists to take back the control of the airplane . On the day that the world changed , about forty two passengers and crew of United Flight 93 become aware that the four terrorists that hijacked their plane are in a suicidal mission , after the collisions of three other airplanes . Through the testimony of their phone calls , this movie reconstitutes and dramatizes the moments of despair of some of them . The story is very sad and touching , since they are common people like you and me in a flight . It is impossible not projecting ourselves in the tragic situation that might have happened to either of us and feel a great sympathy for the victims . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vôo 93 ? O Fime " ( " Flight 93 ? The Movie " )
A Clumsy Anti-Hero Is Born	When a thief driving a motorcycle steals a purse of a pedestrian , the clumsy , naive and honest rookie policeman Sang-hwan ( Seung-beom Ryu ) runs after him , but the skilled specialist in martial arts Wi-jin ( So-yi Yoon ) captures the criminal and Sang-hwan is severely injured . She brings Sang-hwan to her home , where the six Masters of Tao heal him and believe that he has a powerful Qi , the spiritual energy of the universe , and could be a powerful warrior . Sang-hwan begins his training to ascend to a Maruchi , while the evil and ambitious Heuk-woon ( Doo-hong Jung ) is accidentally released from his imprisonment . The powerful Heuk-woon attacks the masters , searching a key that they protect , which would permit him to become an Arahan and dominate the world . When the masters are defeated , Sang-hwan and Wi-jin are the only hope to mankind . " Arahan " has great special effects , a nice cast and could be a good action movie . Unfortunately the comedy never works , with the clumsy anti-hero Sang-hwan being a confused not-funny character . Maybe this type of humor works in other cultures , but I did not like it . The developments of the rich characters is weak , and maybe in Asian cultures the concepts of Qi and Tao are clear , but at least for me , I was forced to research about these concepts of the Chinese culture to understand their meanings . But for fans like me of South-Korean movies , " Arahan " is essential . Title Brazil ) : " Arahan "
Good Stories , Disappointing Conclusions	Warner do Brasil released on DVD the following episodes : 1 ) " Campo de Batalha " ( " Battleground " ) : In Dallas , the hit man Jason Renshaw ( William Hurt ) breaks in the headquarter of a toys company and kills Hans Morris , the manufacturer and owner of the company . He returns to his fancy apartment in San Francisco , and later he receives a package of toys with soldiers , helicopters and heavy weapon . Suddenly he is attacked by the commando , and he tries to survive . " Battleground " is a very silly and naive episode , without dialogs and with the character performed by William Hurt being attacked by toys . The explosions and shootout on the fortieth floor of the elegant building do not bother any neighbor . 2 ) " Crouch End " : The career devoted Lonnie Freeman ( Eion Bailey ) and his wife Doris Freeman ( Claire Forlani ) are in London in honeymoon . Loonie receives a message from the important client Squales inviting the young couple to have dinner with him in his house at Crouch End . While going to the dinner party , Doris is advised by the cab driver to return from Crouch End , which would be a thin spot in another dimension . Lonnie does not accept the non-sense explanation and have a weird experience with Doris . " Crouch End " seems to be a bad homage to " Twilight Zone " . The mysterious story has a great atmosphere , but an absolutely disappointing conclusion . 3 ) " O Último Caso de Umney " ( " Umney's Last Case " ) : In 1938 in Los Angeles , Clyde Umney ( William H . Macy ) is a divorce private eye successful with women . On the weirdest day of his life , he sees his world turning upside-down when he discovers that he is a character of a series of novels made-up by the writer Sam Landry . Sam is grieving the loss of his son and wants to swap position with Clyde . " Umney's Last Case " has a stylish noir production and an original story ( I believe this show was produced before " Stranger than Fiction " ) . I liked the whole story , but the conclusion is abrupt and seems that the original intention could be to be continued . Title ( Brazil ) : " Nightmares & Dreamscapes Vol . 1 ? Pesadelos e Paisagens Noturnas " ( " Nightmares & Dreamscapes Vol . 1 ? Nightmares and Nocturne Landscapes " )
Weird and Bizarre	The wounded criminal Richard " Dicky " ( Lionel Stander ) and his dying partner Albie ( Jack MacGowran ) seek for shelter in an old seaside castle full of chickens and owned by the eccentric and coward American George ( Donald Pleasence ) and his slut French wife Teresa ( Françoise Dorléac ) . While waiting for the rescue of his boss , Albie dies and Dicky develops a strange relationship with the odd couple . The cult and awarded black comedy " Cul-de-sac " is a weird and bizarre movie . I do not know whether this sort of non-sense humor is dated or works for European , but in my concept most of the jokes are not funny . Nevertheless it is worthwhile watching this film , first because it is one of the first works of the great director Roman Polanski , and also because it is one of the last works of Catherine Deneuve's sister Francoise Dorleac , who prematurely died in 1967 when her sports car crashed and burned in Nice , France . Title ( Brazil ) : " Armadilha do Destino " ( " Trap from the Destiny " )
A Tale of the Loneliness in the Big City	Along the night of São Paulo , the lives of many characters interconnect through reality and fiction , in a search for love and sympathy . " Anjos da Noite " is an experimental movie of the " Novo Cinema Paulista " ( " New Paulista Cinema " ) , a movement in the 80's that took place in São Paulo and that was considered nostalgic and nihilistic in the vision of many critics . The metaphoric inconclusive essay about loneliness of the urban citizen in the big city focuses one night in the lives of common people without any judgment or conclusion : Ciça ( Be Valerio ) , the student of sociology researching some tapes ; Teddy ( Guilheme Leme ) , a escort man that interacts with all the characters ; Marta Brum ( Marília Pera ) , a former successful actress forgotten by the audiences and limited to commercials on TV ; Guto ( Marcos Nanini ) , a successful gay that lives in New York and occasionally returns to Brazil for short periods ; the director Jorge ( Antônio Fagundes ) , who is interested in having sex with a young actress . The stunning performances of Marília Pera , Guilherme Leme and Marcos Nanini are remarkable . The optimistic end , showing the dawn with Ciça and Teddy together , in a wonderful photography , ends this different but attractive passionate movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anjos da Noite " ( " Angels of the Night " )
Disappointing Little Personal Drama	In Buenos Aires , the twenty and something years old Jewish-Argentinean Ariel Makaroff ( Daniel Hendler ) has quited the architecture university and spends his time wandering through the downtown gallery where his mother has a lingerie shop and his brother runs an importation business ; shagging the owner of a little Internet business ; and trying to get his Polish passport and move to Europe . Ariel has never understood why his father left him when he was a baby to fight in the Yom Kippur War in 1973 . When his father returns to Buenos Aires , Ariel discovers the reason why his father left his family . " El Abrazo Partido " is a disappointing little personal drama with uninteresting and dull characters and awful camera work . The lead character Ariel is an alienated shirker and his motivations in the story are never clear , since he does not study and has no work ; no religion in spite of being Jewish ; no sense of nationalism ; no girlfriend ( he left Estela without any reason ) ; no respect or feelings for his family ; no nothing but intercourse with the next door neighbor in the gallery Rita and an apparently interest in having an European passport . His mother , his grandmother , his brother , his father , the neighbors in the gallery , none of these characters is interesting . The style partially recalls the Danish filmmaker movement Dogma 95 , since the movie is done on the location ; with ambient sound ; use of hand-held camera ; colored with no use of filters ; very realistic plot ; etc . However , the hand-held camera work is awful , recalling " The Blair Witch Project " or " Cloverfield " and the division in parts with subtitles seems to be a pretentious trial of intellectual style . But the acting is great and my vote is six . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Abraço Partido " ( " The Broken Hug " )
What is Wrong With Whitney ?	After invading some country around Indonesia , Whitney Fordman is considered missing in action . Lana Lang is very close to Clark Kent , when Whitney unexpectedly returns to Smallville , being welcomed like a hero ( why ? ? maybe small town thing ) . Whitney claims to have partial amnesia , and shows a sick jealousy of Clark Kent . A further investigation of Clark shows that he is indeed Tina Greer ( Lizzy Caplan , from " X-Ray " episode ) . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor investigates his father and finds that Dr . Helen Bryce ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) has some connection with him . " Visage " could be a good episode of Smallville , but there are many awful lines about the action of Whitney while serving the Marines . The romance of Lex and Helen is interesting , and the attitude of Lana , never believing on Clark , is becoming boring and contradictory with a teenager that always saves her . Title ( Brazil ) : " Falsas Aparências " ( " False Appearances " )
Confessions , in a Totally Incoherent Episode	Alicia Baker is considered cured and released from Belle Reve institution . She meets Clark Kent , they confess to each other that they are virgins and she gives a red kryptonite necklace to him , and they go to Las Vegas to get married to each other . Lana Lang confess to Chloe Sullivan that she is virgin , but Chloe tells her that she loved a guy called Jimmy during her working period in the Daily Planet . Lana decides to have sex with Jason to keep their relationship . Lex Luthor and Lionel Luthor give a break in their fight and have a closer contact . In this episode , there are many confessions about virginity . I did not like the story , and I found it very incoherent , since Alicia stayed for more than a year in an institution keeping Clark Kent's secret , and was shot to keep his secret . Therefore , why is Clark so afraid of a relationship with Alicia , if the girl proved that loves him and accepts him the way he is ? Martha knows that Clark traveled to Las Vegas due to the effect of the red kryptonite , so why the final complaint with Clark ? The lack of coherence in the attitude of these characters really upset me . Title ( Brazil ) : " Em Perigo " ( " In Danger " )
Naive Version of the Legend of Billy the Kid	In the Nineteenth Century , in the town of Lincoln , New Mexico , the sheriff Pat Garrett ( Thomas Mitchell ) welcomes his old friend , Doc Holliday ( Walter Huston ) , who has had his horse Red stolen by a stranger while coming to the town . They meet the thieve and realize that the guy is the gunman Billy the Kid ( Jack Beutel ) . Doc becomes friend of Billy , but Pat invites them to leave Lincoln in the afternoon . There is an incident , Pat wounds Billy the Kid , and Doc asks his girlfriend Rio McDonald ( Jane Russell ) to take care of Billy while he would misguide Pat Garret t and his officers . There is a romance between Billy the Kid and Rio , and when the hit-man is healed , he disputes with Doc the possession of Red and Rio , with Pat Garrett chasing them . On 13 July 1881 , this hunting ends in a tragic way . After watching " The Aviator " , I was very curious to see " The Outlaw " , mainly because of the problems of Howard Hughes with the censorship mentioned in Martin Scorcese's film . It is amazing to see on the present days how a simple décolleté could provoke such a reaction in 1943 . Further , presently " The Outlaw " is a very silly western , showing a naive version of the legend of Billy the Kid . The repetitive soundtrack along many dialogs is very boring , and in the presents days this movie could be a parody of westerns movies . It is worthwhile as an entertainment and to satisfy the curiosity rose in " The Aviator " about this polemic work of Howard Hughes . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Proscrito " ( " The Outlaw " )
Sometimes Pray Isn't Enough !	Dr . Zack Straker ( Scott Bairstow ) is a laboratory scientist sent to a work in the field , more precisely in a diamond mining company in the Namid Desert , in Africa . His first assignment is to participate of a rescue mission of three missing prospectors , who are lost in the desert . The rescue team finds the bones separated from the completely destroyed bodies of the prospectors . The African Titus ( Andre Weidman ) explains that the slaughter was carried out by the Sandmother , a sort of evil being that was part of the African belief . His colleagues do not pay much attention on his faith . Meanwhile , their truck has an electrical problem and they have to spend the night in the desert , when they face the horrible monster that snatches the bones of its victims . Zach and the other survivors conclude that sometimes pray isn't enough , and decide to fight against the destructive creature . " The Bone Snatcher " is another variation of the storyline of " Alien " . However , this story takes place in great locations in the desert and the special effects are reasonably good , and this horror movie is above the average of this genre . There are the usual clichés , but it is not a bad movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Caçador de Ossos " ( " Bones Hunter " )
Promising Idea Wasted in a Messy Screenplay	The weak teenager Akira Fudô ( Hisato Izaki ) has been protected by his best friend Ryô Asuka ( Yûsuke Izaki ) since they were children . When Akira's parents die in an accident , the family Makimura brings him to live with them , and Akira falls in love for the gorgeous Miki Makimura ( Ayana Sakai ) . When the father of Ryô accidentally opens a gate to hell in Antarctica , demons are released , merging with humans to survive . Akira hosts Aman and becomes Devilman but keeping his humanity while Ryô hosts Satan . The hysteria and panic replaces reason and mankind initiates a war against the demons , but destroying also themselves . I have never read any comic book of " Devilman " , therefore I am not familiarized with this character of manga . But this movie shows a promising idea wasted in a messy but also entertaining screenplay . This apocalyptical story shows Akira and Ryô as best friends , but never explains the motive of the evilness of Ryô . Further , it seems that there are " good demons " and evil ones , and Akira is the last hope of the human race , but the story does not develop well the motives of the two friends . Anyway this movie is underrated in IMDb with 3 . 8 and I liked it in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " Devilman "
Alimonies , Vacation and Wedding Ring	When the wealthy Wall Street businessman Chester Hamilton ( Sidney Blackmer ) is arrested for missing the payment of due alimonies to his ex-wife , he finds his butler Oswald Groggs ( Charles Ruggles ) in the jail arrested for the same motive . Chester gives US$ 2 , 500 . 00 to Oswald to pay his debts , but the butler gives only part of the money to his ex-wife and travels to the seashore on vacation pretending to be the wealthy " Sir " Oswald Groggs . The gold digger Phyllis Van Kamp a . k . a . Fanny Malone ( Verree Teasdale ) mistakenly believes he is an aristocrat British playboy and has a brief affair with him . Oswald falls in love for her and pays her expensive hotel bill and buys a valuable ring among other presents ; after draining his money , Fanny leaves him . Oswald returns to Chester's home and he has a surprise when he finds that his boss has just married Fanny . He tells the truth to Chester and together with his friends and his secretary Dorothy Blaine ( Phyllis Barry ) , they plot a scheme against Fanny to get a divorce . In 2009 , it is funny to see the moral values and clichés of 1933 in this dated but entertaining comedy . The well succeeded men are white ; the servants are mostly black ; the women are gold diggers or a fragile and naive secretary in love with her boss . The DVD released by Alpha Home Entertainment is not restored and has a bad quality of image and sound which associated to the absence of subtitles make difficult for a foreigner to understand part of the dialogs . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Beautiful Choreography	When the successful artistic director Alex McGrath ( Matthew Walker ) dies , his New York dance company invites three veteran dancers , Travis MacPhearson ( Patrick Swaize ) , Chrissa Lindh ( Lisa Niemi ) and Max Delano ( George De La Pena ) , to exhibit a never performed dance piece called " Without a Word " as a last homage in a benefit show . Along the troubled trio reunion , secrets are disclosed , deep wounds are healed , culminating with their last dance together . " One Last Dance " is certainly a very personal work of Patrick Swaize and mostly of his wife Lisa Niemi , who are producers , writer , director and lead actor and actress . The choreography is very beautiful , with a great music score including two Brazilian songs . Lisa Niemi and Patrick Swaize show that they are in good shape as dancers . Unfortunately , the screenplay is weak , with a sort of soap-opera drama and Lisa Niemi performs a confused character , never clear of her feelings and intentions . If she had a serious situation with Alex , why does she need to dance again ? Travis returned for Chrissa , and Max because he is completely broken . Further , the tearful character Chrissa Lindh is boring in some moments with her insecurity . But the dances make this movie a worthwhile entertainment for those who like this art . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Última Dança " ( " The Last Dance " )
Unpleasant and Bigoted Story and Characters	The paranoid registrant administrator of the Department of Public Safety Erroll Babbage ( Richard Gere ) is forced to an early retirement due to his abusive behavior against the sex offenders that he should monitor , and shall spend his last eighteen days training his replacement Allison Lowry ( Claire Danes ) . When the seventeen years old Harriet Wells ( Kristina Sisco ) is considered missing in his area of work , Errol is convinced that her disappearance is related to one of his parole sex offenders . However , his superiors do not believe on his investigations and he convinces Allison to follow him in the sick underworld of pornography and perversions trying to find the missing girl . " The Flock " is a movie with unpleasant and bigoted story and characters with a good and dark cinematography but terrible edition and camera work . The ambiguous character of Richard Gere has a despicable behavior in spite of solving the case , and it is impossible to feel any empathy for him . In the beginning , there are statistics about the theme " sex offenders " , and I do not know whether they are realistic or generated by a North American obsession that considers a sexual offense or harassment certain attitudes accepted by other societies . This film seems to be intended to spread a sort of concern and prejudice against those that have been condemned but paid their debt with the society , since they have been released on probation by the justice . Title ( Brazil ) : " Justiça a Qualquer Preço " ( " Justice at any Price " )
The Death of Death	While filming a horror movie of mummy in a forest , the students of the University of Pittsburgh Jason Creed ( Joshua Close ) , Ridley Wilmot ( Phillip Riccio ) , Francine Shane ( Megan Park ) , Tony Ravelo ( Shawn Roberts ) , Elliot Stone ( Joe Dinicol ) , Mary Dexter ( Tatiana Maslany ) , Elliot " Gordo " Thorson ( Chris Violetti ) and Tracy Thurman ( Amy Lalonde ) and their professor Andrew Maxwell ( Scott Wentworth ) hear on the TV news that the dead are awaking and walking . Ridley and Francine decide to leave the group , while Jason heads to the dormitory of his girlfriend Debra Monahan ( Michelle Morgan ) . She does not succeed in contacting her family and they travel in Mary's van to the house of Debra's parents in Scranton , Pennsylvania . While driving her van , Mary sees a car accident and runs over a highway patrolman and three other zombies trying to escape from them . Later the religious Mary is depressed , questioning whether the victims where really dead , and tries to commit suicide , shooting herself with a pistol . Her friends bring her to a hospital where they realize that the dead are indeed awaking and walking and they need to fight to survive while traveling to house of Debra's parents . I do not say that " Diary of the Dead " is disappointing , but indeed there is nothing new in this movie " à la The Blair Witch Project ( or Cloverfield ) " . The story is a kind of " documentary " of George A . Romero's trilogy , with the cinema student Jason Creed shooting the movie with his handy camera . Unfortunately there is a total lack of credibility in this unreasonable character that keeps shooting his movie even in the most weird or dangerous situation for himself or for his group of friends . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Family Tradition	The Lake sisters - Brielle ( Kelsey Crane ) , Kelly ( Kelsey Wedeen ) and their step-sister Samantha ( Tara Gerard ) - receive a surprising inheritance from their unknown grandfather that has just deceased . Brielle and Kelly join a group of friends and travel in a RV to visit the Lake Motel and decide what to do with the property . Sooner they finds that their unknown relatives are deranged psychos . " Lake Dead " is an average slasher B-movie and has an unoriginal story that I have seen many times : " The Hills Have Eyes " , " Wrong Turn " , I can not count many movies with stories similar to the original " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " plus a collection of clichés of the genre ( naked women , friends surrounded and under siege by psychos etc . ) . Even the incestuous relationship among relatives is not original - " Timber Falls " is better and better . But entertains , and my vote is six . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lago da Morte " ( " Lake of the Death " )
Gruesome , Gore , Trash and Funny	In a remote bar , costumers are advised by a newcomer to seal the place since hunger monsters will attack them in a couple of minutes . The man is immediately devoured and the clients organize a strategy to defend the place under siege of deadly creatures . " Feast " does not have story , but it is gruesome , gore , trash and funny . There are no explanations about the origin of the monsters , but disgusting and nasty special effects in the fast-paced and ridiculous attacks of the creatures that does not give time for thinking how silly the story is . The conclusion is a great joke , with a hook for a possible sequel . Title ( Brazil ) : " Banquete no Inferno " ( " Feast in Hell " )
The Call from Death	While in a bar with her friends , the teenager Yoko Okazaki ( Anna Nagata ) receives a call in her cellular with a voice mail from the future telling the date and time when she would die . On the next day , Yumi overhears a group of students talking about the urban legend that people connected in the address book of cellular are mysteriously receiving phone calls with date and time of their death in the near future . In the precise informed hour , Yoko is attacked by a supernatural force in a train station while talking to her friend Yumi Nakamura ( Kou Shibasaki ) by phone and dies with severed arm and leg . Yumi seeks out Kioto's boyfriend Kenji Kawai ( Atsushi Ida ) , who also received a call , and witnesses his death in an elevator shaft . When her roommate Natsumi Konishi ( Kazue Fukiishi ) receives a call , Yoko befriends Hiroshi Yamashita ( Shin'ichi Tsutsumi ) , who tells her that his sister Ritsuko ( Azusa ) that worked in the Child Guidance Center with abused children was the first victim of the phone call . While in the hospital , Yumi hears an asthma pump and recalls that she heard the same noise when Kenji died . They decide to investigate victims of asthma in the hospital and find the name of Marie Mizunuma and her daughters Mimiko and Nanako . They search the family together trying to save Natsumi from her fate . " Chakushin Ari " is scary like most of the Asian horror movies , and has a promising beginning supported by a great acting and a good plot . However , the last quarter of the movie is confused , not clear , needing interpretation ; therefore , the screenplay writer Minako Daira or the cult director Takashi Miike or both failed since they were not able to transmit a clear conclusion of the story to the audience . I glanced in IMDb the most different interpretations for the end of the story to ratify my opinion . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ligação Perdida " ( " Missed Call " )
Disappointing Commercial Thriller	I heard some good comments about this movie from some colleagues , and I bought the DVD really expecting to see great film . Directed by Sydney Pollack and having Nicole Kidman , Sean Penn and Catherine Keener in the cast , I thought that it would certainly be a great political thriller . Unfortunately I was absolutely wrong . The confused and flawed screenplay does not develop well the characters , the story is very disappointing and commercial and there are very stupid lines , such as when Silvia asks Keller what he does when he can not sleep , and he answers that he stays awake ; or when Dot comes to a stripper in a night-club and asks her to not touch the Prime Minister in a lap dance . What about the secret service leaving the menaced president of a country alone in a room after an attempt against his life ? Why would a citizen and her president together alone speak in English instead of in their native dialect or language ? The conclusion is simply awful and corny , and the alternative ending with worse than the original one . There is a total lack of chemistry between Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn for the insinuated romance arising between them . Nicole Kidman seems to have fixed the awful plastic surgery of her nose , and is very beautiful again in this flick . Last but not the least , it is very weird that many favorable reviews are made by users with only one review issued in IMDb , in a type of apparently fake promotion . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Intérprete " ( " The Interpreter " )
A Reasonable Soap-Opera with an Absurd Plot Point	The hard worker and religious Alice Pratt ( Alfre Woodard ) raised her two daughters managing a simple bar of her own . Her snobbish and arrogant daughter Andrea ( Sanaa Lathan ) is graduated in Economic Science and works in a construction corporation while her sister Pam ( Taraji Henson ) stayed with Alice working in the bar . Andrea is married with the construction worker Chris ( Rockmond Dunbar ) , who works in the same corporation of his wife and dreams on initiating his own business . However she is betraying him with their boss William Cartwright ( Cole Hauser ) . William is the son of Alice's best friend , the wealthy Charlotte Cartwright ( Kathy Bates ) . While Alice travels with Charlotte in a road trip without destiny , the ambition and infidelity of William trigger a series of events that will affect relationships in both families . " The Family That Preys " is a reasonable soap-opera and my first impression is that it is underrated in IMDb . However , the plot point in the meeting of the board of Charlotte's company is so absurd and incoherent that spoils the story and might be the reason for such bad rating . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Intriguing Beginning , Terrible Conclusion	After being threatened by witchcraft in Africa , Gwen Mayfield ( Joan Fontaine ) has a nervous breakdown and returns to England . She is invited to teach in a private school , owned by the wealthy Alan Bax ( Alec McCowen ) and his sister Stephanie Bax ( Kay Walsh ) , in the village of Heddaby . After a period in the place , she witnesses weird events with locals , and she realizes that the place is indeed a coven and her student Linda Rigg ( Ingrid Brett ) is being prepared for a sacrifice . " The Witches " is a Hammer film that can be divided in two parts : the first one , with the arrival of Mayfield to Heddaby , is intriguing and suspenseful . Joan Fontaine , in her last work in the cinema , performs a fragile and vulnerable woman due to a trauma in Africa , and wondering if there are witches in the village . The second part , when she returns from the mental institution , is simply awful . The long ritual of the witches is disgusting and silly , and spoils a promising film . Kay Walsh , the former wife of David Lean , has a great performance , highly above the rest of the cast . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bruxa A Face do Demônio " ( " Witch The Face of the Demon " )
Weird , Unpleasant and Wicked Story of Injustice , Racism , Politics and Revenge	In a prison in Georgia in the 60's , the prisoner Billy Bob Jones ( as Joe Cortese ) tells his story since he was ten years old to the FBI agent Hannah ( Belle Avery ) . Billy was unfairly sent to a reformatory after stabbing on the back the boy friend of his sister , who was rapping her . When he was twenty-one years old , he was going to be released , but a black guard tries to rape him and he kills the man , being sent to prison . He becomes friend of a thief , who teach him how to rob banks and brings him to the breasts of KKK . He is arrested again , and he is used for political purpose in a nasty plot . " Malevolence " is a weird , unpleasant and wicked story of injustice , racism , politics and revenge . It is not a bad movie , but the miserable life of the character of Billy Bob Jones is so unfair , that in the end it is a very disagreeable and quite offensive movie . The actress and director Belle Avery performs a bizarre character , and her voice recalls Jodie Foster's timbre . This film is recommended for specific audiences only . Title ( Brazil ) : " Maldade " ( " Wicked " )
Original Espionage Movie	The unofficial agency of the American government Espionage Corporation is assigned to investigate the Chinese organization The Dragons when the government is advised to remove the American troops from Asia , otherwise The Dragons would destroy Los Angeles with a Hydrogen Bomb . The chief Mr . Kane ( Donald Woods ) asks his best agent Justin Power ( Jeffrey Hunter ) , who is testing a time converter belt , to be in charge of the mission with the Chinese agent Ki Ti Tso ( France Nuyen ) , aka Kitty . The intelligence agency unravels that parts of the bomb has been imported by the smuggler Big Buddha ( Harold Sakata ) and Power and Kitty seek the hidden place in USA . " Dimension 5 " is an original , but dated , espionage movie and quite underrated in IMDb . I bought this DVD because of the name of Jeffrey Hunter , the unforgettable Captain Christopher Pike of " Star Trek " , and I did not dislike this type of 007 with time travel . There is one specific scene that is shamefully bad , when Justin Power finds that Kitty has not died in the car and hugs her and the DVD released in Brazil by Classicline distributor presents many scratched images , but in the end this movie is a reasonable entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dimensão 5 " ( " Dimension 5 " )
A Comedy With Some Good Moments	Shaun Brumder ( Colin Hanks ) is a surfer , who spends most of his time on the beach with his dudes and with his girlfriend Ashley ( Schuyler Fisk ) . His dysfunctional family is composed of a hysteric mother , Cindy Beugler ( Catherine O'Hara ) ; a handicapped stepfather , Bob Beugler ( George Murdock ) ; a stoned brother , Lance Brumder ( Jack Black ) ; and a selfish father , Bud Brumder ( John Lithgow ) , who is married with a very young woman , who cheats him . One day , Shaun finds a book from the writer and professor Marcus Skinner ( Kevin Kline ) and after reading it , decides to go to Stanford to become a writer . However , the stupid clerk Charlotte Cobb ( Lily Tomlin ) makes a mistake with his name and forwards the record of the bad student Shane to Stanford instead of Shaun's . His application is not accepted and Shaun tries different approaches to reach his objective and study in Stanford . This comedy has some good moments and has some funny parts , especially when Jack Black's shallow character is in action . I do not know the educational system in USA , but it sounds strange to me that a donation can put a student with bad grades in a university . I am used to see in American movies , dumb athletes joining the university due to the skills in football , baseball , basketball or volley , but this is the first time that I see money buying a spot in a reputable university . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Orange County ? Correndo Atrás do Diploma ' ( ' Orange County ? Running After the Diploma ' )
The Newcomer In Town	While walking through the desert lands dragging a coffin , the lonely Django ( Franco Nero ) rescues Maria ( Loredana Nusciak ) from a group of bandits and arrives in a quite ghost town , where only the saloon and the brothel owned by Nataniele ( Ángel Álvarez ) are open . Sooner Major Jackson ( Eduardo Fajardo ) , who charges protection fees from the dwellers , rounds his gang up to face Django , but he kills all the bandits but Jackson using a machine gun . Then the mercenary and acquaintance of Django , Gen . Hugo Rodriguez ( José Bodaló ) arrives in town , and Django proposes a bold plan to steal the gold from Jackson and split between them . When Django is betrayed , he steals the gold from Hugo and is helped by Maria . They are chased by Hugo and his men , while Jackson organizes with the Mexican army to trap Hugo . The originality of the beginning of " Django " is simply fantastic , with a lonely man dragging a mysterious coffin along desert lands and saving a woman from sadistic criminals . When the mystery is disclosed , it is very funny to see the confrontation of Django against forty-eight " bad guys " . The story follows captivating , with the usual pattern of spaghetti-western , but the scene when the accomplice of Hugo hits successively times the hands of Django with a rifle is exaggerated and spoils the rest of the movie . The DVD released in Brazil does not have the original Italian audio , only dubbed in English or Portuguese . Title ( Brazil ) : " Django "
Very Unconventional and Bold Love Story	In Seoul , the eighteen years old student Y ( Tae Yeon Kim ) decides to meet the thirty-eight years old sculptor J ( Sang Hyun Lee ) and loose her virginity with him . After a few sexual meetings with J , Y is introduced in SM games , being spanked by Y and becoming addicted in sadomasochistic practice . " Gojitmal " is a very unconventional and daring love story . I saw this DVD on sale and I was really surprised with the boldness of Tae Yeon Kim , Sang Hyun Lee and director Sun-Woo Jang . When I worked in South Korea , I found a Confucian society , with costumes and moral values totally different from western societies , and I respected that a lot . My local colleagues informed me that , for example , the exhibition in the movie theaters of Louis Malle ' s " Damage " had been forbidden , since their society would never understand the situation of a father having an affair with the wife of his son . At least , the " soju " remains the same in the present days . Therefore , when I saw that " Gojitmal " , which is indeed a soft porn with very kinky sex , I was really astonished with the behavior of the characters . This movie is not bad , but it is interesting to read that most of the IMDb viewers liked it : the camera is amateurish , the lead actor and actress do not have the usual standard pattern of beauty and the locations are very simple . However , the screenplay is very unconventional and provocative , slightly recalling " The Last Tango in Paris " , and the presentation looks like a documentary . " Gojitmal " is recommended for very specific audiences only . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mentiras " ( " Lies " )
Four Different Versions of a Classic Fairytale	The recipes of candies of the goody shops have been stolen by the Goody Bandit , and many animals are out of business . While the police are chasing the criminal , there is a mess at Granny's house evolving Little Red Hiding Hood , The Wolf , The Woodsman and Granny , disturbing the peace in the forest and they are all arrested by the inpatient Chief Grizzly . Detective Nicky Flipper is in charge of the investigation , and each accused gives the own version for the incident . The smart Flipper uses the information to disclose the identity of the evil Goody Bandit . " Hoodwinked ! " is a funny joke with the classic fairytale " Little Red Hiding Hood " and " Rashômon " . The same event is showed through different perspectives in four different versions told by Little Red Hiding Hood , The Wolf , The Woodsman and Granny . The trailer of " Hoodwinked ! " is actually an edition of the best moments and gags of this animation . I saw the trailer a couple of months ago , and I was expecting a movie better and better . The sarcastic Wolf has the best lines in this entertaining film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Deu a Louca na Chapeuzinho " ( " Little Hood Got Crazy " )
A Sick , Weird , Bizarre and Erotic Love Story	Doctor Nick Cavanaugh ( Julian Sands ) is a successful surgeon , who lives with his colleague Anne Garret ( Betsy Clark ) . She intends to get married with him . Nick is obsessed by the tramp Helena ( Sherilyn Fenn ) , with whom he had some kind of shallow relationship in the past . Nick tries to get close to Helena again and one day , he convinces her to go to his home , to get her address book back . Helena discusses with Nick , and is hit by a car in front of Nick's mansion . When Helena wakes up , she is without both legs and abducted by Nick . Nick is taking care of her at his home . She tries to escape , and like a Venus of Milo , Nick removes her two arms , and keeps her hold to a wheelchair . A surprising end finishes the story . This movie is a polemic , sick , weird and bizarre love story . But also , it is very well produced , and has an unconventional screenplay . It is not a masterpiece , but it is not so bad : it is indicated to a very specific audience . However , it became famous when Kim Bassinger refused the role of Helena , after signing a contract with the producers . Due to the notoriety of this problem , this movie hit the wrong target-public . Everybody wanted to watch the film Kim Bassinger refused to act . The beauty of Sherilyn Fenn is amazingly highlighted in this film performing a bitchy woman . The director Jennifer Chambers Lynch is the daughter of David Lynch , and tried to follow her father's steps , with a very bizarre film . Unfortunately , this was her unique movie . In my opinion , the ' IMDB User Rating ' of 3 . 8 is very unfair . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Encaixotando Helena ' ( ' Boxing Helena ' )
Good Cast , Idea and Effects , in a Movie That Does Not Work Well	In 1899 , almost simultaneously , England is attacked by German and vice-versa . The European continent is close to the war due to these events . A group of heroes ? Allan Quartermain ( Sean Connery ) , Captain Nemo ( Naseeruddin Shah ) , the vampire Mina Harker ( Peta Wilson ) , the Invisible Man Rodney Skinner ( Tony Curran ) , Dorian Gray ( Stuart Townsend ) , the American Tom Sawyer and Dr . Jekyll ( Jason Flemyng ) ? are invited by M ( Richard Roxburgh ) to gather and form the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen . Their objective would be fighting against Phantom , the mentor of the aggressions in Europe . Although having good cast and special effects , this movie fails . Somehow it recalled me Will Smith's ' Wild Wild West ' .
Reincarnation and Past Lives	When Prae ( Pimpan Chalaikupp ) gets pregnant , her boyfriend Pong ( Vittaya Wasukraipaisan ) decides to marry her and they move to the house of Pong's mother . When their slow next door neighbor Benn gives old newspaper to Prae , her house catches fire and Benn dies totally burnt . Prae has a nervous breakdown and delivers her baby , the healthy Pan . When Pan is brought home , he uninterruptedly cries . Pong and Prae go to the doctor and he believes that baby has colic and will be better after six months old . However the baby never stops crying and Pong , his mother , Prae and her sister Jean ( Kulthida Sattabongkoch ) go with the baby to a monk in the temple and to an institute seeking an answer . On the eve of Pan's first anniversary , they discover that the baby is the reincarnation of an evil spirit and the souls of people that he had hurt in his past life want to wound him . " Colic : Dek Hen Pee " is an Asian horror movie with an interesting premise , the counterpoint of the pain of colic and reincarnation . The viewers that believe in reincarnation certainly will appreciate this movie much more than me since I found the conclusion disappointing . The creepy atmosphere is scary , especially the scene with the autistic interns in the institute ; but there is a poor development of Benn and the accident with Pong's mother is too forced . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vidas Passadas " ( " Past Lives " )
Messy Explicit Violence	When the Yakuza boss Anjo disappears with e fortune of his gang , his sadomasochist number one and lover Kakihara ( Tadanobu Asano ) and his men search for him . The mysterious Jiji ( Shinya Tsukamoto ) arrives in their office and accuses the rival Yakuza Suzuki ( Sabu ) of abducting Anjo , and Kakihara tortures him trying to locate the boss . When Kakihara realizes that he has committed a mistake , he pays with his tongue to the Yakuza and sooner he finds that the responsible is the psychopath and mentally deficient Ichi , who was abused in his childhood and is sexually repressed , and is controlled by Jiji using his skills in martial arts and blades to eliminate the gangsters . " Koroshiya 1 " is another gore and twisted movie of Takashi Miike , where most of the characters are bizarre and practically all the stylish scenes disclose tortures , perversion and explicit violence . I know his style , therefore there is no surprise for me in what I have just seen ; however , unfortunately this movie has a messy screenplay . I did not find the motives for the procedure of Jiji and I did not understand the last scene . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ichi , O Assassino " ( " Ichi , The Killer " )
Silly but the Beauty of the Actresses and Some Funny Situation in the Plot Entertain	Amanda Pierce ( the beautiful Monica Potter ) is from Iowa and works as a restorer of Renascence paints of the New York Metropolitan Museum . She has just finished another frustrating relationship , when she found her boy-friend with a model on her bed . She decides to move and share a flat with four stupid but nice super-models . She meets Jim Winston ( the ham actor Freddie Prinze Jr . ) , who lives in front of her window . She falls in love with him . One day , she sees Jim killing a woman - Megan O'Brien - through her window and Amanda and her four roommates decide to investigate what really happened . The plot of " Head Over Heels " is very silly , the performance of Freddie Prinze Jr . is weak , as usual , but the beauty of the actresses and some funny situations make it a forgettable entertainment . The Brazilian title ( translation : " Five Eves and One Adam " ) is simply ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cinco Evas e Um Adão " ( " Five Eves and One Adam " )
Sick , Twisted and Kinky	When the wealthy orphan taxidermist Frank Wyler ( Kieran Canter ) loses his beloved fiancée Anna Völkl ( Cinzia Monreale ) , victim of voodoo conducted by his jealous housemaid Iris ( Franca Stoppi ) , he robs her corpse , embalms and brings to the bed in his room . He does not overcome his feelings for her , killing every woman he has some involvement . Meanwhile Iris wants to marry Frank and helps him to dispose the bodies . The sick , twisted and kinky " Buio Omega " has all sort of perversions and disgusting scenes , with sequences of necrophilia , mutilation , torture and embalming . However , the characters are awfully developed , and the viewer never knows , for example , whether Frank changed his behavior after the death of Anna , or he was indeed a twisted character . The weird Iris is also badly developed . The graphic and gore scenes are among the nastiest I have ever seen in a film . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Pleasant Entertainment	In Mercier , Louisiana , the freshmen friends of the Tate University Jason Ortiz ( Arnie Pantoja ) , Aaron ( Branson Rodriguez ) and Eden ( Jessica Stroup ) go to an underground party in the woods nearby the local cemetery . They drink the punch spiced with ecstasy and completely drugged , Jason is attacked and killed by violent bats . When the police finds the body , they arrest Aaron and Eden as prime suspects . However , their biology professor Maddy Rierdon ( Lucy Lawless ) sees the corpse and advises that the youngster had been actually bitten by animals . When Maddy catches bats using a goat and a net , she realizes that the animals are mutant vampire bats with extra fangs and that the modification of the breed was caused by the water dumped by Carbide Waste Resources in the river . While a group seeks the lair of the bats and a means to eliminate them , Maddy discloses corruption in the town . " Vampire Bats " will never win an Emmy but it is a pleasant entertainment . The Brazilian title of the DVD induces the viewer to horror genre and I believe the target audience is never reached . The story is actually an adventure and if the viewer watches this movie with minor expectation , he or she may find a nice surprise . There are some usual flaws and clichés in this film , but there are also good and funny moments . Title ( Brazil ) : " Morcegos - Assassinos da Noite " ( " Bats - Night Killers " )
Sadism and Violence	In Ruggsville , Texas , the police under the command of Sheriff John Quincy Wydell ( William Forsythe ) attack the house of the sadistic serial killers Firefly family ( a . k . a . The Devil's Reject ) and they arrest mother Firefly ( Leslie Easterbrook ) , but Otis B . Driftwood ( Bill Moseley ) and Baby Firefly ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) escape from the siege . Tiny ( Matthew McGrory ) is wandering nearby the house and also escapes . Otis and Baby call their patriarch , the mad clown Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) and they schedule to reunite at an isolated motel in the desert . When Otis and Baby arrive , they kidnap two families of singers , using sadism and violence against the harmless persons . Meanwhile , Sheriff Wydell promises to capture and kill the runaways , seeking revenge for the death of his brother , the Deputy George Wydell . " The Devil's Reject " is an extremely sadistic and violent sequel of " House of 1000 Corpses " , with the deranged Otis and Baby using the most different type of torture against their victims . Even the Sheriff Wydell becomes insane and also uses extreme cruelty against the despicable family to revenge the death of his brother in his predictable fate . There are many citations to many classics and the conclusion is à la " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " . The soundtrack is a plus in this sick film , highlighting Lynyrd Skynyrd's " Free Bird " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rejeitados Pelo Diabo " ( " Rejected by the Devil " )
The End Saves This Rip-off of The " Cube "	Nine strangers ? a priest ; a dancer ; a designer ; an aspirant rapper ; a former tennis pro ; a woman on probation ; an unsuccessful composer and his wife ; and a detective ? are randomly abducted , drugged and locked in a house by a wealthy maniac . They are informed through a public address system that there are seventy-five cameras following them , and only one will survive and win US$ 5 , 000 , 000 . 00 to keep quiet . The psychological game begins , with fear and greed affecting the participants . " House of 9 " is an opportunist story and rip-off of the storyline of 1997 " Cube " and using psychological elements of 2001 " Das Experiment " . The story is also very similar to 2005 " Saws 2 " , but it is difficult to say which one is the rip-off of the other since they were released in the same year . Dennis Hopper , the famous name of the cast , never convinces as a priest , and it seems that time for his retirement has arrived . The unpredictable and surprising end saves this forgettable movie from a lower rating . Title ( Brazil ) : " Aprisionados " ( " Imprisoned " )
An Important Theme not Explored by Hollywood	In New York , Grace ( Jill Clayburgh ) and Christopher ( Jeffrey Tambor ) are two lonely souls of fifty and something years old . Jill has not had sex for seven years , and the straight Christopher is very insecure with his masculinity . Both of them have made a promise in the past that they would never fall in love again . When they meet each other , they have a very complicated affair and of course in the end they fall in love for each other . This irregular low budget movie explores an important theme completely disregarded by Hollywood : sex after fifty years old . The story looks like a " Sex and the City " of middle-aged women and has many good jokes and situations . The problem is the trailer released by the distributor . I saw it a couple of days ago , and it shows the best parts of the story , spoiling the funny situations . Title ( Brazil ) : " Coisas do Amor " ( " Things About Love " )
Love ( and Jennifer Aniston ) Deserve Risk	While in his honeymoon in a paradisaical beach , the conservative risk analyst of an insurance company Reuben Feffer ( Ben Stiller ) finds his wife Lisa Kramer ( Debra Messing ) having intercourse with her scuba instructor Claude ( Hank Azaria ) in his boat . The cuckold Reuben immediately returns to New York and his friend Sandy Lyle ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) invites him to go to a party . There he meets his former high school friend Polly Prince ( Jennifer Aniston ) , who is a very independent woman that lives in the edge with her blind ferret in a cozy but simple apartment . Although having very different behaviors , they date and fell a great attraction for each other . When Lisa returns , Reuben has to decide if he wants to live his life in the suburb with his unfaithful wife , or have a risky relationship with Polly . " Along Came Polly " is a good entertainment , where the beauty of Jennifer Aniston shines . The story is funny , and I was almost hypnotized with the cute Jennifer Aniston , who is also a great comedian . I also can understand the reaction of Reuben with Polly , since she is " too much sand for the truck of Ben Stiller " . There is an interesting discussion in the Message Boards about the hypothesis of Jack Black performing the role of Sandy . I like Philip Seymour Hoffman very much , he has a good performance in this film , but indeed the character of Sandy Lyle seems to be tailored for Jack Black . Good perception of this user . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quero Ficar Com Polly " ( " I Want to Stay With Polly " ) Obs . : On 28 December 2008 , I watched this funny comedy again .
Although Being a Screenplay Full of Flaws , It Entertains	Zak Gibbs ( Jesse Bradford ) is a teenager , son of Dr . Gibbs ( Robin Thomas ) , a brilliant scientist . He wants to buy a car , but the attention of his father is to his own research work . Zak likes Francesca ( Paula Graces ) , a new student from Venezuela . One day , Zak finds by accident a watch developed by Earl Dopler ( French Stewart ) , a former student of Dr . Gibbs , with capability of accelerating time . Henry Gates ( Michael Biehn ) , the villain of the story , stole this research and wants to make lots of money with this device . Zak and Francesca will face lots of adventures due to this finding . The screenplay of this film has lots of flaw , but anyway it entertains . There are lots of inconsistency in the story , but if the viewer do not pay attention to these details , may have some fun . The special effects are very reasonable . Teenagers are certainly the public-target of this movie .
Good and Funny Horror Movie	In a Halloween night , five students participates of a scavenger hunt trying to join the sorority Sigma Si and Delta Pi . They are divided in two groups , and one of them has to steal an ancient book of magic from their weird Professor Kapps ( Brad Dourif ) . Doug Leary ( Phillip Andrew ) and Marsha Glazer ( Tiffany Shepis ) break in the professor's house while he is performing a satanic ritual with a student he has just sacrificed , and Kapps attack the students , but accidentally is impaled by a spear . Marsha and Doug leaves the house and brings his staff and his book of incantation to destroy the evidences and drive to an abandoned house , where the two groups have to stay until the next morning . Meanwhile , two seniors students from the frat house have prepared pranks in the house to scare the sorority pledges . But the evil spirit of Professor Kapps possesses Doug , slashing the group of students that have to fight to survive . " The Hazing " was a good surprise . I was expecting a bad horror movie , but actually it is good and funny , and entertains . Even the gore scenes are hilarious , and in spite of not having exceptional performances , the cast is nice . There are many beautiful women naked , gore , and lots of humor , following the pattern of 1986 " House " , " Vamp " , " Frankenhooker " , " Idle Hands " , " Evil Dead " and many other flicks . Title ( Brazil ) : " Jovens Amaldiçoados " ( " Cursed Youngsters " )
The Leatherface Farmer	When David ( Andy Serkis ) and his clumsy brother Peter ( Reece Shearsmith ) kidnap the daughter of a powerful gangster , they bring Tracey ( Jennifer Ellison ) to a cottage in the countryside in the trunk of their car . Peter calls Tracey's father and asks a ransom of one hundred thousand pound to be delivered to her step-brother Andrew ( Steve O'Donnell ) . When the bag is delivered to the moron Andrew , he does not check the content and is followed to the remote location by two Chinese hit-men hired by Tracey's father . When the abductors discover that the bag has only paper , David drives to a nearby village to make a phone call to demand the money . When he returns , he finds Andrew fainted and later that Tracey had reverted the situation and escaped with his brother as hostage . Meanwhile an insane and deformed farmer has just killed the killers and Tracey and Peter are heading to his farmer seeking a phone to call her father . I had a great expectation with " The Cottage " but I found it disappointing . The black-humor never works except in the two very last scenes ( in the end of the credits there is a last one ) . The characters Peter and Andrew are stupid and annoying and the psychopath serial-killer is a rip-off of Leatherface . In the end I found this movie only reasonable and my vote is six . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cabana Macabra " ( " Macabre Cottage " )
One of the Most Violent Heist of the North American History	In Norco , California , four rednecks plot a bank robbery using heavy ammunition to intimidate clients and the police force expecting to have better life . However , one employee activates the silent alarm in the police station , and the criminals are chased by the police and LA SWAT . In despair , they shoot about 20 , 000 shots , kill one policeman , hit other eight , and destroy many cars and properties and one helicopter . In the end , the two survivors are sentenced to life without parole . " Rapid Fire " is a reasonable television movie based on one of the most violent heist of the North American history , with a long shootout and car chase . This forgettable movie is no bad but only recommended for entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fogo Cruzado " ( " Crossed Fire " )
Intriguing Premise , Disappointing Resolution	After resolving a test with a sequence of numbers , four mathematicians are challenged by a mysterious man called Fermat ( Federico Luppi ) to meet in an isolated place to resolve the greatest enigma ever . Each one receives a code name - Hilbert ( Lluís Homar ) , Pascal ( Santi Millán ) , Galois ( Alejo Sauras ) and Oliva ( Elena Ballesteros ) - and heads to a barn in an island . Inside the barn , they find a comfortable room , and sooner their host arrives . They have dinner together and Fermat receives a phone call from the hospital where his daughter in interned in coma . He asks to leave the place for one hour ; however , after his departure , the quartet finds that they are locked up in the room . They receive a phone call with a mathematical riddle , giving one minute to their reply ; sooner they find that if they do not answer to the questions , the walls move and room shrinks pressed by four Poseidon hydraulic presses . While responding the questions , they try to find the motives why they have been gathered together to be killed . " La Habitación de Fermat " is another variation of " Cube " , with an intriguing premise and a disappointing resolution . The beginning is original , and the suspenseful story works very well until the moment that the identity and motives of the insane murdered are disclosed . Then the plot turns to ridiculous , too complicated for an issue between two men . Would be necessary such expensive and complicated scheme to eliminate a competitor ? Further , the fate of Fermat and the policeman is silly and the black humor of the joke with the security belt does not work . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
A Nice Television Show	Kam ( Bobbie Phillips ) is a kind of android 99 % human and with the power of camouflage of a chameleon . She was created for seducing and killing men by the IBI director Cortez ( Philip Casnoff ) . In order to control her , she must take periodically some drugs . She receives the assignment of recovering a chip which permits the owner to have unlimited credit . When the inventor ( Aede ) of the chip and his family is trapped by the IBI agents , Kam rescues and saves Aede's son Ghen ( the boy Eric Lloyd ) . Her maternal instinct raises and she protects the boy and she decides to carry him to the field in her motorcycle . The evil Cortez sends some special agents to chase Kam . This action and sci-fi television movie is not bad . Indeed is a good entertainment , with good performances of Bobbie Phillips and the boy Eric Lloyd . Fans of sci-fi movies will not be disappointed .
Never Let the Child Inside You Die	In her forty years old birthday , the boring and serious housewife Julia ( Diane Salinger ) is gifted with a bottle of magic bubbles and her wish is to forget her age . She is granted and changes her behavior , acting like a young woman and bringing happiness to her daughter , her son , her psychiatrist and her mother-in-law . Her husband Charles ( John Calvin ) does not accept her new personality and threatens her with the divorce . However , in a supermarket Julia meets Mac ( George Clooney in the beginning of his successful career ) , a young man who falls in love with her . This fable is a wonderful screenplay , showing that you shall never let the child inside you die , no matter your age . Diane Salinger , who has a wonderful voice , fits perfectly to the role of Julia , but unfortunately John Calvin has a very weak performance as Charles . This is a low-budget movie , but with some improvement in the screenplay , a better actor in the role of Charles and some adult situation between Julia and Mac ( such as an affair ) , it would probably be a wonderful fairy tale . Anyway , it is a good entertainment for the whole family . The English title in Brazil is ' The Magic Bubble ' . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Jovem Para Sempre ' ( ' Young Forever ' )
Confused and Scary	This story happens thirty years before the first ' Ring ' . It tells , in a dramatic way , the story of Sadako Yamamura ( Yukie Nakama ) when she was a teenager , working on a theater stage as an actress and having a crush in Tôyama ( Seiichi Tanabe ) . The problem is the very confused screenplay and the badly developed characters . I do not know whether the translation to Portuguese along the film is correct . I watched a VHS spoken in Japanese with subtitles in Portuguese , but when I watch a movie in English , I note that there are many mistakes or omissions in the translation to Portuguese . Therefore , I do not know how precise is the translation in the Brazilian VHS . I myself did not understand the story as a whole , but I agree it is scary . I do not dare to say that it is a bad movie , but unfortunately I felt lost in many parts of the plot . In the future , I intend to watch the three Japanese ' Ring ' in sequence , and maybe the story becomes clearer . The actress Yukie Nakama is an amazingly beautiful and delicate young woman . I was astonished with her beauty . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Ring 0 ? O Chamado ? Birthday ' ( ' Ring 0 ? The Calling ? Birthday ' )
In the Trail of the Success of Dracula and Frankenstein ( 1931 )	In the small village of Kleinshloss , the locals are scared with a serial killer that is draining the blood of his victims , and the Burgomaster Gustave Schoen ( Lionel Belmore ) is convinced that a vampire is responsible for the deaths . The skeptical police inspector Karl Brettschneider ( Melvyn Douglas ) is reluctant to accept the existence of vampires , but the local doctor Otto Von Newman ( Lionel Atwill ) shows literature about cases of vampirism inclusive in Amazon . When the apple street vendor Martha Mueller ( Rita Carlisle ) is murdered , the prime suspect becomes the slow Herman Gleib ( Dwight Frye ) , a man with a mind of child that loves bats . The group of vigilantes chases Herman , while Dr . Von Newman's housemaid Georgiana ( Stella Adams ) is attacked by the killer . " The Vampire Bat " is an entertaining low-budget horror movie from the 30's that is visibly inspired in the success of Universal " Dracula " and " Frankenstein " in 1931 . There are many analogies in the stories , like the living growing tissue or the innocence of Herman or the raged crowd . The characters are not well developed , and I did not understand the relationship of Ruth Bertin and her annoying hypochondriac aunt Gussie Schnappmann with Dr . Otto Von Newman , or how the doctor hypnotizes or controls his assistant Emile . It is great to see Fay Wray acting in the same year of " Mystery of the Wax Museum " and " King Kong " . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Morcego Vampiro " ( " The Vampire Bat " )
I hope producers respect this fantastic plot and do not release a ' Ringu 3 ' .	This sequel starts exactly where ' Ringu ' finished . May Takano ( Miki Nakatani ) decides to investigate what happened to her boyfriend and she becomes aware of the details about the origins of the videotape cursed by the spirit of a girl named Sadako , killing the viewer one week later . ' Ringu ' is a stunning and original horror movie . This sequel indeed is not bad , but when compared with the first movie , will make fans disappointed . I hope producers respect this fantastic plot and do not release a ' Ringu 3 ' . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ring 2 ? O Chamado " ( " Ring 2 ? The Call " )
Helping to Cross to the Other Side	Melinda sees the son of an acquaintance playing with a boy called Kenny near to a railroad crossing and she discovers that the Kenny is a ghost . With the support of her partner in their antique business Andrea Moreno and her husband Jim , Melinda contacts Kenny's family , avoids another tragedy and resolving their issues , helping Kenny to cross to the other side . " The Crossing " is another good and sensitive episode of " Ghost Whisperer " . The lovely Jennifer Love Hewitt is amazingly perfect for this role , and the story is also beautiful . Title ( Brazil ) : " The Crossing "
Another Movie About Prison , This One Combined with Boxing	Monroe Hutchens ( Wesley Snipes ) is the heavyweight champion of Sweetwater , a maximum security prison . He was convicted to a life sentence due to a passionate crime . Iceman Chambers ( Ving Rhames ) is the heavyweight champion , who lost his title due to a rape conviction to ten years in Sweetwater . Of course they will fight against each other , in a very predictable and full of clichés screenplay . The story of Iceman Chambers is basically what happened with Mike Tyson . Movies about prison are attractive most of the time and this one is no exception to the rule . The choreography of the fights are perfect , therefore fans of this sport will like it . Wesley Snipes looks indeed like a real boxing fighter . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Invencível " ( " The Invincible " )
Confused , Ambitious and Complex Collection of Clichés	Syriana is a confused , ambitious and complex thriller of corruption and power related to the oil industry that tells four parallel stories : the CIA agent Bob Barnes ( George Clooney ) with great experience in Middle East that falls in disgrace after an unsuccessful mission dealing missiles in Lebanese Republic ; the investigation of the attorney Bennett Holiday ( Jeffrey Wright ) related to the merge of two American oil companies , Connex and Killen ; the traumatic association of the energy analyst Bryan Woodman ( Matt Damon ) with the son of a powerful emir of Iran ; and the social drama of the Pakistani immigrant worker Wasim Khan ( Mazhar Munir ) that is fired by the oil company . The greatest problem with this movie is that it is too complex for only 126 minutes running time , due to the number of plots , subplots and characters ; therefore its edition is tremendously confused with the use of many ellipsis . It would be more appropriated a mini-series , or a longer film . Even the title of this movie is very ambiguous , with many non-official explanations . The movie's website states that " ' Syriana ' is a very real term used by Washington think-tanks to describe a hypothetical reshaping of the Middle East . " ( http syrianamovie warnerbros com about html ) In the end , I truly found this movie a pretentious and sophisticated collection of clichés sold in a beautiful " package " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Syriana ? A Indústria do Petróleo " ( " Syriana ? The Oil Industry " )
The Mystery of the Shadow Man	The decorated military pilot Ben Costigan ( Jeffrey D . Samms ) seeks out Dr . Nathan Bradford ( Bruce Greenwood ) since he is dying due to the dreadful nightmares with a shadow man . The researchers Kate Russell ( Naomi Watts ) and Vincent Konefke ( Abraham Benrubi ) are sent into Ben's dream and discover that it is related to his childhood . They travel to Ben's hometown in Bethlehem County , disclosing the mystery of the shadow man . This pilot episode was released in Brazil in a single DVD with " Counting Sheep " and introduces the nice characters of this series . However , the mystery of the shadow man startles but is disappointing with a confused and unconvincing story . There are terrible and shameful mistakes in Brazilian title and the original title on the cover of the Brazilian DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Entre o Bem e o Mal ? Quando a Realidade Termina " ( " Between the Good and Evil ? When the Reality Ends " )
Reasonable Horror Movie With Unsatisfactory Conclusion	The teacher Pauld Duncan ( Greg Kinnear ) , the photographer Jessie Duncan ( Rebecca Romijn-Stamos ) and their eight years old son Adam Duncan ( Cameron Bright ) composes a simple but very happy medium class family . On the day after his eighth birthday , Adam is hit and killed by a car , shaking the stability of the Duncan's family . Some days later , a mysterious doctor Richard Wells ( Robert De Niro ) approaches to the couple and proposes to make a clone of their deceased son . A new Adam is born , but after his eighth birthday , the boy has horrible nightmares and a weird behavior at school . The reproduction process hides a deep secret , which affects the life of the Duncans . " Godsend " was a great deception for me , since I expected much more from this film . The first three quarters have some flaws , but is scary and hooks the attention of the viewer . However , the conclusion of the story is horrible ! I believe that even the director Nick Hamm was not satisfied with the end of the movie , since the American DVD presents four ( 4 ) alternative endings , which one of them worse than the original commercial and moralist one . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Enviado " ( " The Envoy " )
When the Teenagers of ' American Pie ' Grow up ?	Brad ( Brian Van Holt ) , Zeke ( Zorie Barber ) and Jonathan ( Jonathan Abrahams ) are best friends . They use to meet each other once a week together with their married friend Eric ( Judah Domke ) to tell theirs dates , affairs and sex experiences along the week . Brad and Zeke are greater lovers and Jonathan loves to self-masturbate . One day , each one of them tells the others that have met the perfect girl . Indeed , they come to realize that the girl is the same , Mia ( Amanda Peet ) . A great dispute among them will shake their friendship . A funny surprising end will conclude the plot . This is a film that looks like that is based on the teenagers of ' American Pie ' , when they have grown up . The ' low level ' and scatological jokes , the concept of relationship with a woman , the focus on sex , the entire screenplay seems to be ' inspired ' in ' American Pie ' . However , it has many funny moments and will certainly entertain the fans of movies like ? ' American Pie ' .
Unconventional Fable About a Bitter Mother and her Misplaced Anger	In the suburb of Detroit , the upper middle class Terry Ann Wolfmeyer ( Joan Allen ) becomes a bitter woman when her husband apparently leaves her family and her , traveling with his Swedish secretary to her country . Her neighbor and close friend of the family , the lonely retired baseball player Denny Davies ( Kevin Costner ) and presently working in a talk-show in a radio , continues visiting Terry and her daughters , and drinking with Terry . Denny falls in love for Terry , but the wounded and full of anger Terry try to avoid a steady relationship with him . Meanwhile , life does not stop , and her daughters graduate , date , marry , sicken , as part of the dynamics of a family . Many years later , a profound secret is revealed . " The Upside of Anger " is an unconventional fable about a woman that becomes bitter , quite drunkard and full of an absolutely misplaced anger . The dramatic story , the situation and the characters are very real and credible , what is very rare in a romance , and the movie does not have usual clichés . The theme is very interesting , and many times people feel anger for something but do not investigate the reasons and motive for that thing happens , the truth behind the happening . In this movie , the unexpected plot point gives a strong twist in the narrative . Further , families raise sons and daughters giving the same treatment and education , but personalities make people very different , like Terry's daughters . The awesome Joan Allen steals the movie , as usual , although the whole cast has great performances . There are some funny scenes , like for example when Adam ' Shep ' Goodman ( Mike Binder ) is making noise while eating soup with Terry's family ; or when Denny surprises Terry in the bathroom . I believe this film deserves to be watched a second time for a deeper analysis of the behavior of each character . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Outra Face da Raiva " ( " The Other Face of the Anger " )
Weird Movie	In Tokyo , the freelancer cameraman Takuyoshi Masuoka ( Shinya Tsukamoto ) is obsessed investigating the fear sensation near death . When he shots with his camera a man stabbing himself in the eye in the access to the subway , he seeks what the suicidal might have seen to experiment the same sense of horror the man felt when he died . He finds a passage to the underground of Tokyo where he meets a mysterious naked woman that does not speak and he calls her F ( Tomomi Miyashita ) . He brings F to his place and he has difficulties to feed her , until he discovers that she drinks blood . Masuika becomes a serial killer draining the blood of his victims to nurse F . " Marebito " is a very weird low-budget movie that discloses the madness process of the lead character through his journey to hell in the underground of Tokyo . This original story is disturbing and unpleasant , using a morbid and creepy atmosphere , to unravel the twisted mind of a deranged man . However this strange movie is recommended for very specific audiences only . Title ( Brazil ) : " Marebito : Seres Estranhos " ( " Marebito : Weird Beings " )
A Story With Good Intentions and Weak Screenplay , But not so Bad as Indicated in Some Reviews	The widow Kathy ( Andie MacDowell ) is grieving the loss of her husband Jeremy ( Tim Roth ) with the feeling of guilty . Jeremy , who was an idealist doctor in the beginning of his career and lately a drunkard , died in a car accident after seriously arguing with Kathy , when she was leaving him with their two daughters and a son . Her financial situation is not good , so she starts working in a clinic and rents a house in her property to the French engineer Marc ( Samuel Le Bihan ) , who is temporarily expatriated in Canada . The tenant Marc has a great connection with her young daughters and especially with her teenager son , and falls in love for Kathy . However , she sees the ghost of her husband , and she feels not comfortable to have any relationship with Marc . The intention of this movie is very good : it would be about a woman , living with the feeling of guilty after the loss of her abusive alcoholic husband , but formerly her beloved mate . Unfortunately , the screenplay is weak and has many flaws . For example , the financial problem of Kathy with the bank is used only for the introduction of the character of Marc , and is completely forgotten along the story . Why the ghost of Fergus needs to call her by phone , if she was able to see him ? It was good to see Margot Kidder again , but her character is useless in the plot . Anyway , this movie is not so bad as indicated in some reviews and I found it a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gritos do Além " ( " Cries From Beyond " )
Reasonable Entertainment , Indicated for Fans of Action Movies	The vampires , leaded by Danica Talos ( Parker Posey ) , rescue Dracula - called Drake ( Dominique Purcell ) - from the depth of the sands of Iraq , and prepare a setup to Blade ( Wesley Snipes ) . The FBI arrests Blade , and the Nightstalkers , an anti-vampire group leaded by Abigail Whistler ( Jessica Biel ) saves him . Together with Hannibal King ( Ryan Reynolds ) , the trio faces the vampires and the powerful Drake . " Blade : Trinity " is a reasonable entertainment , indicated for fans of action movies . There are lots of explosions , car chase , shootings and the usual scenes of this type of film , sometimes looking like a MTV video clip . The first two movies of Blade are better and better , and I personally found this third sequel a little boring . The reference to Iraq , where evil is hiding below the sands of the desert , is terrible . Wesley Snipes is horrible in the role of Blade ; Hannibal King , performed by the ham actor Ryan Reynolds , has many unfunny jokes ; and the best role and parts of the movie belong to the character of Abigail Whistler . Title ( Brazil ) : " Blade Trinity "
Nicole Rayburn + " Clerks " + " American Pie " = " Kisses & Caroms "	In California , Zack ( Drew Wicks ) owns the " Breakingtime Billiards " , a store that sells pool tables and game room supplies . He works with his girlfriend Jennifer ( Nikki Stanzione ) ; the sexy seller Tara ( Nicole Rayburn ) ; the installer of pool tables and best friend , the wolf David ( Ryan Parks ) , and his idiot assistant Eddie ( Keith Alexander ) . After having a threesome arranged by Jen with Tara , Zach breaks up his relationship with Jen , in spite of her bringing him up all the time . He tells his sexual experience to David while Jen asks for an advice to her psychologist Dr . Bob Johnson ( Bart Shattuck ) in his radio show . Along the day and after the visit of many peculiar clients , Zack concludes that Jen is his dream girl . " Kisses & Caroms " is visibly inspired in Kevin Smith's " Clerks " and " American Pie " franchise , with erotic and gross jokes and situations . However , this low budget movie has an ace called Nicole Rayburn . This unknown actress is extremely sexy and attractive with her luscious body , has a good acting and is the greatest attraction of this very reasonable independent film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Kisses & Caroms "
Conventional Story , Great Action Scenes	In order to help his friend Sam ( Anthony Wong Chau-Sang ) in a debt with a powerful mobster , Jeff ( as Chow Yun Fat ) accepts to work for another mobster , Judge ( Simon Yam ) , in a robbery . However , he is betrayed by Judge and attacked by his men , and the coward Sam stays with Judge . Jeff survives the attack , and plots revenge against Judge and his men . " Xia dao Gao Fei " is a conventional story of betrayal / revenge as many others we haven seen on the screen . The differential of this movie are the great action scenes . The choreography of the fights is amazing , and Ringo Lam uses the same style of camera of John Woo regarding the sequences of the bullets in a gun shot . This story is forgettable , but also a worthwhile entertainment , highly recommended for fans of action movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " À Flor da Pele " ( " Near the Skin " )
Disappointing and Inconsistent Screenplay	In 1925 , in Damascus , the patriotic rebels of Syria are fighting against the invader French forces . The powerful weapons smuggler Harry Smith ( Humphrey Bogart ) is an amoral dealer taking advantage of the situation . He meets in a restaurant , Violette ( Märta Torén ) , the girl of the idealistic French Col . Feroud ( Lee J . Cobb ) . Feroud is trying to make a deal with the rebel leader Emir Hassan ( Onslow Stevens ) , and he forces Harry to be his liaison and arrange a meeting with Hassan . I am a great fan of Humphrey Bogart , my favorite actor , but " Sirocco " has a very disappointing and inconsistent screenplay . The story presents Harry Smith as an amoral and ambitious man , but never explains the reasons or motives for his final act , since he had his visa and the girl with money . In Casablanca , the love for Ilsa is the motive for the sacrifice of Rick Blaine , but in " Sirocco " there are no explanations for his final redemption . Along the story , something is missing to make " Sirocco " a great movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sirocco "
Silly , Forgettable , But Having Some Funny Moments	In Hawaii , Henry Roth ( Adam Sandler ) is a man who makes success with women , specially the tourists . He works in an aquarium , and his best friend is Ula ( Rob Schneider ) . One day , while having breakfast , he flirts with the local woman Lucy Whitmore ( Drew Barrymore ) and they schedule a breakfast in the same place on the next day . However , in the next date , Lucy does not recognize him . Later , Henry is informed that Lucy had an accident one year ago and lost her short memory , lasting only for one day . So , he flirts with her everyday , and she falls in love for him every day . I saw " 50 First Dates " with a great expectation , but ended completely disappointed . The storyline is silly , forgettable and not original , using a combination of the plot of " Groundhog Day " and " Memento " . The funniest moments belong to Rob Schneider , in the role of a local native friend of Henry . Drew Barrymore is a little fat , but charming and sweet as usual , and Adam Sandler is in his usual role of a nice and supportive man , and their chemistry work perfectly in this romantic comedy . Title ( Brazil ) : " Como Se Fosse A Primeira Vez " ( " As If It Were the First Time " )
Back to the Past	After the suicide of the small time drug dealer and thief Davey ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) , his brother and former powerful gangster Will Graham ( Clive Owen ) , who is living a peaceful recluse life trying to redeem himself from his past , returns to his homeland to investigate the motives for such desperate act . Will hires an independent autopsy and the coroner informs that Davey had been raped the night before his death . Will returns to his past life seeking for revenge . " I'll Sleep When I'm Dead " is a deceptive thriller with an absolute absence of originality . In spite of having a great cast leaded by Clive Owen , Charlotte Rampling , Jonathan Rhys Meyers and Malcolm McDowell , and a beautiful and stylish cinematography , the screenplay is very weak and confused , with a storyline similar to many other better movies . The characters are badly developed , and who they are and their motives are disclosed in a confused way . Further , the motives of Boad for the stupidity against Davey are unbelievably ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vingança Final " ( " Final Revenge " )
Life on the Streets of Los Angeles	In Los Angeles , the gang of teenagers leaded by King ( Dermot Mulroney ) survives on the streets begging , prostituting and stealing money . Among King's best friends are Little J ( Balthazar Getty ) , who is a gay prostitute ; Greg ( Sean Astin ) , who is drug addicted capable of stealing to buy drugs with the dealer Ted ( Kyle MacLachlan ) ; and the paralytic Manny ( Will Smith ) . When the newcomer and runaway from Chicago Heather ( Lara Flynn Boyle ) meets King , they fall in love for each other . But when Little J kills Tommy Ray to protect King , he is falsely accused of murder and chased by the police , with tragic consequences . " Where the Day Takes You " approaches an important and delicate theme , the life of teenagers on the streets , but unfortunately following the glamour and asepsis of Hollywood movies . A couple of weeks ago , I saw the German movie " Engel & Joe " , which has a similar storyline , but in a very realistic view and with a beautiful non-commercial final message of hope and peace . In " Where the Day Takes You " , actors and actresses are handsome and beautiful , there is no message in the end , and it is almost a kind of incentive for teenagers with problem with their families to run away home , provided they do not use smack or buy a gun . The soundtrack with wonderful songs of Melissa Etheridge is excellent . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Lei de Cada Dia " ( " The Law of Each Day " )
Boring and Pointless Episode	While in the roof of the barn , Jonathan Kent is contacted though the octagonal key and Clark Kent saves him from a fall . Clark goes to the Kawatche caves with the key trying to find an explanation for what happened , when Lionel Luthor unexpectedly appears . Lionel Luthor meets Dr . Virgil Swann ( Christopher Reeves ) and proposes an association to investigate Clark . The FBI bugs Lex to make a surveillance and get evidences against Lionel Luhtor , and Clark becomes a suspect due to the interest of Lionel in an apparently simple " farm boy " . Lana Lang does not decide whether she wants to stay with Clark or not . I found " Legacy " a boring and pointless episode , with many inconsistent situations spread everywhere and none of them satisfactorily resolved . The romance of the mumbling crybaby Lana Lang and Clark Kent is very irritating . Title ( Brazil ) : " Legado " ( " Legacy " )
I Expected Much More of This Quite Disappointing Movie	A group of Jewish immigrants arrive in Palestine , after a travel in the vessel Kedma , to live in a kibbutz . While resting on the beach after the disembarking , British troops shoot them , and some of them escape with the support of a Jewish platoon . Sooner they are ambushed by Arabian resistance , who are trying to protect their lands against the Jewish invasion . Yesterday I saw ' Kedma ' on DVD and I confess that I was completely disappointed with this low-budget and personal movie . The back cover of the DVD and the Plot Outline of IMDb provide important information about the ' when ' the story takes place , which I have not seen in the movie . The story happens in May 1948 , shortly before the creation of the State of Israel . There is also a boring speech of one of the survivors about the fate of the Jewish people . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Kedma '
New Mysteries in the Island in a Disappointing Episode	Locke wakes up mute after the implosion of the hatch , recovers his faith on the island and builds a sweat tent for self meditation . He has a vision of Boone guiding him through the airport before the check in of the passengers of flight 815 . He goes with Charlie to rescue Mr . Eko from a polar bear in its cave , and meets with Hurley returning to the survivors ' camp , who tells what happened with Jack , Kate and Sawyer . Meanwhile , Locke recalls his relationship with his new acquaintance Eddie in a community where he lived . " Further Instructions " is the most disappointing episode of " Lost " that I recall . I agree that it is a hook for new mysteries in the island , but " Further Instructions " is below the average of the other episodes . I had a great expectation with the character Paulo , played by the Brazilian actor Rodrigo Santoro , but his participation in this episode is very short . There is a non-original plot summary written in IMDb that can be found in the most different sites in Internet and the scene described ( " Claire is shocked to find Nikki and Paulo in Jack's tent " ) was not shown in the episode . I believe there are IMDb users using the same stuff as Locke and having visions about " Lost " , since there are inclusive votes in the next episodes that have not been broadcast yet . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Love , Desire and Lies	In the end of the summer vacation , the fifteen year old Pauline ( Amanda Langlet ) travel with her older divorced cousin Marion ( Arielle Dombasle ) to her seaside house in Granville . While on the beach , Marion meets her old friend Pierre ( Pascal Greggory ) , who has a crush on her , and his new acquaintance Henri ( Féodor Atkine ) , who lives in Oceania and is spending vacation with his young daughter in the resort . In the night , they go to a casino and Marion has one night stand with Henri , feeling a great passion for him . However , Henri is a wolf and has no interest in having any commitment with Marion . Meanwhile Pauline listens and observes the behavior of the older people while she has a little but disappointing romance with a boy of her own age . A friend of mine is a great fan of Eric Rohmer and this is the first movie of this director that I watch ; however I am disappointed with " Pauline à la Plage " , maybe because of my greatest expectations with his work . This low budget movie has a simple , silly and shallow story ; reasonable acting and empty lines ; common screenplay without any originality and very poor camera and cinematography . I have not found anything special in this flick , and even the body of Arielle Dombasle is beautiful but not sexy . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pauline na Praia " ( " Pauline at the Beach " )
A Forbidden Romance	In a small village in the interior of Minas Gerais , a young priest ( Paulo José ) arrives as the substituted for Priest Antônio , who is almost dead . There , he meets the old man Fortunato ( Mário Lago ) , who is the local leader and lives with the young woman Mariana ( Helena Ignez ) as husband and wife . The priest decides to take the girl to the city of Diamantina , but they both fall in love for each other . In my opinion , the characters of this very slow movie are not well developed . The dilemma of the young priest is very clear , but the feelings of Mariana are very confused . I indeed expected much more of this story . In Brazil , this film is only available on cable television . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Padre e a Moça ' ( ' The Priest and the Young Woman ' )
A Funny Joke with Western Movies	" Rustlers ' Rhapsody " is a homage to Western movies , a sort of Luke Lucky , actually a satire to the Western movies . This film shows all the clichés usually presented in this genre in a funny and laconic way . There are the characters of the bar tender , the corrupt sheriff , the drunkard , the prostitute in the saloon , the powerful farmer , the ' bad guys ' and the ' good guy ' . The acting and the direction are very reasonable and Hugh Wilson is the director of the hilarious " Police Academy " . In the end this movie is a forgettable and funny entertainment indicated for fans of Western flicks . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vaqueiro Cantador " ( " Singer Cowboy " )
To Find a Lost Love and a Witch Hunter	While Phoebe feels Cole trying to contact her , the Angel of Destiny comes to the Halliwell manor and proposes to remove the powers of the sisters as a reward for vanquishing The Source . Meanwhile , the FBI agent Jackman bugs the manor and discloses that he knows that the sisters are witches . He proposes to eliminate the evidences if the sisters find a witch hunter that is killing witches . Phoebe casts a spell to meet Cole in a demon limbo . In this predictable episode , the sisters are lured by an evil witch hunter , they do not accept to lose their magic powers , and most important , Cole is back as a demon and Piper is pregnant . In the end , there is nothing special in the last episode of the Fourth Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " E Agora , Bruxas " ( " And Now , Witches ? " )
The Weakest Remake of a Great Story	In 2012 , the American scientist and colonel Dr . Robert Neville ( Will Smith ) is the unique healthy survivor in Manhattan , missing his beloved wife and daughter , died in a deadly accident . The human race deceased or became mutants living in the dark due to the outbreak of a virus intended to cure cancer . Dr . Robert Neville keeps a routine life for his own survival with his dog Sam , fighting against his loneliness to maintain mentally sane , and entirely committed in researching an experimental vaccine using his own immune blood to get the cure in the laboratory in the basement of his hideout . When Robert attacked by a large group of " Darkseekers " , he is rescued by Anna ( Alice Braga ) , another survivor that arrived in Manhattan with the boy Ethan after listening to a message broadcasted by Robert . Her intention is to head to a sanctuary in Vermont , but Robert is reluctant to leave the ground zero and his researches . However his shelter is located by the mutants that break into the place with tragic consequences . When I was a teenager , " The Omega Man " ( 1971 ) was a very successful film in the movie theaters and I probably have seen this movie about ten times along my life . In my opinion , it is one of the best Apocalyptic Sci-Fi movies of the 70's ( together with ' Soylent Green ' ) , when the world had the cold war to threaten and the population had a great fear of a biological weapons . A couple of years ago , I saw the original " The Last Man on Earth " ( 1964 ) , a frightening and dark view of the fate of mankind . In those years , the preoccupation with radiation and biological weapons due to the cold war leaded people to this type of fear and preoccupation . Both versions are great movies because Richard Matheson's novel " I Am Legend " is excellent . Therefore my expectations with this new remake was the greatest possible , especially because of the name of Will Smith in the role of Robert Neville . Unfortunately this version is the weakest among the three foregoing movies . The director Francis Lawrence forgot that a movie is not only explosions and special effects and wasted the opportunity to make a great film . The strong and fast creatures are ridiculous when compared with the zombies in " The Last Man on Earth " or the dark sect leaded by Mathias in " The Omega Man " . Further , the alternative ending on DVD is something ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Eu Sou a Lenda " ( " I Am the Legend " )
If You Do not Play the Game , Read the Excellent Explanation of " TensersFloatingDisk " in the Message Board	The little Sharon ( Jodelle Ferland ) is a sleepwalker , who frequently speaks the name " Silent Hill " in her trances . After a research , her stepparents Rose ( Radha Mitchell ) and Christopher da Silva ( Sean Bean ) finds that the place is a ghost town . Rose runs away home with Sharon without the agreement of Christopher , and drives to " Silent Hill " trying to solve the mystery . Along her trip , Rose has an incident in the road with the police officer Cybil Bennett ( Laurie Holden ) , who chases her . She speeds her car and crashes , and Cybil has an accident with her motorcycle . When Rose wakes up , Sharon has vanished and Rose searches her . Later , Cybil joins Rose and they find that they are trapped in the town . Along their investigation , they disclose the dark secret of the place . When I finished watching " Silent Hill " , I had not understood the story . Fortunately , I read the excellent explanation of " TensersFloatingDisk " in the IMDb Message Board and I now can see that the story is good . My conclusion is that the screenplay of Roger Avary is completely flawed , since it is based on the premise that the viewer plays ( or at least knows ) the game . For those like me that do not play the game , the story is absolutely confused . The cinematography , effects , performances and direction are great . Title ( Brazil ) : " Terror Em Silent Hill " ( " Terror in Silent Hill " )
Remake , Tribute or Plagiarism of ' Evil Dead ' ?	On her birthday , Dora ( Audrey Lowe ) and her friends Hope ( Kirstin Leigh ) and Rudy ( Brady Fischer ) travel with her boyfriend Stanley ( Patrick Lawlor ) to the cabin of his uncle , a man who studied superstitions and other supernatural matters , in the woods to spend a couple of days together . Rudy finds a weird box in the basement , and brings it to the living room . Dora opens it and an evil force is released . Rudy is possessed by the unleashed devil , threatening his friends along a night of horror . I do not know whether this Vince Di Meglio wants to remake or to pay a tribute to Sam Raimi's ' Evil Dead ' , but I did not see the name of this great director in the credits . Therefore , I believe that ' Deadfall ' is indeed a plagiarism of that masterpiece of horror . Anyway , there are good effects and in the end this is a watchable movie . Title ( Brazil ) : A Força Sinistra ' ( ' The Sinister Force ' )
Promising Beginning , Typical TV Movie Conclusion	After being raped by a serial killer , Jillian Hayes ( Roma Downney ) , Carol Rosen ( Jacqueline Bisset ) and Meg Pesaturo ( Lauren Lee Smith ) found " The Survivors Club " , and they use the press to force the police and justice to arrest the rapist . Eddie Como ( Darren Shahlavi ) is arrested , based on DNA evidences , and while going to court for trial , he is murdered by a sniper and the three women switch position from victims to suspects . Detective Roan Griffin ( James Remar ) , who is traumatized by the brutal murder of his beloved wife by the manipulative killer David Price ( Brian Markinson ) , joins the investigation with detective Fitz Fitzpatrick ( Jerry Wasseman ) trying to solve the case . " The Survivors Club " has a promising and original premise , with victims trading positions to suspects after the murder of the prime suspect . The story is tense and keeps the mystery , but in the middle of the plot , the writer decides to have a romance between the detective and the suspect , and introduces a criminal that is a rip-off of Dr . Hannibal Lecter and spoils the good movie with a typical commercial conclusion of an ordinary TV movie . Anyway , this flick is a reasonable entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Clube de Sobreviventes " ( " The Club of Survivors " )
The Importance of Ethics	The Halliwell sisters play a prank with their neighbor Nathanial Pratt because his dog always defecates in their sidewalk . Phoebe has a premonition of her death in 2009 executed by burning at stake and the sisters cast a spell to travel to the future . They see the destiny of each one : Prue is a wealthy workaholic businesswoman without a mate ; Piper is divorced with a daughter ; and Phoebe will be executed for killing a man . This incident with Phoebe provoked a witch hunting leaded by Nathanial Pratt . In the end , the sisters acknowledge the importance of ethics . In spite of giving an important message about ethics and morality , since the sisters are not allowed to use their powers for personal advantage , this episode is only reasonable . The story is absolutely inconsistent with the fate of Prue . Title ( Brazil ) : " Questão de Ética " ( " Matter of Ethics " )
A Boring Movie	Conor O'Neill ( Keanu Reeves ) is a gambler with high debts with very dangerous guys . He spends his time drinking , gambling and scalping tickets . He accepts to coach a baseball team of kids from the poor zone of Chicago to get some money , pay his debts with ' The Barber ' and be not killed . There he meets the school teacher Elizabeth Wilkes ( Diane Lane ? it is amazing how beautiful she became again after leaving Christopher Lambert ) . With the contact of these kids , Conor becomes a new man . I did not like this movie . First of all , it is plot supported by baseball , a sport not practiced in Brazil and therefore totally indifferent for me . Second , the character of Keanu Reeves is corrupted and nasty . The viewer does not become sympathetic with him . I did not see he training the kids , just bored on his spot and with minor interventions when the kids struggle between them . I believe baseball has some tactics and techniques to be trained and developed . Third , most of the boys have amateurish acting , grinning when they should not have to , for example . Last but not the least , there is no message in this film other them the redemption of the character of Keanu Reeves , only after he earned a big amount in a bet and paid his debts . Indeed I found this movie a little boring . Maybe Americans and fans of baseball may appreciate this movie more than I did .
I Know What You Did In Traunsee	In Ebensse , the teenagers Nina ( Sabrina Reiter ) , her boyfriend Martin ( Laurence Rupp ) , Clemens ( Michael Steinocher ) , his girlfriend Alex ( Nadja Vogel ) and Mona ( Julia Rosa Stöckl ) are best friends since their childhood . On their high-school graduation day , they all receive the same message in the cellular : " In three days you will be dead ! " , but they believe is a stupid joke from their weird schoolmate Patrick ( Julian Sharp ) . However , when Martin is found dead in the lake Traunsee , the group realizes that it is not a prank . When Nina is attacked and Patrick is killed trying to save her , they recall a tragic incident from their childhood . " In 3 Tagen Bist Du Tot " has a tense and promising beginning . The acting of the young and unknown cast is good , but unfortunately the story is weak , actually a rip-off of the franchise " I Know What You did Last Summer " and using the clichés of the genre . In the end , this flick is watchable and forgettable , but entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Morto em 3 Dias " ( " Dead in 3 Days " )
Separation and Nine Lives	Piper and Leo feel lack of privacy and decide to move to a rented apartment . When they tell Prue and Phoebe , the Halliwell sisters recall their troubled relationship with their grandmother Penny before they acknowledge that they were The Charmed Ones . Meanwhile an evil warlock and former cat forces the sisters to kill him nine times to leave definitely his past life as a cat and transform in a warlock forever . " PreWitched " discloses how disconnected the sisters were before the death of " Grams " Penny , with Phoebe being a troublemaker and Prue moving to New York . Their fight with Shadow is flawed , without explanations how the cat transformed in a warlock and how they were successful in destroying him . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pré-Bruxas " ( " Pre-Witches " )
I Cannot Laugh of a Brazilian Social Problem	In São Paulo , the lives of five domestic household servants along a few days is presented in this movie , showing their daily affairs , dreams and relationship with their employees . First of all , this movie is made for Brazilians only , who are aware of our social problems , and not for foreigners , who could not understand how a person works 26 days per month , sometimes 14 hours per day , earning about US$ 80 , 00 per month . Many jokes are related to the wrong way of speaking and accent from the country ( specially from the North of Brazil ) of most household servants , who mostly are illiterate and come from very poor and humble areas , trying to have a better life in the big city ( specially in Rio de Janeiro or São Paulo ) . I myself cannot laugh of the situation of these poor workers . This movie loses the chance to criticize a serious social problem , being too much shallow for my taste . Anyway , there are great interpretations and a good structure for a low budget movie . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Domésticas ? O Filme ' ( ' Domestic Household Servants ? The Movie ' )
Missing Dad	After many years of absence , Victor Halliwell ( Tony Denison ) , the father of the Halliwell sisters , returns to San Francisco to visit them . Prue does not trust him , while Phoebe and Piper miss their dad and want to have dinner with him in a restaurant . Meanwhile , the nice neighbors of the Halliwell sisters are mutants that want to steal Book of Shadows . " Thank You for Not Morphing " is a weak episode of " Charmed " . The story about a group of mutants that want to get the Book of Shadows is intriguing regarding Victor , since only in the end it is disclosed the real intention of this character ( is he the real father trying to protect his daughters or a mutant pretending to be their father ? ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mutação " ( " Mutation " )
The Angel of God	The atheistic Katherine Winter ( Hilary Swank ) is a former Catholic missionary that lost her faith on God after losing her daughter and her husband in Sudan , sacrificed by the locals that blamed them for the long drought . Presently she investigates religious phenomena with the intent of debunking them , finding a scientific cause for the event . She is invited to go to the small town of Haven , in Louisiana , where the river turned into blood after the death of a boy . After her arrival , each of one of the ten biblical plagues happens in the location dazing Katherine , who discloses the evil secret of the dwellers . " The Reaping " has an intriguing story of faith very well supported by Hilary Swank . There is a surprising final twist , and I am not sure if the screenplay is flawed and confused or I lost something but I have not clearly understood three points : why Father Costigan is attacked ? Why the cult needs Katherine to kill the girl ? And if Loren and Katherine are God's angel and her protector , why the baby would be the Antichrist in the very last scene ? Title ( Brazil ) : " A Colheita do Mal " ( " The Harvest of Evil " )
A Young Man in Existentialistic Crisis Destroying His Relationship	Marcelo ( Paulo José ) is a student in existentialistic crisis . He questions the reason of life , and lost the interest for everything but sex . He goes to school , but does not study , he does not work , he does not have any place to live , and he does not have any asset . He has two sisters , one of them married and the other living with a girlfriend in a small apartment . His family seems to be split since his parents died . His fragility attracts the women , but he is just interested in sex , without a relationship . His behavior drags her lovers down , and Marcelo ends the story alone , in a fetal position . Walter Hugo Khouri was one of the greatest Brazilian directors . His movies are normally very introspective , with characters questioning life . The distributor Cinemagia has just released ' As Amorosas ' on DVD . Although being an expensive DVD , the film has not been restored . Therefore , the quality of image and sound are terrible . A shame indeed ! This 1968 film has the participation of the Brazilian band ' Os Mutantes ' , one of the most important groups of the seventies in Brazil . It would be a great pleasure having the chance to see Rita Lee , Arnaldo e Sérgio Baptista in a restored DVD . Just as a curiosity , the translation of ' As Amorosas ' would be something like The Women Full of Love ( or Affection ) . I do not know any word in English with this meaning . Title ( Brazil ) : " As Amorosas " ( " The Loving Women " )
Idealism or Madness and Obsession ?	For thirteen consecutive summers , the American Timothy Treadwell moved to Katmai in the Alaskan Peninsula to live among the grizzly bears , with the pretext of studying and protecting them . In 2003 , his girlfriend Amie Huguenard and he were surprisingly attacked and ate by a bear . Werner Herzog somehow accessed more than one hundred hours of footages filmed by Timothy and released this documentary , showing the life and death of Timothy Treadwell . " Grizzly Man " is a good documentary , but too long and overrated . Director Werner Herzog edited the footages of Timothy Treadwell without chronology , inserting interviews with friends , relatives and acquaintances of Timothy and the result is quite confused . First of all , as a narrator and interviewer , Herzog should omit his personal opinions about the subject of this documentary , and I believe this is a basic rule . The footage where he listens to the tape of Jewel Palovak disclosing the last minutes of Timothy Treadwell and Amie Huguenard during the attack of the bear shows a behavior not natural , as if it had been previously rehearsed . The image of Timothy Treadwell sold in this documentary is of a deranged ex-addicted , frustrated actor and quite mad man that has never found a spot in the world of humans that escaped to the wild world of the grizzly bears and foxes , trying to give a meaning for his attitude and solitude . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem Urso " ( " The Bear Man " )
A Very Funny Comedy , With Antonio Banderas in the Beginning of His Career	In Madrid , Antonio Lopez ( Antonio Banderas ) is a Spanish mechanic coming back to his country after working for five years in Volkswagen , in Germany . He saved some money to raise a small business and get married with his fiancé , in a small Spanish town . While waiting for his bus , Antonio sees a woman being stabbed by a man in a motorcycle and tries to help her . However , the man escapes , the woman dies and the waiter of the cafeteria where Antonio was making a phone call believes he was the killer . Antonio leaves his suitcases in the cafeteria and runs to a building , where Marisa ( Carmen Maura ) believes he wants to rent the apartment above hers . On the next day , she realizes he is chased for murder , but she decides to help him . Her husband does not supply her needs in bed , and Antonio becomes her lover along the weekdays . In the weekends , he stays alone for sixty hours , from Friday night to Monday morning . Meanwhile , the police find the real killer , but Marisa does not tell Antonio , who starts reading lots of books and magazines and writing a book for killing time . The book is supposed to be written by Marisa , under the pseudonym of Antonio Castro , and becomes a successful bestseller . Marisa does not tell Antonio and becomes famous , when many ironical situations happen . The first part of this story is really funny , when the character of Antonio Banderas believes the police want to catch him for murderer and Marisa cheats her husband . The situations of the cuckold are hilarious . The second part loses the rhythm , but anyway this comedy is a very worthwhile entertainment . In Brazil , it was released on VHS , with the name ' Casos da Vida Privada : A Mulher Feliz ' ( ' Cases of the Private Life : The Happy Woman ' ) together with a second episode , ' La Mujer Oriental ' ( ' The Oriental Woman ' ) . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Casos da Vida Privada : A Mulher Feliz ' ( ' Cases of the Private Life : The Happy Woman ' )
Cute Movie	The clumsy and shy Stanley ( Luke Wilson ) is a nice fellow , beloved by his colleagues in the office . He has a crush on the gorgeous new-hire Diana ( Denise Richards ) , but he has difficulties to get close to her . When Stanley finally invites Diana for a date , he hits the homeless Phil ( Jay Lacopo ) with his Taurus and his planned night turns upside down . " The Third Wheel " is a cute movie . The screenplay has many flaws , but the charming lead couple and the situation of Stanley , with the whole office cheering for him and a stranger simply ruining his dreamed night is very sweet and funny . The story practically has no plot point , the film is far from being a masterpiece , but I liked . Title ( Brazil ) : " Triângulo Amoroso " ( " Love Triangle " )
Engaging and Different Movie About the Lives of Three Women	' Personal Velocity : Three Portraits ' is an engaging and different movie about the lives of three women . With great direction , camera , narration and performance of the cast , it hooks the attention of the viewer until the last scene . The stories have in common an accident and three woman intending to change their lives leaving their mates . Delia ( Kyra Sedgwick ) is the daughter of a hippie , abused in her adolescence by her friends , married with a former boy-friend of high-school and having three children . She leaves her husband , who beats her , with the children . In a new town , beginning a new life working as a waitress and living on favor in the garage of a high school friend , she repeats the same mistake of her youth . Greta ( Parker Posey ) is an editor , who has never gotten close to her father after his divorce of her mother . She is married with a simple guy who loves her , but she is sort of nymphomaniac . When she becomes successful in her career , she gets closer to her father again and returns to her former ambitious way of life . Paula ( Fairuza Balk ) is a woman who left her family and moved alone to Manhattan . She is rescued from the streets by a man , and starts living with him . When she gets pregnant , she becomes confused with the situation and leaves home . An accident first and an incident with a lonely and wounded boy later helps her to decide her destiny . ' Personal Velocity : Three Portraits ' is a nice and attractive independent low budget movie . I have really not understood why the stories are narrated by a man , since they are about women . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Tempo de Cada Um ' ( ' The Time of Each One ' )
A Very Funny Comedy	On the night of his bachelor party , Paul Coleman ( Jason Lee ) meets the gorgeous dancer Becky ( Julia Stiles ) in the bar , they drink a lot together and in the next morning , he wakes up with her on the bed . His future mother-in-law calls him and informs that his fiancée Karen ( Selma Blair ) might be arriving in his apartment , and he desperately asks Becky to leave his place in a hurry . Sooner , he finds that her has crabs , and later , in the preparation of his wedding dinner party , he realizes that Becky is the cousin of Karen . This is the beginning of a very funny comedy , with hilarious situations . The first attraction of this movie certainly is the central trio of actresses and actor . Julia Stiles and Selma Blair , who are excellent actresses and extremely gorgeous , and Jason Lee , who is amazingly funny , have good performances . I laughed a lot along the story , but there are some scenes that are really hilarious . For example , when Paul finds Becky in his bed ; when he finds her paints ; his imagination in many situations ; in the drugstore , trying to buy and get explanations about the crab medicine ; most of the scenes of his neighbor , the minister ; when Karen calls the department store ; or when the police finds a suspect of assaulting Paul . I could number many other scenes , but better off the reader rent or buy this movie and have lots of fun . Title ( Brazil ) : " Louco Por Elas " ( " Crazy For Them " )
Reasonable Adaptation	While in Paris for a lecture , the specialist in symbols , Robert Langdon ( Tom Hanks ) , is called on to the Louvre by Captain Bezu Fache ( Jean Reno ) to help the investigation of the murder of the curator Jacques Saunière ( Jean-Pierre Marielle ) . Before dying , Saunière wrote codes , symbols , a pentagram and a Fibonacci number sequence inclusive using his own blood . Sooner Saunière's granddaughter , the cryptologist Sophie Neveu ( Audrey Tautou ) arrives with a message to Langdon , advising him that he is in danger and suspect for the murder of Saunière . Langdon and Sophie join their knowledge and follow leads to one of the greatest secrets of mankind history , the descendants of Jesus Christ and Mary Magdalene . The novel and bestseller of Dan Brown was one of the most intriguing books that I had read about a couple of years ago . I was curious about the adaptation to the cinema of this complex and detailed story , and I found it only reasonable , with beautiful locations and a total lack of emotions . The cast uses great names , but first of all the physical appearances of Robert Langdon , the " red haired " Sophie Neveu and the " strong black " Bezu Fache do not correspond with the description of the characters in the novel . Further , Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou do not show any chemistry , but the always excellent Paul Bettany is perfect performing Silas . Of course there are simplifications in the story , it would be impossible to translate all the subplots to the screenplay , but I still found the movie quite confused and presenting too much information to be followed by a viewer that has not read the book . In the end , " The Da Vinci Code " frustrated my expectations . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Código Da Vinci " ( " The Da Vinci Code " )
Corrupted City	In New York , corruption has reached all levels under the command of the powerful mobster lord " The Old Man " and the local crime boss Nick Scanlon ( Robert Ryan ) . When the Crime Commission under the command of Chief Investigator Harry Craig ( Les Tremayne ) meets with governor , the disbelief of the population is almost total . Craig tells that the uncorrupted Captain Thomas McQuigg ( Robert Mitchum ) was moved to the 7th District Police Station and has the intention to clean his district . The Commission counts on the testimony of Roy Higgins ( Howland Chamberlain ) but Nick sends one of his men to eliminate him . McQuigg uses his honest Officer Bob Johnson ( William Talman ) to arrest Nick's brother Joe Scanlon ( Brett King ) and his lover and singer Irene Hayes ( Lizabeth Scott ) to press Nick , under the protest of the corrupt District Attorney Mortimer X . Welsh ( Ray Collins ) , who is supported by the mafia to the position of judge on the next elections . When Nick kills Bob , he sees the collapse of his empire and the end of the support of " The Old Man " . " The Racket " is a good but dated police story disclosing corruption in all levels of New York City . The ending is extremely commercial , moralist and without credibility , with the subpoenas of Mortimer Welsh and Detective Sergeant Turk and the romance between Irene Hayes and the naive City Press journalist Dave Ames . Robert Ryan is excellent in the role of the violent and old-fashioned criminal , but Robert Mitchum has a bureaucratic performance . Just as a curiosity , the name of the owner of the car used by Joe stamped on the newspaper is William R . Wyler , maybe in a tribute to the great director . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Estrada dos Homens Sem Lei " ( " The Road of the Men Without Law " )
Passion , Infidelity , Jealousy	Charlotte and Faraday sneak out from the camping and Jack and Juliet chase them . The former therapist of Juliet and one of The Others , Harper , meets her in the woods and gives a message from Ben , telling that the fugitives are heading to a plant to release gas in the island and kill them . Charlotte and Faraday stumble in Kate and she sees gas masks in Faraday's backpack , but she is hit in the head by Charlotte and faints . Meanwhile , Juliet recalls her passion for Harper's husband and the jealousy of Ben . " The Other Woman " is another weak episode of this terrible Fourth Season , and the great loss of audience in this series proves that there are other viewers with the same opinion as mine . The mystery and thriller of the series now is shifted to an unnecessary quartet of love like in a soap opera . With regard to the important plot of the episode , if Charlotte and Faraday have good intentions , why sneaking out from Jack's camp and hit Kate ? Why not telling the truth to Jack and Kate and resolve the menace with their support ? Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Dancing and Games , and Best of All , a Mouth-Watering Barbecue	While traveling on vacation to Florida , the college friends Anderson Lee ( Jay Gillespie ) , Cory Jones ( Matthe Carey ) and Nelson Elliot ( Dylan Edrington ) meet the gorgeous Joey ( Marla Leigh Malcom ) and Kat ( Gina Marie Heekin ) in a gas station traveling with their gay friend Ricky ( Brian Gross ) to the same location . Anderson gives his phone number to Joey in Florida . The teenagers decide to take a shortcut and they find a detour through an old road leading to the Southern town of Pleasant Valley . They are welcomed by the local Mayor Buckman ( Robert Englund ) as guests of honor together with Joey , Kat , Ricky and the Afro-American biker Malcolm ( Mushond Lee ) and his Chinese girlfriend Leah ( Bianca Smith ) and invited to stay for their Guts and Glory Jubilee with free lodging , meals and booze at Granny Boone's hotel , and dancing , games and a mouth-watering barbecue in the climax of the jubilee . The group accepts the invitation but sooner they find who will supply the meat for the feast . " 2001 Maniacs " is a movie with great potential of cult , having black humor , gorgeous actresses and an excellent twist in the end . I really liked this gore film a lot , and I laugh with the witty , funny and great lines , and many of them are quoted in IMDb . Robert England is amazing in the role of the revengeful southern mayor , giving a perfect touch of humor to his sadistic and friendly character . In the end , " those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it " . Title ( Brazil ) : " 2001 Maníacos " ( " 2001 Maniacs " )
A Very Realistic War Movie	In the American Civil War , the young soldier Henry Fleming ( Audie Murphy ) has his baptism in battles , but becomes afraid and runs , escaping from the enemies . Ashamed with his act , in the next fight he leads the other soldiers , carrying the American flag and fighting bravely . This movie is very realistic : shows soldiers with fear , questioning what they are doing in the war , combining drama and action . Another good work of John Houston , based on a novel written in 1894 , by Stephen Crane , a twenty-two years old man . This film shows the human side of the soldiers . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Glória de um Covarde ' ( ' The Glory of a Coward ' )
Delightful Teen Comedy	In Houston , the teenager Jeremy Capello ( Robert Sean Leonard ) is a normal middle-class boy , who lives with his beloved parents and has Ralph as his best friend . He has a crush on Darla Blake ( Cheryl Pollak ) , but he is shy and does not date her . He works making deliveries for a supermarket and is seduced by his sexy client Nora ( Cecilia Peck ) . While having his first intercourse with her , Jeremy is transformed in a vampire . His friend Ralph is mistakenly chased by two weird vampire hunters , Prof . Leopold McCarthy ( David Warner ) and his assistant Grimsdyke ( Paul Wilson ) , that believe he is a creature of the night . Meanwhile , Jeremy learns how to use his new powers with Modoc ( Rene Auberjonois ) , and falls definitively in love for Darla . " My Best Friend Is a Vampire " is a delightful teen comedy . Having a funny story with many jokes and a beautiful cast , this movie makes the viewer feels lighter and happier , being and excellent entertainment . The amazing beauty of Cheryl Pollak , and the chemistry with Robert Sean Leonard , is another attraction . Title ( Brazil ) : " Meu Adorável Vampiro " ( " My Adorable Vampire " )
Totally Unnecessary , but a Good Remake	When the Vatican observatory priest sees the appearance of a comet , the Church is sure that it confirms the eve of the Armageddon . Meanwhile , the USA President's godson Robert Thorn ( Liev Schreiber ) is informed in the maternity in Rome by Father Spiletto ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice ) that his wife Katherine ( Julia Stiles ) has just lost her baby and she had troubles with her uterus and would not have another pregnancy . Spiletto suggests Robert that another just born child that lost her mother could be the substituted for his son , and Robert accepts the child and gives the name of Damien . Robert is promoted to ambassador in London after a tragic accident . When Damien's nanny commits suicide in his birthday party , a substitute , Mrs . Baylock ( Mia Farrow ) , comes to work and live with the family . Along the years , Katherine realizes that Damien is evil , while Robert is contacted by Father Brennan ( Pete Postlethwaite ) , who tells him that Damien is the son of devil . When the priest dies in a bizarre accident , the photographer Keith Jennings ( David Thewlis ) shows evidences to Robert that the boy is the Antichrist . They travel to the town of Megiddo to learn how the boy can be stopped . I would like to begin my review questioning director John Moore why did he remake " The Omen " , a masterpiece of horror of 1976 . The screenplay is exactly the same since there are few minor modifications . After watching this remake , the viewer has the sensation of Déjà vu or listening to a cover of a great band : the song we hear is the same , but the fan knows that is not the original . Of course the screenplay is excellent and the cast is great , and certainly the movie is good and entertaining . I was curious to see this film , and I am not completely disappointed but I feel sorry for a director that chooses to make an identical successful movie , following the easiest way to the success , instead of risking a movie of his own . In the future , I am sure that I will watch once again the 1976 film , but I have no intention of watching this forgettable remake again . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Profecia " ( " The Prophecy " )
Seduction and Secrets , in a Beautiful Coming to Age Drama	In 1971 , in the small town of Shirley Falls , in Maine , the odd and lonely secretary Isabelle Goodrow ( Elisabeth Shue ) raises her teenager daughter Amy ( Hanna R . Hall ) alone . She has only two friends in her job among her gossiper colleagues . When her overprotected daughter is seduced by her mathematic teacher Peter Robertson ( Martin Donovan ) , the world of Isabelle falls apart . She becomes lost and loses her confidence on Amy , spoiling their relationship . Their bond gets tied again when Isabelle discloses her inner secrets from the past to Amy . Although being very predictable , " Amy & Isabelle " is a beautiful coming to age drama . The good direction and acting never lets the story becomes a soap opera , although dealing with elements like seduction and secrets . The innocence of the face and look of the gorgeous Hanna R . Hall is amazing . I was impressed ( and quite disappointed ) how fat the lovely and still beautiful Elisabeth Shue , one of my favorite actresses ever , is . But her and Hanna R . Hall performances were really great . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inocência Marcada " ( " Marked Innocence " )
Total Cult	In Switzerland , the teenager Jennifer Corvino ( Jennifer Connelly ) , daughter of a famous actor , arrives in an expensive board school and shares her room with the French schoolmate Sophie ( Federica Mastroianni ) . Jennifer is a sleepwalker , is capable of telepathically communicate with insects and has adaptation problem in the new school . While sleepwalking , she meets and becomes friend of a Scottish entomologist , Prof . John McGregor ( Donald Pleasence ) , and his chimpanzee Tonga . Jennifer decides to help the investigation of Dr . McGregor about a serial killer that is killing young girls in that area . It may sound ridiculous , but " Phenomena " has never been released on video in Brazil ; only two days ago , " Phenomena " was released on DVD in Brazil and now I am glad to have this movie in my collection . The weird story of Dario Argento , one of my favorite directors , is a total cult , showing bizarre characters and situations , maggots , flies , deformed people , serial killer and lots of bodies and body parts . A fifteen years old Jennifer Connelly in her third work , extremely beautiful , shines in the very original role of a sleepwalker that is very connected to insects and develop the skill of communicate with them . Daria Nicolodi , the mother of Asia Argento and former mate of Dario Argento , has a minor , but very important role . And the versatile Donald Pleasence , in the role of a paraplegic researcher , is efficient as usual . The music score , with Goblin , Iron Maiden and Motorhead , is another great attraction of this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Phenomena "
Do not Sleep !	While returning to Earth , the space-bus explodes and the fragments bring an alien virus that recodes the human DNA . In Washington , the psychiatrist Carol Bennell ( Nicole Kidman ) observes the modification of the behavior of one of her clients first , then in her former husband and finally in the population in general . Together with her friend Dr . Ben Driscoll ( Daniel Craig ) and the researcher Dr . Stephen Galeano ( Jeffrey Wright ) , they discover that the extraterrestrial epidemic affects human beings while sleeping and that her son Ollie , who had smallpox with Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) when he was a baby , is immune to the disease and may save mankind from the outbreak . Don Siegel's " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " is one of the best sci-fi ever , therefore most of the remakes are good because the story of earth being invaded through replicas of the human beings is excellent . " The Invasion " is maybe the third remake of the classic that I have watched and I liked it in spite of having an optimistic and corny conclusion . I do not dare to compare the classic movie of Don Siegel with this remake , but I have found it very reasonable and entertaining . Title ( Brazil ) : " Invasores " ( " Invaders " )
Promising Pilot of an Interrrupted Series	In Moscow , Blade ( Sticky Fingaz ) chases a vampire and discovers that Marcus Van Sciver ( Neil Jackson ) is in Detroit . Meanwhile in Detroit , the military Krista Starr ( Jill Wagner ) returns home seeking out her twin brother Zack Starr ( David Kopp ) . When the family is informed that Zack was found dead , Krista identifies the corpse and asks information to the corrupt detective Det . Brian Boone ( Bill Mondy ) that is associated to Marcus Van Sciver , supplying prostitutes to feed his vampires . Krista meets Blade and works together with him trying to catch Marcus . However , she exposes herself trying to kill Marcus , and is abducted by the evil vampire . The " Pilot " of " Blade the Series " is a promising movie that gives a good expectation for the series . My wife is a fan of this series , which was abruptly interrupted in the end of the First Season , and she also liked this episode that has been just released on DVD in Brazil . The story is entertaining and the sexy Jill Wagner is has a great performance in the role of Krista . Title ( Brazil ) : " Blade ? A Nova Geração " ( " Blade ? The New Generation " )
Refreshing Horror Tale	Maya Denton ( Anessa Ramsey ) has a love affair with her beloved lover Ben ( Justin Welborn ) that invites her to leave her husband Lewis ( AJ Bowen ) and Terminus City , meeting him in the Terminal 13 of the local station . Maya decides to go back home and finds a wounded man and his attacker in the parking area nearby Ben's house . When she arrives at home , she sees Lewis discussing with his friends Jerry ( Matt Stanton ) and Rod ( Sahr Nguajah ) . When Lewis hits Jerry with a baseball bat on the head , Maya runs to the house of her next door neighbor Janice ( Suehyla El-Attar ) and realizes that the dwellers of her building have gone paranoid and crazy in an outburst of violence and hallucinations through the transmission and waves of television , cell phones and radios , feeling the need to kill . " The Signal " is a refreshing horror tale that slightly uses the idea of mass control through television and cellular of " Videodrome " and " Pulse " , leaving a message about the brain damage caused by the subtle message of television and excessive use of cellular . The plot is disclosed in three parts : " Transmission I : Crazy in Love " , which is scary and the best one ; " Transmission II : The Jealousy Monster " that is a boring dark humor comedy that does not work well in the context ; and " Transmission III : Escape from Terminus " that returns to the main theme and has a good conclusion . The acting is great and the depressive cinematography gives a special climate to this good story . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Be Careful With Your Wishes ? A Good Sequel	Three small time crooks robber a museum and after a shooting with the guards , one of them dies , the other one is wounded and the last one , Morgana ( the gorgeous Holly Fields ) survives and accidentally releases the evil Djinn ( Andrew Divoff ) from a stone . Djinn assumes a human form as Nathaniel Demerest , takes the blame for the crime and is sent to prison , where he intends to collect one thousand and one ( 1001 ) souls . In accordance with the prophecy , after Djinn accomplishes his intent , Morgana shall ask him for three wishes . Then , his race will domain earth , destroying human race . Morgana and her friend , Father Gregory ( Paul Johansson ) , try to avoid Nathaniel to be successful in his objective . This sequel was a great surprise for me , since I did not expect such a good story without the name of Wes Craven in the credits . Further , the beauty of Holly Fields , with lips that recall Liv Tyler's , is impressive . A good entertainment , combining humor , horror and special effects , unfortunately underrated in IMDB User Rating . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Mestre dos Desejos 2 ' ( ' The Wishmaster 2 ' )
He Was a Symbol of Hope in a Ruined Nation	In the North American Great Depression , the former successful boxer James Braddock ( Russell Crowe ) loses all his possessions and savings with the crash of the stock market . His beloved wife Mae Braddock ( Renée Zellweger ) and their three children survive to starvation and lack of heating and the daily difficulties supported by their love . In 1934 , when Jim's couch and manager Joe Gould ( Paul Giamatti ) offers to him a chance to return to boxing , he becomes the symbol of hope of hopeless people in a ruined nation . " Cinderella Man " is a very beautiful dramatization of a true story . The film has a magnificent reconstitution of a period ; excellent cast , with Russell Crowe , the always excellent Renée Zellweger and Paul Giamatti ; and a really very positive screenplay , showing the fight for surviving in an economic ruined country of a honored family with strong bonds and moral principles . The choreography of the fights is very well performed . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Luta Pela Esperança " ( " A Fight for Hope " )
A Citizen Above Suspicion	In Portland , the philanthropic businessman and family man Mr . Earl Brooks ( Kevin Costner ) has been just elected Man of the Year . Mr . Brooks manages his factory of packages ; lives in a comfortable house with his gorgeous wife Emma ( Marg Helgenberger ) and has a rebel daughter Jane ( Danielle Panabaker ) in college . However , Mr . Brooks has a dark secret : he is a psychopath serial killer also known as The Fingerprint Killer with an alter-ego called Marshall ( William Hurt ) and addicted in killing . For two years , Mr . Brooks has attended the AA meetings and kept his addiction under control . However , Marshall returns and forces him to kill a couple of dancers that is making love in their house with open curtains . On the next day , Jane returns home without her BMW and a man named Mr . Smith ( Dane Cook ) visits Mr . Brooks in his factory with pictures of him in the crime scene ; he is blackmailed and the man requests to participate in a murder . Meanwhile , the wealthy detective Tracy Atwood ( Demi Moore ) is having a troubled moment in her life : she has been investigating the murders of The Fingerprint Killer ; is facing her former husband Jesse Vialo ( Jason Lewis ) in a complicated divorce process ; and is chased by the violent criminal Thorton Meeks ( Matt Schulze ) that has escaped from prison and promised to kill her . When Tracy visits the crime scene , she suspects that Mr . Smith is an eye witness of the murder and presses him , and their fates entwine with the life of Mr . Brooks . " Mr . Brooks " is an entertaining psychological thriller where Kevin Costner plays a man with double-life : an entrepreneur recognized by the society and family man and also a clever and Machiavellian serial ? killer . William Hurt is great in the role of the alter-ego of Earl . Demi Moore is an abusive detective , but also with good hunches and pressed by her scum ex-husband . And Dane Cook performs an imbecile engineer that aims to fell the adrenaline of killing a person . The plot is developed in an adequate pace , and the flaws and exaggerations are acceptable in this sort of entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Instinto Secreto " ( " Secret Instinct " )
Living Inside the Mirror	After the accidental death of his partner Young-ho in a hostage situation , the former detective of the Seoul Special Operations Force Woo Young-min ( Ji-tae Yu ) feels responsible for the tragedy and quit the police force joining the private security company SecuZone . His uncle and owner of the department store Dreampia , Jeon-il Sung ( Ju-bong Gi ) , hires Woo to be the chief of the security of Dreampia , which was rebuilt after a fire where many employees died and is near the reopening in spite of the protest of the families of the victims that claim their indemnity . When an employee dies after hours in the store , Woo leads an internal investigation , while detective Ha Hyun-Su ( Myeong-mim Kim ) that blames Woo for the death of his friend Young-ho , and his assistant Park , come to the store to lead an official investigation . When other employees that worked in the same department are mysteriously killed in the store , Woo meets Lee Ji-hyun ( Hye-na Kim ) , the twin sister of Lee Jeong-hyun , that convinces him that her sister has not died in the fire and is trapped in the mirrors , while Ha Hyun-Su believes that Lee Ji-hyun is the serial killer . " Geoul Sokeuro " is another great South Korean horror movie . With a complex screenplay that discloses an intricate and intriguing supernatural plot , this film is supported by great direction and acting and excellent camera work , using mirrors in many unexpected scenes . The horror is not gore but psychological , and there is an important and complex explanation about the " mirror-world " that is basic to understand the end of the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Espelho " ( " Mirror " )
Deep Family Drama	In Russia , the ordinary teenager Vera ( Natalya Negoda ) lives a leisured life with her drunkard father and her simpleton mother , without working and waiting for the calling for a technical course of telephone operator . Her brother Victor ( Aleksandr Negreba ) lives in Moscow with the family of his own and occasionally visits his dysfunctional family and Vera , being always motive for arguing . When Vera meets the student of university Sergei ( Andrei Sokolov ) , they fall in love for each other and decide to get married . Sergei moves to Vera's house , but lives in conflict with her father . This relationship leads the family to a tragedy . I have just seen " Malenkaya Vera " , and I liked a lot this deep family drama . I am not familiarized with the life style in the former URSS , but there are some unusual behaviors that I found very interesting . The first one , when Victor tells Vera that she was conceived not because her parents wanted to have her , but because they wanted to move to a larger apartment . Another one , when the family goes to the beach in a truck . Many difficulties of Vera's family and their friends , the repression in the park and other situations pictured in the movie are common in Third World countries . This low budget movie is very well-directed , and the story is very profound and real . The cast has great performances and the actress Natalya Negoda is very beautiful . In the cover of the Brazilian VHS , released by Sagres distributor , there is information that Natalya Negoda was the centerfold of Playboy magazine . I am not sure how precise are the subtitles in Portuguese , since many long sentences spoken in Russian are limited to short translation in few words . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Pequena Vera " ( " The Little Vera " )
Although Being Made for Movie , It Is a Great Movie	In 1989 , in the USS Iowa , while performing an experimental training , an explosion in tower 2 kills forty-seven militaries . The US Navy looks for a scapegoat , and accuses one officer of being gay and provoking the explosion , trying to commit suicide . Lt . Dan Meyer ( Robert Sean Leonard ) gives a honest testimony in the investigation , but the truth is hidden by his superiors . In the end , the Capt . Fred Moosally ( James Caan ) of the USS Iowa cleans his officer's name . Although being made for TV , this is a surprisingly good movie . The direction is sharp and the cast has a great performance . Very recommended , since it hooks the attention of the viewer until the last scene . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Vestígio do Inferno ' ( ' Vestige of Hell ' )
Loyalty and Friendship	While tracking the Xindi Reptilian ship , the Enterprise suffers serious damages crossing a huge anomaly and is rescued by the Andorian ship commanded by Commander Shran . He offers to help the crew of Enterprise to repair the affected systems , and Captain Archer accepts the support . When they reach the Xindi ships , they find that they are testing the prototype of a powerful weapon in an inhabited planet . Shran offers his vessel to steal the weapon with Archer in command , but hiding the real intention of his mission . The best in " Providing Guard " is the ambiguous Commander Shran performed by Jeffrey Combs and divided between the loyalty with the Andorian Empire and his friendship with Archer . The twist in the end is well-resolved , but will certainly affect the relationship of Archer and Shran in a possible next encounter . Title ( Brazil ) : " Campo de Provas " ( " Proof Field " )
Humans Do not Give up Easily	While launching subspace amplifiers to increase their transmission range , the Enterprise encounters an alien spacecraft that does not reply Captain Archer's hails . The craft vanishes and returns blasting Enterprise , and T'Pol realizes that thy do not have suitable armament to face the hostile enemy . Archer orders Ensign Travis to return to Jupiter Station to install three phase cannons in Enterprise . Reed and Tucker object , telling that their men could build and install the weapons , but Archer keeps his orders and authorizes them to begin the work . Meanwhile Archer gives a direct order to Hoshi to find out the favorite food of Reed for his sooner birthday party . " Silent Enemy " has a good episode , showing an unidentified enemy that attacks Enterprise without any reason . However , the search for the favorite food of Reed is too long , but the conclusion indicates a great friendship among the leaders of Enterprise and works . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inimigo Silencioso " ( " Silent Enemy " )
Obsessive Behavior	While traveling to observe a black hole in a trinary star system , the captain and crew of the Enterprise are affected by the radiation and become obsessive with trivial issues : Captain Archer with the preface of the biography of his father ; Trip with the Captain's chair ; Reed with a new security protocol ; Hoshi with the galley ; Dr . Phlox with Travis ' brain . T'pol is not affected and notices the erratic behavior of the crew , and when they faint , she studies a route to save the Enterprise and the crew . " Singularity " is a simple and tense episode . There is no action , no attacks , indeed anything but the weird behavior of the crew and their preoccupation and obsession with minor situations . In the end , it entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Singularidade " ( " Singularity " )
Shrewdness and Ingratitude	While probing a gas giant Class 9 , the bridge personnel of Enterprise listen to siren calls and finds a wrecked starship near to collapse due to the high external pressure . T'Pol detects live forms in the ship and together with Reed and Hoshi , they use the shuttle pod to help the alien survivors . When they reach the craft , T'Pol identifies that it is a Raptor Klingon vessel , and that their crew was attacked by a toxin and is unconscious but alive . Fearing their reaction , T'Pol recommends leaving the ship immediately , but Bu'kaH awakes , attacks Reed and hijacks the shuttle . While the vessel sinks in the atmosphere near to collapse , the group tries to identify the defect to fly with the ship again . " Sleeping Dogs " shows the ingratitude of the Klingon and how distrustful this breed is . Further , their principle of honor is also very interesting regarding they are warriors . But Archer uses shrewdness and knowledge to accomplish his objective . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cães Adormecidos " ( " Sleeping Dogs " )
British Dark Humor at Best	The Irish hit-men Ken ( Brendan Gleeson ) and Ray ( Colin Farrell ) are sent by the Londoner mobster Harry Waters ( Ralph Fiennes ) to the medieval Belgium city of Bruges in Christmas after an awry job in London . Ray , in his first assignment , was sent to murder a priest ( Ciarán Hinds ) in a church , and he accidentally shot also a boy on the head . While Ken enjoys the historic city , Ray , who is in inner conflict due to the death of the boy , feels completely bored and misses his home . Ray meets the smalltime drug-dealer and crook Chloë ( Clémence Poésy ) , who sells drug to the cast and crew of a movie that is filmed in Bruges , and has an incident with a Canadian tourist and later with Chloë's boyfriend . Meanwhile Harry , who has an stringent code of principles , orders Ken to kill his protégée Ray . " In Bruges " is a dramatic and violent comedy with the famous British dark humor at best . The flawed characters are charismatic and weird : two hit-men , one of them in existential crisis ; a mobster lord with a code of principles ; a drug-dealer ; an American dwarf star of a movie ; a clumsy crook ; a stressed Canadian tourist are the lead components of this sarcastic story , associated to witty dialogs , with many jokes and irony , and unusual situations . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Past is Gone	Sherry ( Julie Delpy ) , the girlfriend of the former " Don Juan " and successful middle-age businessman Don Johnston ( Bill Murray ) , ends their relationship and leaves him . At the same time , he receives an anonymous pink letter telling him that he has a nineteen years old son . Don's neighbor and friend , the worker family man and aspirant " Sherlock Holmes " Winston ( Jeffrey Wright ) , asks the name of Don's girlfriends of twenty years ago and organizes a cross-country trip for him to meet the ladies and find the unknown son . The reluctant and emotionless Don visit's the widow Laura ( Sharon Stone ) with her sexually emancipated daughter Lolita ( Alexis Dziena ) and he has one night stand with Laura . Then he meets the successful real state agent Dora ( Frances Conroy ) and her husband Ron ( Christopher McDonald ) and they have dinner together . Then he comes to the office of the lesbian Dr . Carmen ( Jessica Lange ) , who communicates with animals , and her jealous secretary ( Chloë Sevigny ) and he has a brief encounter with her . Finally he finds the resentful Penny ( Tilda Swinton ) in a community in the woods . The obsessed Don returns home without solving the mystery and realizing that the past is gone . " Broken Flowers " is a weird little movie about obsession , loneliness and finished and unresolved empty relationships . The character Don Johnston is an expressionless introspective man , successful in his computer business but that has never built a long-term personal relationship . Former wolf , he apparently become aware that he has no legacy regarding his personal life , and the chance of having a son motives him to engage in a quixotic journey . Viewers familiarized with the work of Jim Jarmusch will enjoy this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Flores Partidas " ( " Broken Flowers " )
Reasonable Episode	The Enterprise follows the lead of the telepathic Tarquin and finds a Xindi compound of Kemocite where the most important component for the Xindi ultimate weapon is being refined . Archer , Reed and Major Hayes travel to the colony in the planet to investigate and plant bombs to destroy the facility , but they kidnap the technical director of the plant , Gralik Durr . When Archer tells Gralik the objective of the Kemocite , the alien decides to help him . " The Shipment " is a reasonable episode where another species of the Xindis are disclosed . I did not find anything special in this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Carregamento " ( " The Shipment " )
Sexual Encounter and Pregnancy	While in deep space , the Enterprise has different technical problems affecting inclusive the gravitational system . Commander Trip and his men believe the reason is the plasma exhaust , and they decide to drop out the warp to explode the residue . While watching the tape of the explosion , Captain Archer identifies an alien spaceship with a stealth device and contacts the captain , asking them to drop the camouflage . The Xyrillian Captain Trena'L explains that they has a problem with their warp drive and are using the plasma released by Enterprise to recharge their system . Trip is invited to spend three days in the alien ship repairing the propulsion system . After a tough adaptation process to the environment of the Xyrillians , Trip works with the engineer Ah'len , who helps him to fix the problem . While waiting for the recharge of the coils , Ah'len shows the landscapes of her planet in a state-of-art alien holographic chamber , and they play a guess game using a box of pebbles . When Trip returns to Enterprise , he is submitted to physical examinations , and Dr . Phlox finds a nipple in his arm . After a further examination , Trip is informed that he had had a sexual encounter in the Xyrillian spaceship , and he is pregnant , developing a life form in his body . " Unexpected " is a funny and original episode of Enterprise . In the very beginning , when Archer is having a bath and there is a problem with the gravitational system is hilarious . The idea of the pregnancy and the intriguing sexual encounter is very original and also very funny . But in my opinion , the story should show a romance between Trip and Ah'len and a sexual intercourse with the couple aware of what they are doing . The way the author wrote the screenplay , it is very subtle that they really did . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inesperado " ( " Unexpected " )
Unpleasant Theme , Great Documentary	In the 80's , in the upper-middle-class district of Great Neck , the awarded Professor Arnold Friedman is arrested for possession of some magazines of child pornography . A further investigation of the police discloses that apparently Arnold and his eighteen years old son Jesse molested his young students during their private computer class . Their Jewish family tears apart with the situation and the sentences of Arnold and Jesse . " Capturing the Friedmans " deals with two very unpleasant themes , pedophilia and destruction of a family , and is a great documentary . The director Andrew Jarecki presents both sides of the contradictory story with a total exemption and neutrality . Arnold had filmed or photographed the major events of his family since he had been dating Elaine . In the 80's , camcorders were very popular and the Friedman's sons followed the costume of their father , recording their meetings and discussions . Andrew Jarecki discloses the privacy of the Friedmans and shows many ambiguous situations through the footages of their homemade videos and interviews . The viewers can witness the process of an apparently normal family being completely shattered . In the end , we see manipulation , ambiguity , contradiction in the case , but never the truth . Therefore it is impossible to judge and have opinion if Arnold and Jesse Friedman were guilty or not . Title ( Brazil ) : " Na Captura dos Friedmans " ( " Capturing the Friedmans " )
Good Story With a Bad Casting	In Lawrence Ville , the poor student of University Colby Alicia Campbell ( Mia Kirshner ) , had an overdose and is in coma in the intensive care unit of the local hospital . Sheriff Artie Bonner ( Taye Diggs ) is called by the Dean ( Edmund J . Kearney ) and intimidated to carry out a shallow and discreet investigation , since the school is very dependent of the wealthy families of the riches students , and a scandal would jeopardize its reputation and consequently its income . The mother of Alicia , Connie Campbell ( Glynnis O'Connor ) , is blaming her new upper class friends of drugging her daughter . Hadley Ashton ( Meredith Monroe ) , Sidney Connors ( Dominique ' Lolita ' Swan ) , Julianne McDowell Levinson ( Rachel True ) and Trevor ( Scott Bairstow ) have become her friend a few time ago , and Alicia was seduced by the ' world of the rich people ' . Through interviews and investigation of the manipulative students , Sheriff Bonner discovers the truth . I liked this amoral movie . The screenplay is intriguing and the story is presented in pieces through flashbacks along the investigation of Artie Bonner . In the end , none of the characters is really like we supposed they were . The problem with this movie is the age of the lead actresses . It is very hard to believe that , women of about thirty years old in real life can really play the roles of young women . Anyway , it is a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Perversas Intenções ' ( ' Wicked Intentions ' )
The Demon Slayer and the Female Thief	In the year 3048 , the wounded Lord Kagemitsu Daigo ( Kiichi Nakai ) proposes a deal to rule the whole world to forty-eight demons in their sealed temple . In return , the demons ask forty-eight parts of the body of his unborn son . When the mutilated baby is born , his mother puts him in a basket in the river flow to save his life . The baby survives and becomes the demon slayer Hyakkimaru ( Satoshi Tsumabuki ) that slash demons to retrieve his body parts . During his journey , he meets the female thief Dororo ( Kou Shibasaki ) , who was raised as a boy after the death of her parents by the evil Lord Daigo , in a small town and she befriends Hyakkimaru and joins him in his quest seeking revenge against the Daigo's clan . I saw the trailer of " Dororo " and I found it very promising . It is a good fantasy , based on a historic moment of Japan , with reasonable special effects and developed in a slow pace . The story could be a little shorter ; Satoshi Tsumabuki and Kou Shibasaki show a great chemistry ; but the character Dororo is silly and annoying in many moments . Nevertheless it is an entertaining movie and I will certainly watch the possible sequel , since it still has twenty-four demons to be slashed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dororo "
Introducing the Greedy Ferengis	When T'Pol opens an alien object found in the surface of a planet by Trip , a gas is released and the entire crew of Enterprise faints . Four Ferengi pirates - Krem , Muk , Grish and Ulis ? break in Enterprise to steal the supplies and belongings in the starship and they awake Captain Archer trying to find the location of the vault . Meanwhile , Trip was in the decontamination chamber and is not affected by the gas , and wakes T'Pol . Using the greed of the quartet , Archer and Trip lure them . " Acquisition " introduces the greedy Ferengi merchants ? actually four pirates of space . The story is funny , and I loved when the crushed Krem asks T'Pol to caress his ears . Title ( Brazil ) : " Aquisição " ( " Acquisition " )
First Contact	The Enterprise finds three different phenomena to research : a supernova ; three neutron stars ; and a pre-industrial planet with 500 million people . T'Pol is against the exploration of the Akaali planet fearing cultural contamination , but when she scans the Minshara-class planet , she finds a powerful antimatter reactor hidden underground emitting neutrino . Archer , T'Pol , Trip and Hoshi use makeup to resemble the locals and travel to the planet . They meet the pharmacologist Riann and discover that several Akaali have been sick after the arrival of Garos , the owner of an antique shop . Their further investigation discloses that the aggressive race of the Malurians is exploring minerals in the underground , jeopardizing the health of the Akaalis . In " Civilization " , once again Archer uses curiosity against the logic of T'Pol , ignoring her wise advice . However , the menace of the Malurians justifies their action like sheriff and interference in the development of the planet . T'Pol also proves that is a great strategist , using the reactor to defeat the enemy . Archer acts like Captain Kirk , having a first and second contact through a brief romance with Riann . Title ( Brazil ) : " Civilização " ( " Civilization " )
Rebellion in the Prison Carrier	The Enterprise locates the shuttlepod one wandering in the space and Captain Archer and Trip missing . T'Pol finds that they have been mistakenly assumed smugglers by a patrol ship while returning from a visit from a trade post at the planet K'et Enol , arrested and set to the penal colony Canamar . A government representative comes to the Enterprise and travels with the crew to release Archer and Trip and avoid other misunderstandings . However , the prisoner Kuroda and his Nausican partner escape from their handcuffs , dominate the guards and take control of the ship . " Canamar " is a predictable and unoriginal episode , without anything special . Archer uses his intelligence to lure the criminal and control the situation , while the poor Trip has to hear the experiences of the annoying alien . Title ( Brazil ) : " Canamar "
Manipulative and Effective	In Warsaw , the violent sociopath Jacek Lazar ( Miroslaw Baka ) wanders through the streets committing minor acts of violence . He gets a taxi and kills the driver Waldemar Rekowski ( Jan Tesarz ) without any reason or motive . Meanwhile , the idealistic Piotr Balicki ( Krzysztof Globisz ) has just graduated as a lawyer and is assigned to defend Jacek , but loses the case and the youngster is sentence to death . Capital punishment is a polemic theme , where many people approve or disapprove this sentence . The director Krzysztof Kieslowski uses one of the Ten Commandments , " You Shall not Murder " , to defend his position against Death Penalty , no matter whether legally executed by the State in accordance with the laws . The provoking " Krótki Film o Zabijaniu " is a simple and melancholic feature , with depressing colors and no redemption ; the performances are top-notch and the murders are extremely violent and dreadful ; however Kieslowski manipulates the audiences with the brutal sequence of the execution of Jacek and he is effective in his intent . The story isolates the victim and is focused in the killer , avoiding any sympathy with the wife , relatives and friends of Waldemar . The film never shows the widow of Waldemar and the consequences of his loss to his family . When Piotr is submitted to his final oral test , he says that justice is flawed since Cain but serves as example to avoid similar crimes . In my country there is no Death Penalty , but the present days , where increasing violence is everywhere , with criminals , terrorists and deranged people committing hideous crimes , would the families and friends of the victims agree with this beautiful and poetic position or would prefer the ancient " an eye for an eye " ? . Title ( Brazil ) : " Não Matarás " ( " You Shall not Murder " )
The Mysterious Virus	While investigating an abandoned Xindi ship on the surface of a planet in the Delphic Expanse , Archer , Reed , Sato and T'Pol are infected with a virus and are transformed in aliens . T'Pol keeps her memory and language , and using the translator , she understands that their mates are seeking the city Urquat . Meanwhile , the Enterprise is under siege of two alien ships with teams of exterminators that want to " neutralize " the infected crew to prevent an outbreak of the virus while Phlox researches the cure using the DNA of T'Pol . In " Extinction " , there is a break in the non-stop action of the other three episodes and Archer , Reed , Sato are transformed in obsessive aliens by a mysterious laboratory virus that changes the DNA of other races to the one that is near extinction without capability of breeding , while the Vulcan T'Pol is only partially transformed . I did not find anything special in this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Extinção " ( " Extinction " )
Unusual Alliance	While investigating a mysterious surge of energy with the shuttle-pod , Archer and Travis are captured by the distrustful and hostile Tandarans and sent to a detention complex in a remote planet . The warden Colonel Grat explains the misunderstandings , explaining that they are in war against the Suliban terrorist organization Cabal , and that the inmates are pacific Sulibans relocated temporarily for their own safety . He claims that he has no authority to release the earthlings and they should be sent to the central magistrate office in Tander Pride as a simple bureaucratic formality . However , Captain Archer discloses that the interns are hold imprisoned due to prejudice against their race and resolves to interfere in the fate of the Sulibans . " Detained " is a reasonable episode with a story based on the prejudice of Americans against Japanese people that lived in USA after Pearl Harbor attack . I do not know whether the interference of Captain Archer and his unusual alliance with the Sulibans will have consequences in the future . Title ( Brazil ) : " Detidos " ( " Detained " )
Shut-Down the Brain and Laugh With This Hilarious Adult Version of " American Pie "	The stock supervisor of Smart Tech store Andy ( Steve Carell ) is a nice guy and good colleague . One night , his colleagues David ( Paul Rudd ) , Jay ( Romany Malco ) and Cal ( Seth Rogen ) invite him for a poker game , and in the end of the night , they find that Andy is a 40 years old virgin and they decide to help him to score . When he meets the divorced Trish ( Catherine Keener ) , the owner of " We Sell Your Stuff on eBay " store , they agree to have no sex before their 20th date . Andy gets into many troubles due to these situations . " The 40 Years Old Virgin " is the type of movie that will never be nominated to an Oscar . Probably professional critics do not like it and the viewer certainly needs to shut-down the brain to watch it ? but it is very funny ! This movie is a kind of hilarious adult version of " American Pie " , with the same type of rude and low-level jokes , but I believe that any audience that watches a movie with the title " The 40 Years Old Virgin " will expect nothing different than what is offered . This unknown actor Steve Carell is very funny and the role of Andy seems to be tailored for him . The 45 years old Catherine Keener is still a very gorgeous woman and is shinning in the role of Trish . And the trio of his friends ( the always efficient Paul Rudd , Romany Malco and Seth Rogen ) is great trying to help Andy . Last but not the least , the team of beautiful actresses complete the cast of this highly recommended comedy . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Virgem de 40 Anos " ( " The 40 Years Old Virgin " )
Underrated Psychological Supernatural Thriller	In 1984 , in Santiago de Compostela , Spain , the boy Jacobo witnesses his mother killing his father , the artist Mateo ( Luis Tosar ) , with a shotgun when the local cathedral sounded thirteen tolls . Eighteen years later , the also artist Jacobo ( Juan Diego Botto ) returns to his hometown from Buenos Aires answering the call of his childhood friend Maria ( Marta Etura ) to visit his schizophrenic mother that has been sentenced to a psychiatric hospital for killing her husband . Jacobo believed his mother had died years ago , and he is under medication due to frequent clangs of bell that he hears . Jacobo is advised by his mother to leave the town , and sooner he is haunted by Mateo that wants him to finish his work for the local cathedral . " Trece Campanadas " is an underrated psychological / supernatural thriller . The story is well constructed and resolved in spite of I have partially guessed the mystery in the middle of the movie ; therefore , the director Xavier Villaverde and the writers have successfully accomplished their objective of making a good movie . The unknown ( at least for me ) Juan Diego Botto and Marta Etura have great performances and show a perfect chemistry and Luis Tosar gives another efficient work . Title ( Brazil ) : " 13 Badaladas " ( " 13 Tolls " )
The Robinson Nebula	While going to investigate a huge dark matter , Captain Archer receives a message from Admiral Forrest informing that A . G . had died in Mount McKinley . T'Pol uses the Starfleet Rules to make companion to the grieving Archer in the shuttle pod and he tells the story of Captain A . G . Robinson and the Starfleet's NX program , when the warp engine developed by his father was tested for the first time . After a failure in his mission with the destruction of the prototype and shutdown of the program pressed by the Vulcans , Robinson helped Archer and Trip in an unauthorized flight with the second prototype . " First Flight " is a nice episode where the test of the warp is tested for the first time successfully reaching warp 2 . 5 , after an initial problem . What I like most is the last line of T'Pol dedicating the discovered nebula to Robinson . Title ( Brazil ) : " Primeiro Vôo " ( " First Flight " )
A Town Possessed by Evil	In Antioch , the former Father Travis Jordan ( Martin Donovan ) lost his faith on God three years ago when his beloved wife was murdered and the criminals never found . Suddenly , miracles happen in the little town : the son of the newcomer and veterinary Morgan Elliot ( Kelly Lynch ) survives a car accident without a single scratch ; Travis's dog Max revives after being buried ; a paraplegic walks ; a wounded woman and her father with brain tumor heal . In all the events , three men wearing black were seen , and then the unknown Brandon Nichols ( Edward Furlong ) claims to be Jesus Christ . The local population worships Brandon , while Travis and Morgan feel that something is wrong and conduct an investigation , disclosing that evil has possessed the dwellers . " The Visitation " is a great film that begins like an episode of " X-Files " and has a very scary conclusion . The intriguing story is disclosed only in the end , when it seems that there is no more hope for the good against evil , and I am impressed with the imbecile associations with Christians that I glanced in IMDb . " The Visitation " is a great horror movie , no matter if you are atheist or religious , with a good story of the fight between good and evil . My advice is , if you like horror films , watch this movie and you will not regret . The flaw in the story is the accident with Michael Elliot , who stays safe and sound in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Visitante " ( " The Visitor " )
Frankenstein , Popcorn and Resentments	While traveling to watch volcanic activities in a planet , Ensign Travis tells Captain Archer that his father is very ill and requests a leave to visit his family in the cargo ship Horizon . However his father dies and the Mayweather family reunion shows that his brother Paul is still resented with the absence of Travis . When hostile pirates attack the Horizon , Travis upgrades her systems without the authorization of Paul , increasing the tension between the brothers . Meanwhile , the reluctant T'Pol is personally invited by Captain Archer to watch a session of " Frankenstein " , and in the end she surprisingly likes the movie . " Horizon " has corny moments but it is not a bad episode . The story is predictable , and T'Pol as usual is responsible for the best moments of the episode . Fortunately the writers of this series usually show excellent taste regarding the selection of classic and cult movies in the Enterprise . Title ( Brazil ) : " Horizon "
One of the Best Movies of Werewolf Ever ( 17 November 2008 )	The outcast teenager sisters Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) and Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katharine Isabelle ) are very connected and have a weird pact of death between them . Their hobby is photography , more specifically morbid pictures of violent death scenes . On the full moon night the sixteen year-old Ginger has her first period , she is bitten by a wild animal , indeed a werewolf , but she omits the attack to her mother Pamela ( Mimi Rogers ) . A couple of days later , Ginger changes her behavior ; her body is covered by excessive hair ; and she has the need of attacking dogs and other animals . While her mother believes that the menstruation is causing her changes of attitude , Brigitte seeks the cure with the local drug dealer Sam ( Kris Lemche ) . " Ginger Snaps " is one of the best movies of werewolf ever . This is the third time that I watch this movie , now on DVD , and I like the approach of the dramatic story , using the usual change of behavior of a teenager after her first period in parallel to a werewolf attack . The weird Fitzgerald sisters are brilliantly performed by Emily Perkins and Katharine Isabelle , and the conclusion is excellent . Title ( Brazil ) : " Possuída " ( " Possessed " ) My previous review of 24 May 2005 : Gore , Weird and Original Horror Movie Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) and Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katharine Isabelle ) are very connected sisters and very weird and morbid persons , having a great attraction with death . On the night Ginger gets her first period , she is attacked by a furred beast and her behavior and mood change . Her mother and friends believe that this changing is caused by her hormones , but her sister believes that she was bitten by a werewolf . Sooner Brigitte sees that she is right and tries to save her sister from the terrible fate . The first time I saw " Ginger Snaps " , I did not like it , since I found the story too bloody and with an open end . Today I have just watched it for the second time because I bought the DVD with the sequence , and now I found " Ginger Snaps " a gore , weird and original horror movie . I changed completely my first opinion , and I really liked this movie . It is a very violent werewolf film , having two excellent lead actresses with great performances , Emily Perkins and Katharine Isabelle . Now I hope that the sequence does not spoil such a good story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Possuída " ( " Possessed " )
Not Everything Is Like It Seems	General Krantz tells Lincoln that the price of Michael's surgery is the safe return of Scylla . Lincoln tortures T-Bag to find the location where Self and Gretchen will deal with the buyer ; after losing two teeth , T-Bag tells that the meeting will be in Arlington Pier at 3 : 00 PM . Lincoln and Sucre head to the place , but Rita calls Gretchen and tells that the Company abducted T-Bag . When they arrive , Self and Gretchen have already gone . Sara stays with Michael and she does not recognize the equipment and the procedure in the surgery room , but the doctor informs that it is a state-of-art technique . In a blink of eyes , Michael meets Charles in Fox River , and he asks for his forgiveness . Charles advises that things are not like they seem to be , and Michael tries to find the true meaning of his words and the word Bargain on the wall . Meanwhile Mahone asks to go to the bathroom and the reluctant Wheeler finally stops the car . Mahone steals a pipe and jumps from Wheeler's car after shattering the window . He is chased by Agent Lang and Wheeler , and Lang covers his escape in the end . The Company tracks Gretchen's call in her cellular , but when Lincoln and Sucre arrive , the buyer escapes with Scylla and they capture Self and Gretchen . Michael deciphers that Scylla is not a black book with the past of The Company , but a secret of power and The Company is actually protecting the future . Lincoln discovers that his mother also worked for The Company and splits with Michael in the name of the " family business " . " Prison Break " is literally going under in this Season . The shows are no longer engaging like they were in the past , and the plot has no where to go and not everything is like it seems anymore . The possibility of Lincoln working with Gretchen , Self and T-Bag is too much for me . My deception with this Fourth Season is increasing after each episode , and I hope the author Paul Scheuring does give the same fate of " Lost " to this series . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Road Trip to Hell	While driving in a highway to the wedding of his beloved Betty-Ann , Adam ( Eric Jungmann ) is surprised by his former schoolmate Harley ( Justin Urich ) on the backseat of his car . Adam has broken off with the inconvenient and moron Harley because of Betty-Ann . Along their road trip , Harley makes fun of some rednecks in a bar and later their car is chased by a giant monster truck on the road . After some incidents , they give a lift to the hitchhiker Sarah ( Aimee Brooks ) and sooner the trio is terrorized by a scary monster driving the monster truck . In spite of having one of the most annoying characters I have ever seen in a horror movie , the irritating Harley , " Monster Man " is a surprisingly good trash horror-comedy . The story is a collection of clichés , beginning like " Joy Ride " or " Duel " ; then it turns to one of the countless rip-offs of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ; there is a surprising twist , ending with a hook for a sequel . There are hilarious scenes , Aimee Brooks is extremely sexy and this film really entertains . Title ( Brazil ) : " Monster Man "
Important Documentary	In 2002 , director Morgan Spurlock subjected himself to a diet based only in McDonald's fast food three times a day for thirty days and without working out . His objective was to prove why most of the Americans are so fat , with many cases of obesity . He began the shootings submitting himself to a complete check-up with three doctors , and along the weeks , he compared his weight and results of exams , coming through a scary conclusion . Only today I have watched this famous documentary , and I am really impressed with the courage and determination of Morgan Spurlock , being subjected to such experiment to prove how noxious fast foods are . This documentary is so important that McDonald's changed their menu worldwide , including some juices and salads . I found also amazing the sizes available in USA , since in Brazil , for example , the largest size of coke corresponds to the medium one showed in the film . The same happens with French fries . This documentary should be mandatory in schools . Title ( Brazil ) : " Super Size Me , A Dieta do Palhaço " ( " Super Size Me , The Diet of the Clown " )
Fate Is Unique Like Fingerprints	In the cold São Paulo , the astrologist Teca ( Bruna Lombardi ) presents a late night show in the radio , with the support of her friend Mônica ( Graziela Moretto ) and the gay Biô ( Bethito Tavares ) . Her anonymous listeners share their concerns , hopes , loves , despairs , seeking her astrological advice . Her father Aníbal ( Juca de Oliveira ) , who left her mother when she was eleven year-old , is terminal in a hospital , but her stepmother Adèlia ( Eva Wilma ) refuses to visit him . Teca has some interest in her just-moved next-door neighbor Gil ( Malvino Salvador ) , who has a marriage in crisis with his wife Lydia ( Denise Fraga ) . During a robbery on the street , Marisa meets the travel agent Devanir ( Fernando Alves Pinto ) , they have a love affair and he invites her to travel to Cancun with him . When the depressed client of Teca , Luis ( Thiago Pinheiro ) , commits suicide jumping from her window , Teca seeks out his girlfriend Júlia ( Laís Marques ) that is ill , left in a low-budget hotel after a provoked abortion . Teca calls a friend that brings the nurse Sombra ( Luis Miranda ) and , while she heals , Teca lives her personal dramas being sympathetic with her listeners . The melancholic " O Signo da Cidade " is a kind of tribute to the lonely people in a big city , whose lives are snooped and entwined through the radio show of Teca , who is needy after the end of her marriage and has also her personal problems . The well-written screenplay is complex and cold , like São Paulo is , and is based on the idea that fate is unique like fingerprints . This movie has a great direction of Carlos Alberto Riccelli and magnificent performances of the cast . The soundtrack is very beautiful . I am glad to see that the great actress Bruna Lombardi is still a very beautiful woman , in spite of her age , and also an excellent writer . I like this type of story that follows the style of Robert Altman , Alejandro González Iñárritu and Paul Haggis , just to mention a few other filmmakers , with many characters and entwined situations . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Signo da Cidade " ( " The Sign of the City " )
Morbid and Polemic Study of Moral Aspects of Human Characters	In the Australian town of Jindabyne , the former race champion Stewart Kane ( Gabriel Byrne ) works in a gas station with his partners and friends Carl ( John Howard ) , Rocco ( Stelios Yiakmis ) and Billy ( Simon Stone ) . His impassionate marriage with the unstable Claire ( Laura Linney ) has an unresolved issue since Claire left him when their son Tom ( Sean Rees-Wemyss ) was born . The great passion of Stewart is fishing and he organizes a weekend fishing trip in a remote river with his three great friends . On Friday afternoon , they park the car and hike and camp in the spot ; while fishing , Stewart finds the naked dead body of an aboriginal young woman floating on the cold water . Stewart ties the leg of the woman to an arbor and they spend the weekend fishing . On Sunday afternoon , they return to the parking area and report their finding to the police . When the press releases the information , their public and private lives are deeply affected and the disturbed Claire questions Stewart's attitude while trying to help and apologize with the family of the dead aborigine . " Jindabyne " has a storyline of great potential , with a morbid and polemic study of moral aspects of human ( and consequently flawed ) characters . Unfortunately the screenplay is not good and looses the focus of the main storyline entwined with many parallel and unresolved plots of supporting characters . Why Caylin-Calandria has such weird and morbid behavior ? ( It seems that because of the death of her mother , but it is never clear ) . The character of the old man that killed the aborigine is not developed . Why Claire became dysfunctional with the birth of her son ? Why Stewart is still married with Claire ? The attitude of Claire against her husband is annoying and in Brazil we have a saying that states " with a friend ( or in this case wife ) like that , Stewart does not need enemies " . Anyway , the locations in Australia are stunning , the cast has great acting and it is worth watching this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Web of Lies	In Chicago , the family man and executive of an advertisement agency Neil Randall ( Gerard Butler ) has a perfect life : he expects to be promoted in his job sooner ; he has a beautiful and sexy wife , Abby ( Maria Bello ) and a lovely daughter , Sophie ( Emma Karwandy ) ; and he lives in a wonderful house . When Neil's boss Karl Granger ( Peter Keleghan ) invites him to spend the weekend in his cottage in the country , Abby hires a nanny for Sophie to spend the day with her sister Diane ( Samantha Ferris ) . While driving Abby in his truck to meet Diane , a stranger ( Pierce Brosnan ) hidden on the backseat appears with a gun , and tells that he has kidnapped Sophie . He introduces himself as Ryan and demands that for twenty-four hours , the couple shall obey his orders , otherwise he would kill Sophie . While keeping the couple under his total control , he shows that he is a calculating sociopath with nothing to lose , with the intention of destroying Neil's perfect life . " Butterfly on a Wheel " was a great surprise for me , with a tense story , tight and effective screenplay with unpredictable twists and stunning acting of Pierce Brosnan ( he is awesome ) , Maria Bello and Gerard Butler . A friend of mine recommended this suspenseful thriller and I really enjoyed it . I could never expect the plot point in Karl's house , but the last twist in the conclusion was disappointing and quite hard to believe . Title ( Brazil ) : " Encurralados " ( " Trapped " )
Good Canadian Thriller	In Quebec , a serial killer kills , rapes and takes parts of his victims in this sequence . The Detective Maude Graham ( Maude Guérin ) , a lonely woman and very efficient detective , is in charge of the investigation . She uses the media to tease the criminal , and acts like a bait to find the unknown assassin . " Le Collectionneur " is a good Canadian thriller . The story and the characters are very well constructed , and Luc Picard is excellent in the role of a deranged serial killer . I regret only that the VHS distributed in Brazil is ( horribly ) dubbed in English . I do not understand why the distributor spoils many films with dubbed copies . They claim that there are many illiterate people , who do not know or have difficulties to read the subtitles , but anyway speaking is part of the acting and therefore is unacceptable such a procedure of dubbing the original language . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Colecionador " ( " The Collector " )
Trapped in the Past	In Sidney , Tracey Heart ( Cate Blanchet ) is a thirty-two years old manager of a video shop ex-addicted in heroin and clean for four years . She is trying to raise forty thousand dollars to buy a shop for computer games on the next door of the rental and become partner of her boss , but based on her negative records , the banks deny the loan . Tracey takes care of her junkie stepfather Lionel Dawson ( Hugo Weaving ) , unsuccessfully trying to make him quit his heroin habit . When her former boy-friend Jonny ( Dustin Nguyen ) returns from Vancouver , Tracey's mother Janelle ( Noni Hazlehurst ) fears a fall of Tracey , while she blames Jonny for the car accident where her son Ray ( Martin Henderson ) lost one leg . When Ray and Jonny associate to Moss ( Joel Tobeck ) , the assistant of the retired criminal boss Bradley ' The Jockey ' Thompson ( Sam Neill ) , in drug dealing , Tracey is convinced by Jonny to join them and raise the necessary money for her business along the weekend . " Little Fish " is a heavy drama , based on losers , people addicted in drugs , showing how difficult the recovery is . The lead character is a woman without perspective in life that sees the chance of a good honest business , but with the doors closed due to her past , being therefore trapped in her past . Her mother suffers in double , since her former mate addicted her daughter and her son , who lost part of one leg with Jonny . The story is original , having the characters very well developed along the narrative and with great performances . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sob o Efeito da Água " ( " Under the Effect of the Water " )
Broken Heats and a Stolen Kiss	In New York , Elizabeth ( Norah Jones ) has a broken heart when her boyfriend leaves her without saying goodbye . She stops by the diner of Jeremy ( Jude Law ) seeking out her lover , leaves his keys with Jeremy and ends the night having a conversation with him and eating a thrown away piece of blueberry pie . She arrives in the place for the next late nights and they become close , with Lizzy eating a piece of blueberry pie , until the day she drinks too much , has a blackout and is kissed by Jeremy . On the next day , she takes a bus to Memphis , Tennessee , and gets two jobs , working as waitress in the morning in a diner and as a bartender during the night in a bar and saving money to buy a car . Lizzy sends postcards to Jeremy without her address and she befriends Officer Arnie Copeland ( David Strathairn ) , who spends the nights drinking missing his wife Sue Lynne ( Rachel Weisz ) that left him . Later she moves to Ely , Nevada , workings as waitress in a casino , where she meets the gambler Leslie ( Natalie Portman ) . When Leslie loses a poker game , they travel together to Las Vegas to visit Leslie's father . Then she return to New York , where she meets Jeremy again . This classy and melancholic romance has a sweet story , great direction and performances , wonderful music score and a stunning cinematography . I was not familiarized with the wonderful voice of Norah Jones and her debut as actress is magnificent , showing a perfect chemistry with Jude Law . The excellent David Strathairn and Rachel Weisz have awesome performances in very dramatic roles , and the magnificent Natalie Portman has a different appearance with her vulgar character . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Beijo Roubado " ( " A Stolen Kiss " )
When a Man Makes the Difference	After eight years serving the U . S . Army Special Forces , Sergeant Chris Vaughn ( The Rock ) returns to his hometown seeking for a job in the local mill . He is informed by Sheriff Stan Watkins ( Michael Bowen ) that the mill was closed six months ago and now the Wild Cherry Casino , owned by his former high school friend Jay Hamilton ( Neal McDonough ) , is the major source of jobs and income to the town . Chris goes home , and meets his best-friend Ray Templeton ( Johnny Knoxville ) , who organized a football game with their friends . After the game , Jay invites Chris and his friends to spend the night in his casino on him , but when Chris finds that the casino stick-man is cheating with the dices , he fights against the security men and is almost killed by them . When his nephew Pete ( Khleo Thomas ) has an OD with amphetamines sold by the security men of the casino , Chris realizes that the town is dominated by the mobsters and the corrupt sheriff and with a huge piece of wood , he breaks the casino and the criminals . He is prosecuted and in the trial , he promises to the jury and to the population that if he is considered non-guilty , he would be candidate to the sheriff position and clean the town . Later , Sheriff Chris Vaughn has to fight against the organized crime to keep his promise . " Walking Tall " is a non-stop action movie , with The Rock playing a character inspired on the legendary McNairy County Sheriff Bruford Hayser Pusser . I had never heard , read or seen anything about the life of this brave man , but there are lots of references about his heroic fight against crime and tragic fate of his family , inclusive a 1973 movie also called " Walking Tall " based on his biography that I believe has not been released in Brazil . I liked a lot this 2004 fictional film , with the charismatic The Rock excellent in the role of a honest man that makes the difference in a corrupt town . Johnny Knoxville is hilarious , as usual , and this movie is a great entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Com as Próprias Mãos " ( " With the Own Hands " )
Touching a Serious Social Wound	In Chicago , the Afro-American teenager friends Lloyd Newman ( Brandon Hamond ) and LeAlan Jones ( Roderick Pannell ) win a contest promoted by the successful producer Dave Isay ( Josh Charles ) of NPR ? National Public Radio ? for a documentary about the daily life in the ghetto where they live . They prepare a documentary showing their routines , the life in their neighborhood , and it becomes controversial , with some negative reviews of important persons of their community . Nevertheless , they are awarded as the 1997 Chicago Citizen of the Year . Dave becomes a close friend of the boys and their families , and they decide to prepare another documentary about the death of Eric Morse , a young kid dropped from the 14th floor of a building in the compound by two other boys on 14 Nov 1994 . They win the prestigious Peabody Award with their work . " Our America " is a good movie based on a true story and is about the dramatic situation of many poor people living in ghettos and slums . The story happens in North America , but it could have happened in any country in South America , Afrika , Asia , and even Europe . I liked this film because it touches a serious wound , the social debt of the society with many persons . Further , it is not corny , but it gives some hope , when we see two boys like Lloyd and LeAlan having a chance to improve their lives . It emphasizes the importance of friendship and sympathy , to help those who need . Title ( Brazil ) : " Território Violento " ( " Violent Territory " )
The Mayan Ruins and the Climbing Plants	While on vacation in a resort in Mexico , the Americans Jeff ( Jonathan Tucker ) , his girlfriend Amy ( Jena Malone ) , her best friend Stacy ( Laura Ramsey ) and her boyfriend Eric ( Shawn Ashmore ) befriend the German Mathias ( Joe Anderson ) in the swimming pool . Mathias invites the group to visit the ruins of a Mayan temple with his Greek friend Dimitri ( Dimitri Baveas ) in an archaeological field where his brother Henrich and his girlfriend are camped eighteen kilometers far from the resort . They hire an old taxi and when they reach the spot , they are surrounded by Mayan villagers armed of revolver , rifle and bow-and-arrow that kill Dimitri and do not allow the group to leave the place . They climb a construction covered of creepers with red flowers , and remain under siege of the locals . When they hear a cell phone in the bottom of a well , Mathias decides to seek the apparatus using a rope that breaks and he has a serious accident breaking his back . Amy and Stacy go to the bottom of the mine to rescue Mathias and they find many corpses covered by the climbing plants ; further , they realize that they had been lured by the plants that are vibrating with the sound of a cell phone . When they are attacked by the carnivorous creeping plants , they understand the reaction of the Mayan villagers . " The Ruins " is an original horror movie , with a different and creepy story , good performances of the young cast and great special effects . The beauty of Laura Ramsey is impressive , and the great actress Jena Malone performs an annoying character . The scene of the amputation of Mathias legs is extremely gore and gruesome . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Loyalty , Cowardice , Betrayal and Redemption	In the 70's in Afghanistan , the Pushtun boy Amir ( Zekeria Ebrahimi ) and the Hazara boy Hassan ( Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada ) , who is his loyal friend and son of their Hazara servant Ali ( Nabi Tanha ) , are raised together in Amir's father house , playing and kitting on the streets of a peaceful Kabul . Amir feels that his wise and good father Baba ( Homayoun Ershadi ) blames him for the death of his mother in the delivery , and also that his father loves and prefers Hassam to him . In return , Amir feels a great respect for his father's best friend Rahim Khan ( Shaun Toub ) , who supports his intention to become a writer . After Amir winning a competition of kitting , Hassam runs to bring a kite to Amir , but he is beaten and raped by the brutal Assef ( Elham Ehsas ) in an empty street to protect Amir's kite ; the coward Amir witness the assault but does not help the loyal Hassam . On the day after his birthday party , Amir hides his new watch in Hassam's bed to frame the boy as a thief and force his father to fire Ali , releasing his conscience from recalling his cowardice and betrayal . In 1979 , the Russians invade Afghanistan and Baba and Amir escape to Pakistan . In 1988 , they have a simple life in Fremont , California , when Amir graduates in a public college for the pride and joy of Baba . Later Amir meets his countrywoman Soraya ( Atossa Leoni ) and they get married . In 2000 , after the death of Baba , Amir is a famous novelist and receives a phone call from the terminal Rahim Khan , who discloses secrets about his family , forcing Amir to return to Peshawar , in Pakistan , in a journey of redemption . I am not familiar with the Afghan culture and I did not read this novel in spite of the recommendation of my daughter , and yesterday I decided to watch this movie on DVD . I found a good story of loyalty , cowardice , betrayal and redemption , with a brief insight in the recent history of Afghanistan , from a peaceful period in the 70's to the present days with the Taliban . The actors and actresses have great performances , giving credibility to the realistic story . The arid locations in China recall the images we see in television from Afghanistan . In the end , I found " The Kite Runner " a good movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Caçador de Pipa " ( " The Kite Chaser " )
The Streets of San Francisco	In San Francisco , a Caucasian family pressed by the real estate speculation , moves to Hunter's Point , an Afro-American neighborhood ruled by the V-Dub gang and the son Nick Wade ( Ben Crowley ) faces problem with the violent gangsters . However , the drug dealer K-Luv ( Anthony Mackie ) decides to bootleg CDs and get close to Nick , protecting him . Meanwhile , the Chinese collector Lincoln Ma ( Ken Leung ) is blackmailed by the owner of a restaurant and he executes him , falling in disgrace with his mobster boss . The lives of Nick , K-Luv and Lincoln are entwined when the drug lord Sleepy ( Darris Love ) protects a rapper against the Chinese piracy of his CD . " Sucker Free City " is a good movie about dangerous Chinese and Afro-American gangs in the streets of San Francisco . The film has good moments , is very realistic and it is impressive the scene when Little-O is executed . The inconclusive ending is a little disappointing , but none of the lead characters deserved redemption , therefore life goes on . Title ( Brazil ) : " Código das Ruas " ( " Code of the Streets " )
The Evil Soul Collector	After being released from prison , Max ( Josh Holloway ) and his fiancée Roxanne ( Sarah Wayne Callies ) wish to have a fresh restart of their lives running a small dining of their own . However , the bank refuses to loan US$ 50 , 000 . 00 to them and without alternatives , Max accepts the invitation of his former partner Sydney ( Michael Rooker ) and his associate Vince ( Joel Edgerton ) to participate in the kidnapping of the eight year old David ( Blake Woodruff ) , the son of a wealthy woman in New England , under the command of a mysterious leader . The quartet drives with the boy to a camping area in Maine , closed in the cold winter , where they are individually disturbed by whispers that affects their behaviors until Max discloses the dark secret about David and his mother . " Whisper " is a very effective horror movie that scares without explicit violence or gore . The association of the fallen angel David and the Antichrist Damien from " The Omen " is quite immediate , but the creepy story is engaging and developed in a suitable pace . The young actor Blake Woodruff has a top-notch performance in the role of the evil soul collector and the acting and direction are solid . The twist with the identity of the leader of the kidnappers is a great unpredictable plot point . Title ( Brazil ) : " Reféns do Mal " ( " Hostages of the Evil " )
Dark Thriller With the Style of Dario Argento	When a young couple and a peeper are killed in the field with sadism , Inspector Amaldi ( Luigi Lo Cascio ) and his partner Freese ( José Ángel Egido ) unsuccessfully follow the leads trying to track the criminal . Meanwhile , the college student Giuditta ( Lucía Jimenéz ) is being stalked and goes to the precinct , where she is attended by Amaldi , and immediately they feel a great attraction for each other . When another woman is murdered , Amaldi and Freese realize that they are chasing a serial killer . Amaldi visits Professor Civita ( Eusebio Poncela ) , trying to find the meaning of three leaves found in the crime scene . Amaldi , who battles with his violent temper , tries to put the clues together and to avoid the next murder of the unknown psychopath . The story of the dark thriller " Occhi di Cristallo " recalls " Seven " , " The Silence of the Lambs " , " Saw " and " Resurrection " , among many others rip-offs . But the most impressive in this good movie is its style , very similar to Dario Argento . The director Eros Puglielli uses a beautiful and dark cinematography , an excellent camera work , a great soundtrack and achieves great performances of the cast in a reasonable screenplay . Once there are very few characters , it is not difficult to disclose the killer , but his motives are silly . Title ( Brazil ) : " Olhos Mortais " ( " Deadly Eyes " )
When an Honest Man Finds Corruption in the Breast of His Family	In Chicago , Zach Resnick ( Michael Ontkean ) is an honest detective from homicide department , working in a case of murder of a director in front of a restaurant . He finds that the target was indeed a prominent politician . While investigating , he realizes that his father , the policeman Abraham Resnick ( Martin Landau ) , is a dirty cop and is involved in the crime . He faces a great dilemma , causing serious problems to him . This film has a good story , which could be improved . The performance of Michael Ontkean , Martin Landau and Eli Wallach are very convincing , and the jazz in the soundtrack recalls the atmosphere of those film-noir of the 30s and 40s . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Legado de Mentiras ' ( ' Legacy of Lies ' )
Great Horror Movie	In the Nineteenth Century , in Darkness Falls , Matilda Dixon is a good woman , who exchanges with children their baby teeth per coins . One day , her face is burnt in a fire in her house , she becomes sensitive to light and uses a china mask to protect her face against light . When two children are not found in the town , Matilda is blamed by the population and burnt in a fire , as if she were a witch . She claims to be not guilty and curses the whole population of the town and their descendants , stating that when each child loses the last tooth , she would come to get it , and if the child looks at her , she would kill him or her . After her death , the two children are found , and the shamed citizens decide to bury this sad and unfair event and never mention it again . Twelve years ago , the boy Kyle accidentally saw the Tooth Fairy , and she killed his mother . All the persons in Darkness Falls but his girlfriend Caitlin accused the boy of murdering his mother and sent him to an institution , considered deranged . In the present days , Caitlin ( Emma Caulfield ) calls Kyle ( Chaney Kley ) to help her young brother Michael ( Lee Cormie ) , who has seen the Fairy Tooth and is afraid of the dark . " Darkness Falls " is one of the best recently released horror movies . The story has the common clichés of the genre ; some flaws , like for example , when there is a blackout in the hospital and the persons try to escape in the elevator ; but there are also many good frightening situations . The story and the characters are well developed , the theme about the legend of the Fairy Tooth is not so much explored in other movies and works perfectly well . There are many very unfair reviews in IMDb about this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " No Cair da Noite " ( " In the Fall of the Night " )
A Good Story That Can Be Understood In Different Levels	When the scientist and family man Matt Winslow ( Robert Urich ) finally accepts the invitation to work the Micro-Digitech Corporation in a space suit project , he moves with his beloved wife Patricia ( Joanna Cassidy ) and their son Robbie ( Barret Oliver ) and daughter Chrissy ( Soleil Moon Frye ) to a huge modern house in the corporation compound . They meet their friend Tom Peterson ( Joe Regalbuto ) and his family completely adapted to the new lifestyle , and Tom invites the Winslow family to join the Steaming Springs Country Club . Tom tries to seduce Matt telling him that every member of the club has a meteoric professional ascension in Micro-Digitech , but Matt is not tempted with the offer . Later he is introduced to the director of the club , Jessica Jones ( Susan Lucci ) that befriends Patricia and convinces her to join the club with her children . Matt feels the changing in the behavior of his family and decides to investigate the club , finding an evil secret about Jessica and the members . In the 80's , when I saw " Invitation to Hell " , I liked this movie that partially recalls " The Stepford Wives " , with people changing the behavior in a suburban compound . I have just seen it today , and I found a great metaphoric message against the big corporations , when people literally sell their souls to the devil to climb positions and earn higher salaries . I am not sure whether the author intended to give this interpretation to the story , but I believe it fits perfectly . Title ( Brazil ) : " Convite Para o Inferno " ( " Invitation to Hell " )
Romance In the Land of the Werewolves	In Bucharest , Romania , the orphan Vivian ( Agnes Bruckner ) was raised by her aunt after losing her parents ten years ago in the Rocky Mountains , Colorado . His family belongs to a bloodline of werewolves and Vivian is promised to the leader of the pack , Gabriel ( Oliver Martinez ) . When the American cartoonist Aiden ( Hugh Dancy ) , who is researching werewolves for his publisher for the next edition of his magazine , meets Vivian , they immediately fall in love for each other . However , the evil son of Gabriel and Vivian's cousin Rafe ( Bryan Dick ) poisons Gabriel about the love of Vivian , forcing her to choose between her bounds with her family and her passion for Aiden . " Blood and Chocolate " is an entertaining romantic adventure , with an attractive story , good performances and great special effects . The gorgeous Agnes Bruckner and the great actor Hugh Dancy show an excellent chemistry in the lead roles , and Bryan Dick and Oliver Martinez are great villains . The wonderful locations in Bucharest are highlighted with the angles and movements of the camera , in a magnificent cinematography . I enjoyed this underrated movie a lot , and my vote is seven . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sangue e Chocolate " ( " Blood and Chocolate " )
Creepy Vampire Movie	During the funeral mass of Elwyn ( George Zucco ) , the local Kate ( Fern Emmett ) accuses him of evilness . Later , his brother Dr . Lloyd Clayton ( George Zucco ) and tutor of his niece Gayle Clayton ( Mary Carlisle ) tells her and her fiancé Dr . David Bently ( Nedrick Young ) that his brother has become obsessed by mysticism and black magic since he traveled to India . During the night , Elwyn comes to Dr . Lloyd Clayton's house and accuses Dr . Clayton of pushing him in a cliff to die . Further , he tells Dr . Clayton that he will revenge , slowly killing Gayle and transforming her in a vampire . Dr . Clayton does not believe in what he has seen and heard , but when Gayle gets mysteriously sick and Dr . Clayton becomes the prime suspect of David and the locals , he finally accepts that his brother is a vampire and tries to find his coffin to destroy him . " Dead Man Walk " is a creepy low-budget vampire movie visibly inspired in " Dracula " , with a good story and acting . The cinematography of the DVD that I watched is a kind of blurred in the scenes in the cemetery , maybe because of a lighting problem in the shot , but the story is told in a dark atmosphere and I liked this underrated film . George Zucco has great performance in his double role . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mortos Que Andam " ( " Dead That Walk " )
Forget the Flawed Story and Enjoy the Choreography	In Bangkok , the young Kham ( Tony Jaa ) was raised by his father in the jungle with elephants as members of their family . When his old elephant and the baby Kern are stolen by criminals , Kham finds that the animals were sent to Sidney . He travels to Australia , where he locates the baby elephant in a restaurant owned by the evil Madame Rose ( Xing Jing ) , the leader of an international Thai mafia . With the support of the efficient Thai sergeant Mark ( Petchtai Wongkamlao ) , who was involved in a conspiracy , Kham fights to rescue the animal from the mobsters . " Tom Yum Goong " has a silly , flawed and absurd story , where gangsters do not use guns , but sticks , clubs , rollers , bicycles , motorcycles or whips . Further , they just fight in sequence against the hero , one by one , to have their arms and legs broken . The criminal Johnny simply vanishes without any further explanation . However , the choreography of the fights is amazing and very realistic , making this movie a worthwhile entertainment . Tony Jaa is probably the successor of Jackie Chan and Jet Li , and I believe this movie could be less " serious " and have more humor like in Jackie Chan's films . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Protetor " ( " The Protector " )
Promising Original Idea , Unfortunately Wasted in a Corny and Implausible Romantic Situation	In Burnaby , Nick Powell ( Justin Chatwin ) is an excellent high-school student that raises money selling homeworks and results of quizzes to his schoolmates . He aims to travel secretly London to have a course of writer and he tells his best friend is Pete Egan ( Chris Marquette ) that he has already bought the airplane ticket but he has not told to his mother yet . Meanwhile the punk and smalltime thief Annie Newton ( Margarita Levieva ) has a problem with Pete , who owes money to her . Nick pays the debts of his friend and the angry Annie attacks Nick in the messroom . In the night , Annie and her boyfriend Marcus Bohem ( Alex O'Loughlin ) that is in parole rob a car and Annie breaks a jewelry window and steals the exposed jewels . When Annie tells Marcus that she will not share her theft , he anonymously denounces Annie to the police . The police go to the high-school and open Annie's locker , and the girl assumes that Pete has rat her . Later Annie and her gang attack Pete and the coward teenager to protect himself tells that actually Nick has called the police ; then the raged trio chases Nick and beats him to death , dumping his body in a sewer . On the next morning , Nick goes to school and finds that he is actually a spirit , invisible for people . Further , he tries to communicate with the living to find his body since he is still alive . " The Invisible " has a promising original idea of a spirit in limbo while his body is in coma . The beginning of this movie is excellent and without clichés and developed in an adequate pace and good development of characters . However , the writer in a certain moment wastes the plot with a corny and implausible romantic situation . How could a handsome teenager that has no problem with girls fall in love for the girl that tried to kill him a couple of days ago ? This dull situation really spoiled the movie since it is not believable . Pete is one of the most despicable characters I have recently seen in a movie . At least , the writer gives a decent conclusion in the end and Annie has the deserved fate . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Invisível " ( " The Invisible " )
Claustrophobic , Scary and Gore ? Run , Kate , Run	While inspecting the sewage system of London , two workers are attacked by a weird creature . Later , Kate ( Franka Potente ) , decides to leave a party trying to meet the actor George Clooney that is in London . She waits for the last subway train , but after drinking many alcoholic beverages , she takes a nap on the platform bench losing the train and being trapped in the closed subway station . Later , a train going to the yard passes she gets and she meets her acquaintance Guy ( Jeremy Sheffield ) , who tries to rape her in the wagon . Guy is hardly attacked by the creature , and Kate escapes through the tunnel . This is the beginning of her claustrophobic , scary and gore night running through the underground of London . " Creep " is a good horror movie . The story is scary , the eerie creature is horrible , his screams are frightening and I believe that the fans of the genre will like this flick . It is not possible to feel empathy for the character of Franka Potente , which is very arrogant . Further , her yellow dress is absolutely awful , but at least exposes her beautiful legs . Title ( Brazil ) : " Plataforma do Medo " ( " Platform of the Fear " )
A Delightful Romance	Jessica Stein ( Jennifer Westfeldt ) is a Jewish girl above thirty , editor of a newspaper , who has difficulties to have a boyfriend due to her criticism . One day , she answers an advertisement of a girl looking for a girlfriend . The beginning of a lesbian relationship , her doubts ( specially belonging to a Jewish family ) are presented in a delightful way . The story is not ' mushy ' : indeed is a delightful romance . Actors and actresses are very natural , reflecting a splendid direction . The plot is unconventional and entertains without any kind of offense . Title ( Brazil ) : " Beijando Jéssica Stein " ( " Kissing Jessica Stein " )
Good Thriller , With an Excellent Very Dark Alternative End	After the suicide of his wife , the psychiatrist Dr . David Callaway ( Robert De Niro ) decides to move with his traumatized daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) from New York to the country to give more attention to her . In their huge old house , Emily finds a new and violent invisible friend called Charlie , making David very concerned with her mental state . " Hide and Seek " is a good , but predictable thriller . Dakota Fanning has another outstanding performance , on the contrary of in the just-released " War of the Worlds " , where she is histrionic . Robert De Niro is too old to act as the father of Emily , but in the end , this movie is enjoyable . The DVD shows three alternative ends , and there is a very dark one , which is excellent , with Emily in an institution . Unfortunately , the commercial end prevails and becomes the " official " conclusion of the movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Amigo Oculto " ( The Hidden Friend " )
Los Angeles , Land Without Police	In LA , while escaping from the police after an unsuccessful robbery , the small time thief Harry Lockhart ( Robert Downey Jr . ) is accidentally submitted to an audition for a role of detective in a movie , and invited to a party . He meets the homosexual private eye Gay Perry ( Val Kilmer ) , who suggests him to participate of an investigation to develop his character . He also meets the gorgeous aspirant actress Harmony Faith Lane ( Michelle Monaghan ) , and finds that she was a friend of his childhood for whom he had a crush . Harry and Perry get involved in an intricate murder case with many leads . With the support of Harmony , they find the sordid truth of the case . " Kiss Kiss Bang Bang " is a funny , but also violent , action movie with an original screenplay , where the lead character is actually the narrator of the events . Robert Downey Jr . is excellent in the role of the loser Harry Lockhart and shows a great chemistry with the delicious Michelle Monaghan , and also with his gay partner Val Kilmer . The story in a certain moment becomes very confused with many subplots , but in the end all of them are satisfactorily resolved . The usually efficient police , at least in American movies , apparently vanished in Los Angeles , since there are countless car chases and shootings without any police action . Title ( Brazil ) : " Beijos e Tiros " ( " Kisses and Shots " )
A Lesson of Respect	Walt Koontz ( Robert De Niro ) is a highly honored retired policeman , living in a community with many gays . Rusty Zimmerman ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) is a drag queen , neighbor of Walt , who aims to make a surgery for changing his sex . One day , the money of a powerful boss of a gang in the neighborhood is stolen and the criminals chase the thief and kill his girlfriend and him in the building where Walt lives . Listening to the shots , Walt gets his gun and chases the murderers . However , he has a stroke and becomes half paralyzed . Along his treatment , his doctor suggests singing classes with Rusty to improve his speech . The initial lack of respect between Walt and Rusty becomes a friendship in the end of the story . Meanwhile , the bandits look for the missing stolen money . This movie was a great surprise for me : I did not expected much , since drama it is not the specialty of Joel Schumacher . But indeed it is a very good film , with a touching story . The dialogs between Robert De Niro and Philip Seymour Hoffman are excellent . The story is about respect , specially for the minorities , showing that nobody is flawless . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Ninguém É Perfeito ' ( ' Nobody is Perfect ' )
See You Soon	T-Bag recovers his backpack of money while Bellick and Sucre chase him in the airport . Bellick presses Sucre to chase T-Bag telling him that he has kidnapped and hidden Maricruz and she has supplies for a few days only . Michael and Lincoln wait for Sara in the cargo ship , but she discovers that Lang is following her and she stops her car and surrenders to the agent . One week later , Mahone is obsessed trying to figure out where Michael is . Richard Sullins proposes a deal to C-Note to go to court to testify against Mahone , and offers a new identity and clear record to him in the witness protection program . T-Bag kills a prostitute and is chased by the police ; however he escapes to Panama . Meanwhile , in Cristobal , Panama , Michael and Lincoln argue since Michael is upset for ruining Sara's life ; for releasing T-Bag and for the number of people that has died due to their prison break out . Bill Kim tells Mahone that C-Note will be released and offers a getaway to him . Mahone finds that Michael and Lincoln are in Panama and surprises Wheeler in the parking area . Michael and Lincoln are on board to the yacht Christina Rose ready to sail ; when Michael receives an e-mail signed by Sucre , he does not imagine that the message has been sent actually by Mahone . In " Panama " , there are great moments like , for example , the sacrifice of Sara ; the reaction of C-Note when the security guards go to his cell ; or the tense encounter of Mahone and Wheeler in the parking slot . The scum Bellick and Kim Bill have also good moments in the show . However , the cleverness of Mahone deducting where Michael might be is irritating and impossible to believe how he could come up to such conclusion . Title ( Brazil ) : " Panamá " ( " Panama " )
Meet Countess Dracula In an Underrated Vampire Movie	In Montreal , the wife of detective Raymond Pope ( Conrad Pla ) is killed in a sexual encounter with the mysterious and wealthy Elizabeth Kane ( Caroline Néron ) . Pope investigates the disappearance of his wife , and finds a hint in an Internet site where she used the codename Wildcat and in her journal . When he meets the sexy and lesbian Elizabeth , his life turns upside-down and he is accused of murder of his lover Nancy and the babysitter of his son , Lisa . Pope follows and chases Elizabeth to Venice , where he discloses that she is actually the infamous Elizabeth Bathory , a . k . a . Countess Dracula . " Eternal " is a very underrated vampire movie . This erotic story has a wonderful cinematography and locations , and a good cast , highlighting Conrad Pla and the gorgeous Caroline Néron . The vampires in this story do not have trouble with crucifixes , are reflected in the mirror , can enter in an apartment without invitation , die when stabbed , but I liked a lot this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Eterno " ( " Eternal " )
The Unknown Ability of Chloe	While celebrating her bachelorette's party at the bowling with Chloe , Lana is helped by the ability of the meteor freak Daniel Kim . The blind Tobias Rice , who has the ability to identify people infected by the meteor shower , points the teenager to Dr . Robert Bethany . Later , Chloe witnesses the abduction of Daniel by Lex's men in an alley and she tells Clark . However , Daniel returns without any recollection from the kidnapping . Clark discloses that the naive Tobias is helping Dr . Bethany expecting to have a cornea transplant . Meanwhile Lana follows her instincts believing that Clark is a " meteor-freak " , while Chloe is kidnapped for having some mysterious power and is tagged with a GPS device beneath her shoulder . The greatest question after watching this good episode is what is the unknown ability of Chloe ? Clark is protected by the poor Tobias , and he is fond to see that Lana tried to protect that he is a meteor freak . The dark Lex Luthor is getting eviler in each show . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fenômenos " ( " Phenomena " )
Fear and Love	In Lille , Claire Gauthier ( Isabelle Carré ) is an ordinary married woman with a young daughter that works in an insurance company analyzing losses of insured properties . When the single veterinary Laurent Kessler ( Benoît Poelvoorde ) claims damage in his basement caused by a flooding due to water leakage , Claire resolves the situation favorably for him . The weird Laurent visits Claire in her office successively , inviting her for drinks and lunch , and they get close to each other . Meanwhile , a serial killer is terrorizing Lille , killing women with a scalpel . Claire feels a great attraction for Laurent , who has an unusual behavior in her apartment . When Claire sees a scalpel in the pocket of Laurent's jacket , she fears him , but still loves him . " Entre Ses Mains " is a weird romance between a common but charming woman that seems to have a perfect marriage and a strange and lonely veterinary . Isabelle Carré and Benoît Poelvoorde have magnificent performances , slowly developing the relationship between Claire and Laurent , with some slight touches of eroticism and tension , but never falling in the easy way of the sadomasochism , as I expected that would happen based on the mixed feelings of fear and love of Claire . There is no explanation for the behavior of Claire , feeling attraction for a man with antagonistic attitudes but only things of love . However , the ambiguous conclusion is a little disappointing . Title ( Brazil ) : " Em Suas Mãos " ( " In Your Hands " )
Motherhood , Love and Tragedy	While in her deathbed , Ann Lord ( Vanessa Redgrave ) repeats the name " Harris " and recalls the day on the 50's when she was an aspirant singer and traveled from New York to be the maid of honor of her wealthy friend Lila Wittenborn ( Mamie Gummer ) in Newport . Ann Grant ( Claire Danes ) is welcomed by Lila's alcoholic and reckless brother Buddy ( Hugh Dancy ) in the Wittenborn's cottage at seaside and he tells her that his sister is in love actually for their friend and servant Harris Arden ( Patrick Wilson ) , who fought in the war and has graduated in medicine . Later the bride-to-be confesses her true feelings about Harris to Ann . However , when Ann meets Harris , she has a crush on him and they have a brief affair during one night stand while a tragedy happens with Buddy . Meanwhile Ann's daughters , the insecure and unstable Nina Mars ( Toni Collette ) and the happy wife and mother Constance Haverford ( Natasha Richardson ) , are worried with their mother and have differences to be resolved . " Evening " has one of the best feminine casts I have ever seen in a movie , with magnificent performances . The resemblance of the stunning Mamie Gummer with her mother Meryl Streep is amazing and she has a performance that honors the name of her mother . The locations , costumes , set decoration , cinematography and soundtrack are also awesome . Unfortunately the plot is confused and I have not clearly understood the message of this film . Why motherhood is so important in the story ? Was Constance engendered in the night stand of Ann and Harris and he would be her father ? Why Ann and Harris have not stayed together , if the guy really loved her like he confesses in their occasional encounter in New York ? Which issues Ann Lord has resolved after the visit of Lila Ross ? Was Buddy Wittenborn bisexual or his love for Harris was a fraternal love ? Why Nina Mars changed her thoughts about motherhood in the end ? It seems that the screenplay writers or the director failed since they were not able to make sense and fulfillment to the beautiful love story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ao Entardecer " ( " In the Eventide " )
How Far a Mother Can Go ?	Selma ( Laura Cardoso ) is a retired middle-aged nurse and very devoted and loving mother . Although being twenty-four years old , she treats her unique son Raimundo ( Fransérgio Araújo ) like a boy . Raimundo is unemployed , and Selma in her routine life , everyday prepares his breakfast and meals , buys the newspaper , selects the job advertisements for him and launders his clothes . They have a very loving relationship , but Raimundo changes his behavior and Selma starts to suspect her son has a girlfriend . Then , Raimundo starts receiving phone calls from a mysterious woman , culminating with the visit of strange new friends , including a very injured one , involved in a car accident . Later Selma will deduct the truth behind this mystery . This inconclusive theatrical movie is supported by the outstanding performance of Laura Cardoso . The slow story is very tense , and when the screenplay reaches the plot point , the movie ends . I do not remember another film with such an open end . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Através da Janela ' ( ' Through the Window ' )
Very Sexy and Funny Comedy	Matthew Kidman ( Emile Hirsch ) is a non-popular nerd in his high-school , having just two friends , Eli ( Chris Marquette ) and Klitz ( Paul Dano ) , and concerned with the situation of a Cambojean student and in getting a scholarship to Georgetown . When the sexy Danielle ( Elisha Cuthbert ) comes to live in the next door , they date and fall in love for each other . Later , Matthew finds that Danielle was a porn star , but when her former boyfriend and producer Kelly ( Timothy Olyphant ) visits her and invites her to return to the porn industry , the situation gets out of hand of Matthews and he gets into serious trouble . " The Girl Next Door " is a very sexy and funny comedy , and the confusions that Matthew gets into are hilarious . There are many elements of " Risky Business " in this movie , and the greatest modification is that Danielle is not a prostitute like Lana ( Rebecca de Mornay ) , and I believe the writer got inspiration in that 1983 comedy to write this story . Elisha Cuthbert is extremely sexy and perfect for the role of Danielle , and Emile Hirsch fits very well for his character . However , Timothy Olyphant " steals all the scenes " as Kelly . Title ( Brazil ) : " Show de Vizinha " ( " Show of Neighbor " )
Powerful and Heartbreaking Drama	In Wyndham Harbor , Connecticut , Professor Ethan Lerner ( Joaquin Phoenix ) is driving back home with his family after attending a recital where his ten-year-old cellist son Josh ( Sean Curley ) played . His wife Grace ( Jennifer Connelly ) asks Josh to let the fireflies he put in a jar go , otherwise they would die . When their daughter Emma ( Elle Fanning ) asks to go to the restroom , Ethan parks the car in a gas station on Reservation Road and Josh goes to the shoulder to release the fireflies . Meanwhile the divorced lawyer Dwight Arno ( Mark Ruffalo ) is driving his son Lucas ( Eddie Alderson ) back to his ex-wife Ruth ( Mira Sorvino ) home after watching a Red Sox baseball game . When his cell-phone rings , his eyes are simultaneously hit by the headlights of another car ; and Dwight looses the control of his Ford Explorer , hits Josh and in panic he drives off . Josh dies and the disturbed Ethan becomes obsessed , trying to locate the hit-and-run driver , affecting his relationship with his family . When he feels that the police will not locate the killer , Ethan hires Dwight to help in the investigation and bring the driver to justice . The family man Dwight is divided between going to the police station and loose his son and live with an increasing remorse . " Reservation Road " is a powerful and heartbreaking drama based on a fatal hit-and-run accident that destroys two families . Any driver may face a similar situation , and both characters deserve sympathy . Ethan looses his beloved son and destroys his marriage seeking revenge . Andy was raised with a traumatic relationship with his father and he wishes to spare his son from similar environment . However he knows that he would go to prison and lose the growing of his boy . Mark Ruffalo , Jennifer Connelly and Elle Fanning have excellent dramatic performances ; however , Joaquin Phoenix performs a character obsessed by death wish , almost deranged , and his character is quite unpleasant . In my opinion , Ethan should balance a little more his grieving with his need of revenge and be more empathic , connecting better with the audience . Title ( Brazil ) ? " Traídos Pelo Destino " ( " Betrayed by the Destiny " )
The Fate of Each One in a Great Low Budget Movie	In the small town of Ashville , Hancock ( Jason Gedrick ) is the best basketball player and local hero . Mary ( Tracy Pollan ) is a cheerleader and his gorgeous girlfriend . They both intend to go to the college together . Their friend Danny ' The Senator ' ( Kiefer Sutherland ) quits high school and moves alone to the Arizona , trying to have a good job and a better life . A couple of years later , Hancock is the local chief of police , living from his glorious past ; Mary is studying Arts , and although still loving Hancock , she can not accept life in Ashville and has a new boyfriend ; and Danny is a complete loser , who decides to get married with the crazy Beverly ( Meg Ryan ) and spend the Christmas Eve in his home town with his family . The story ends in a tragic way . ' Promised Land ' is a depressive tale about the fate of each one and , in accordance with the initial credits , is based on a true story . The young cast has a great performance , the story is never corny , and it is great to see an American low budget movie about real common people , and not the fancy Hollywood reality . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Terra Prometida ' ( ' Promised Land ' )
A Brief View of the Contemporary Wild Capitalism	On a troubled day in Madrid , with strike and protest against the World Bank and the IMF on the streets , seven candidates are put together in a meeting room in front of notebooks by a secretary as part of a selection process for one important position in a Spanish corporation . They fulfill another application form informing that they would be submitted to the Grönholm Test . While speculating about the possible existence of hidden cameras and microphones , the test begins and they read a message on the screen telling that one of them is not a candidate but an employee from the HR analyzing their attitudes . Along the day , the group is submitted to tests that eliminate each candidate until the final dispute between the two last ones . " El Método " is a very well acted movie shot basically in one set like in " Twelve Angry Men " with a brief view of the contemporary wild capitalism through the dispute of qualified applicants to a direction position in a corporation . My only remark against the screenplay is relative to the unnecessary and quite stupid sex scene in the restroom . The author could have built the tension between the characters without the need of exposing them to a ridiculous situation that gives no credibility to the plot . The open end with an ambiguous conclusion is a plus in the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Que Você Faria ? " ( " What Would You Do ? " )
A Good Religious Story Even for Atheistic	While traveling in an airplane , the GNN journalist Buck Williams ( Kirk Cameron ) and the airline pilot Rayford Steele ( Brad Johnson ) note that many passengers mysteriously vanished . When they land , they realize that the disappearance of children and some adults is a worldwide happening . Later , Rayford finds that these events are described in the Holy Bible and indeed those who stay on earth were left behind , and the Antichrist will born on the next years . Although having a screenplay a little confused and being boring in some parts , ' Left Behind ' is a good movie , and has an intelligent story . In accordance with the Extras on the DVD , the best seller ' Left Behind ' is the most sold and one of the top ten of the Twentieth Century . I believe that religious persons will love this movie , but even atheistic will like it . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Deixados Para Trás ' ( ' Left Behind ' )
Hilarious Entertainment	The fraudulent real state agent Stan ( Rob Schneider ) is married with his beloved Mindy ( Jennifer Morrison ) and has a seven million dollar fortune . When he is arrested for fraud , he is sentenced to three years in prison and his assets are frozen by the justice . However , his crooked lawyer Lew Popper ( M . Emmet Walsh ) negotiates a six month freedom , and the weak Stan , who is afraid of being raped in prison , hires the specialist in martial arts The Master ( David Carradine ) to teach him self-defense . Six months later , Big Stan is sent to the Oaksburgh State Penitentiary totally confident in his expertise in martial arts . He challenges the violent leaders of the gangs and defeats them , being respected by the inmates and bringing peace in the patio . However , the dirty Warden Gasque ( Scott Wilson ) has the intention of transforming the penitentiary in a luxury resort , and uses Big Stan knowledge to improve his project , promising to release him sooner using the corrupt penal system . I have been a big fan of Rob Schneider since " Men Behaving Badly " and I am never disappointed with his funny movies . " Big Stan " is no exception , and this tribute to " Prison Break " and " Kung Fu " is another hilarious entertainment of this great comedian . I laughed a lot with his jokes and situations and I really recommend this comedy for those days that the viewer is down or worried with something to relax and relief the tension , or seeking an amusing and light entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Big Stan ? Arrebentando na Prisão " ( " Big Stan ? Blowing Away in the Prison " )
The Oldest Brazilian Spoken Movie Preserved in the Present Days	Two rascals ' managers try to sell the show of their company to a casino . When the international company has a problem to arrive in Brazil for a season in the casino , they are hired by the manager of the casino , but the show does not work well and they have to runaway . " Alô , Alô , Brasil " is the oldest Brazilian spoken movie preserved in the present days . The practically inexistent story is very simple , and the movie is basically supported by twenty-two presentations of the popular Brazilian radio phonic singers along 78 minutes running time and some gags . In the period of 1930 to 1948 , Brazil did not have technical and technological resources ( suitable equipment , mixing table etc . ) , and the shootings were made in a static and fixed plane to avoid noise . The movements of the camera were made only in silent scenes . This musical is a classic , since all the important Brazilian singers of the 30s , with exception of Noel Rosa , participate of this movie . " Alô , Alô , Brasil " was shot also in locations and not only in studios , which was very daring for that period , based on the lack of technology in Brazil and the need of absolute silence . The movie is popular and target audience is the lower classes . Most of the songs have malicious lyrics for the moral standards of 1935 . The cubist and surrealistic panels were used to hide the microphone with limited range . There are hidden and metaphoric messages , like for example , the use of a Brazilian company as the substitute for an international one , a clear message about the need to support the Brazilian cinema in that moment . The managers are small time crooks and vagabonds , and that was the image of the artistic class in those times . The story is very naive , the songs are dated , but my vote is seven due to the importance of this movie to Brazilian culture . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alô , Alô , Brasil " ( Hello , Hello , Brazil " )
Only the Rocks Stay in the Drought	In the drought in the country of Northeast of Brazil , the migrant Severino moves to Recife following the Capibaribe River expecting to have a better life . " Morte e Vida Severina " is a documentary based on two poems of João Cabral de Melo Neto : " O Rio " ( " The River " ) and " Morte e Vida Severina " ( " Life and Death Severina " ) that tells he never-ending cruel timeless fate of the migrants of the drought in the country of the Northeast of Brazil . This theme has been approached in many other movies , and I personally like 1963 " Vidas Secas " very much , but in " Morte e Vida Severina " , the story is told through poetry and songs . The author makes an analogy between the animals and the river that flows to the sea with the migrants that also moves to the big city nearby the sea , and he remarks that only the rocks stay in the drought . Unfortunately the sound of this movie is not good , and it is very difficult to understand some parts due to the strong accent of the interviewed migrants . Title ( Brazil ) : " Morte e Vida Severina " ( " Life and Death Severina " )
A Good Low Budget Action Movie in Exotic Places	Dr . Richard Avery ( Ed Quinn ) is a recently widowed doctor who decides to get his son Sam with him to a medical seminar in India . He believes that he will have a chance to get closer to the young boy . There , during his presentation , the boy is kidnapped from the audience . Two cops ( the Indian cop Kumar and the American cop Julia Hyde ( Joey Lauren Adams ) ) will try to help him . The only means of contacting the kidnapper is through a beeper . Dr . Avery will lose the beeper and will look for help with the drug dealer Zolo ( Harvey Keitel ) . This is a low budget movie . However , this plot in the hands of a better director and cast would lead to a great movie . The screenplay is very interesting and keeps the attention of the viewer until the last scene . There is no ' clichés ' in the story and you will be certainly interested to know what will happen next . Unfortunately one of the main characters ( the young boy Sam ) has a terrible acting . It deserved a best actor child in this important role . Harvey Keitel has a big belly in the present and had much better acting than that in the past . I like Harvey Keitel , but in this movie , him , together with some Indian actors , disappoints the viewers . Another comment : is it common in India to have a foreigner cop in their police force ? In this movie , Joey Lauren Adams is an American cop in an Indian police department and I found this situation very unusual . In the end , I liked this movie and I believe that fans of action and exotic places will have a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Sequestro de Sam " ( " The Abduction of Sam " )
Worthwhile Teen Horror Movie	Carly Jones ( Elisha Curtberth ) , her bad boy brother Nick ( Chad Michael Murray ) , her boyfriend Wade ( Jared Padalecki ) , and her friends Paige ( Paris Hilton ) and her boyfriend Blake ( Robert Richard ) and Dalton ( Jon Abrahams ) travel to another city to watch an important game . They decide to camp in a field halfway and proceed their journey on the next day . However , the fan belt of Wade's car breaks and he stays with Carly to buy a new one in a close town , where there is a house of wax . When they arrive in the place , they realize that the place is a ghost town , and two deranged former Siamese brothers have transformed people in wax statues . I liked this " House of Wax " , indeed a worthwhile teen horror movie . The story follows the standards of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and other slash movies , and it is well made , has a good team of actors and actresses and special effects and the death scenes are amazing . Even if the movie were not good , watching the sexy and delicious Paris Hilton is worth . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Casa de Cera " ( " The House of Wax " )
A Good but Predictable War Movie	In 1943 , Joe Enders is a traumatized and hurt soldier , who lost all the men under his command when following the instruction to defend a certain spot . After a period in a military hospital , he is promoted to sergeant with the ungrateful assignment of protecting the radio-operator Navajo private marine Ben Yahzee ( Adam Beach ) . In accordance with this movie , in the Second World War , the Americans developed a secret and unbreakable code based on the Navajo language . Sgt . Enders together with the promotion , received also an undercover mission of killing Pvt . Yahzee , if necessary , to avoid Japanese to get the cipher . This movie is very predictable . I had the sensation all the times of what would happen on the next scene and even the end of the story . I myself expected much more from Nicolas Cage ( for me , one of the best actors in Hollywood ) , and John Woo ( one of the greatest director of action movies ) . It is not a bad movie , but it is not in the same level of the recent Randall Wallace's ' We Were Soldiers ' , for example . Anyway , it is recommended for viewers that like war and action movies , John Woo and Nicolas Cage .
A Beautiful and Exotic Romance	Allan ( Hugh Grant in the beginning of his career ) is an English engineer of about twenty-six years old expatriated in India who builds bridges and roads . One day , he got ill and his boss invites him to stay in his huge home with his family ( his wife and his two daughters ) . There , Allan will fall in love with the older daughter Gayatri ( Supriya Patrak ) . However , the abyss between European and Indian cultures and the lack of comprehension and misunderstanding of the Indian culture by Allan will lead the lovers and the Indian family to a tragic end . The story does not situate the viewer in an exact period of the Twentieth Century ( maybe in the 50's ) , but the romance is wonderful and exotic and supported by a great cast . The character of John Hurt has a small participation in the plot , but with a great and intense acting . The actresses who played the mother Indira Sen ( Shabana Azmi ) and Gayatri ( Supriya Patrak ) are of an incredible beauty . Title ( Brazil ) : " As Noites de Bengali " ( " The Nights of Bengalli " )
Silly and Funny Sci-Fi / Horror Movie of the Sixties	In the Pitkeys Island , located northeast of England close to Ireland , while Dr . Lawrence Phillips ( Peter Forbes-Robertson ) is researching a cure for the cancer in his laboratory , he accidentally creates a " silicate " creature that sucks human and animal bones . The local police officer finds the " boneless " body of a local and Dr . Reginald Landers ( Eddie Byrne ) calls Dr . Brian Stanley ( Peter Cushing ) , a specialist in bones , who also invites Dr . David West ( Edward Judd ) to travel to the island to investigate the event . The girlfriend of Dr . West , Toni Merrill ( Carole Gray ) , borrows his father's helicopter to bring the team to the island , and imposes the condition of staying with them . Together , they try to find a way of destroying the weird monsters with the support of the locals . " Island of Terror " is a silly and funny sci-fi / horror movie of the 60's , having very funny situations , such as when Dr . West puts his hysterical girlfriend in charge of calming down the local citizens ; or when he amputates the hand of Dr . Stanley , who does not faint . The creatures are very creepy , considering that it is a 1966 movie , and in the end it is a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Ilha do Terror " ( " The Island of Terror " )
Visually Very Impressive	Yesterday I saw this documentary of the Sixth Nazi Party Congress in 1934 for the first time , and I was visually very impressed with the images . The grandiose and powerful scenarios where the Nazis parades and speeches happen are amazing . Everywhere the viewer looks are huge places , with the crowd worshiping Hitler , as if they were hypnotized . The quality of the images is also amazing for a 1934 shooting . The director Leni Riefenstahl was accused of making propaganda for the Nazis and I am not sure whether she was absolved or not of these accusations , but in IMDb biography I noted that she stayed from 1954 to 2002 without making any film . This movie is mostly recommended for students , since for a regular viewer it becomes boring after 114 minutes running time . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Triunfo da Vontade " ( " The Triumph of the Will " )
A Typical Example That a Low Budget Movie , Having a Suitable Screenplay in the Hands of Good Director and Cast , Works	Minor SpoilerFranck Chaievski ( Richard Anconina ) and Nina Delgado ( Anne Parillaud , gorgeous as usual ) are two undercover detectives of a French special force trying to identify two corrupt members of the Paris Police Force . Franck is pretending to be a gangster and Nina a prostitute living with him , and involved in a robbery of a fortune in diamonds , having seven deaths and some injured persons . This movie is a typical example that a low budget movie , having a suitable screenplay in the hands of good director and cast , works . The plot is simple , but the way the facts are presented to the viewer through flashback is great . Violent as you may presume a heist and a police interrogatory to criminals are , the fans of police story movies will certainly enjoy this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gangsters "
The World After September , 11th	In England , the Pakistanis Yasmin ( Archie Panjabi ) lives two lives in two different worlds : in her community , she wears Muslin clothes , cooks for her father and brother and has the traditional behavior of a Muslin woman . Further , she has a non-consumed marriage with the illegal immigrant Faysal to facilitate the British stamp in his passport , and then divorce him . In her job , she changes her clothes and wears like a Westerner , is considered a standard employee and has a good Caucasian friend who likes her . After the September , 11th , the prejudice in her job and the treatment of common people makes her take side and change her life . " Yasmin " is a powerful drama that exposes the tough life of Muslin immigrants in England after the terrorist attack of September , 11th . The story is very real and well acted , and shows the difficult situation of simple people that suddenly are hated , submitted to interracial intolerance , injustice and prejudice , just because of a group of religious fanatics , causing a generalization of worldwide hate . Title ( Brazil ) : " Yasmin - Uma Mulher , Dois Mundos " ( " Yasmin , A Woman , Two Worlds " )
A Dramatic Tale of Ingratitude	In 1932 , in São Paulo , when the sick whore Rosita ( Célia Coutinho ) dies , the warmhearted former prostitute and owner of a bordello Dona Violante Miranda ( Dercy Gonçalves ) raises her daughter Filhinha ( Célia Coutinho ) as if she were of her own . Violante inclusive marries her mate , Dr . Polidoro ( Elísio de Albuquerque ) , to make Filhinha be accepted in the best schools and raise the girl in silver spoon . Later , she moves to a farm in the country and becomes a successful local citizen and first lady of the place . Near to the wedding day of Filhinha with Gastão , the son of a powerful farmer , his father investigates the past of Violante and calls off the wedding . Violante discloses the secret of Filhinha's origins . " Dona Violante Miranda " is wrongly classified as a comedy in IMDb . This human tale is actually a drama that exposes the hypocritical morality and costumes of Brazilian society in the 30's , 40's and 50's . Dercy Gonçalves is very funny in the role of the warmhearted and simple Dona Violante Miranda , a good woman that won in life in spite of her tough and poor origins . The ingratitude of Filhinha , and the despicable attitude of her grandfather are heartbreaking . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dona Violante Miranda " ( " Ms . Violante Miranda " )
Funny " Chanchada "	While grieving her husband in a cemetery , a widow meets a smart widower and tells him that she has inherited a large amount of money from her husband . The small time crook convinces her to go to a beauty shop and he moves to her apartment , going to parties , theaters , restaurants and casinos with her . The widow brings her son Carlinhos ( Oscarito ) , who lives in a mental institution , to live with them . " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " is a funny Brazilian musical comedy called " chanchada " , written and directed by Ruy Costa . This very common type of movie in the 40s has great technical limitations and usually is a silly storyline prepared for many songs sing by the popular Brazilian radio singers of the 40s . The original running time of " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " was about 100 minutes , but only 43 minutes survived , therefore it is quite difficult to understand some parts of the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " ( " Sadnesses Do not Pay Debts " )
Sherlock Holmes by Hammer	When the noble Sir Henry Baskerville ( Christopher Lee ) inherits a property near a swamp , his friend Doctor Richard Mortimer ( Francis De Wolff ) hires Sherlock Holmes ( Peter Cushing ) and Doctor John H . Watson ( André Morell ) to investigate the curse that apparently killed all the members of his family . I have not watched the other versions of " The Hound of the Baskervilles " to make any comparison , but this one produced by Hammer is a very good low budget movie . The cinematography creates a great atmosphere ; the lines are very detailed and intelligent ; and Peter Cushing , André Morell and Christopher Lee give magnificent and very convincing performances in their roles . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Cão dos Baskerville " ( " The Hound of the Baskervilles " )
Three Original Ghost Stories	Three young women gathered in a coffee bar in Bangkok tell and discuss three original ghost stories with each other : 1 ) The Ancient Drum : In Bangkok , the young Jieb receives an ancient drum not listed in the order from the truck of Transportation Company owned by Mr . Anake . She calls her former Professor Arkom , who identifies the markings for good luck that she describes and tells the story of the orphan Paga . In 1917 , the renowned music teacher Jangwah-Chuem and his wife Peng raise the beautiful Paga with their deformed son Gnod . Paga is a good and loving sister and daughter and becomes a great beautiful dancer . When Paga falls in love for the handsome Fond , the jealous Gnod and she vanish from their village . Jieb investigates the mystery of their disappearance and discloses the eerie truth with tragic consequences . 2 ) The Love Potion's Price : The gorgeous Pam receives a sample from her next-door neighbor of a love potion ( " Ply Essence " ) that makes the user irresistible to men . Pam does not know that the essence is made of blood of dead women and uses in a man in a night-club , who becomes an insatiable lover . When she uses in her acquaintance Tim , she finds the price of the aphrodisiac . 3 ) The Revenge of the Dead : Detective Nop is in charge of the investigation of the death of a woman called Gunaya found hanged in a distant storeroom . He does not accept his chief position of suicide and he is convinced that it is a murder case . He investigates the husband of the victim , Vinal , and her former boy-friend In . When he believes he has solved the case , there is a twist with tragic consequences . I am a great fan of the Pang brothers and I liked " Bangkok Haunted " . The first tale has a promising beginning , an excellent development and a disappointing conclusion . It is funny that the three friends make the same comment in their conversation . The second tale is creepy , in spite of the lack of explanations about the love potion . The last one has a promising beginning , an excellent development , but I was confused about the relationship of Gunaya with Nop . I understand that she has plotted revenge against her abusive husband ; her cruel lover , but it was not clear for me how was her connection with Nop . I intend to revisit the last minutes of this story to check if I have not seen any important detail . The DVD is spoken in Thai with English subtitles and I need to pay too much attention reading the lines . The surprising conclusion , showing how haunted Bangkok is , is excellent . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Changing the Reality	The efficient and skeptical freelance insurance investigator John Trent ( Sam Neill ) is hired by the publisher Jackson Harglow ( Charlton Heston ) to find where the famous writer Sutter Cane ( Jürgen Prochnow ) might be . After writing a series of best-sellers in the horror genre , affecting the reason and causing disorientation , memory loss and paranoia in the readers , Sutter has simply vanished near the release of his new novel , " Horror in Hobb's End " . There is a mass hysteria of his anxious fans waiting for the new release , and John believes that his disappearance is a strategy of marketing . John follows his instincts and travels with Cane's editor , Linda Styles ( Julie Carmen ) , to New Hampshire seeking for the apparently fictional town of Hobb's End . While driving along the night , Linda reaches the Hobb's End , and John discloses that Sutter Cane has unleashed a powerful evil force in the black church of the mysterious town , and his twisted imagination is changing the reality and perception of those that read his novels . " In the Mouth of Madness " is a journey to fear through the darkness of a twisted mind of a writer . This story follows the style of " Twilight Zone " and actually shows how a writer with the support of the media is able to manipulate hearts and minds . Further , there is a certain criticism in the values and standards of the society where those who think differently or have a different behavior are outcast or even considered crazy . John Carpenter is one of my favorite directors and Sam Neil is perfect in the role of a skeptical man , used to find schemes and con everywhere , having difficulties to accept what is happening . The conclusion is very dark and without perspective to mankind . Title ( Brazil ) : " No Limited a Loucura " ( " In the Limit of Madness " )
Stylish Adventure	At the end of the Ice Age , The Machine came from the outer space with the purpose to change men into mutants . However , a hero defeated the device and a great seal was laid over The Machine . In 2707 , the depleted world is ruled by four Corporations : Mishima , Bauhaus , Capitol and Imperial that are in constant war . During a battle between Capitol and Bauhaus , the great seal is broken and The Machine works again transforming soldiers and civilians in hordes of mutants . A small part of the population escapes to Mars , leaving millions of people behind . The man of faith and leader of an ancient brotherhood Brother Samuel ( Ron Perlman ) is a believer of God and the Chronicles , a bible about the mutants . With the city under siege of the mutants , he visits the Corporations ' leader Constantine ( John Malkovich ) asking for an aircraft and twenty men for a suicide mission to destroy The Machine , planting a bomb and a detonator following the knowledge of the Chronicles . He recruits the tough Major ' Mitch ' Hunter ( Thomas Jane ) ; the Bauhaus Lieutenant Maximillian von Steiner ( Benno Fürmann ) ; the keeper of the Chronicles Severian ( Anna Walton ) that is under a vow of silence ; the gorgeous and lethal Corporal Valerie Duval ( Devon Aoki ) ; Corporal Juba Kim Wu ( Tom Wu ) ; Captain John McGuire ( Steve Toussaint ) ; and Corporal Jesus ' El Jesus ' de Barrera ( Luis Echegaray ) . Together they become the last hope of Earth against the evil mutants . " The Mutant Chronicles " is a stylish adventure with a dark cinematography that recalls " Dark City " and " Metropolis " and interesting concepts of war in the trenches ( like in World War I ) and riveted flying machines ( burning coal , like the ships in the beginning of the Twentieth Century ) . In the end , " The Mutant Chronicles " is neither a masterpiece nor a bad movie as indicated in many reviews ; just an entertaining and stylish movie , with reasonable story and acting and great cinematography and especial effects . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Era da Escuridão ? Mutant Chronicles " ( " The Age of Darkness ? Mutant Chronicles " )
Consequences of a Tragedy	In New York , the family man dentist Alan Johnson ( Don Cheadle ) meets his former roommate and friend Charlie Fineman ( Adam Sandler ) by chance on the street . Charlie became a lonely and deranged man after the loss of his wife and three daughters in the tragic September 11th while Alan has problems to discuss his innermost feelings with his wife . Alan reties his friendship with Charlie and they become close to each other . Alan tries to fix Charlie's life , sending him to the psychologist Angela Oakhurst ( Liv Tyler ) , but Charlie has an aggressive reaction to the treatment and is send to court . " Reign Over Me " is a good drama about loss , friendship , family and loneliness . The September 11th is irrelevant to the plot ; it could be a car accident , a fire or any other tragedy , as well as the sexual harassment of Donna Remar , played by the gorgeous Saffron Burrows , to Alan . But the family drama works , supported by the great performances of Adam Sandler and Don Cheadle . Liv Tyler is quite impossible to be recognized , I do not know whether she is using excessive make-up to look older , but her face is weird . Title ( Brazil ) : " Reine Sobre Mim " ( " Reign Over Me " )
The Faith is Her Calling	From the beginning of the world , the evil first woman , Lilith ( Shiri Appleby ) , was expelled from Paradise , becoming an immortal powerful being . A secret society , The Faith , was created to chase and destroy Lilith , who loses her memory after a battle . In the present days , when the ambitious and wicked Anders Raeborne ( David Hewlett ) uses an experiment trying to become immortal , he transforms himself in the evil Demonic , a powerful dark demon that transmits a red plague with his bite and tongue . The traumatized Faith's chief agent William Shaw ( Richard Burgi ) is assigned by their leader Prefect ( Ross Manarchy ) to bring the recollection and train Lilith to face and destroy Demoniac and bring his head to The Faith to develop an antidote . " Darklight " seems to be a pilot of a television series , and it is much underrated in IMDb . The characters recall the mutants in " X-Men " , and the appearance of Lilith , played by the gorgeous Shiri Appleby , slightly resembles Mystic . The beginning of this film is a little confused , but sooner it becomes engaging , with a good story and special effects for a TV movie . There is a mistake in the sequence when Lilith is thrown by Demonic onto a car , since the car blows a fraction of second before she reaches its roof . Title ( Brazil ) : " Darklight , o Poder da Escuridão " ( " Darklight , the Power of the Darkness " )
Love and Sacrifice in Times of Cold War	In 1955 , Berlin is completely crowded of spies of different nationalities . The British civilian Leonard Markham ( Campbell Scott ) is requested to support an American ? British joint-venture in a secret project leaded by the American Robert Glass ( Anthony Hopkins ) due to his knowledge of electronics . Afterhours , in his spare time , the naive Leonard meets the divorced Maria ( Isabella Rossellini ) in a night-club and they have an affair , falling in love for each other . However , Otto ( Ronald Nitschke ) , the former husband of Maria , threatens and blackmails her , affecting the personal life and the professional performance of Leonard , culminating in a difficult situation for him . " The Innocent " is a surprisingly good love story in times of cold war . While in " Casablanca " the elegant Rick Blaine spontaneously sacrifices his love for Ilsa Lund Laszlo in a noble situation , in " The Innocent " we see a sacrifice of a love provoked by a dirty and nasty situation . However , this movie has action , love , black humor and suspense and is a worthwhile entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Inocente " ( " The Innocent " )
An Erotic Version of Arabian Nights	A young man buys a slave in an Arabian market and falls in love with her . She is abducted and while pursuing her , many erotic tales are told to him . This Pasolini's version of ' Arabian Nights ' is very reasonable , but I do not understand how this movie won a special prize in Cannes 1974 . In my opinion , it is a forgettable film , highly recommended for the gay community due to the quantity of scenes with frontal male nudity , but which deserves to be watched once , because of the ' trademark ' Pasolini . The location where it was filmed is the best this movie can offer . In Brazil , this movie is not available on VHS or DVD ; I saw it yesterday , on cable television , in a Pasolini's festival along this week . Title ( Brazil ) : ' As 1001 Noites de Pasolini ' ( ' The 1001 Nights of Pasolini ) '
Intriguing and Entertaining , But with a Disappointing Resolution	While chasing a whaler , the Greenpeace boat sinks with the vessel , pulled by a mysterious force underwater and only Meeno Paloma ( Lou Diamond Phillip ) survives . Meanwhile , after the disappearance of six ships in the Bermuda Triangle in one year , the millionaire owner of the Mineral Shipping Lines Eric Benerall ( Sam Neill ) hires the skeptical journalist of The Observer Howard Thomas ( Eric Stoltz ) ; the scientist Bruce Geller ( Michael Rodgers ) ; the offshore engineer Emily Patterson ( Catherine Bell ) and the psychic Stan Lathem ( Bruce Davison ) to investigate the reasons for the phenomenon in the area . If the team succeeds in their quest for the truth , each one would receive five million dollars . They find a high-tech underwater facility from the Navy , and each one of them has glimpses of alternative reality after their discovery . They conclude that the experiment conducted by the Navy is affecting the electromagnetic balance of the ocean , while trying to find a way to close the dimensional tear opened by the Philadelphia Experiment . But they believe that the procedure actually will open the Pandora Box and destroy the world . " The Triangle " is an intriguing an entertaining story that recalls " Sliders " in some moments . The characters are well developed but unfortunately the resolution of the plot is disappointing and confused . When the group reaches the base , in the climax of the story , it is very disappointing what happens next . The DVD released in Brazil has only 160 minutes running time , therefore 80 minutes vanished in the edition , and this might be the cause of my frustration with the messy end of the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Mistério do Triângulo das Bermudas " ( " The Mystery of the Bermuda Triangle " )
I Would Expect Much More Than That for a Brian de Palma Movie	Laurie Ash ( Rebecca Romijn-Stamos ) is a thief who stoles an expensive diamond jewel called ? Eye of the Serpent ' in an audacious heist during a Cannes 2001 Festival exhibition . She double-cross her partners and is taken by mistake by a family as being Lily , a woman who lost his husband and son in an accident and is missed since then . One day , when having a bath in Lily's bathtub , Lily come back home and commits a suicide . Laurie assumes definitely Lily's identity , goes to America where she marries a rich man , who becomes the Ambassador of USA in France . Laurie returns to France , where her past will haunt her . This movie is a little confused and the plot presents many points not well-explained . I intend to watch it again , trying to find explanation for many situations . For example , why should Laurie leave the safety of being in USA , having a fortune from the robbery ( and maybe from a divorce from a rich man ) , and come back to France , where she would feel jeopardized by her past ? As per her personality , it would not be because she would like to stay with her ' beloved-husband ' in Paris . There is no explanation why she moved back to Paris . Further , divorces are so common in America , so this is a tremendous lack of sense in the movie . In addition , this situation of double life has been successfully explored by David Lynch in ' Lost Highway ' and ' Mulholland Drive ' . The use of a classic scene ( in this movie , ' Double Indemnity ' ) is also very common technique . I would expect much more than that for a Brian de Palma film and indeed become a little disappointed . But the movie is not bad and entertains .
An Adventure That Mixes the Apocalyptic Society of Mad Max and Waterworld with Dragons Nearby London	In 2020 , mankind is almost annihilated by dragons . Quinn Abercromby ( Christian Bale ) is the leader of a community of survivals living in a ruined castle nearby London . Denton Van Zan ( Matthew McConaughey ) is the leader of an army composed by strong survivals that fight against dragons . They arrive to Quinn's castle asking for a secure resting place for a short time . Van Zan advises the survivals that all dragons his group has killed were female and they are searching for the male . They conclude it certainly would be living in London . Quinn will join Van Zan in this enterprise . The first point that called my attention in this movie were the muscles of Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey . Are these actors using steroids ? The adventure mixes the apocalyptic society of Mad Max and Waterworld with dragons and entertains . The special effects work on DVD .
Reality or Dream ?	The real state agent Norman Shenley ( Denholm Elliott ) hates his old wife Emily Shenley ( Pat Heywood ) and wants to divorce her to marry his secretary Lolly ( Lucy Gutteridge ) . When a new client wants to sell an old and isolated mansion , Norman begins to have odd nightmares , and he becomes confused between reality and dream . When Norman awakes , a surprise waits for him . This intriguing episode has good screenplay , mixing reality with dream , but unfortunately a deceptive conclusion . Anyway this film entertains and I liked it . Title ( Brazil ) : " Despertar Repentino " ( " Sudden Awakening " )
Delightful War of Sexes	In Chicago , the art dealer Brooke Meyers ( Jennifer Aniston ) feels not appreciated and neglected by her immature husband Gary Grobowski ( Vince Vaughn ) , who is partner of his two brothers in a tourism business , and decides to break-up with him to make Gary misses her . Gary misunderstands her true intention , both follows the wrong advices of family members and friends , beginning a war of sexes with no winner . " The Break-up " is a surprisingly good dramatic comedy , showing a delightful war of sexes between a young couple that is misguided by family members and friends . The story is well constructed , has many funny moments , it is never corny and has a wonderful conclusion , different from the usual clichés of Hollywood movies . The charming and gorgeous Jennifer Aniston and the nice Vince Vaughn show an amazing chemistry and have great performances with an excellent cast , and Judy Davis is unrecognizable in the role of Marilyn Dean . The alternate ending in the Extras of the DVD is simply awful , and could have spoiled this good movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Separados Pelo Casamento " ( " Separated by Marriage " )
Playing with the Dead	In London , the successful novelist Rachel Carlson ( Demi Moore ) is married with the mediocre aspirant writer and great editor Brian ( Henry Ian Cusick ) and they live in a comfortable apartment with her son Thomas Carlson ( Beans Balawi ) . While writing a new novel , Rachel forgets the back gate open and Thomas drowns in a lake . Eight months later , Rachel is still disturbed and she decides to move alone to a seaside cottage in Ingonish Cove , a very small coastal Scottish village . Sarah decides to visit the lighthouse in the island close to her house to help in her research for the book , where she meets the lighthouse keeper Angus McCulloch ( Hans Matheson ) . One month later , she falls for him and they make love . On the next morning , she invites Angus to go to a birthday party in the shore , and while waiting for him , she discloses that Angus McCulloch died seven years ago . Rachel returns to the island trying to prove her sanity to her neighbor Finlay Murray ( James Cosmo ) , and they see that the lighthouse is completely empty . Rachel has a breakdown and she asks for help to her psychiatric Dr . Robert Freedman ( Nicholas Gleaves ) and to best friend Sharon Winton ( Kate Isitt ) while she is haunted by ghosts . " Half Light " is a surprisingly good movie , having a great script , direction and performances . The plot is slowly disclosed , in a low pace , and shifts with many twists to the most opposite directions , all of them unexpected , with wonderful surprises . Demi Moore gives credibility to her grieving character and in the end this movie is above average and a good entertainment . The conclusion is not bad , but I believe it could have been more elaborated . Title ( Brazil ) : " Protegida Por um Anjo " ( " Protected by an Angel " )
Lionel Luthor Returns and the Angel of Vengeance	Clark Kent drops out the rest of the semester in the university to help Martha in the farm . He misses Jonathan and has not superseded the loss of his foster father . Martha offers Jonathan's watch to Clark , but he refuses . Martha goes to Metropolis to donate Jonathan's belongings to a mission , and she is assaulted by two lowlife criminals . However , she is rescued by a powerful vigilante , but one of the punks steals the watch . Clark feels guilty about the watch and visits Chloe , trying to track the muggers . They decide to find the Angel of Vengeance , and when they meet her , she discloses her identity of Chloe's colleague Andrea Rojas and tells that she became powerful six months ago after a heart transplantation of a donator that was hit by the meteor shower . Her mother and she have been attacked by a criminal and she survived thirsty of revenge against the killer of her mother . Clark joins Andrea , but with a different viewpoint of justice . Meanwhile , Lionel tries to take the LuthorCorp from Lex , but he is blackmailed and gives up his intention . In " Vengeance " , Clark resists the temptation of making justice with his own hands , and opposes to Andrea Rojas . Of course in my intimacy I cheered that the Angel of Vengeance succeeded in her intention of killing Lionel , but I understand that Clark should save this scum . I really do not like the relationship of Martha with Lionel , reason of my disappointment with this character . Chloe , as usual , proves to be the greatest friend of Clark , and the ambiguous Lex is the most interesting character of this great series . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Anjo Vingador " ( " The Avenger Angel " )
Entertaining Adventure	In New York , the ambitious Dr . Jack Byron ( Matthew Marsden ) and his associate Gordon Mitchell ( Morris Chestnut ) present the research of his assistant Sam Rogers ( KaDee Strickland ) to the CEO and board of directors of a corporation to sponsor a scientific expedition to Borneo . The objective is to find a flower , Blood Orchid , that flourishes for a couple of weeks every seven years and could be a fountain of youth , prolonging the expectation of life of human beings . They are succeeded and once in Borneo , they realize that it is the raining season and there is no boat available to navigate on the river . They pay US$ 50 , 000 . 00 to convince Captain Bill Johnson ( Johnny Messner ) and his partner Tran ( Karl Yune ) to sail to the location . After an accident in a waterfall , the survivors realize that a pack of anacondas have gathered for mating and their nest is nearby the plantation of Blood Orchid , which made them bigger and bigger . I saw " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " with a very low expectation based on the IMDb User Rating , but I liked this entertaining adventure a lot . The story is full of action and humor , and I laughed a lot when Cole calls Sam of " Lorena Babbitt " when she cuts the head of one anaconda . There are the usual clichés of this type of predictable B-movie , but I had a good surprise in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anaconda 2 : A Caçada Pela Orquídea Sangrenta " ( " Anaconda 2 : The Hunt for the Bloody Orchid " )
The Ghost in the Wall	During a power break , Chloe sees the ghost of a girl and cuts her both wrists . She is interned in the hospital , and the psychiatrist diagnoses that she had a breakdown due to stress . Lana asks Lex to send Chloe to a mental institution since nobody believes her . However , Clark brings his friend to Lois's place , where Chloe is possessed by a spirit of the dead girl called Gretchen and shows Clark the place where the skeleton is hidden in the Talon's wall . Chloe leaves the apartment alone seeking revenge against the killer , while the deranged orderly Michael Westmore kidnaps Lois . Meanwhile , Clark researches for information about the death of Gretchen in old newspapers . In " Tomb " , a secret about the mother of Chloe is disclosed . Clark and Lana are more distant , thinking individually without sharing their feelings , and their relationship seems to have ended . Title ( Brazil ) : " Túmulo " ( " Tomb " )
A Good and Original Horror Movie	Cynthia ( Sarah Torgov ) leaves a mental institution , where she stayed after losing her baby in a bath accident . Her husband decides to join a group of friends and fly from Seattle to a camping in a small hydroplane . The craft has a problem and it lands in a lonely island in the middle of nowhere . There , they are hosted by Ma ( Yvonne de Carlo ) and Pa ( Rod Steiger ) , a very religious couple , who lives like they were in the beginning of the Twentieth Century . When the group meets the two sons and the daughter of Ma and Pa , they realize that they are in the middle of very demented persons , who start hunting them . This movie was a great surprise . Although having a low rating in IMDB , it is indeed a good and original horror movie . The scary story has many funny situations , and the direction and performance of the cast are very good . The contrast in the behavior of such a nice Ma and Pa when the secret of that weird family is disclosed , is really frightening . Highly recommended for fans of horror movie . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Os Anfitriões ' ( ' The Hosts ' )
Three Different Views of Dissemination of AIDS	In China , the unscrupulous pregnant smuggler of blood Jin Ping ( Lucy Liu ) infects an entire rural village in a province exploring the poor and ignorant people . The poverty associated to the ignorance and greed doom the whole population to the tragic disease for US$ 5 . 00 per liter of blood . In Canada , the second rate porn actor Denys ( Shawn Ashmore ) hides from his director and colleagues that he is HIV positive using the blood of his sick father for the tests required by the production . When his father dies , his mother Olive ( Stockard Channing ) discovers his former profession and that her son has AIDS . She hires a US$ 2 , 000 , 000 . 00 life insurance ; then she infects herself and sells and cashes part of her insurance in advance to have a comfortable life with her son . In Africa , the nuns Sister Clara ( Chloë Sevigny ) , Sister Hilde Francis ( Olympia Dukakis ) and Sister Mary John ( Sandra Oh ) come to a small mission to convert the villagers in the Catholicism . Sister Clara believes their mission is also to help the locals and she self-sacrifices her dignity to get financial support for the community . " 3 Needles " is a well-intentioned movie that discloses three different views of dissemination of AIDS in three panels . In the first one , poverty associated to the ignorance and greed sentences the dwellers of a village ; in the second , selfishness and need of money infects at least eight actors and actresses of the porn industry ; in the last one , ignorance and lack of resources doom the poor people to the disease . The screenplay is a little confused and flawed , and some of the questions in the Message Board prove it . The first story is tragic and with an ironic conclusion when the dweller questions that he sold his blood for US$ 5 . 00 and he paid US$ 10 . 00 for the test . The second one is of a tremendous dark humor , and I do not know whether the intention of the director / writer Thom Fitzgerald is to criticize the earlier cash of life insurance . The last one has an unnecessary tragedy in the end . Nevertheless " 3 Needles " is a good , honest and powerful movie about an unpleasant theme with top-notch acting of the cast . Title ( Brazil ) : " Unidos Pelo Sangue " ( " Tied by the Blood " )
An Enjoyable Family Entertainment	Longfellow Deed ( Adam Sandler ) is an owner of a pizzeria in a tiny American city who inherits a fortune of forty billion dollars from a distant relative . He moves to New York and there he is chased by the press , searching for information about the newest millionaire in USA . A tabloid reporter ( Winona Ryder ) gets close to him to get inside information and guess what ? Fall in love with him . Although being a predictable plot , this movie is a good family entertainment . Adam Sandler performs his usual role of a naive and good boy . Winona Rider is very beautiful in this movie . I am a fan of her , but I do not remember seeing her so gorgeous like in " Mr . Deeds " . " Mr . Deeds " is an enjoyable movie that deserves to be watched and with a good and positive message in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Herança de Mr . Deeds " ( " The Inheritance of Mr . Deeds " )
The Little Shop of Horror	While dating with Jimmy Olsen in a forest near Metropolis , Chloe hears weird noises and finds a dead girl on the branch of a tree . Clark visits the crime scene , finds the missing boyfriend and meets the park ranger Gloria in the spot . Martha Kent is expecting a personal contact with Oliver Queen to be sponsored by the millionaire , but Lois commits a mistake when she is contacted by Oliver ; she is forced to date with him in the " Dark Thursday " charity ball at Luthor's mansion . Meanwhile Lana dates Lex in the benefit ball and begins an affair with him in the end of the night . Clark finds that Gloria is a fugitive of the Phantom Zone and responsible for the mysterious deaths in the woods . " Wither " is a soap-opera episode of " Smallville " , with many romances and the funny jealousy reaction of Clark with Chloe and Jimmy Olsen ; Lois seems to be falling in love for Oliver Queen ; and the relationship of the insecure Lana and Lex finally ends in a love affair , or at least one night stand , the future episodes will confirm . Meanwhile Clark ends the episode playing with a tennis ball in the barn of his family farm . Title ( Brazil ) : " Murchando " ( " Withering " )
Jonathan Was Found , not Clark	Lana Lang visits an ancient and sick man that has been in prison for more than forty years accused of killing his beloved wife . He shows the picture of the suspect that resembles Clark Kent in an old newspaper and convinces Lana of his innocence . Clark Kent , through flashbacks , revives the passage of Jor-El through Smallville and his affair with the old prisoner's wife , and sees how and who committed the crime . The successful series " Lost " uses the same presentation of " Relic " , i . e . , many flashbacks . I did not like this confused episode , since the story is very inconsistent and unfair . The conclusion that Jonathan did not find Clark , but was found by Jor-El indeed is the most relevant event of this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Relíquia " ( " Relic " )
Sex and Blood : A Different Vampire Movie	The snoopy reporter Sadie Blake ( Lucy Liu ) is called by her nerd colleague Ethan Mills ( Kevin Wheatley ) that has deciphered a code and found an address in Koreatown from information of the Goth Tricia Rawlins ( Margo Harshman ) about a bloody cult . Sadie does not give attention to Ethan , but when she sees on the front page of the news that Tricia has been found dead in a dumpster in Koreatown , she decides to visit the address . She finds an abandoned house with a gruesome basement full of blood and she immediately drives to Ethan's apartment . She finds the place in a complete mess and is abducted by a stranger and taken to Bishop ( James D'Arcy ) , who wants to know what Tricia has told her . Then , Bishop and his mate Eve ( Carla Gugino ) kill Sadie and they have a necrophilic threesome with her body . Later , Sadie awakes in the freezer of the morgue and sooner she realizes that she is a vampire and promises revenge to her sire . The low-paced " Rise " is a different vampire movie , with sex , blood and naked women . The screenplay discloses the plot in a non-linear chronology , but there is no unexpected twist or any part difficult to be understood . I expected some surprise regarding Sadie's savior Arturo , but this character has been completely forgotten after his short but important participation . The end gives a hint to a possible sequel and in this case and if Eve told the truth to Sadie , Arturo might have an important role replacing the evil Bishop as the leader of the cult that worships sex and blood as the greatest pleasures of mankind . I have never seen Lucy Liu undressing so many times like in " Rise " , but the nudity situations are not free exploitation , being suitable to the context of the sexy story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rise "
Looking for the Knowledge Stones	When Dr . Virgil Swann dies , Clark Kent receives the octagonal metallic disc through mail . He goes to the Kawatche caves and after inserting the disc in a stone , he hears Jor-El ordering him to find the knowledge stones to protect planet Earth against destruction . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor and Jason Teague are in Shanghai trying to locate one of the stones . Lionel Luthor gives a copy of the map and an airplane to Lana Lang , and together with Clark , they travel to China and meet Lex and Jason arrested and being tortured in a temple . When Lana is captured and also tortured , Isobel returns to protect Lana's body . In " Sacred " , more secrets are disclosed about the previous relationship of Lana and Jason's ancestors . This episode is only reasonable , without surprises and nothing special . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Que É Sagrado " ( " What is Sacred " )
Loyalty and Betrayal	In Montreal , the middle age thief Marcel Talon ( Michel Coté ) has spent a great part of his life in prison . When he leaves his confinement on probation , he promises to his beloved girlfriend Magdeleine " Maggy " Fortin ( Marie France Marcotte ) that he will find an honest job and have a decent life with her . Indeed Marcel has schemed the greatest heist to a bank ever happened in Canada , and he joins his old friend Fred Giguère ( Jean Lapointe ) and his non-reliable pal Smiley ( Christopher Heyerdahl ) and proposes to dig a long tunnel underground Montreal along the sewers for three months to reach the cellar of the Montral Bank . Fred's grandson and a friend of Smiley join the gang and along the robbery , an unexpected betrayal of his accomplices Smiley and Savard destroy the retirement plan of Marcel . " Le Dernier Tunnel " is a very good movie based on a true heist of Montreal Bank called " the heist of the century " . The realistic dramatic and suspenseful story of loyalty and betrayal has excellent performances and direction and is a great entertainment . I have never heard anything about this robbery , but this unknown little gem deserves to be discovered by fans of the genre . The shameful DVD released in Brazil does not offer the option of the original audio in French , only in English or Portuguese . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Último Túnel " ( " The Last Tunnel " )
Dangerous Friendship	A deranged policeman that survived the attack of the Kryptonians and his fiancée break in the Luthor's mansion asking for the location of the spaceship , but Lex locks himself in the panic room . Clark accidentally finds the association of Lana with Lex in their research of the spacecraft . Lana is kidnapped to force Luthor to leave the room ; he is shot , but Lana escapes to the panic room with him . Meanwhile , Jonathan presses Lois to find who is funding his campaign and Martha tells the truth about Lionel . In this episode , Martha's attitude is very disappointing and inconsistent , explaining that in politics there are no black and white , but blurriness . Jonathan proves his integrity raising honest money to pay Lionel , but I suspect the price will be higher than the expected . At least I am absolutely disappointed with Martha . The dangerous friendship of Lana and Lex may cause troubles to Clark in the future . The stupid end of Sheriff Nancy Adams was totally unexpected and I regret too her absence in the show . Chloe , as usual , shows maturity in her relationship with Clark . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Sala do Pânico " ( " The Panic Room " )
A Simple and Pleasant Tale of Friendship	In 1942 , the lonely German Johann ( Peter Ketnath ) travels through the arid roads in the country of the Northeast of Brazil in his truck selling aspirins in small villages , using advertisement movies to promote the medicine . He meets the drifter Ranulpho ( João Miguel ) , who intends to go to Rio de Janeiro seeking a better life , and gives a ride to the man . While traveling together , they develop a close friendship , but on 31 August 1942 , Brazil declares war to Germany and Johann has to decide if he should return to his home country and fight in the war , or stay in Brazil in a concentration camp ; but the option of moving to Amazonas with the migrants of the drought seems to be feasible . " Cinema , Aspirinas e Urubus " is a simple , realistic and pleasant tale of friendship . This road-movie has a story based on the performances of Peter Ketnath and mainly of João Miguel , whose character has some excellent lines , associated to a sharp screenplay and precise direction . I love Brazilian movies , but the indication of this good movie to a nomination to the Oscar seems much exaggerated to me . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cinema , Aspirinas e Urubus " ( " Cinema , Aspirins and Vultures " )
Disappointing and Totally Flawed Conclusion	The conclusion of the three last episodes of " Smallville " is very disappointing and totally flawed . The writer has opened so many situations that was impossible to give a satisfactorily and coherent end . I may list many examples : ( 1 ) Lana Lang kills one criminal of Morgan Edge ( Rutger Hauer ) ' s gang in the barn of Kent Farm ; Morgan himself and another gangster die in Metropolis later , but there is no investigation , connection or consequences ; ( 2 ) Along three months , Clark Kent had stolen banks and spent the money in night-clubs , expensive cars and girls . In the end , a simple phone call to the police telling where " the rest " of the money is redeems his previous actions ; ( 3 ) Why Clark Kent did not use his " super-speed " to save both Jonathan and Martha Kent from Morgan Edge criminals ? Just because they were a few meters apart ? ( 4 ) Why Clark Kent need to show his vulnerability to kryptonite to Morgan Edge ? The criminal had no idea what he was looking for , so it would be much easy to deceive him . ( 5 ) Dr . Helen Bryce falls from Lex Luthor's airplane immediately after his return . There is no investigation , and nobody suspects of this tragic accident ? ( 6 ) Clark Kent spent practically all the episodes trying to reach the heart of Lana Lang . When she is absolutely fallen for him , he simply gives her up ? ( 7 ) Jonathan Kent's attitude towards Lex has always been of arrogance , scorn and disdain . But he easily accepts that Lex buys his farm in the auction and puts it back on his name . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fênix " ( " Phoenix " )
Good Epic of Betrayal and Revenge	When Marco Antonio is defeated by his enemies , his former allied King Herod of Judea ( Edmund Purdom ) travels to convince Augustus to support his government by the Romans . He makes his chief commander and friend Aaron ( Alberto Lupo ) swear that he would kill his beloved Queen Miriam ( Sylvia Lopez ) if he died . When Herod is arrested by the Romans , one of his men returns to Judea and lies , telling that he was killed by the Romans . However Aaron is not able to keep his promise and Miriam stays alive . When Herode returns to his palace , his son Antipater , poisons Herode with the lie that Aaron has betrayed him and had an affair with Miriam . The madness of Herode destroys his friends and his kingdom . " Erode il grande " is a good epic of betrayal and revenge in a nest of snakes . The theatrical performance of Edmund Purdom is very exaggerated and quite ridiculous in the love scenes with Sylvia Lopez , but in the rest of the movie he works well . The character of Antipater seems to be inspired in Iago of Shakespeare's Othello . Unfortunately the DVD released in Brazil by the distributor London Films is horribly dubbed in English , and the quality of the image is awful . But this movie is a worthwhile entertainment if the viewer disregard the previously mentioned problems . Title ( Brazil ) : " Herodes o Grande " ( " Herode The Great " )
He Walks Among Us But He Is not One of Us	Sawyer , Kate and Carl reaches their island at night , and the reluctant Kate wishes to return for Jack . Meanwhile , Jack is interrogated by Isabel about the incident with Juliet and when she mentions the meaning of his tattoo , he recalls his vacation in the paradisiacal island of Phuket , in Thailand , where he dated the sexy , mystic and mysterious local Achara ( Bai Ling ) . Ben has an infection in his spinal column , and Jack negotiates the freedom of Juliet , who was going to be sentenced to death for Pickett's murder in the policy of " an eye for an eye " of " The Others " . Later Jack recalls what happened to him when he forced Achara to disclose her innermost secret . " Stranger in a Strange Land " is a reasonable episode based on the past of Jack in Thailand and his passion for Achara . His recollection is triggered by the question of the " sheriff " Isabel , and later with the situation of Juliet . The secret of Achara and the reaction of her brother and friends are quite incomprehensible and exaggerated . In the end , Jack has the same feeling while walking with " The Others " that he had in Phuket , of a complete stranger in a strange land . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The World Is an Orchestra , and She is the Maestro	In Beverly Hills , the fifteen years old evil manipulative aspirant actress student Kimberly Joyce ( Evan Rachel Wood ) convinces her friends Randa ( Adi Schnall ) and Brittany ( Elisabeth Harnois ) to falsely accuse their Literature and Arts teacher of sexual harassment . She manipulates also the lesbian journalist Emily Klein ( Jane Krakowski ) , who is covering the case , to support their cause in the trial , which leads the group to a tragic and surprising conclusion . This dark " Pretty Persuasion " is a Machiavellian and mean tale of manipulation . With another impressive performance of the gifted Evan Rachel Wood and the stunning James Wood , this dramatic dark comedy may shock with the crude sex scenes , the deranged family of Kimberly or the outrageous perjuries of the girls ; or make the viewer laugh with the permanent black humor or the scenes of the racist Hank Joyce ; or feel sorry for the poor teacher Percy Anderson . But certainly this movie shows an important message , how people may be easily manipulated by an intelligent person . Title ( Brazil ) : " Garotas Malvadas " ( " Bad Girls " )
99 Minutes of Good Entertainment	In New York , the process server Joe Tyler ( Matthew Perry ) is assigned to deliver a divorce paper to Sara Moore ( Elizabeth Hurley ) . Her wealthy Texan husband Gordon Moore ( Bruce Campbell ) is cheating her and also trying to take all their money for him . Sara offers one million dollars to Joe serving Gordon first , and he travels to Texas with Sara trying to accomplish his task . Meanwhile , the serving company sends Tony ( Vincent Patore ) , the colleague and enemy of Joe , to serve Sara . A dispute begins with the oponents trying to serve the divorce papers first , to get financial advantages in the process . I liked a lot this chase movie that slightly recalls " Midnight Run " . There are many funny moments , Matthew Perry and Elizabeth Hurley show great chemistry and the IMDb User Rating of 4 . 6 is quite unfair . Every time that I see the beautiful and delicious Elizabeth Hurley , I recall the amazing choice of Hugh Grant for Divine Brown . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Serviço de Sara " ( " Serving Sara " )
Flawed but Entertaining Chiller	The successful children's writer Claire Holloway ( Gabrielle Anwar ) is troubled by scary nightmares and is under psychological treatment . While working out watching television , she sees the landscape of the Rose Marsh Farm in the Westmoreland County , and she notes that the farmhouse is linked to her nightmares . She decides to spend her vacation in the farm , which is located nearby a swamp , and she is haunted by the ghosts of a little girl and a teenage boy inside the house . She is befriended by the local publisher and historian Noah Pitney ( Justin Louis ) but after a sequence of disturbing visions , she decides to contact the paranormal consultant Geoffry Hunt ( Forest Whitaker ) . Together , they investigate the mystery and disclose a tragedy that happened in the farm about twenty years ago . " The Marsh " is a flawed but entertaining chiller quite underrated in IMDb . The eerie story has a bad screenplay that leaves many unanswered questions and never explains what happened with Claire's parents ( I believe they died in an accident based in one dialog ) ; or her relationship with the little girl ( was she her friend or sister ? ) ; how the little girl was murdered ( I believe the boy tried to rape her , there are many evidences ) ; why Mercy was taking care of the girls ; did Claire live in the farmhouse ? ; how could she completely suppress her childhood from her memory ? ; what kind of portal was opened in the room ? last but not the least , the incident in the beginning of the Twentieth Century has nothing to do with the plot , is just presented to confuse the viewer . Anyway , disregarding these flaws , this film is above average in the genre . Title ( Brazil ) : " Not Available "
Searching the Missing Past	In America , the Jewish Jonathan Safran Foer ( Elijah Wood ) collects personal belongings of his family for recollection . A few moments before dying , his grandmother gives an old photograph of his grandfather with a woman called Augustine in Ukraine . Jonathan contacts the Odessa Heritage Tours , a family agency in Ukraine , to guide him to the location where the picture had been taken to find Augustine , and together with the interpreter Alex ( Eugene Hutz ) , his grandfather and a weird dog , they travel in an old car searching the missing past of Jonathan's family . " Everything Is Illuminated " is a strange movie about a weird young man with the compulsive behavior of collecting souvenirs from his family to not forget them that seeks the past of his grandfather to understand how could be his life if his grandfather had not moved to USA . This bizarre vegetarian character meets a dysfunctional Ukrainian family that owns an amateurish travel agency specialized in helping Jews to find missing relatives , and together they have an almost surrealistic road-trip through the country of Ukraine . The movie begins like a comedy , with a sarcastic black humor , and ends in a touching and tragic drama recommended for specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Uma Vida Iluminada " ( " An Illuminated Life " )
Another Unnecessary Remake	After the mysterious death of her niece and three other teenagers on the same hour and with the symptoms of heart attack , the journalist Sun-ju ( Eun-Kyung Shin ) decides to investigate their last moments . She discloses that the four friends had just watched a videotape exactly one week before their death in a resort . She travels to the place and finds the deadly video and after watching the weird footage , her telephone rings . When she takes a picture of herself , she sees her image blurred the same way that happened with the teenagers . She makes a copy of the cursed tape to her acquaintance , the skeptical coroner Choi Yeol ( Jin-Yeong Jeong ) . Together they seek for a hint , and find that it was taped thorough telekinesis by Eun-suh ( Du-na Bae ) , a psychic girl that had disappeared years ago . When Sun-ju's little daughter watches the movie , Sun-ju has a stronger reason to unravel the mystery to save her daughter and her own lives . " The Ring Virus " is the South-Korean remake of the excellent 1998 " Ringu " . This version is not bad , but why the remake ? The story is exactly the same of the original Japanese film and in spite of the good acting , there is nothing new in this remake . I was curious to see this version and in the end I found it in the same level of the American " Ring " . But in the end , better off watch again the original masterpiece , which is darker and scarier . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Underrated Adventure	When the child of blue eyes called Evolet is found holding the hands of her dead mother by the tribe of the mammoth hunters Yagahl , their Old Mother ( Mona Hammond ) tells that the little girl will fulfill an ancient prophecy , marrying the owner of the White Spear and bringing life to their people . Years after , Evolet ( Camilla Belle ) and the outcast hunter D'Leh ( Steven Strait ) are in love for each other and D'Leh should dispute the White Spear and Evolet with his rival Ka'Ren ( Mo Zainal ) . However Evolet and many hunters are abducted by the Four-Legged Demons warlords to work as slaves in their distant fields . D'Leh , together with the owner of the White Spear Tic'Tic ( Cliff Curtis ) , Ka'Ren and the boy Baku ( Nathanael Baring ) track the tribe of warriors trying to rescue Evolet and the Yagahl hunters in a dangerous journey through unknown lands . When D'Leh saves a saber-toothed tiger from death , he becomes the leader of oppressed tribes that help him in his quest for freedom , life and love . I was reluctant to see " 10 , 000 BC " because of the low IMDb Rating and many bad reviews . However , as a big fan of Camille Belle , I fortunately decided to see this underrated adventure . The entertaining story is a combination of " Apocalypto " , " Quest for Fire " and " Stargate " with a romantic situation , supported by magnificent CGI and action scenes . It is funny to read reviews of people that expect historic accuracy in this type of movie ; I recommend that they never watch " A Nightmare on Elm Street " , for example , otherwise they may have trouble to sleep ? Title ( Brazil ) : " 10 . 000 A . C . " ( " 10 , 000 BC " )
Intriguing but Flawed	The paramedics David Vaughn ( Johnny Messner ) and Victor ( Jon Huertas ) receive an emergency call from the girl Libby ( Saige Ryan Campbell ) in a remote gas station . While trying to save her mother Deborah ( Elizabeth Godush ) , they are abducted by members of the sect Quanta Group , composed by scientists , philosophers and mathematicians that foresee the end of the world after a meteor shower . Their leader The Teacher ( Daniel Benzali ) converts Vic to his cult , but the reluctant David resists and faces a weird mystery . " Believers " is an above average B-movie with a very intriguing story , but also flawed since there are some points that are not well-explained or developed . The greatest flaw is the lack of a reasonable explanation why David and Vic are kidnapped in the gas station . It would be certainly easier to leave the paramedics inside the firemen's ambulance on the road , the same way they did with their boss . How Deborah was resurrected and how The Teachers knew personal details of the lives of David and Vic is open , but may be well explained with the fire in the sky in the last scene meaning that The Teacher was really a powerful entity . I understand that the formula was the deadly gas , but it is not clear . I am a fan of original and low-budget movies , and in the end I liked this refreshing story . The direction and the acting are great , and I believe there are some unfair reviews in IMDb , probably from users that like commercial and easy to understand movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fórmula Fatal " ( " Fatal Formula " )
Entertaining Adventure	The thirty year old nerd professional college student Flynn Carsen ( Noah Wyle ) has twenty-two graduation courses ; lives with his mother and has no girlfriend . When his Professor Harris ( Mario Ivan Martinez ) releases him from his class and asks Flynn to find a job and face the real world , Flynn receives an invitation for an interview in the public librarian for the position of librarian . He succeeds and is hires , and finds a secret brotherhood that protects Excalibur , Pandora Box and other treasures of mankind . When a magic spear is stolen by the evil Serpent organization , Flynn is assigned to travel to Amazonas to retrieve a hidden part of the magic object . He teams-up and is helped by the sexy bodyguard Nicole No one ( Sonya Walger ) and together they face dangerous situations chased by the Serpent's agents . " The Librarian : Quest for the Spear " is an entertaining adventure that follows the non-stop action style of Indiana Jones . The clumsy Flynn is very funny and shows a great chemistry with the athletic and gorgeous Nicole . Now I intend to watch the sequels of this enjoyable story . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Guardião ? Em Busca da Lança Sagrada " ( " The Guardian ? Quest for the Sacred Spear " )
Bollywood in Hollywood	In India , the dance teacher Ramu Gupta ( Jimi Mistry ) decides to move to New York to become a famous actor . He believes in the American Dream and wants the follow the example of his friend Vijay ( Emil Marwa ) , who moved to USA and in accordance with his letters , has a Mercedez Benz and lives in a wonderful penthouse . When Ramu arrives in New York , he realizes that Vijay indeed is a complete loser , working as a cab driver and waiter in an Indian restaurant , and sharing a simple apartment with two other friends , one of them illegal . While looking for a job as an actor , the naive Ramu ends in a porn movie , and he meets the porn star Sharonna ( Heather Graham ) , who teaches him some secrets to have a good performance in front of the camera and the shooting crew . Later , in the birthday party of Lexi ( Marisa Tomei ) in the wealthy house of her parents , he pretends to be a guru , and becomes very successful as the Guru of Sex , using the advice of Sharonna . This silly and delightful story is a great homage to Bollywood and a very good entertainment . Like in the Indian movies of Bollywood , there are lots of songs and numbers of dances , and the cast is very nice and enjoyable . Heather Graham and Marisa Tomei are beautiful as usual , and there are many funny scenes . It is impossible not liking such a sweet romantic comedy . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Guru do Sexo " ( " The Guru of the Sex " )
A Politically Incorrect Plot With Non-Charismatic Characters	In Paris in 1900 , Gigi ( Leslie Caron ) is raised by her grand-mother and grand-mother ' s sister to be a whore . Gaston Lachaille ( Louis Jourdan ) is a futile playboy that is contributing for the ' formation ' of Gigi . Honore Lachaille ( the boring and grinner Maurice Chevalier ) is the futile grand-father of Gaston . This politically incorrect story may be a great success in the past , for the values of 1958 , but now-a-days it is a shame . With the exception of the lovely Gigi , all the characters are not charismatic ( actually they are repulsive ) . The grand-mother and her sister are caftan , Gaston and his grand-father are futile , and the poor Gigi in the end indeed can not resist and becomes a whore ! Even the songs are old-fashionable and boring . The splendid photography makes the movie worthwhile . Title ( Brazil ) : " Gigi "
A Rip-off of a Well-Known Storyline , but with Top-Notch Performances and Solid Screenplay	In California , the psychopath Herman ( James DuMont ) stalks the young Rudy ( Michelle Tomlinson ) and her mate Christa ( Heather Sconyers ) along a day and a night and finally he chooses Rudy to be his next victim . He breaks in their house and uses ether to kidnap Rudy , bringing her to the basement of his house . When she awakes , she discovers that she is imprisoned in a wooden cage in a cellar and subjected to sick games of the deranged Herman . Rudy decides to play the game looking for a chance to escape from Herman's claw . I do not know how many times I have seen the storyline of " The Cellar Door " ; maybe the original version of this theme ( a man that abducts a woman for his own pleasure ) is William Wyler's masterpiece " The Collector " , which has become extremely violent and sadistic as years go by . I recall recently watching at least the franchise " Saw " , " Captivity " , " Broken " and " Sportkill " that are rip-off of the classic storyline . However , I liked " The Cellar Door " because the writer Christopher Nelson and the director Matt Zettell were able to make an extremely low-budget theatrical movie supported by a solid screenplay and mostly by top-notch performances of the unknown James DuMont and Michelle Tomlinson . Their mouse-and-cat game is great and in the end it was worthwhile watching this simple but effective film that works perfectly on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Porão " ( " The Cellar " )
War and Life Through The Years	In1942 in London , along a war training of the Home Guard , the reckless officer Spud Wilson ( James McKechnie ) arrests General Clive Candy ( Roger Livesey ) in a club , and he recalls his life since forty years ago . Candy fought in the Boer War and was decorated with a honor medal . In 1902 , while in leave in London , he is informed by a friend that the British Miss Edith Hunter ( Deborah Kerr ) , who works as a housekeeper in Berlin , wrote a letter telling that a German officer was blaming the British Army of atrocities against the Boers in Africa . Candy travels to Berlin without permission , and after an incident in a fancy restaurant , he is challenged to a duel against Theo Kretschmar-Schuldorff ( Anton Walbrook ) . They both are hurt and have to spend eight weeks in a hospital with Edith , becoming friends . Theo falls in love for her , marrying her in the end . Along the wars and years , Clive and Theo remain good friends , Clive gets married with Barbara Wynne ( Deborah Kerr ) and when Edith dies , Theo moves to London before the WWII . He meets General Candy again , who is responsible for the Home Guard of London and is introduced to his driver , " Johnny " Cannon ( Deborah Kerr ) . " The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp " shows war and life though the years of General Clive Candy . The movie is too long and could have been edited and reduced , but anyway I believe its great attraction is the year of the production , 1943 , when England was in war against Germany in World War II . Deborah Kerr performs three different roles with her usual efficiency , but Roger Livessey is the greatest star of this good film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Coronel Blimp - Vida e Morte " ( " Colonel Blimp - Life and Death " )
Another Entertaining Adventure	After defending himself and Dudley Dursley with magic from an attack of the Dementors , Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is sent to a hearing and found not guilty from the accusation of inappropriate use of magic in front of humans . Then he returns to Hogwarts and finds that most people do not believe that Voldemort is back . Further , the Ministry of Magic has assigned the annoying and despicable Dolores Umbridge ( Imelda Staunton ) to change the directions in the school affecting the lives of the teachers and mainly the students . She suspends the practical course of self-defense spells , and Harry Potter and his friends Hermione ( Emma Watson ) and Ronnie ( Rupert Grint ) form a clandestine group to learn magic with Harry Potter . Meanwhile Harry Potter has horrible visions and nightmares and Severus Snape ( Alan Rickman ) tells him that he is mentally connected to the Dark Lord , teaching him how to defend from an intrusion in his mind . " Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix " is another entertaining adventure of this young witch and his friends . The top-notch cast , with most of the best British actors and actresses , introduces the stunning Imelda Staunton in the role of a very nasty character and she is amazingly perfect . Contradictorily , the weakest name in these Harry Potter films is the hero and lead actor Daniel Radcliffe , but unfortunately there is no other way to handle the situation . The special effects are state of art and very impressive . My daughter is a big fan of Harry Potter , she reads all his books immediately after the release , and I imagine how difficult is to write an adaptation to the cinema of such number of pages . But for those like me that have not read the book , it works very well . Title ( Brazil ) : " Harry Potter e a Ordem do Fênix " ( " Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix " )
Another Funny Movie of Kevin Smith	Jay and Silent Bob decide to go to Hollywood to avoid the shooting of a film about their alter ego , ' Bluntman and Chronic ' . I am a great fan of Kevin Smith , however , this movie is not in the same level of ' Clerks ' , ' Mall Rats ' , ' Chasing Amy ' and ' Dogma ' . Maybe it is his most expensive movie , but he exceeds in fart jokes and other vulgarities . But there are also funny references to movies ( ' Star Wars ' , ' Good Will Hunting ' , Charlie's Angels ' ) , actors ( Ben Affleck , Matt Damon ) , studio ( ' Miramax ' ) . The joke with Mark Hamill is great . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Império ( do Besteirol ) Contra-Ataca " ( " The Empire ( of the Bullshit ) Counter-Attacks " )
Funny and Great Horror Movie	In a morgue , a weird coroner ( John Carpenter ) presents the cases related to three corpses in body bags , with the participation of Tobe Hooper and Tom Arnold in the last scenes : 1 ) The Gas Station : On the graveyard shift of the new hire Annie ( Alex Datcher ) , the maniac Bill ( Robert Carradine ) attacks the gas station where she is working . This tale , directed by John Carpenter , is the most frightening of the three segments , very supported by the atmosphere created by the tense music of John Carpenter . Wes Craven and Sam Raimi have minor participations , being another attraction . 2 ) Hair : When Richard ( Stacy Keach ) starts loosing his hair , he becomes obsessed trying to find a cosmetic to stop the balding process . He goes to the clinic of Dr . Lock ( David Warner ) for a revolutionary transplantation treatment , ignoring the tragic side effects . This is the funniest and silliest tale , also directed by John Carpenter , and with the singer Sheena Easton in the role of Richard's girlfriend Megan . 3 ) Eye : The baseball player Brent ( Mark " Luke Skywalker " Hamill ) has a car accident while driving home in a stormy night . His doctor proposes a new eye transplantation technique , and Brent and his wife Cathy ( Twiggy ) accept the risky terms . However , the unexpected side effect jeopardizes the safety of Cathy . This segment , directed by Tobe Hooper , is the most macabre of the three , having the participation of Roger Corman in the role of Dr . Bregman . I recently watched a very scare movie ( " Jain Gui " , of the Pang Brothers - http www imdb com title tt0325655 usercomments 167 ) and I believe that its storyline was probably based on this segment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Trilogia do Terror " ( " Trilogy of Terror " )
They Get You When You Sleep	The teenager Marti Malone ( Gabrielle Anwar ) is traveling along her summer vacations with her father , the EPA inspector Steve Malone ( Terry Kinney ) , her stepmother Carol Malone ( Meg Tilly ) and her young stepbrother Andy ( Reilly Murphy ) to a military base where her father will inspect some toxic products . In a gas station bathroom on the road , she is scared by a soldier that advises her to not sleep , because they get you when you sleep . Once in the base , she becomes friend of Jean Platt ( Christine Elise ) , the daughter of the general in charge of the base , and the helicopter pilot Tim Young ( Billy Wirth ) . Marti and her father see that people are acting strange , and sooner they find that aliens are cloning the human beings in the base and invading Earth . Abel Ferrara's remake of Don Siegel's 1956 " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " is more violent than the original movie , but is also very good . There are three particular moments that I like very much : the first one is certainly when Marti throws Andy from the helicopter . I believe very few directors would have the courage to make such scene . The second one is the scary screams of Carol and Jean later . Last but not the least is the scene in the hospital when Gabrielle Anwar is naked and partially shows her breast . Although the end of this version is happier than the original one , it is open with the helicopter landing and Carol's voice saying " Where you gonna go ? Where you gonna run ? Where you gonna hide ? Nowhere , cause there's no one like you left . " And then , " THE END " is highlighted with uppercases , probably meaning that Marti and Tim would be the last human beings on Earth . Title ( Brazil ) : " Invasores de Corpos ? A Invasão Continua " ( " Bodies ' Invaders ? The Invasion Continues " )
A Tale of Loneliness of Three Women	In Vitória , the middle-age piano teacher Gertrudes ( Norma Bengell ) sublets her apartment to two younger women , the unstable Lúcia ( Lucélia Santos ) and the nurse Madalena ( Maria Zilda Bethlem ) . Gertrudes misses and daydreams her former love and has a motherhood relationship with Lúcia ; Madalena has a promiscuous life , having one night stand with the most different men every day and her behavior is criticized by Gertreudes ; and Lúcia is dreamer that manipulates Gertrudes and expects that the handyman Alfredo ( Marcos Frota ) becomes her prince charming . Their conflictive relationship ends when Madalena discloses their inner feelings and secrets to each other . " Vagas Para Moças de Fino Trato " is an adaptation of a successful play of Alcione Araujo to the cinema . This intimate tale of loneliness is supported by the performances of three great Brazilian actresses , the icon Norma Bengell , Lucélia Santos and Maria Zilda Bethlem , whose characters have the most different personalities . The daily situations , some of them quite surrealistic , show the emptiness of their lives , in a dramatic but never depressed film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vagas Para Moças de Fino Trato " ( " Vacancies for Genteel Girls " )
A Plot With Many Characters in an Environment Surrounded by Suspicion and Stress	During the Second World War , a team of genius is put together near to London to study means of breaking the German code used in the communication . Tom Jericho ( Dougray Scott ) broke this code in the past and had a break-down . Now his passion Claire Romilly ( Saffron Burrows ) is missing and the British counter-espionage system believes she was a German spy . Tom becomes closer the Claire's best girl-friend Hester Wallace ( the fantastic Kate Winslet ) and together they will try to resolve the mystery of the disappearance of Claire in an war environment surrounded by suspicion and stress . The plot of " Enigma " is not easy to be followed and understood and the viewer must pay attention in all the details . It is a great story , with thriller , action and romance . There are many characters and you must recall their names and what they have done . But it a good movie and watching it is worthwhile . Title ( Brazil ) : " Enigma "
Enjoyable and Extremely Funny	In the middle of the night , while waiting for a bus in a bus station , a lonely stranger called Mr . Smith ( Cliven Owen ) sees a pregnant woman being chased by a man with a gun . He follows the couple , kills the man and helps the delivery of the baby in the middle of a shootout while a gang of hit-man tries to shoot them up . The woman is killed but Smith saves the baby , escaping from Hertz ( Paul Giamatti ) , the leader of the killers . Then he meets the prostitute Donna Quintano ( Monica Bellucci ) , who has just lost her baby , and asks her to breastfeed the newborn . They are chased by Hertz and Smith discovers the reason why the mean man wants to kill the baby . " Shoot ' Em Up " is an enjoyable and extremely funny action movie , with the gorgeous Monica Bellucci , the tough Clive Owen and he versatile Paul Giamatti playing cartoonist characters . This pleasant film was a great surprise and the DVD has been an excellent entertainment for this Saturday night . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mandando Bala " ( " Shooting Bullet " )
Delightfully Silly and Funny	In New York , when the shy and lonely project manager of a design firm Matt Saunders ( Luke Wilson ) meets Jenny Johnson ( Uma Thurman ) in the subway , he invites her to date and have dinner with him . Jenny immediately falls in love for him , they have sex and she discloses her true identity to him , telling that she is the powerful superhero G-Girl . After meeting his co-worker and friend Hannah Lewis ( Anna Faris ) , the needy Jenny becomes jealous , controlling and manipulative , and Matt follows the advice of his best friend Vaughn Haige ( Rainn Wilson ) and dumps her , breaking her heart . Jenny turns Matt's life into hell , while he has a romance with Hannah . However , the archenemy of G-Girl and former high school sweetheart of Jenny , Professor Bedlam ( Eddie Izzard ) , proposes Matt to lure Jenny to strip her superpowers . " My Super Ex-Girlfriend " is delightfully silly and funny . This romantic comedy-adventure has many hilarious moments and is very entertaining . Luke Wilson is great in the role of an idiot , Anna Farris is extremely sexy as usual , and Uma Thurman is great in the role of a deranged neurotic superhero that recalls Glenn Close in " Fatal Attraction " or Evelyn Draper in " Play Misty For Me " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Minha Super Ex-Namorada " ( " My Super Ex-Girlfriend " )
Very Tense and Real	While spending their vacation in a paradisaical beach , the young couple Susan ( Blanchard Ryan ) and Daniel ( Daniel Travis ) decide to dive in open sea . They are forgotten by the crew of the boat and spend tense hours alone and surrounded by sharks . " Open Water " is a very tense thriller , based on a real event . The performances of Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis are very human , the movie explores the psychological phases of two persons in constant fear and it is worthwhile watching this low budget movie . The end without redemption is magnificent and the quite amateurish camera with many closes does not spoil this great gem that deserves to be discovered . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mar Aberto " ( " Open Sea " )
Surprisingly Good	Six months after the suicide of her twin sister Sofie ( Elisabeth Harnois ) , Megan ( Elisabeth Harnois ) still grieves her death and misses her beloved sister . In the Saint John's Eve , Megan travels with her friends Christian ( Shawn Ashmore ) , Zoe ( Amanda Seyfried ) , Mark ( Matt O'Leary ) and Alicia ( Hilarie Burton ) to her family's house in Nowell Lake , Louisiana , to celebrate the summer solstice . While shopping supplies in a local store , Megan befriends the seller Nick ( Tyler Hoechlin ) and buys a magazine with an article about communication with the dead in the summer solstice , the time of year when there is the greatest length of daylight . While in her house , Megan is haunted by a spirit that she believes is Sofie trying to communicate with her . In her investigation , she suspects of the weird hick Leonard ( R . Lee Ermey ) and while snooping in his house , she finds the picture of the missing girl Malin ( Jenna Hildebrand ) and unravels a dark secret about the suicide of her sister . The low-budget " Solstice " was a great surprise with a consistent story , solid screenplay and good acting . The original story startles in many moments without gore , and the young team of gorgeous actresses and handsome actors has great performances . I was expecting to see another slasher teen horror movie and found a pleasant surprise . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
One of the Coldest and Most Amoral Characters Ever	In Glasgow , the drifter of few words Joe Taylor ( Ewan McGregor ) is working in an old boat with the sailor Les Gault ( Peter Mullan ) and his wife Ella Gault ( Tilda Swinton ) transporting coal and other cargoes through the River Clyde . While loading the hold with coal , they find the body of a young woman wearing petticoat floating on the river and they bring it to the harbor . Joe recalls through flashbacks his relationship with his former mistress Cathie Dimly ( Emily Mortimer ) , while he seduces Ella in a carnal attraction , having sex with her in the absence of Les . When the police arrest a suspect of the murder of woman , Joe becomes interested in the case , while his thoughts disclose the truth about the death of the victim . " Young Adam " is a weird low paced movie , with an original screenplay , a claustrophobic and erotic story , great performances and excellent study and development of characters . Ewan McGregor is amazing in the role of one of the coldest and most amoral characters ever , who just speaks few words but is successful with lonely women . The sweet and gorgeous Emily Mortimer performs a woman in love that subjects herself to humiliating situations . Tilda Swinton is also fantastic in the role of a worker and mother with a wasted marriage , totally negligent with her appearance that finds that she is a woman capable of loving a man . The screenplay discloses the plot through flashbacks and in spite of being low paced , keeps the attention to the very end . The realistic story is sad and pessimist as the gray image of Scotland , without any redemption in the end . The music score of David Byrne fits perfectly to the mood and the atmosphere . I have not understood the title of this movie , which has no explanation along the story . Last but not the least , a barge is a vessel without propulsion , which is not the case of the propelled boat " Atlantic Eve " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pecados Ardentes " ( " Heat Sins " )
Morbid , Bizarre and Fascinating Aesthetic	Jiney ( Race Wong ) is a talented student of Arts with a trauma in her childhood and lack of communication with her mother , and excellent photographer that is not satisfied with her awarded works . When she witnesses a car crash , she is driven by a morbid wish and takes pictures of the dead victim . She becomes obsessed with death , and her close friend Jas ( Rosanne Wong ) feels that Jiney needs help with her abnormal behavior and attraction . When Jiney supersedes her death wish , she receives a snuff video where a girl is tortured and killed in front of the camera . Jiney shows the tape to Jas , who questions the authenticity of the footage , and they believe it is a prank of their friend Anson ( Anson Leung ) . When the girls realize that it is not a joke of Anson , Jiney receives another tape with the message inviting her to take a look . When she sees the tape , she becomes scared with the sinister footage . " Sei Mon Se Jun " is morbid and bizarre , but presents a fascinating aesthetic and an awesome cinematography and the style of Dario Argento . This gore and violent tale is stylish and dark , with magnificent use of colors prevailing red . Oxide Pong gives a homosexual connotation to the close relationship of Jiney and Jas , but it is never explicit . The childhood trauma of Jiney should have been previously disclosed and not in the last scene . Race Wong and Rosanne Wong are very beautiful actresses and the killer recalls Leatherface . I am a big fan of the Pang Brothers and I really liked this creepy film that in some moments looks like pictures at an exhibition . Title ( Brazil ) : " Desejos Mortais " ( " Deadly Desires " )
No Surprises in Another Adventure of the Enterprise and Their Crew	Captain Jean-Luc Picard ( Patrick Stewart ) and the crew of the Enterprise are celebrating the marriage of Captain William T . Riker ( Jonathan Frakes ) with the Betazoide and Counselor Deanna Troi ( Marina Sirtis ) , and the promotion of Will to captain of the Federation starship Titan , when they are invited to go to a mission of peace with the Romulans . When they arrive in the Neutral Zone , they realize that Shinzon ( Tom Hardy ) , the leader of the Romulans , is a clone of Captain Picard and indeed wants to destroy the Enterprise first and then Earth . This new adventure of Star Trek does not present any surprises , but fans like me will not be disappointed . The special and sound effects work perfectly on DVD .
Bizarre	This movie tells the story of a murder committed in the 80's , in New York , by a drugged bisexual called Michael Alig , played by Macaulay Culkin . The story begins with two gays , Michael and James St . James ( Seth Green ) , meeting each other in New York , and trying to become famous in the night . Michael is supported by the entrepreneur Peter Gatien ( Dylan McDermott ) and promotes his night-club , The Limelight , creating the Club Kid parties . Completely addicted and drugged inclusive in heroin , her kills his roommate and drug dealer Angel ( Wilson Cruz ) with a hammer , cuts his body in pieces , put them in a TV box and throw it in Hudson River . Later , his friend James writes a book , called " Disco Bloodbath " and Michael is sent to prison . " Party Monster " is very bizarre film . Marylin Manson is very funny in the role of Christina ; Seth Green is amazing in the role of a glamorous gay ; the plot is unconventional and not for all tastes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Party Monster "
Good , But Overrated Thriller	In New York , the divorced attorney Michael Clayton ( George Clooney ) has been working for many years fixing messy situations for the law firm Kenner , Back and Odeen . He has never been invited to become a partner due to his conflictive personality of poker gambler and alcoholic that left him completely broken . Michael's addicted brother owes a high amount to a dangerous loan shark and Michael is trying to find a means to cover the debts . When the brilliant attorney Arthur Edens ( Tom Wilkinson ) that has been ahead of the U-North case , a complicated three billion dollars lawsuit , for six years has a nervous breakdown and is arrested naked in a parking area in Milwaukee , Michael tries to help his friend , and is involved in an evil scheme plotted by Karen Crowder ( Tilda Swinton ) , the legal counsel of U-North . The low-paced " Michael Clayton " is a good but overrated thriller tailored for George Clooney , who is perfect performing his complex and ambiguous character . I believe that the excessive nominations to the Oscar show the lack of good movies in Hollywood . The excellent actress Tilda Swinton has another excellent performance in the role of the villain Karen Crowder . However , I am not sure whether I was not paying much attention , but I found the screenplay confused and in the end something was missing to make " Michael Clayton " a great movie . Further , I did not understand the need of a bomb in Michael's car ; the killers were very effective and why using a sophisticated electronic apparatus to kill the attorney ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Conduta de Risco " ( " Conduct of Risk " )
Immortal Bloodline	After forty years in prison , the evil gravedigger Josefel Zanatas a . k . a . Zé do Caixão ( José Mojica Marins ) is released by the lawyer Lucy Pontes ( Cristina Aché ) in accordance with the Brazilian Laws . He moves to the slums with his followers that worship him , and he seeks out the perfect woman for his offspring while haunted by the ghosts of his victims . The vigilante brothers Captain Osvaldo Pontes ( Adriano Stuart ) and his brother Coronel Claudiomiro ( Jece Valadão ) from the Military Police chase Zé do Caixão in the slums to kill him and they find a track of tortured and mutilated bodies . The sick and trash " Encarnação do Demônio " impresses first because of the top-notch gruesome make-up and visual effects . However , the graphic violence is not recommended to sensitive viewers . The story , the screenplay and the acting are reasonable and the ham José Mojica Marins with his monologues is quite ridiculous , but funny . This is also the chance to say farewell to the great Brazilian actor Jece Valadão in his penultimate work . The last name of the character Josefel Zanatas means Satan backwards and misspelled in Portuguese ( satanás / Sanatas / Zanatas ) . The result is a movie with potential of cult that works very well on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Encarnação do Demônio " ( " Incarnation of the Devil " )
A Very Delightful Family Entertainment	In Ohio , a few days before her sixteenth birthday , Nick Faulkner ( Allison Mack ) listens partially a conversation between her parents , and misunderstands believing they are going to divorce . With the support of her best friends Babyface Hamilton ( Caterina Scorsone ) and Mouse Donovan ( Dan Petronijevic ) , Nick tries to fix the marriage of her parents . " My Horrible Year " was a wonderful surprise for me ! The lovely Allison Mack is simply fantastic in this delightful family entertainment . The story is delicious , with the distressed middle-class life of a typical adolescent turning upside-down with the expectation of the supposed divorce of her beloved parents . The direction of Eric Stoltz is surprisingly sensitive , capturing in a delicious way the anxieties of Nick . Also amazing how the fifty years old Karen Allen is still very beautiful . I believe it is impossible not loving this movie . Title ( Brazil ) " O Pior Ano de Minha Vida " ( " The Worst Year of My Life " )
Weird and Entertaining Love Story	While struggling to have courage to jump off from a bridge to commit suicide , the musician Jota ( Nancho Novo ) that misses his girlfriend witnesses an accident with a motorcycle , with the rider falling down on the beach . Jota helps the unknown woman that has amnesia and goes in the ambulance with her to the hospital . Jota invents her name , calling her Lisa ( Emma Suárez ) , and also that they have been living together for four years in his apartment nearby the beach . On the next morning , Jota visits Lisa , who is in session with the psychologist ; then he leaves the hospital with her telling that she was discharged . Jota reinvents Lisa's past and travels with her to the camping " La Ardilla Roja " , where they befriend the family of a taxi driver . When a stranger comes to the camping claiming that Lisa's name is Sophia indeed and that he is her husband , Jota feels trapped in his lies and questions whether Sophia has had amnesia . " La Ardilla Roja " is a weird and entertaining love story , with an original and surrealistic screenplay and bizarre characters and situations . The gorgeous Emma Suárez has a stunning performance and shows a great chemistry with the odd and unusual Jota , performed by Nancho Novo . The climax with the arrival of Felix to the camp site is strange and a little disappointing , but the happy end fits well to the plot . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Esquilo Vermelho " ( " The Red Squirrel " )
Passion , Magic and Death	Zhuo Yi-Hang ( Leslie Cheung ) is raised by his master Tzu Yang ( Fong Pao ) to be his successor in the leadership of their clan . Yi-Hang meets Lien ( Brigitte Lin ) , a warrior adopted by wolves and accepted by a tribe leaded by the evil magic twins Ji Wushuang ( Francis Ng / Elaine Lui ) , in a lake , and they fall in love for each other . Yi-Hang promises to trust her forever . However , Ji Wushuang also loves Lien and she is sent away from their tribe . When the clan of Yi-Hang is attacked , he does not believe on Lien , thinking that she killed his master and cursing their love . This beautiful and tragic love story , a kind of Chinese version of " Romeo and Juliet " , has wonderful cinematography and costumes . The choreography of the fights is also amazing . The non-linear screenplay is a little confused , but when the viewer sees for the second time , it becomes clearer . Title ( Brazil ) : " Entre o Amor e a Glória " ( " Between the Love and the Glory " )
Aged , But Still Good in 2004	In the Cold War , Mike Kells ( Tyrone Power ) is a courier , who has the mission to meet his friend Sam Carew ( James Millican ) in a train in Europe and bring some documents back to Washington . However , Sam is killed in the train , and Mike finds a hint in his pocket , indicating he should go to Trieste to find Janine ( Hildegard Knef ) , the last contact of Sam before he dies . Meanwhile , Joan Ross ( Patricia Neal ) , an American widow that Mike met in the plane , shows a great interest in Mike . Mike does not know , but he is used by American government as a bait . This movie has aged a lot , by remains very attractive . The story , full of plot points , is still very good . In Brazil , it is only available on cable television . The DVD and the VHS have not been released . My vote is sevenTitle ( Brazil ) : ' Missão Perigosa em Trieste ' ( ' Dangerous Mission in Trieste ' )
Very Funny Parody of the 70's	In Bay City , the detectives David Starsky ( Ben Stiller ) and his powerful Ford Torino , and his partner Ken " Hutch " Hutchinson ( Owen Wilson ) are informed by Hutch's snitch Huggy Bear ( Snoop Dogg ) about a huge load of cocaine , which would be arriving in the city . Starsky and Hutch chase the drug baron , the Jew Reese Feldman ( Vince Vaughn ) , who sweetens the drug to mislead the dogs of the police force . I was reluctant to see " Starsky & Hutch " , but yesterday I won my prejudice , I bought the American DVD and I found a hilarious movie , in a very funny parody of the 70's . The soundtrack is irresistible , with classics of Eric Clapton ( " Cocaine " ) , Carpenters , Easy Ryder soundtrack , dancing music , all of them hits of the 70's . There is a great homage to the " real " Starsky ( Paul Michael Glaser ) and Hutch ( David Soul ) , and even to Fred Williamson , who was a great action actor in the 70's and 80's . The cast , having names such as Juliette Lewis , Chris Penn and Will Ferrell , is very inspired , making good jokes in humorous situations . The delicious Carmen Electra is a collyrium for the eyes , and the film has an excellent timing and is a great entertainment , especially for those who were a teenager in the 70's like me . Title ( Brazil ) : This DVD has not been released yet in Brazil .
Highly Recommended For Days When You Are Down and Trouble	After an unsuccessful mission , FBI agents Kevin Copeland ( Shawn Wayans ) and Marcus Copeland ( Marlon Wayans ) fall in disgrace in the agency . They decide to swap their bad position with his superior Section Chief Elliott Gordon ( Frankie Faison ) working undercover in an abduction case , disguised in the two spoiled white daughters of a tycoon , Brittany and Tiffany Wilson , getting in hilarious situations . I like the silly and funny movies that Keenen Ivory Wayans directs . His formula , mixing gross , low level and racist jokes are hilarious and highly recommended for days when you are down and trouble . My soccer time lost the game in the afternoon and I was very upset . While watching " White Chicks " , I laughed a lot and I really liked this comedy , which will never be nominated to an Oscar or to Cannes . But it is delightful to shutdown the brain and feel amusement and joy with this type of silliness to improve the humor . Title ( Brazil ) : " As Branquelas " ( " White Chicks " )
Cult and Classic Sci-Fi	A meteorite falls in the country of a small town , bringing a jelly creature . An old farmer is attacked by the alien in his hand , and the youths Steve Andrews ( Steve McQueen ) and his girlfriend Jane Martin ( Aneta Corsaut ) take him to Dr . T . Hallen ( Steven Chase ) . The local doctor treats carefully the blister , and asks Steve to investigate the location where they found the old man . When Steve returns , he sees the blob killing the doctor . Steve and Jane try to warn the police and the dwellers , but nobody believe on them , while the blob engulfs many people , getting bigger and bigger . " The Blob " is a cult and classic sci-fi . It is a low budget movie , with many ham actors and actresses ( with the exception of Steve McQueen ) , awful effects , but also delightful and very , but very funny . This is the first time that I see this classic ( I had seen the 1988 remake with Kevin Dillon ) , and I really recommend it to fans of Steve McQueen and sci-fi B-movies from the 50s . The film subject of my review number 1 , 400 could not be better . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Bolha " ( " The Blob " )
Michael Mann's Manhunter was better and better	Will Graham ( Edward Norton ) is a retired FBI agent invited to participate in the chase of a serial killer named ' The Tooth Fairy ' . He asks Hannibal Lecter to help him to develop the profile of the killer and foreseen the next crime . The original story of " Red Dragon " was terrific : Michael Mann's Manhunter is a violent and scary low paced movie , with well-constructed characters . William Petersen is great in this movie . This remake , with a greater participation of the character of Hannibal Lecter , famous actors and actress , and a different beginning and end is not bad . But the original movie is better and better . Therefore , why the remake ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Dragão Vermelho " ( " Red Dragon " )
When Bearings Bankers Are the Little Red Ridding Hood	This movie is the true story of Nick Leeson ( the fantastic Ewan McGregor ) , the employee who broke the oldest bank in England , the Bearings Bank . Nick is an ambitious young man , son of a simple man who works with plaster , transferred to Singapore to operate in future market of derivatives . He was considered the best employee of Bearing Banks , but indeed he was gambling with high amounts of the bank and hiding the losses under a secret account number 88888 . There are at least three points to highlight in this movie . The first one is the great performance of Ewan McGregor . Everybody knows he is an excellent actor and once again he does not disappoint the viewer . Second is about the screenplay , based on a book written by Nick Leeson : is it possible to believe that the oldest bank in England was managed by a board of directors that look like the Little Red Ridding Hood ( instead of the bad wolf ) ? Everywhere in the world , persons very aware of cash flow administrate banks . How could one unique employee keep the real situation hidden from the Bearings Senior Management ? I believe it would be almost impossible , therefore it seems that some kind of arrangement may be made having Nick as the scapegoat of the whole situation ( or high profits were expected in those dirty operations ) with the participation of other important persons in the bank . Anyway , if this film shows the truth , it is amazing how this bank had survived for such a long time . Last but not the least , is it possible to believe that a smart guy like Nick Leeson ' has not reserved ' some money for his early retirement ? It is hard to believe ! The great love of Lisa for Nick is also very easily forgot in the end of the story . However , it is a good movie and a worthwhile entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fraude " ( " The Fraud " )
Underrated Movie	The porn star Moon ( Juliette Marquis ) spends her time working , nursing her widowed father ( James Woods ) that has Parkinson disease and with her friends Jessie ( Kam Heskin ) and Martine ( Rosario Dawson ) . Her boss Aronson ( Tomas Arana ) gives a new contract to Moon to be signed . Moon has a blind date with Jessie's friend Kip ( Kip Pardue ) and they feel a great attraction for each other . When Jessie asks Moon to test the fidelity of her boy-friend , Moon decides to offer the service to other customers . But when she meets the dangerous Terry ( Michael Rapaport ) , she reevaluates her life and her relationship with Skip . " This Girl's Life " is an underrated movie that follows the pattern of Ken Russell's " Whore " , with the lead actress talking to the camera like in a documentary . This is the first work that I have seen from the director Ash and the gorgeous actress Juliette Marquis and I liked what I have seen . The story begins with frontal male nude ( I do not like to see penis wherever ) but in a perfect timing and insertion in the context . James Woods proves again that he is one of the most underrated actor in Hollywood , with an amazing performance of a man with Parkinson disease . But the star of this movie is the unknown and extremely sexy and gorgeous Juliette Marquis that has a magnificent performance in the role of a porn star . Her body is astonishing , her eyes and face are impressively beautiful and she can act with a stunning performance ! I am looking forward to have a chance to see her again . Title ( Brazil ) : " Maiores de 18 " ( " Greater than 18 " literally , meaning " Rated-18 " )
Art , Love , Punk Wave , Insanity , Rejection and Death	In New York , the painter Reno Miller ( Abel Ferrara ) shares a loft with his girlfriend Carol ( Carolyn Marz ) , who left her husband Stephen , and their roommate Pamela ( Baybi Day ) . Reno is having difficulties to pay his bills , while is obsessed painting his masterpiece , a buffalo with a hypnotic eye . When a punk band moves to his building playing day and night , Reno cannot sleep and drives insane , going to the streets with a driller , killing homeless derelicts . When the art dealer calls his painting a mockery , and Carol returns to her husband , leaving him alone , Reno goes totally mad . " The Driller Killer " is polemic , forbidden in England in the 80's , but it is a good low budget slash movie . The red color very alive prevails in most of the scenes , and together with the nervous camera , provoke a sort of discomfort sensation in the viewer . The characters and the insanity process of Reno are very well constructed , and the story also captures the punk wave of that moment in New York . There is a good and worth explanation for the church scene in the beginning of the movie in IMDb Message Board written by SyZombieLoserKid . Although indicated for specific audiences , " The Driller Killer " is a good film . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Assassino da Furadeira " ( " The Driller Killer " )
A Sad Story of Dysfunctional Families and Teenagers	In a city in California , the skateboarders Shawn ( James Bullard ) , Claude ( Stephen Jasso ) and Tate ( James Ransone ) and Peeches ( Tiffany Limos ) are friends of the suicidal teenager Ken Park ( Adam Chubbuck ) . Shawn has intercourse with his girlfriend and her mother . Claude has an abusive , violent and alcoholic father and a neglectful and passive pregnant mother . Tate is addicted in masturbation and hates his grandparents that raise him due to the lack of privacy in his own room . Peeches practices kinky sex and has a fanatical religious father that misses his wife . " Ken Park " is a sad story of dysfunctional families and their teenagers . Most of the characters have sick and abnormal behaviors , but fortunately it is just a sample in the universe of director Larry Clark , who seems to like this theme , and does not correspond to the majority of the society . This uncomfortable movie is indicated for very specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ken Park "
A Stylish Trip of Drugs , Love and Murders	The needy and traumatized Theresa ( Emmeline Hawthorne ) , who was raped when she was fourteen year-old , meets the handsome John ( Christopher Brown ) on the street after an accident during a performance on the stage of her friend Kim ( Cal Wilson ) asking for a low-budget hotel . She offers a ride to a nearby hostel , they date and she brings him home , where he offers Ecstasy with wine to her . Kim advises her that John is a dangerous drug-dealer that has been missing for five years after the death of his girlfriend also called Theresa , but Theresa stays with him , practicing mutual masturbation , sharing her fears and fantasies and being permanently drugged . When John's friend Billy ( Aaron Ward ) visits Theresa , he reveals dark secrets about her boyfriend , leading to a tragic end . " Orphans and Angels " is a surprisingly good low-budget movie . The weird and erotic story about drugs , love and murders is developed through great performances , stylish cinematography and suitable music score . If the viewer sees this movie with lower expectations , like I did , he or she may be surprised by a very reasonable work . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anjos e Demônios " ( " Angels and Demons " )
Flawed But Refreshing and Intriguing Supernatural Romance	While driving through the south of Belgium , the violoncellist Julien ( Yann Chely ) meets the mysterious and gorgeous Sylvia ( Lou Broclain ) on the road and he immediately has a crush on her . They move together to his huge house and Julien builds a greenhouse for Sylvia in the field of his real state , where becomes her favorite place . One day , Sylvia has a strange behavior with Julien and asks him to stay alone at home . When Julien leaves the house , she goes to a construction nearby her property and brings to her house the daredevil biker Patrick ( Sacha Kollich ) that is working in the building , playing erotic games with him . When Julien returns home , he surprises the couple having sex and the upset Julien leaves the place , going to the house of his friend and also musician Jean ( Serge Swysen ) . But Julien is consumed by his passion for Sylvia , and when she tells him that she loves him , he understands her predatory need of life force of her mate . " Le Festin de la Mante " is a flawed , but refreshing and intriguing supernatural romance . The story of a " mantis-woman " that needs to kill her mate after having sex , draining his force to survive , fails due to the lack of explanation about the breed of the woman , who recalls a terrestrial siren . But the romance is beautiful , with Sylvia falling in love for Julien and trying to spare him from his fatal fate , using a stranger to fulfill her needs . The cast is completely unknown , but the performances of Lou Broclain and Yann Chely are great . Lou Broclain is a very beautiful woman and fits perfectly to her sexy and mysterious character . I liked this B-movie , which is recommended for specific audiences only . Title ( Brazil ) : " Irracional ? Uma Paixão Devoradora " ( " Irrational ? A Devourer Passion " )
Dated , but Still Enjoyable	In the French Riviera , the spoiled and futile seventeen years old girl Cecile ( Jean Seberg ) is spending the summer vacation with her father , the widow playboy and bon-vivant Raymond ( David Niven ) , and his girlfriend Elsa ( Mylène Demongeot ) . Cecile has a serious Complex of Oedipus with her father , and they have a quite incestuous relationship . The successful designer and former friend of her mother Anne Larson ( Deborah Kerr ) arrives in their seaside house invited by Raymond to spend a couple of days with them , and the life of Cecile changes when Raymond proposes Anne to marry him . Full of jealous , Cecile plots with Elsa to separate Anne from Raymond . " Bonjour Tristesse " is a film that became very dated , but it is still enjoyable , mostly because of Jean Seberg , who is amazingly perfect in her role , and the charming cast . The direction of Otto Preminger is very precise , as usual , using the black and white to picture the present and colors for the past . Jean Seberg , Debora Kerr and Mylène Demongeot are extremely beautiful and David Niven is great in the role of a silly millionaire with no other preoccupation but women and entertainment . In the present days , it can be clearly seem that the story shows , but does not emphasizes , an incestuous relationship between Cecile and Raymond . The costumes of Givenchy and the Cartier jewelries glitter the colored part of the movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bom Dia Tristeza " ( " Good Morning Sadness " )
Self-Destructive Souls	After the lecture of a poem to a group of bored students , the alcoholic and sex addicted poet Charles Serking ( Ben Gazzara ) meets a young girl in the backstage and caresses her breasts . Then he travels to Los Angeles , and has kinky sex with bizarre women . When Charles meets the gorgeous self-destructive prostitute Cass ( Ornella Muti ) in a bar , he finds his soul mate and falls in love for her . Marco Ferreri is one of the weirdest directors that I know , and this " Storie di Ordinaria Follia " gives a perfect theme for him to make a good movie about of two self-destructive souls . I do not know the work of the underground poet Charles Bukowski , and actually I just know a little about his biography based on the movie " Factotum " that I hated . But in " Storie di Ordinaria Follia " , Ornella Muti is on the top of her awesome beauty and her performance in the role of a tormented character is impressive . Ben Gazzara has also a stunning performance in the role of Charles Serking , a man near to madness that survives drinking booze and having dirty sex . However , this movie is only recommended for very specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crônicas de um Amor Louco " ( " Chronicles of a Crazy Love " )
A Teen Version of Adrian Lyne's Jacob's Ladder	Cassie ( the gorgeous Melissa Sagemiller ) is the girlfriend of Sean ( Casey Affleck ) , who is in love with her . Matt ( Wes Bentley ) , her former boyfriend , is dating Annabel ( Eliza Drushku , the Faith of Angel / Buffy series ) , but still has a crush on Cassie . All of them join different universities and they go to a party in a strange place . Cassie and Sean have a quarrel , leave the place and Cassie , who is driving the car , has an accident on the road . From this event on , many strange things will happen with the characters . This movie has the same storyline as the 1990 Adrian Lyne's Jacob's Ladder . For me , the story is predictable . The beauty of Melissa Sagemiller is amazing , and Eliza Drushku is very sexy , as usual . In my point of view , this movie is totally underrated in IMDB : bottom 100 # 98 is very unfair . The story entertains and I personally liked it .
A Cult Sci-Fi Movie From the 70's	In 2223 , Zed ( Sean Connery ) is a kind of priest of a new religion : he terminates with the brutals . This ' new religion ' of admirers of Zardoz controls the society simply killing the so-called ' brutals ' . The confused plot is presented in flashbacks , so any comment may be a spoiler . Therefore it is better off not make additional comments . Watching Zardoz in 2003 sounds strange . This low budget B-movie was made 1974 , when the world have the ' Peace and Love ' generation , the remake of ' Lost Horizon ' one year before , ' Logan's Run ' two years later and ' Hair ' some five years later . In 2003 , Zardoz is aged , but twenty-nine years ago it was a cult movie in close touch with the pop culture of that moment .
A Good Thriller That Recalls ' The Silence of the Lamb '	Selby Younger ( Kim Delaney ) is a psychologist from the FBI Psychological Profile Unit and having a relationship with detective Cole Grayson ( Gary Hudson ) . She provides the profile of the serial killer William Lucian Morrano ( Tobin Bell , with an outstanding performance ) , the criminal hurts her and is arrested by Cole . Two years later , Selby quits her position in FBI and is no longer with Cole . Morrano has cancer and is submitted to an experimental treatment . He recovers himself , escapes from the hospital and starts killing again , but in a different profile . Only friends of Selby are threatened . This thriller is very good , in the same line as ' The Silence of the Lamb ' . Tobin Bell is excellent as a serial killer . Having a better actor to perform Cole , and a few improvements on the screenplay , this could be an excellent film . Anyway , highly recommended for viewers who appreciate a suspenseful movie .
A Good Man , a Bitter Woman , a Disloyal Friend and Adultery	The bitter and cynical Mae Doyle ( Barbara Stanwyck ) returns to the fishing village where she was raised after deceptive loves and life in New York . She meets her brother , the fisherman Joe Doyle ( Keith Andes ) , and he lodges her in his home . Mae is courted by Jerry D'Amato ( Paul Douglas ) , a good and naive man that owns the boat where Joe works , and he introduces his brutal friend Earl Pfeiffer ( Robert Ryan ) , who works as theater's projectionist and is cheated by his wife . She does not like Earl and his jokes , but Jerry considers him his friend and they frequently see each other . Mae decides to accept the proposal of Jerry and they get married and one year later they have a baby girl . When the wife of Earl leaves him , he becomes depressed and Mae , who is bored with her loveless marriage , has an affair with him . " Clash by Night " is an unpleasant drama with a bitter story and a moralist conclusion , actually a minor film of Master Fritz Lang in his career in Hollywood . Barbara Stanwyck has another magnificent performance in the role of a woman hardened by her bad sentimental and life experiences in the big city that returns home due to the lack of option . There is one quote ( " When you run out of places , home is all you have left " ) that defines her mood . Paul Douglas plays a good honest man that nurses his old father , helps his crook alcoholic uncle and accepts the past of Mae Doyle , giving her a second chance . Robert Ryan plays a despicable rude man and disloyal friend . The affair between Mae and Earl has no chemistry and is only sexual desire . Last but not the least , it is delightful to see Marilyn Monroe playing a silly character . Title ( Brazil : " Só a Mulher Peca " ( " Only the Woman Sins " )
The Dark Side of the Human Nature	In Adelaide , the wife of Dr . Brian Cowper ( Robert Coleby ) , Jill Cowper ( Judy Morris ) , is developing her thesis at home to finish her Master in Anthropology . When the plumber Max ( Ivor Kants ) unexpectedly arrives for a routine check and maintenance of the piping in the bathroom , Jill stays alone at home with the talkative weird stranger . Along the days , he tells that he spent some time in prison , making Jill frightened with his presence . Her friend Meg ( Candy Raymond ) , her husband Brian and the super's wife finds Max a simple , but nice man , but Jill does not agree . When there is a problem in her bathroom and Max needs to stay with her for a longer period , the tension between them increases and Jill finds a way to get rid off the plumber . This low budget and theatrical film is a claustrophobic and scary study of human nature , based on the relationship of two different characters of different social classes spending a period together . It is also impressive how far a stressed person with culture and education may go and how amoral can be her behavior staying alone with another disturbed and lonely person that she can not understand . The direction and performances are outstanding in this suspenseful and efficient thriller . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Encanador " ( " The Plumber " )
War of Angels	In Bucharest , the tormented detective Dani Simionescu ( Sean Pertwee ) is investigating bizarre deaths with the heart removed from the victims . The Interpol agent John Riegert ( John Light ) is assigned to be his partner in the case . Meanwhile , the clerk of the church Alisson ( Kari Wuhrer ) finds the local priest dead and a mysterious bible , " The Prophet Lexicon " , where the last chapter about the apocalypse , called Revelations , is being somehow written . The voice of an angel , called Simon , advises her that she must protect the bible against a demon called Belial that wants to read this final chapter to have advantages in the war of angels . " The Prophecy : Uprising " follows the same premises of Christopher Walken's " Prophecy " movies , but it is not a sequel . There are new characters and the story is also good . The locations in Bucharest and the cold and quite dark cinematography contribute with the atmosphere of the film . I liked the performance of the cast , especially John Light with his evil look and Sean Pertwee . I believe that viewers that like movies about fallen angels will also like this good flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Profecia : A Guardiã do Destino " ( " Prophecy : The Guardian of the Destiny " )
The House of the Lost Souls	1 ) " The Visitor " : The drifter writer Tran Thanh Loc ( Tuan Cuong ) arrives in an old house and is lodged by the gorgeous Hoa ( Kathy Nguyen ) . Along the days , he falls in love for her and discloses the truth about the hostess . 2 ) " Only Child " : Loc is sick , totally disconnected of the world , but his nurse Linh ( Kathleen Luong ) heals him . He writes the best-seller The Visitor about his relationship with Hoa and becomes a successful writer . He proposes and marries Linh , but when he decides to have a baby , Linh is haunted by her hidden obscure past . 3 ) " The Diviner " : Linh's parents send the fraudulent diviner Lan ( Catherine Ai ) to use her pretentious knowledge of Feng Shui to help Loc , and she sees ghost in the house . Her son and aspirant writer Bao ( Michael Minh ) does not believe on his mother until he finds a surprising secret about Loc . " Spirits " is a low-budget low-paced Vietnamese movie , with an interesting ghost story . The production is very simple , using practically the same location along the whole story , but is also very engaging and intriguing . The tales are timeless , i . e . , there is no reference when they take place ; the characters are developed along the plot , without a previous development , but I liked this supernatural tales . Kathy Nguyen and Kathleen Luong are extremely beautiful women and good actresses . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sobrenatural " ( " Supernatural " )
Unconventional Romance	The Brazilian transvestite Fernanda a . k . a . Princesa ( Ingrid de Souza ) travels to Milan to meet her friend Charlo ( Biba Lerhue ) and work on the streets as prostitute to raise money for a sex change surgery . Fernanda dreams on changing sex ; find her prince charming and have a normal couple life . When Fernanda meets the married lawyer Gianni ( Cesare Bocci ) , her dreams come true : Gianni falls in love for her and leaves his wife Lidia ( Alessandra Acciai ) , moves with Fernanda to an apartment of their own and finances her aimed surgery . However , when Lidia visits Fernanda in her apartment and tells her that she is pregnant , the transsexual realizes that she would never be a complete woman and her relationship with Gianni would not last . " Princesa " is a good movie with an unconventional romance of a woman trapped in a man's body that has the dream of most teenagers from the countryside ( in her case , from the North of Brazil ) : to get married and raise a family . The Brazilian director Henrique Goldman uses a stylish grainy image that gives the sensation of documentary in many moments and an amateurish cast that has great performances giving a total credibility to the plot . The sex scenes are not free exploitation but part of the reality of the lives of the transsexual characters in Europe . In spite of the theme , this movie was a pleasant surprise for me . Title ( Brazil ) : " Princesa " ( " Princess " )
Mysterious and Sensitive Ghost Story	In Thailand , the young Ton Chatree ( Charlie Trairattana ) is sent to a boarding school by his father to be more disciplined , study harder and have less entertainment with television . Once in the school , Ton feels outcast and misses his family and friends . He becomes scared with the ghost stories his new schoolmates tell about a boy that died in the swimming pool and a young pregnant woman that committed suicide . He becomes a close friend of the also lonely boy Vichien ( Sirachuch Chienthaworn ) , and later Ton realizes that Vichien is the boy that drowned in the swimming pool , and his death repeats every night . Ton tries to find a way to help his friend to rest in piece . When I bought " Dorm " on DVD , I expected to see another Asian horror movie , my favorite genre . However , this good movie , in spite of having a ghost , is actually a dramatic supernatural story . The solid screenplay is supported by a great direction and excellent performance of the boy Charlie Trairattana , very credible in the lead role of Ton Chatree . This film has been promoted as a horror movie and I believe that many viewers may be disappointed , expecting to see a frightening and scary story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dorm ? O Espírito " ( " Dorm ? The Spirit " )
The Gore Z-Day	The department store salesman Shaun ( Simon Pegg ) is a real loser , having a routine life that is bothering his girlfriend Liz ( Kate Ashfield ) : every night they go to the pub Winchester with Shaun's best friend , the moron Edward ( Nick Frost ) , and Liz's friends Dianne ( Lucy David ) and David ( Dylam Moran ) . Shaun and Ed share a house with Pete ( Peter Serafinowicz ) , who hates Ed . When a satellite returning to Earth has some problems over London , the dead return to life and eat human flesh of those alive . Shaun plots a plan to rescue his mother and Liz and bring them to the Winchester , but his sanctuary is surrounded of zombies and things do not happen as planned . " Shaun of the Dead " is a funny parody of " The Night of the Living Dead " with potential of cult-movie . The story has a British humor , and some situations are really funny , since the two heroes are authentic morons that recall Beavis and Butt-Head or even the lazy characters of " Idle Hands " . This film is recommended for specific audiences that liked the black humor of " Braindead " , " Frankenhooker " or " Idle hands " , just to mention some examples . The news on TV in the end of the story is hilarious . Title ( Brazil ) : " Todo Mundo Quase Morto " ( " Everybody Almost Dead " )
Homage to the Greatest Thief of São Paulo	In 1926 , the famous thief Gino Meneghetti ( Luiz Ramalho ) escapes from the police running on the roofs of the houses in São Paulo . In accordance with the urban legend of São Paulo , in the 20's Gino Meneghetti was the most famous thief of this metropolis . He used to escape from the police running on the top of the roofs . The actor Luiz Ramalho was a stunt , but he was awarded in Gramado Festival as the Best Actor for his performance in this short film . The cinematography is very beautiful , and the film is spoken in Italian , since many immigrants arrived in São Paulo in the beginning if the Twentieth Century , but without subtitles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dov ' é Meneguetti ? "
The True Story of the Man Considered as the Most Infamous Spy in American History	Aldrich Ames is the CIA Chief of Soviet Counter-Intelligence for a long time , without having any promotion . His Colombian wife Rosario Ames ( Elizabeth Peña ) is a very greed woman , pressing him for a better life and status . Full of debts , and with low self-esteem , he decides to look for the Soviet Ambassador and offers a list of double agents to him per US$ 50 , 000 . 00 . The money comes easily and Aldrich does not stop anymore , delivering many American secrets to Soviet Union along eight years . The experienced agent Jeanne Vertefeuille ( Joan Plowright ) comes to CIA Headquarters to conduct an investigation of the leak of information . With the collapse of the communist system , Aldrich becomes desperate and commits a final serious mistake . This movie-for-cable-TV is very above the average . The story hooks the attention of the viewer , as well as the performance of Timothy Hutton , Elizabeth Peña and Joan Plowright . The screenplay focuses mostly in the family , the financial problem and the lack of perspective in the career of Aldrich Ames , and the viewer may end the movie with some sympathy for him . Maybe this is the flaw in the plot , since the guy indeed was a disgusting traitor of his country for money . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Perfil de Um Espião ' ( ' Profile of a Spy ' )
A Fight For a Lost Dream	In Socorro ( which means ' Help ' , in Portuguese ) , Alice Hyatt ( Ellen Burstyn ) is a married woman , living with her eleven years old son Tommy Hyatt ( Alfred Lutter ) , and being suffocated by her loveless marriage . Her husband dies in an accident with his delivery truck and the widowed woman leaves the city with her son with just a few bucks due to a garage sale , trying to reach Monteray , where she was a singer before her marriage , hoping to continue her former interrupted career . Along their journey , Alice gets minor jobs and has some love deceptions and desperate situations . This movie has great dialogs , an outstanding performance of Ellen Burstyn and an excellent camera work . The screenplay is unconventional and intriguing , but I did not like its conclusion . It is very difficult to identify the teenager Jodie Foster looking like a boy . Great participation of the boy Alfred Lutter in the role of the rebel Tommy . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Alice Não Mora Mais Aqui ' ( ' Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore ' )
A Creepy , Gruesome and Gore Tale of Witchcraft and Insanity	In Bangkok , five former high school friends are informed that the father of their friend Ta committed suicide . Ta is the son of Prowaet , who got married with their English teacher Panor and together they had a son , Nong . The student of medicine Kim and her boyfriend Por that studies in law school , the student of engineering Ko and Noot that is studying English to move to Australia with her gay friend Tair decide to reunite and travel to the country for the ceremony of cremation . While traveling by train , Kim recalls an incident two years ago in their last year in school , when they had been abused by their couch and lover of Panor when they found their affair . The students , seeking revenge , asked the Cambodian voodooist Pawn to cast a black magic against the couch , who mysteriously died after fishing . Once in the village , they spend the night with Ta and his stepmother Panor in their isolated house in the jungle nearby a river , when creepy things happen and their horror begin . " Long Khong " is a creepy , gruesome and gore tale of witchcraft and insanity . The story is really scary , and has some nasty and cruel scenes : the worst is the sequence when the teenager is tortured with hot water and burned by a torch . The story follows the pattern of the good Asian horror movies , with secrets and revelations being disclosed in the last moments , like the last parts of a puzzle . This macabre type of voodoo with corpses is unusual in Western movies . The screenplay is very well tight , with great lines , and I liked the wise thought of Kim : " The future is what we want to be ; the past defines us " . The direction is very precise , the special effects are impressive and the cast has great performances . The lead actress is extremely gorgeous , and unfortunately I do not know her name . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Arte do Demônio " ( " The Art of the Devil " )
A Sordid Crime ( 04 September 2007 )	In 1999 , in Claremont , California , the violent Jake Mazursky ( Ben Foster ) owes US$ 1 , 200 . 00 to the coward drug dealer Johnny Truelove ( Emile Hirsch ) , who is son of the powerful criminal Sonny Truelove ( Bruce Willis ) . They fight and start a personal war , with Jake breaking into the house of Johnny with his friends , stealing the TV and leaving excrement in the living room . Johnny kidnaps Jake's fifteen year old brother Zach Mazurka ( Anton Yelchin ) , who has just had an argument with his parents , and brings him to the upper class house of his friend Frankie Ballenbacher ( Justin Timberlake ) . Along a couple of days , Zach meets the friends of Frankie , goes to parties , drinks boozes , smokes pot and has sex with other teenagers . When Johnny realizes that kidnapping means life sentence , he asks the minion scum Elvis Schmidt ( Shawn Hatosy ) to kill the boy . " Alpha Dog " is an impressive movie , disclosing one of the most sordid crime I have ever seen in a film . I do not know how accurate the story is , but based on the screenplay it is amazing the level of alienation and cold blood of the criminals . I regret that the screenplay reveals the fate of Zach in the beginning , breaking the tension and a possible twist in the end . The performances are awesome , and I was very impressed with Ben Foster , Shawn Hatosy and Justin Timberlake , perfect in their roles . The great soundtrack begins with a beautiful interpretation of " Over the Rainbow " , by Eva Cassidy , that gives a touch of class to this movie . Johnny ( Jesse James ) was actually arrested in Saquarema , Região dos Lagos , Brazil . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alpha Dog "
Something Is Missing To Be a Great Movie	In Paris , Antoine ( Guillaume Canet ) is a ne'er-do-well , using all the possible tricks the get into private parties and night ? clubs . He lives the nightlife , and sleeps nearby a swimming pool of a gym club . He uses the name of a mysterious man known as Jordan to get into a private party , where an old man gives him 100 , 000 . 00 French Francs , with the promise of another 900 , 000 . 00 , is he gets any information about the location of Jordan . Antoine and his friend Étienne ( Gérard Lanvin ) chases Jordan through the Parisian night , and Antoine meets Jordan's sister Violaine Charlier ( Asia Argento ) . Violaine is considered a weird person , who bites her lovers in the neck . Antoine gets involves in weird and dangerous situations while pursuing Violaine and her brother . Something is missing in ' Les Morsures de L'aube ' to be a great movie . It has a beautiful photography of the night of Paris , excellent soundtrack and the sexy Asia Argento . However , the story is very confused and the conclusion is very disappointing . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Cães da Noite ' ( ' Dogs of the Night ' )
A Woman Ahead of Time , Who Fought Against Prejudice of Conservative Society	The old man and former senator João Gaspar ( Walmor Chagas ) tells his romance with Luz Del Fuego ( Lucélia Santos ) to his nurse , while traveling to the " Ilha do Sol " ( " Island of the Sun " ) in a boat . In the end of the forties , he meets the show-girl Luz del Fuego , who becomes his lover . Ahead of time , she shocks the conservative Catholic Brazilian society with her costumes of being naked most of the time , and when she moves to the " Ilha do Sol " , a property of her own , it became a nudism colony . This movie was awarded in Gramado Festival , and Lucélia Santos has an amazing performance , being very natural naked most of the time and dancing with snakes . The story omits many parts of the biography of Luz del Fuego , highlighting her mostly as a low-level woman , and explores the beautiful body of Lucélia Santos . However , in accordance information of the site : http aolliver vilabol uol com br luzdelfuego html ( written in Portuguese ) , Luz del Fuego was born on 21 February 1917 , with the name of Dora Vivacqua , in Cachoeiro do Itapemirim ( ES ) . In 1944 , she began her artistic career with the company of two snakes , " Cornélio e Castorina " , working in " Circo Pavilhão Azul " ( " Blue Flag Circus " ) , with the artistic name of " Luz Divina " . In 1947 , she changed her name to the foreign artistic name of " Luz del Fuego " , following the advice of her friend , the clown " Cascudo " , expecting to attract a greater public . Later , she was hired by the owners of the theater " Follies " . Luz del Fuego was an ecologist and naturalist , in a period when these themes were not discussed by the Brazilian society . In 1950 , she opened the first nudity colony of the Latin American in the Ilha do Sol ( " Island of the Sun " ) , in São Gonçalo . She wrote two books : " Trágico Black Out " ( " Tragic Black-Out " , in 1947 ) and " Verdade Nua " ( " Naked Truth " , in 1950 ) . Part of her profits with these books were donated to charity institution . The famous Ilha do Sol hosted many international vips , such as Errol Flynn , Ava Garden , Tyrone Powel , Brigite Bardot , Steve MacQueen , César Romeno , Laura Turner and Gleen Ford . On 19 July 1967 , Luz del Fuego was murdered by Alfredo Teixeira Dias and Mozart . In 1982 , the pictures of Lucélia Santos in this film was the front page and the centerfold of the Brazilian edition of Playboy magazine . Further , it is worthwhile watching this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Luz Del Fuego "
The Nobel Prize	The scientist Dr . Simon Kress ( Beau Bridges ) has been researching the development of a species using eggs found in a sample of Martian soil . When one bug escapes from the laboratory breaking the security of the facility , the project is shut-down by the government due to its hazard . Dr . Simon expected to win the Nobel Prize and steals 275 g of the sample ground , bringing it to the barn of his property and developing new species . He hides the truth from his wife Cathy ( Helen Shaver ) and shares the secret with his smart son Josh ( Dylan Bridges ) . Along the days , Simon realizes how intelligent the creatures are and feels like a god since they seem to worship him . However , when Simon is bitten by a subject , he changes his irresponsible behavior to insanity , jeopardizing his family , his friend and mankind . " Sandking " is the pilot of " The Outer Limits " show and presents a story very similar to " The Fly " : an ambitious scientist that makes a mistake with his experiment , being affected and becoming insane with the transformation . The story is disclosed in a low pace , with reasonable special effects for a television show , but the character of Dr . Simon Kress looks like a " crazy scientist " since the very beginning with his irrational behavior when one subject escapes . The final message criticizing scientists that wish to behave like gods is silly and shallow , since the development of science is important and necessary within the limits of ethic , otherwise humanity would still be in the Dark Age . The deranged Dr . Simon Kress is not a good example of a responsible man-of-science . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quinta Dimensão - Reis da Areia - Partes 1 e 2 " ( " Fifth Dimension - Sandkings - Parts 1 & 2 " )
When a Middle Age Woman Finds Love Again	In Paris , Angèle ( Nathalie Baye ) is a beautician working in the beauty parlor ' Venus Beauty Institute ' , owned by Natalie ( Bulle Ogier ) . Her colleagues are Samantha ( Mathilde Seigner ) and Marie ( Audrey Tautou ) and they have a good relationship in the salon . Angèle has an emotional problem with men and she does not believe in love anymore . Her affairs happen by chance with strangers and she seems to have the gift of choosing wrong guys for one night stand . Angèle meets Antoine ( Samuel Le Bihan ) , a sculptor who has a crush with her , but the bitter and heartbroken Angèle has problems to believe on his love . I liked this romance about a heartbroken middle age woman finding love again . First , because of the great performance of the beautiful Nathalie Baye , who was fifty-one years old in 1999 . The gorgeous Audrey ' Amélie Poulain ' Tautou and Mathilde Seigner are collyrium for the eyes of the male viewers , being another attraction . The story has some ups and downs , with some shallow situations , like the exhibitionist client who walks naked in the beauty shop , but the balance is very positive . The story ends like a fairy tale and is enjoyable . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Instituto de Beleza Venus ' ( ' Venus Beauty Institute ' )
He Tough His Wealthy Made Him Above the Laws	On 14 July 2000 , in Ventura County , California , the young Connie ( Marla Sokoloff ) is raped by the Max Factor heir Andrew Luster ( Jason Gedrick ) after ingesting a drug called Liquid X in a glass of water offered by him in a night-club . With the support of her father , she reluctantly decides to go to the police and tells her snapshots of the occurrence . Connie and the police collects evidences to send Andrew to the jury and during the investigation , two other victims of Andrew , Sarah ( Sarah Carter ) and Teri ( Stefanie von Pfetten ) , are found and join the accusation . After almost three years , Andrew is sentenced to 124 years in prison for his 86 counts , but he escapes to Mexico , where he is finally arrested by the Mexican authorities and deported to USA on 24 June 2003 . " A Date with Darkness : The Trial and Capture of Andrew Luster " is a great TV movie based on a true story . I liked the way the story is disclosed and the performance of the cast , specially the cynical face of Jason Gedrick , who is perfect in the role of a manipulative sociopath . Although being a made-for-TV movie , this movie has a good screenplay , direction and acting . Title ( Brazil ) : " Líquido X " ( " Liquid X " )
An Intriguing Fight Between Power and Alienation	Chris ( Antonie Karmeling ) is a violent and ignorant small-time Dutch crook . He uses his body and beautiful face to seduce old married women , and then he robs them . One day , after assaulting a friend of him , he steals his van and moves to Nice . There , he goes with an old woman to her room in a fancy hotel , and when he is robbing her , she fights with him , hurts his face and he attacks her . Chris believes he has killed her , and while escaping from the employees of the hotel and from the police , he hides himself in the suite 16 . Chris meets the owner of the suite , the wealthy paraplegic Glover ( Peter Postlethwaite ) . They make an agreement , and Chris gets paid for staying in the suite having sex with prostitutes for Peter watch it through a camera . The story finishes in a tragic way . Yesterday I watched this European movie and I found it very intriguing . The character of Chris is violent , ignorant , impulsive , alienated , athletic and makes anything for money ( indeed , the guy is obsessed for money ) . Glover , magnificently performed by Peter Postlethwaite , is the opposite : very well controlled , intellectual ( he makes many citations along the film ) , paraplegic and unhealthy , wealthy and very intelligent , he plans each step , like a cat playing with a mouse before eating it . The story is not well resolved : my impression is that the writer did not know how to finish the plot . This erotic , violent and intriguing film is recommended for a very specific public , who certainly will have the attention hooked along the story . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Aconteceu na Suite 16 ' ( ' It Has Happened in Suite 16 ' )
A Movie Divided In Two Parts	While driving through the Nevada desert to Salt Lake , the couple Peter Jackson ( Henry Thomas ) and his wife Mary ( Annabeth Gish ) are stopped by sheriff Collie Entragian ( Ron Pealman ) because their car has no license plate in the back . When they open the trunk to get some tools , Collie finds a package of marijuana and arrests the couple , becoming insane and abusive , and the couple claims that they have stolen the car . While driving to the jail of Desperation , the terrified couple sees corpses everywhere in the town ; in the entrance of the police station , they see the body of a young girl , and the sheriff shoots and kills Peter . In the jail , Mary sees a couple and their religious son David Carver ( Shane Haboucha ) and an old local , Tom Billingsley ( Charles Durning ) . Meanwhile the deranged sheriff arrests the successful and arrogant writer John Edward Marinville ( Tom Skerritt ) that is traveling in his motorcycle through the country promoting lectures . John gives a troubled and jammed call in his cellular to his assistant Steve Ames ( Steven Weber ) , who is following him in a support trunk with the hitchhiker Cynthia Smith ( Kelly Overton ) . When the group of survivors escapes from the jail and meets Steve and Cynthia , David discloses that one hundred and fifty years ago , a group of Chinese slaves released in the cave-in , an earth demon " waisin " called Tak , or the unformed heart . When the mine collapsed , all of them died , but something came out of the mine . The group under the leadership of David and under the protection of God decides to battle against the pagan god Tak and get the world free of his evil . " Desperation " , as most of the adaptations of Stephen King to the screen , is irregular and may be divided in two parts : the creepy first one is excellent , with Ron Pealman perfect and scary in the role of the common man possessed by a very evil and powerful fiend . When his character vanishes , the story comes downhill , with the weak and expressionless Shane Haboucha performing a strong character that should be the counterpoint to the sheriff , but actually is terrible . Tom Skerritt also seems to be miscast , since the does not fit exactly to the description of Steve Ames . Anyway , " Desperation " is intriguing and above average in the genre , but had potential to be better and better . Title ( Brazil ) : " Desespero " ( " Desperation " )
Delightful Naive Adventure	In Baghdad , in the days of the Mongol invasion leaded by the cruel Hugalu Khan ( Kurt Katch ) , the caliph Hassan ( Moroni Olsen ) is betrayed by Prince Cassim ( Frank Puglia ) and killed by the Mongols . His son Ali , who had just pledged love to Prince Cassim's daughter Amara , escapes and accidentally finds the magic cave Sesame , the hiding place of forty thieves leaded by Baba ( Fortunio Bonanova ) . Ali is adopted by Baba , who assigns the strong Abdullah ( Andy Devine ) to protect him . For ten years , the Mongols held Baghdad , and Ali Baba ( Jon Hall ) becomes the leader of the forty thieves , now beloved by the population for challenging the invaders . When the thieves acknowledge that a caravan is bringing Lady Amara ( Maria Montez ) to marry the tyrant Hugalu Khan , Ali Baba meets her bathing and does not recognize her . The Mongols capture him and he believes she betrayed him . Amara's servant Jamiel ( Turhan Bey ) helps Ali Baba , and the thieves rescue him in Baghdad and abduct Amara . In the garden of Prince Cassim's garden , they have recollections of their childhood , but they do not recognize each other . When Ali finds the truth , he fights for his love and for the freedom of Baghdad . " Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves " is a delightful naive adventure that brings me back to my childhood , when I loved to see the movie because of the magic cave that opened and closed with the commands : " - Open , Oh Sesame ! " , or " - Close , Oh Sesame ! " . The story is simple , with the evil Hugalu Khan in the always invaded Baghdad ; the traitor Prince Cassim ; the forty bandits that become good guys ; the hero Ali Baba and the heroine Amara , and lots of action for children and adults . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ali Baba e os Quarenta Ladrões " ( " Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves " )
Good European Thriller	In the pleasant city of Ghent , in Belgium , the girl-friends Eva ( Hilde De Baerdemaeker ) and Patti ( Veerle Dobbelaere ) videotape the robbery of a car first and later the suicide of a hooker . When Eva's camera is stolen by the thieves , Dieter ( Geert Hunaerts ) retrieves it , returns the camera to Eva and has an affair with her . Meanwhile , Patti decides to investigate the tape and finds a dark secret about the incident and Dieter . " Alias " is a good European thriller , filmed in the beautiful city of Ghent . The first half part of the story is very promising and original , but unfortunately the conclusion falls in the usual clichés of horror movies . The unknown actresses of this movie are extremely beautiful and charming , have great performances and are another attraction . I particularly loved the performance and beauty of Hilde De Baerdemaeker , and I hope to have the chance to see her again in other movies . I expect also to have the chance of one day visit this lovely city of Ghent , which seems to be wonderful . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alias ? Relações de Sangue " " ( " Alias ? Blood Relations " )
Shut-Down Your Brain and Laugh	The thirty and something years old bachelor partners and best friends divorce mediators John Beckwith ( Owe Wilson ) and Jeremy Grey ( Vince Vaughn ) have a hobby of crashing weddings following predetermined rules to have one night stand with different women . When they decide to crash the most important wedding of Washington pretending they are brothers , in a party promoted by the Secretary of Treasury William Cleary ( Christopher Walken ) , John breaks their rules and has a crush on Claire Cleary ( Rachel McAdams ) and Jeremy scores the sex-addicted Gloria Cleary ( Isla Fisher ) , both daughters of William . Gloria invites Jeremy to spend the weekend at the Cleary family estate , and John sees the chance to be close to Claire , in spite of her engagement with the arrogant Zachary " Sack " Lodge ( Bradley Cooper ) . Along the weekend with the dysfunctional Cleary family , John and Jeremy will fall in love for the sisters , but their real identities jeopardize the relationship . " Wedding Crashers " is silly and will never win or will be nominated to an Oscar . But it is also hilarious , with many funny situations . The great cast shows a fantastic chemistry and seems to have fun while making the movie , and is supported by a delicious screenplay and an excellent music score . My advice is simple : shut-down your brain and laugh with this highly recommended comedy . See also their one hundred and fifty-five ( 155 ) Rules of Wedding Crashing in IMDb . Title ( Brazil ) : " Penetras Bom de Bico " ( " Crashers Good of Talking " )
A Good Action Movie With a Disappointing End	Rick ( Ed Marinaro ) is the owner of a ski resort near the bankruptcy . His alcoholic friend Scott ( Nick Mancuso ) manages the place , and Rick decides to put his young wife Lauren ( Kirsten Robek ) in charge of the management . Alex ( Wolf Larson ) is one of the responsible for the safety of the mountain . In order to improve the condition of the mountain against avalanches , Alex and Lauren install eight explosives on its top to provoke a controlled explosion . However , three reckless snowboarders jeopardize the operation , causing a serious accident . This movie is a good action movie , showing astonishing landscapes , specially through the aerial camera . It transmits lots of tension , specially when some persons are buried under the snow , waiting for rescue . The problem is the story with many flaws . For example , how could a man invest money in a place located in a area with risk of avalanche , and gives its management to a drunken friend ? His friend shows that has no moral qualities , lying about Alex and Lauren , drinking on duty etc . In the conclusion of the plot , it seems that the budget finished and the story has a very disappointing end . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Fúria da Avalanche ' ( ' The Fury of the Avalanche ' )
When a Man Makes the Difference	In the Kilpatrick juvenile detention center , the supervisor and former football player Sean Porter ( Dwayne ' The Rock ' Johnson ) sees the lack of discipline , self-esteem , union and perspective in the teenage interns and proposes to prepare a football team to play in one league . He is supported by his superiors and his successful experience changes the lives of many youngsters . While watching " Gridiron Gang " , I commented to my wife that I was enjoying the movie in spite of being corny and predictable . However , in the credits there are several footages of a documentary with the real Sean Porter and several interns , and I realized that this movie is not only based on a true story , but many lines of The Rock are exactly the same said by Sean Porter in the documentary . This revelation changed completely my first opinion , and I found this movie a great homage to a man that made the difference . The message about the importance of sports to aggregate men and make them winners in the essence of the word is beautiful and The Rock is amazing , giving credibility to his character in one of his best roles . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Gangue Está em Campo " ( " The Gang Is In the Field " )
If This Attractive Film is a Pilot , Please Let me Know Where I Can Find the Series	The American successful architect Michael Lewis ( Andrew McCarthy ) travels to London with his partner and friend , the builder Jake ( Kevin Tighe ) , to refurbish an old hotel . Michael is having successive nightmares , and once in London , he realizes that twenty-one spirits are trying to contact him to solve murders of a serial killer . Michael , with the support of Jake , Detective Pryce ( Amanda Redman ) and the ghosts , try to avoid the ninth crime and find the serial-killer . I saw " The Sight " on video , and it seems to be a pilot of a series , since the story has a " hook " for a sequel . If this film is a pilot , I would like to know where I can find the series . The story is a kind of supernatural mystery movie in the same line of " Haunted " , " The Others " , " The Sixth Sense " and " El Espinazo del Diablo " , and I really liked it . There are some flaws in the screenplay , like for example when Michael pays a visit to the lawyer in the burned building with his friend Jake , or why the ghosts do not simply tell him who the killer is , but anyway it is an enjoyable entertainment , working perfectly on video or DVD and being a promising TV series . Title ( Brazil ) : " Visões " ( " Visions " )
Delightful Entertainment	The witch Isabel Bigelow ( Nicole Kidman ) arrives in California with the objective of having a normal life without spells . Meanwhile , in Hollywood , the egocentric actor Jack Wyatt ( Will Ferrell ) is trying to retrieve his former prestige in the cinema industry playing Darrin in a remake of the successful TV Series " Bewitched " . When Jack meets Isabel by chance and sees her moving her nose , he immediately decides to invite her to perform Samantha . His second intention is to cast an unknown actress and overshadow her performance . When Isabel finds his real intention , she becomes upset and her aunt puts a hex on Jack . But Isabel is in love with Jack and decides to tell him the truth about her . I heard many bad reviews of " Bewitched " but a friend of mine convinced me to give a chance to this movie and watch it . I really liked this delightful entertainment . The story is not a remake of " Bewitched " , indeed it is great homage to this wonderful TV Series . Nicole Kidman is very beautiful and seems to feel pleasure in making this movie , with a sweet performance . Will Ferrell is funny and suits perfectly to the role of the self-centered and selfish Jack . Michael Caine and Shirley MacLaine are excellent as usual in their small parts . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Feiticeira " ( " The Witch " )
We do Exist Because Someone Recalls Us	In Madrid , Cayetana ( Candela Peña ) is a call girl that lives with her dysfunctional mother , who does not accept the death of her husband three years ago , and send flowers with anonymous cards to herself as if they were sent by an admirer . Caye spends the day with other prostitutes at a beauty salon waiting for phone calls from clients , is saving money for a surgery to increase her breasts with silicon and has a crush on the computer programmer Manuel ( Luis Callejo ) that does not believe she is a whore . When Caye meets the illegal whore from the Dominican Republic Zulema ( Micaela Nevárez ) , who works in the local red light district , they become close friends , spending their spare time together and making confidences to each other . " Princesas " is an entertaining movie about prostitution , friendship and love . Candela Peña and Micaela Nevárez have great performances , but the story neither has the glamour and redemption of " Pretty Woman " nor is too dramatic or harsh , except with the positive result of the HIV test of Zulema . The revenge of Zulema and the open conclusion gives a perfect grand-finale for this enjoyable movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Princesas " ( " Princesses " )
Reaching the Maturity	The seventeen years old newcomer in town Jones Dillon ( Elijah Wood ) drops out the university on his first day , after a problem with his roommate , and decides to rent an apartment in an old building . Jones pays one year rental at once for the 2B apartment and his only possessions are a trunk and a typewriter that belonged to his unknown father . Jones spends his time fantasizing his life , writing never-sent-letters to his absent father and discussing by phone his childhood and family problems with his alcoholic mother ( Elizabeth Perkins ) , who lives in Texas . He becomes friend of a painter cowboy , who lives on the first floor , and of the aspiring actress Lisa ( Mandy Moore ) , who lives in the apartment 2A on the same floor . Jones has a crush on the temperamental photographer Jane ( Franka Potente ) , who lives in apartment 2C . After a car accident , Jones reaches the maturity and resolves the outstanding problems of his life . ' Try Seventeen ' is a kind of love-hate movie . My wife , for example , just watched half of the story and gave-up to see the second part . I liked this film , about a young man leaving adolescence and finding his own path . The viewer has to keep in mind that Jones's neighbors are indeed Lisa and Jane , otherwise it would be very hard to believe that a guy would have Mandy Moore and Franka Potente available on the same floor . There is comedy , romance and drama in this sensitive story well directed by Jeffrey Porter . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Era Tudo o Que Eu Queria ' ( ' This Was Everything That I Wanted ' )
Gruesome , Sadistic , Sick and Gore	In New York , the top-model Jennifer Tree ( Elisha Cuthbert ) is drugged in a night-club in Soho and kidnapped with her dog . Jennifer awakes in a cell in a basement and is submitted to psychological and physical tortures by her twisted abductor . When she meets Gary ( Daniel Gillies ) on the next cell , the stranger protects her and she feels attracted by him . When they manage to escape from their imprisonment , Jennifer discovers the truth about her sick kidnapper . The unpleasant " Captivity " is gruesome , sadistic , sick and gore and certainly recalls " Saw " . But this graphic story is certainly a scary horror movie , at least in the first impressive half . Elisha Cuthbert gives credibility to her terrorized character , there is a good plot point and I found this movie very satisfactory . The scene when she is forced to drink the " vitamin " prepared in the liquidizer in one of the most disgusting and gross I have ever seen in a movie . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Memories of Lampião , the King of the Cangaço	This documentary presents the life and death of Lampião , his wife Maria Bonita and his group of hit men called " Cangaceiros " , with footages , pictures and testimonies of persons that have had some sort of contact with him , including the man who killed Lampião . Paulo Gil Soares released this short using footages from " Lampião , o Rei do Cangaço " of Benjamin Abrahão . The intention of Benjamin was to make a documentary about Lampião , as a symbol of a problem in the Brazilian society and a challenge to the State . He followed Lampião and his group , but when the 100 minutes running time movie was ready ( 1936 ) , the D . I . P . ? censorship of the Brazilian Estado Novo ( New State ) ? destroyed the film . However , many negatives survived . In the 50s , a former employee of D . I . P . sold these negatives to the production of " Comendo de Colher " ( 1959 ) . Paulo Gil Soares retrieved these negatives and prepared a 10 minutes cut about Lampião . Title ( Brazil ) : " Memória do Cangaço " ( " Memories of the Cangaço " )
Great and Very Funny Adventure	In France , Hubert Fiorentini ( Jean Reno ) is a tough , violent , but very effective detective , who has been missing the great love of his life , a Japanese woman , for nineteen years . While capturing a criminal drag-queen , Hubert hurts the son of his chief and is " licenceed " for a couple of months . Meanwhile , he is called from Tokyo by the lawyer of his former girlfriend , who died and left of her possessions to him . When he arrives in Tokyo , he meets his former partner Momo ( Michel Muller ) and is informed by the lawyer about his inheritance : 200 millions of Euros and a teenager daughter , Yumi Yoshimido ( Ryoko Hirosue ) . Sooner he realizes that the Yakuza is chasing him , looking for the huge amount of money . " Wasabi " is a great and very funny adventure , recalling the confusions of " Lethal Weapon " . Jean Reno is excellent , as usual , in the role of a tough but very sentimental man . Ryoko Hirosue gives charm to the story , and Michel Muller is the clumsy and quite dumb partner of Hubert . This movie made my family and I laugh a lot , being an excellent entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Wasabi "
Promising Story , Horrible Conclusion	The sociopath killer Lee Ray Oliver ( Ray Liotta ) is sentenced to death by lethal injection . Dr . Michael Copeland ( Willem Dafoe ) offers him the chance to be a test subject of an experimental drug intended to reduce the aggressive behavior of the patient . Lee accepts the terms and after a successful treatment in the laboratory , gets a new identity and chance in life . However , his past haunts him . " Control " is a very promising thriller with a great beginning , which hooks the attention of the viewer . The attractive cast has names such as Willem Dafoe , Ray Liotta , Michelle Rodriguez , Stephen Rea and Polly Walker . I really expected an excellent film , after watching the first part of this film , but unfortunately , after the last plot point , the screenplay has a horrible conclusion . , spoiling what could have been a great movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Control "
A Surrealistic Dark Comedy	Ana ( Geraldine Chaplin ) is alive and married with Antonio ( Norman Briski ) ; they arrive in the manor in the countryside of Spain where she worked as a nanny many years ago , for the centennial birthday of the matriarch ( Rafaela Aparicio ) . In their reunion , she finds that Jose died three years ago ; Juan ( José Vivó ) left his wife Luchy ( Charo Soriano ) ; Fernando ( Fernando Fernán Gómez ) is still living with his mother and unsuccessfully trying to fly a hang glider ; and the three little girls are grown-up . Further , she discovers that the dysfunctional family is completely broken , and Luchy in embezzling mother's money . When Juan arrives for the celebration , he plots with Fernando and Luchy to kill the mother to get the inheritance . Meanwhile , Antonio has a brief affair with Natalia ( Amparo Muñoz ) . " Mamá Cumple Cien Años " is a surrealistic dark comedy that uses the characters of " Ana y los Lobos " and Antonio from " Elisa , Vida Mía " . Again , Carlos Saura uses a political allegory with his characters : the omnipresent and omnipotent mother is still the old Spain ; however , the children have grown , Lucy becomes a greedy woman and Juan is gone . Further , she is betrayed by her beloved sons . There are certainly many other political elements for those familiarized with the Spanish history . The beauty of the former Miss Spain ( 1973 ) and Miss Universe ( 1974 ) Amparo Muñoz is astonishing . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mamãe Faz 100 Anos " ( " Mother is 100 Year Old " )
Bloody Episode	While working as a volunteer with Pete Ross in Smallville Youth Center , Clark Kent receives a distress call from Lana Lang , who is shot by Adam Wright . His further investigation shows that the call was made from the future . Meanwhile , Lionel Luthor shuts down the obscure Metron Laboratory and the research that Dr . Lia Teng is developing with blood platelet . Adam becomes aware that he has less than twelve hours to be injected with the serum , otherwise he will die . He escapes and apparently kills Dr . Teng and her team . Lex is framed as responsible for the massive murder . " Crisis " is a bloody episode , but full of holes . There is no explanation for the reception of Lana's cellular call from the future , and the sudden arrival of Clark saving Lana uses the same lack of clarification . The fate of Lionel Luthor and his interest in the serum is finally disclosed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crise " ( " Crisis " )
Disclosing the True Friends	After robbing the Talon , Kevin Grady ( Jonathan Bennett ) is chased by Clark Kent and completely erases his memories . Chloe Sullivan helps Clark to protect his secret and recollect his memories , looking for Kevin's father , the scientist Lawrence Grady ( Tom Butler ) . They find that Kevin was the subject of an experiment of his own father . In this episode , the viewer can see how false the friendship of Lex Luthor is for Clark Kent , and how Chloe Sullivan really likes him . The story is only reasonable , but it discloses in a clear way who are the true friends of Clark . Title ( Brazil ) : " Amnésia " ( " Amnesia " )
A Good , But Complicated Plot of Revenge , in Times of Cold War	Near to the seventh annual meeting to celebrate their graduation and friendship , the successful anchor of a television network John Tanner ( Rutger Hauer ) is convinced by CIA director Maxwell Danforth ( Burt Lancaster ) and his agent Lawrence Fassett ( John Hurt ) that his best friends belong to a Soviet Union organization called Omega . The CIA installs cameras and microphones everywhere in his house to monitor Bernard Osterman ( Craid T . Nelson ) , Richard Tremayne ( Dennis Hopper ) and Joseph Cardone ( Chris Sarandon ) . A complicated and very evil plot is disclosed along the weekend . Yesterday I saw " The Osterman Weekend " maybe for the fourth time , but now on DVD , and I still like it . However , with the end of the Cold War and the present state-art of communication , this story has become dated , and lost a great part of its impact . However , in 1983 , it was ahead of time , criticizing the media through television . The Double Commemorative Edition DVD features a second disc , with the documentary " From Alpha to Omega : The Making of ' The Osterman Weekend ' ( 2004 ) " . This documentary was released in 2004 , and presents a complete dossier about this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Casal Osterman " ( " The Osterman Couple " )
End of Cycles and Relationships	Clark Kent decides to disclose his secret to Lana Lang , trying to avoid her traveling to Paris , and invites her for dinner . Meanwhile the dangerous teenager Emily Eve Dinsmore ( Amber Rothwell ) , the six years girl from " Accelerate " that has had an accelerate grown-up and is still obsessed for Lana , escapes from the institute where she is interned . She kills the new owner of Talon and kidnaps Lana Lang . Chloe Sullivan joins Lex Luthor trying to find evidences to send the powerful Lionel Luthor to prison . The life of Pete Ross is threatened by a corrupt FBI agent trying to find what her knows about Clark Kent , and he decides to move with his mother to Wichita . " Forsaken " seems to preannounce the end of some relationships in " Smallville " . Apparently the character of Pete Ross will leave the show at least in a regular basis , since he is moving to another city far from Smallville ; the mumbling crybaby and undecided Lana Lang fortunately is moving to Paris and we will be spared to see her ridiculous relationship with Clark Kent ; and most important , I am curious to see how will work the relationship between Lionel and Lex Luthor . I hope that the episodes of the next season get better than in this irregular Third Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " Renúncias " ( " Renounces " )
Every People Need a Hero	While working in the night shift of the Daily Planet , Chloe receives a distress phone call from a woman claiming that she is in danger . Chloe and Lois schedule a meeting with the woman , but a car runs over her and the two friends witness the murder . Meanwhile , the close friend of the Kent's family , Senator Jack Jennings , visits the farm to rest from his campaign for the senate against Lex Luthor . Jonathan is surprised by the visit of Detective Maggie Sawyer , who is investigating the death of the nineteen-year-old stripper that Chloe and Lois witnessed last night . She found a picture of Senator Jennings with the girl and is following the lead . Clark believes Lex is evolved with the crime , but Lex helps him in the investigation . Meanwhile , Chloe and Lois decide to work in the nightclub to investigate the murder . When Lois meets the criminal , she is abducted and her life is in danger . In " Exposed " , Clark unfairly blames Luthor for a crime , while his friend and idol tells lies , and he learns that people are not perfect and need a hero . The gorgeous Lois dancing in the nightclub as a stripper is hilarious , and I found this episode only reasonable . Title ( Brazil ) : " Exposto " ( " Exposed " )
Fashionable Theme , Funny Entertainment	In Spain , a couple of days before a collective gay wedding , the lives of five mothers , whose sons will get married , are entwined : Judge Helena ( Mercedes Sampietro ) is in charge of the ceremony ; the entrepreneur in hotel business Magda ( Carmen Maura ) is hosting the guests in her hotel and is responsible for the banquet , while facing a strike leaded by her lover and chef ; the nymphomaniac Nuria ( Verónica Forqué ) is facing problems due to her uncontrollable disease ; the wealthy Reyes ( Marisa Paredes ) is having a crush for the father of her son's mate and her gardener ; and the Argentinean cooker Ofelia ( Betiana Blum ) is facing financial problems and difficulties in the relationship with her son's mate . Along three days , they have complicated relationships with their sons and mates , ex-husbands , lovers and employees . " Reinas " is a nice movie based on a fashionable theme , the marriage of gay couples , being a great entertainment . There are funny and dramatic situations , but they are satisfactorily resolved in an optimistic way . The controversial and unthinkable affair of Magda and her married chef Cesar is probably the weakest point of the story . I was particularly impressed with the beauty and elegance of Ms . Mercedes Sampietro . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rainhas " ( " Queens " )
The Beauty and the Beast	Abigail Fine ( Brainna Brown ) , a student full of acne , submits to a plastic surgery with her mother Dr . Elaine Fine ( Julianne Christie ) and becomes very beautiful , but with a weird kiss . Clark Kent decides to join the football team of Smallville High without consulting and against the will of his father Jonathan Kent . Martha Kent is hired to manage the Talon . Lois Lane is transferred to Smallville High School , begins to work for The Torch and is very close to Clark Kent . " Facade " is a simple episode of " Smallville " without any great surprise . Lois Lane is closer to Clark Kent and Chloe Sullivan seems to be a little jealous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fachada " ( " Façade " )
Taking the Chance with Loyalty	Two trained and powerful dogs rob Smallville Cooperative under the command of the brothers Zack and Josh Greenfield , but one of them escapes and is hit by Lois Lane's car . She brings the wounded animal to Kent Farm , and Clark Kent finds the secret of the animal and becomes attached to it , while the criminals look for the animal for a next heist . Meanwhile , the mysterious relationship of Lana Lang and the Teague's ancestors is disclosed a little more . " Krypto " is a reasonable episode of " Smallville " . Lionel Luthor is back , and the enigmatic relationship between Countess Margaret Isobel Tharow and Genevieve is becoming interesting . I liked the way Clark tells Lex that he is going to take the chance with Krypto's loyalty . Title ( Brazil ) : " Krypto ? o Supercão " ( " Krypto ? The Superdog " )
There Are Many Truths , Depending on the Viewer ? Rashômon Revisited	While performing a military training in Panama before the arrival of a hurricane , four soldiers and his sergeant West ( Samuel L . Jackson ) vanishes in the jungle . Only two survivors are found . In the investigation conducted by the former military and presently DEA agent Hardy ( John Travolta ) and commandant Osborne ( Connie Nielsen ) , each one of the survivors tells a different version for the event . I liked this movie : the story , with many plot points , showing different versions for the same event , is a non-declared tribute to Rashômon . I intend to see this DVD again to verify if there are flaws in the complicated screenplay . It is necessary to pay attention in the name of each soldier to understand the plot . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Violação de Conduta ' ( ' Violation of Behavior ' )
A Timeless and Melancholic Tale of Loneliness and Hopeless People in a Big City	In the red light district of São Paulo , lives of loneliness and hopeless people cross in a Saturday night . The low class workers Toninho ( Ney Latorraca ) and his friend Giba ( Roberto Bolant ) leave the periphery with their monthly salaries expecting to have sex . They meet two prostitutes , Marcela ( Marlene França ) and Ivete ( Betina Vianny ) , and along the night in a very low budget hotel , their relationships deteriorate and nothing happens as planned . Meanwhile , the country man Pedro ( Ewerton de Castro ) arrives trying to bring her former fiancée and presently pregnant prostitute back to Laranjeiras , their home town . " A Noite do Desejo " is a timeless and melancholic tale of loneliness and hopeless people in a big city . The dramatic story takes place in São Paulo , but could be in Hamburg , New York , Rio de Janeiro or in any other worldwide big city . Supported by a depressive soundtrack , magnificent cinematography , awesome performances and stunning direction , this sad movie is a gem to be discovered . In spite of the unnecessary sequence with the blitz of the police in the hotel that does not fit with the rest of the story , it does not spoil the conclusion of the plot . This movie was also released with the title " Data Marcada para o Sexo " ( " Date Scheduled for Sex " ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Noite do Desejo " ( " The Night of the Desire " )
Is Michael One of the Good Guys ?	Sayid presses Michael to tell what has happened with him since he left the island . In a long flashback , Michael is in despair in Manhattan , since Walt refuses to talk to him after discovering the truth about the deaths of Ana Maria and Libby . When Michael decides to commit suicide in an alley , he is saved by Tom Friendly that convinces him to work infiltrated in the Kahana to save the lives of the survivors in the island . Michael commits sabotage in the radio room and in the engine of the vessel following direct orders of Ben . After the explanations , Sayid delivers the traitor to Captain Gault . Meanwhile in the island , Ben is released by Locke and convinces Alex , Karl and Rousseau to leave the camp and move to a hidden sanctuary . In this episode , the saga of the despicable Michael is disclosed . The loser character betrayed his friends and killed Libby and Ana Maria in the island ; lost the love and respect of his son ; is unable to commit suicide ; works for Ben ; and betrays the Owner , the Captain and the crew of the supply vessel Kahana . It is impressive how destructive this character is , even full of good intentions . Locke is completely insane releasing Ben , but the greatest surprise is the calm behavior of Sawyer , passively accepting the command of Locke and the manipulation of Ben . The tragic fate of Karl , Rousseau and Alex is the great surprise of this episode . However , it seems totally out of the context and unnecessary to expose Tom as a gay . Is it a side effect of the great loss of audience ? Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Oedipus Complex , Obsession and Voyeurism	The seventeen year-old Hallam Foe ( Jamie Bell ) is a weird teenager that misses his mother that committed suicide , drowning in a lake nearby their house in Edinburgh after an overdose of sleeping pills . Hallam spends his spare time peeping the locals and blames his stepmother Verity Foe ( Claire Forlani ) , accusing her of killing his mother . After a discussion with his father Julius Foe ( Ciarán Hinds ) , Hallam sneaks out from his house and travels to London , where he sees Kate Breck ( Sophia Myles ) and becomes obsessed for her because of her resemblance with his mother . Kate hires Hallam to work in the kitchen of the hotel where she works and they have a strange romance , while Hallam reaches his maturity through the hardest way . " Hallam Foe " is a surprisingly great and stylish little movie with an original and erotic romance with Oedipus complex , obsession and voyeurism . The enjoyable story is funny , sexy and dramatic and the characters are well developed with great performances and chemistry of Jamie Bell and Sophia Myles . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The New World of the Civilised White Man	In 1931 , with the Aborigine Act in Australia , the Chief Protector of Aborigines in the State of Western Australia A . O . Neville ( Kenneth Branagh ) had the power to relocate half-caste children from their families to educational centers to give the culture of the white man . When the fourteen year-old aboriginal girl Molly Craig ( Everlyn Sampi ) is taken from her mother in Jigalong with her eight year-old sister Daisy Kadibill ( Tianna Sansbury ) and their ten year-old cousin Gracie Fields ( Laura Monaghan ) to the distant Moore River Native Center , they run away trying to return to the tribe in the desert . They are chased by the skilled tracker Moodoo ( David Gulpilil ) and the police under the command of Neville , and have to survive to their long journey back home . " Rabbit-Proof Fence " discloses a shameful part of the Australia contemporary history when the white man tried to force a process of eugenism , following the true saga of three escapees from one " native center " to reach their families in the desert . The story has top-notch performances of the three girls in the lead roles , supported by magnificent direction , cast and screenplay and wonderful music score of Peter Gabriel . I have never read anything about this attempt of constructing a new world of the " civilised " white man that led the Aborigine people to the destruction of their identity , family life and culture during the so-called stolen generations . Title ( Brazil ) : " Geração Roubada " ( " Stolen Generation " )
The " Rescue Team "	Jack and Kate meet the physician Daniel Farady first and then the psychics Miles Straume and they demonstrate that have not come to the island with the intention of rescuing the survivors . Locke and his group find the anthropologist Charlotte Staples Lewis , and Ben Linus shoots her . Meanwhile , the group of Jack finds the pilot Frank Lapidus , who landed the helicopter with minor damages that can be repaired . Jack forces Miles to tell the real intention why they have come to the island . The second episode of the Fourth Season returns to the island , with four new characters , stops the confusing " flash-forwards " and it seems that will finally be the beginning of the explanations that I ( and most of the fans and viewers ) expect to be provided in " Lost " . Why the interest of the government in Ben Linus , and how he is informed from the boat are some of the questions that I expect to see in the next episodes . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Possession	Sam vanishes and Dean tracks his brother through the cell phone , and finds Sam in a hotel in Twin Lake with amnesia and blood traces . They try to follows the last steps of Sam and they discover that Sam has killed a hunter in his cabin . Sam hits Dean and escapes to Duluth , Minnesota , where he meets and attacks Jo Harvelle . However Dean arrives and saves her but Sam escapes again . Dean finds Sam in South Dakota in the house of Bobby Singer , when they discover that Sam is possessed by a powerful demon . " Born Under a Bad Sign " is another great episode , with a top-notch performance of Jared Padalecki that changes his behavior many times along the story . I found hilarious the scene when the demon is exorcised and Dean punches Sam on his face . Title ( Brazil ) : " Nascido Num Signo Ruim " ( " Born Under a Bad Sign " )
Torturer , Diplomat , Hit-man	Jack deals with Frank and proposes to bring Charlotte back ; in return , Frank would take Sayid to the ship . Frank accepts and Sayid seeks Locke with Kate and Miles , and when they meet each other , Sayid trades Miles per Charlotte . Meanwhile , in a flash-forward , Sayid becomes a hit-man and travels to Berlin , where he meets Elsa and has a brief affair with her . " The Economist " is another episode where there is no new revelation or answer to the countless unresolved mysteries of the island . The most intriguing is the situation of Sayid in the future as a hit-man and the identity of his boss . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Music Changed Their Lives	On 15 January 1949 , the former music teacher Clément Mathieu ( Gérard Jugnot ) arrives in " Fond de l ' Etang " ( " Bottom of the Well " ) , a boarding school for orphans and problematic boys , to work as an inspector . The place is administrated with iron fist by the cruel director Rachin ( François Berléand ) , and most of the boys have severe punishments for their faults . Clément decides to teach the boys to sing in a choir in their spare time , and identify the musical potential of the rebel Pierre Morhange ( Jean-Baptiste Maunier ) , the son of a beautiful single mother for whom he feels a crush . He also has a special feeling for the young Pépinot ( Maxence Perrin ) , a boy that expects the visit of his father every Saturday near the gate , but indeed lost his parents in the war . With his methods , Clément changes the lives of the boys , of the other employees and his own . " Les Choristes " is a very simple , but also sensitive movie . I personally like both of the central themes , teaching and music , and this delightful movie was very special for me . This beautiful feel-good story is disclosed in a perfect pace , with great performances of the cast , and with a wonderful surprising twist practically in the last scene as if it were a fairy-tale . The songs are adorable and I recommend this movie to viewers that like a simple , touching and very real story . My last advice is to keep a handkerchief close to you for the last heartbreaking scene . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Voz do Coração " ( " The Voice of the Heart " )
A Sad True Story , With Outstanding Direction and Performance of the Cast	In 1938 , in Nova Scotia , Canada , close to Halifax , the greed midwife Lila Young ( Susan Clark ) entitles herself as obstetrician and receives single mothers for a discrete childbirth and further adoption of the baby . Many years later , it was revealed that she charged the women for the birth and charge the candidates high amounts for the adoption . The babies not adopted were put together with the sick ones to die and buried in wooden boxes of butter in a clandestine cemetery . These events really happened in a location close to Halifax , in Canada , in a period along the Second World War . All the cast has an outstanding performance , but Susan Clark is perfect . The community has accepted her job , and the story does not show Lila only as a greed woman , but also as a deranged woman believing in the importance of her assignment and using the name of God to justify it . Although being excellent , this disturbing story is not indicated for all audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Uma Cova Para os Anjos ' ( ' A Grave For the Angels ' )
Great Remake of " To Sir With Love " ( 28 December 2003 )	Louanne Johnson ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) is an ex-marine hired as a teacher in a high-school , where the students are Afro-Americans , Latinos and poor persons . She has recently separated from her husband and her friend and also teacher in this school Hall Griffith ( George Dzundza ) got this temporary job for her . After a terrible reception from the students , she tries unconventional methods of teaching , using karate , Bob Dylan lyrics , friendship and attention , and gets the trust of the students on her . I like this movie a lot and probably today I have watched it for the fifth or sixth time ! It is a remake of the wonderful " To Sir With Love " , updated for the end of the Twentieth Century : instead of England , USA ; instead of the Afro-British engineer Mark Thackeray performed by Sidney Poitier in a Caucasian classroom , the blonde ex-marine Michelle Pfeiffer in a Afro-American and Latino classroom ; instead of Lulu and the final dance , a rap ( music and dance ) ; instead of a museum , an amusement park . The soundtrack is marvelous , but the introduction of the movie in black and white with Coolio's " Gangsta In Paradise " is overwhelming and fits perfectly to this magnificent movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mentes Perigosas " ( " Dangerous Minds " )
Great Beginning of a Curse	In 1815 , in Canada , the sisters Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) and Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) survive to a boat sinking , where her parents die . Alone and lost in the forest , they meet an old clairvoyant Indian that foresees their fate . Later , they are guided by the Indian The Hunter ( Nathaniel Arcand ) to a fort , and they seek for shelter with the men of the Northern Legion Trading Company . They note that the place is under siege of " Wendigos " , a sort of werewolf that has killed most of the dwellers of the place , and the survivals are very afraid . Their lives are put in danger by the deranged locals and by the surrounding beasts . I usually hate sequels and remakes , but " Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning " is a great movie and I liked it more than the cult " Ginger Snaps " . The cold cinematography is very sad and beautiful . The good story try to explain the curse of the two sisters , but is completely different from " Ginger Snaps " and " Ginger Snaps : Unleashed " . It uses only the characters of Ginger and Brigitte , and werewolves of course , taking place in different time and situations . The costumes of the sisters , specially the dark " Little Red Riding Hood " clothes of Ginger , are scary and complete the atmosphere imposing a sort of fear . The make-up of the werewolves is excellent . The DVD is full of Extras . Therefore , I liked this film a lot and highly recommend it to the fans of these cult characters . Title ( Brazil ) : " Possuída ? O Início " ( " Possessed ? The Beginning " )
Loneliness , Trust and Redemption	The lonely and tough Jim Wilson ( Robert Ryan ) is an efficient detective that frequently uses excessive violence to resolve his cases and even his partners do not approve his behavior . While chasing two cop killers , he blows the bladder of another suspect during the interrogation to get the information to catch the assassins . He is warned by his chief Captain Brawley ( Ed Begley ) to cool off , and when he beats another suspect on the street , Brawley sends him " upstate to Siberia " in the cold Westham to calm down and help the locals in a murder case of a girl . When he arrives , he visits the family of the victim , whose father Walter Brent ( Ward Bond ) is decided to kill the murderer . They chase the man through the snow , and after a car accident , they reach the isolated house of Mary Malden ( Ida Lupino ) , a blind woman that lives alone in the middle of nowhere with her brother Danny ( Sumner Williams ) that has mental problem . Brent and Jim are lodged by Mary to spend the night , and Jim is affected by Mary in a process of humanization and redemption . " On Dangerous Ground " is a simple movie with a tale of loneliness , trust and redemption developed through two totally different characters that have only loneliness in common . Jim Wilson lives in the big city , is brutal , trusts nobody and is in the edge in his career , acting like a gangster wearing a badge . Mary Malden lives in the countryside , is gentle , has to trust everybody and sacrificed her chance to see again to take care of her mentally unstable brother . The process of humanization of Jim Wilson is depicted through his relationship with Mary and is very touching . Ida Lupino and Robert Ryan have great performances under the direction of Nicholas Ray in this credible story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cinzas que Queimam " ( " Ashes that Burn " )
Getting Even	Lincoln unsuccessfully beats up on Wyatt trying to force him to call General Krantz and tell that he killed the brothers . Then Self arrives with a wallet and tells that he needs a nice conversation with Wyatt , and Sara goes to the cell under the surveillance of Mahone . Lisa tells Krantz that she needs three days to move Scylla , and he orders to distribute the pictures of Michael and his group to the press . Michael , Lincoln , Bellick and Sucre go to T-Bag office in Gate and they reach the pipe conducting the water supply of LA and conclude that it is impossible to dig the concrete beneath . Self tells Mahone that he sympathizes with him and he also lost his wife and baby . White is worried with the vanishing of Andy Blauner , and T-Bag is interrogated by a detective that is investigate the disappearance . Self lures Wyatt and leaves him alone with Mahone that wants him to call Pam feeling fear in his voice . Gretchen arrives with a pistol in General Krantz's office ; he calls her " my girl " , kisses her and recalls when she failed in the Police Academy because of her psychological test that accused that she is emotionally disconnected and sociopath . Mahone tortures Wyatt that calls Pam and the killer tells that he is sorry . T-Bag changes Andy's sale records and convinces White that he has embezzled Gate . Bellick has a surprising attitude in the water duct . There are great surprises in this show : the expected duel between Mahone and Wyatt ; the unexpected attitude of Bellick ; and the intriguing meeting of Gretchen with General Krantz . What is her real intention is the mystery to be solved in the next episodes . The health problem with Michael may be a problem in the future . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Lost Cause	Lincoln tries to find a clue in Whistler's bird guide in his hotel room ; when he sees an envelope with pictures of LJ and Sara underneath his door ; he tries to find the carrier but meets Sucre instead . Lincoln visits Michael on the next morning and shows the picture of Sara , where she seems to be pointing to some hint of her location . Michael requests a phone to call Sara . Sofia Lugo visits her boyfriend Whistler and finds the address of Lincoln in the visitors list . Mahone is wandering in Sona needy of Viratril ; when the public defender Raul visits him and tells that his trial is scheduled on the next year ; Mahone demands the medication and Raul refuses to get it . Michael blackmails T-Bag , threatening to disclose that he is a rapist and pedophile to Lechero ; T-Bag gets the cell phone and later he distracts the crime lord permitting Michael to return it to the charger . Lechero discuss with his partner Augusto that somebody is stealing his business ; later T-Bag intrigues Lechero against Sammy . Sofia meets Lincoln and he tells that they are in the same side . He finds the hideout in the red light district where Sara and LJ are hidden , but he arrives late in the place . Whistler , who claims to be a fisherman , talks to Mahone seeking information about Michael . In this third episode , Lincoln finds his son and Sara , but he does not succeed in rescuing them . Michael is plotting a means to escape from Sona , and apparently he noted that dead bodies are taken to the outside . The tricky T-Bag is falling under the grace of Lechero , and he seems that will get rid off Sammy . The secret about Whistler and the interest of the Company on him is intriguing . What is the content of the box left in the garage by Susan ? Title ( Brazil ) : " O Telefonema " ( " The Phone Call " )
This Is Sona	Michael asks Andrew if he had told the truth , and he tells that he was a concierge in the Ambassador Hotel in Nice , and McFadden worked there with him . Then Michael asks Lincoln to drug the guard and to give recent pictures of Sara , otherwise he would not escape from Sona . Susan tells LJ her experience with hostage exchange in Mansul , Pakistan . Agent Lang visits Mahone and proposes a deal of eight years in another prison with his testimony against the government and Burrow's conspiracy , but he does not accept the offer . When Andrew is found dead stabbed on the neck , Lechero presses McGrady and he tells that he overhead an argument and saw Whistler in the stairs nearby the location where the body was found . Lechero brings Whistler to his room and tries to force his confession . Sammy challenges T-Bag with the chicken foot ; T-Bag steals his ring and gives to Michael to frame him . He tells Michael that to save Whistler someone has to die . Susan gives the dog anesthesia Zylafor to Lincoln and he asks for pictures of Sara . Sofia gets a ride with Captain Hurtado and changes the glass of coffee to drug him . Michael finds the knife with blood under Mahone's bed and tells Lechero . However , Richard Sullins proposes four years to Mahone in a minimum security prison since the Justice Department wants to go further in the investigation of President Reynolds , and he accepts , leaving Sona . Lincoln discloses the truth about Sara to Michael ; completely disturbed , he challenges Whistler with a chicken foot . In " Photo Finish " , the evolution of Michael's plan gives a complete twist with the revelation of the death of Sara . The cold Susan almost kills LJ in an impressive scene . Andrew Tyge appearance was very short , and the only purpose was to disclose that Whistler is hidden something . The deal of Mahone shows that the Justice Department is investigating the conspiracy . But the attitude of Michael was the great twist , but I believe this is the way he has plotted to release Whistler from Sona . Title ( Brazil ) : " As Fotos " ( " The Photos " )
Fading the Glare	Michael tells Whistler that he had given diversion to the inmates while they escape from Sona . However , the glare fades with the clouded sky and they have to return to the cell and fight in the yard . But the sniper sees the rope in cell 212 they used in their attempt of breaking out and the alarm is activated , and their fight is interrupted . Sullin grants full immunity to Mahone . Bellick feels sorry for Sara . Sucre intercepts the van but Susan reverts the situation on her favor . Lechero tells Michael that he wants to go with him . Susan a . k . a . Gretchen visits Whistler and he instruct her to give four more days to Michael and Lincoln . The relationship between Gretchen and Whistler is the greatest surprise of this episode . The condition of the junkie Mahone is impressive and the attitude of Bellick feeling sorry for Sara in unexpected . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fuga " ( " The Breaking-out " )
The Six Head Monster	In LA , General Krantz tells Wyatt that he wants Michael , Lincoln and Mahone dead . Agent Self forces Michael and his crew to wear monitor around their ankles , and their first assignment is to find the Scylla card . Mahone recalls that Whistler delivered the card to a card holder , and he noted that the driver probably would be a retired military . Using the information from the IRS , they find the identity of the driver . Meanwhile , T-Bag and Sancho head to San Diego in the desert . The hungry Sancho attacks T-Bag , who kills the Mexican while defending himself , and survives eating part of him . Later he gets a ride to San Diego with two bikers ' sportsmen . Michael's team tracks the driver to the fortress of Spectroleum CEO Stuart Tuxhorn . The hacker Roland Glenn joins the team and gives a digital black hole device that copies any digital information when close to the source . Michael asks Sara to plant the device in the housekeeper's purse to bring the device inside the house and they succeed in copying the card . However , the maid leaves the device inside the house and they are forced to break in the place to retrieve the apparatus . T-Bag discovers the meaning of Whistler's code 36-24-36 in the Birds Guide . Michael and Sara conclude that Scylla is actually a six head monster from " The Odyssey " and therefore there are six cards . Gretchen is still alive . In this engaging second episode , a new member joins Michael's team , the hacker Roland Glenn . The cold blood killer Wyatt is the new menace to the group . The dangerous Gretchen alive and tortures by Wyatt is promising . T-Bag eats human flesh to survive and the joke with Mexican food is dark but very funny . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Impossible Happens	In Los Angeles , Michael is tracking Whistler and Gretchen seeking revenge for the death of Sara . They go to the Roosevelt Hotel to buy a fifty million dollars card called Scylla . Whistler kills the sellers , copies the card but he is surprised by Michael . When Gretchen arrives , she discloses that Sara is alive . Later Gretchen meets General Jonathan Krantz in the Mojave Desert in California and he tells her that she has failed and asks his black agent Wyatt to kill her . Michael calls Lincoln in Panama and he tells that Sofia and LJ are all right , and Sona has burnt and Sucre , Bellick and T-Bag are not in the list of casualties . Sucre and Bellick meets Bellick's mother in the Arizona Desert near California . Michael reads his e-mail and Mahone sends a message asking Michael to meet him . He tells that Whistler and he are working against the company , Gretchen is dead and he explains the content of Scylla , indeed the company's little black book with all the information of the corrupt organization . When Whistler joins them , he tells that Sara is alive but he is murdered by Wyatt , who retrieves the card . T-Bag is with the prostitute in a hotel and hires two coyotes to cross him back to USA since he has a blood feud with Michael . However , he is double-crossed and left on the desert . General Krantz tells Wyatt that it is time to clean-up , and assigns him to kill Michael , Mahone and Lincoln . In Panama , Lincoln is attacked by a Company's agent , but he kills the guy and is arrested . Sucre visits his son in the hospital , but he is double-crossed by his sister-in-law and arrested with Bellick . Wyatt kills Pamela and Cameron and Mahone is arrested in his house . Michael calls Bruce looking for Sara but he is arrested by the police . Then the National Security Agent Don Self meets Michael and proposed his freedom if he works secretly for the government to take the Company down . Michael refuses in principle , and Bruce pays his and Lincoln's bails and they meet Sara . However , when Wyatt finds the safe house and shoots them , Michael calls Don and accepts the deal . He removes his tattoos and forms a team against the Company with Lincoln , Sara , Sucre , Bellick and Mahone . This fast paced first episode of the Fourth Season has many twists and ellipsis in the very beginning : Whistler and Gretchen are killed ; Sona has burnt ; Sucre . Bellick and T-Bag are out of jail . But the impossible happens : Sara is alive , and Michael now is teaming-up with Bellick and Mahone in the same side . I hope they are not double-crossed by Agent Don Self . Now there is another killer ( Wyatt ) chasing them . Let's see whether the number of new situations this Season works like the others did . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
In LAPD Benefit Convention and In the Bar	Michael and his team use the printed pictures of Michael footage with the cell to identify the first card holder , Lisa Tabak , the wife of the Turkish's consul in LA . They discover that she is about to leave Los Angeles , but first she will attend an LAPD Benefit Convention called " Eagles and Angels " . Agent Self tells Sara that Bruce Bennett was found dead in his apartment , and the disturbed and upset Sara feels guilty for his death . Michael and Lincoln sees T-Bag , but the criminal hides the Birds Guide and they have to leave him when the security guard of a building sees the brothers pressing the well dressed scumbag . Self calls Jasper , but Wyatt arrives first and the agent finds him dead in his apartment . Michael , Lincoln and Sucre break in a police warehouse ; they steal badges and uniforms and go to the convention . While Sara is in a bar near to drink booze , the alcoholic client Shepard pickpockets Bruce Bennett's card from her purse . Michael , Lincoln and Mahone go to the event , but Lincoln is recognized by one Company's bodyguard ; however , Bellick stabs the agent and saves Lincoln , who thanks him . While Gretchen is tortured by Wyatt , he receives a call telling that Bruce Bennett's credit card was used in a bar ; later he follows Sara . In New York City , Shan Xing confesses that he does not have the Scylla card and is stabbed . T-Bag is welcomed in Gate and sent to a corner office as requested . Mahone asks Roland to hack the FBI files and check the profile of the professional killer that murdered his son . In this good episode , Michael and his crew succeed in copying the second Scylla card in a dangerous assignment in the middle of half LAPD force . Bruce and Jasper are gone , but Mahone is chasing Wyatt and Gretchen is still alive . The most intriguing part is the clever and cynical T-Bag inside Gate pretending to be the salesman Cole Pfeiffer ( with double-f ) . The disturbance of Sara and her reckless attitude going to the bar will certainly have a price to the group . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Impenetrable Safe	Sara notes that Bruce's credit card is missing in her purse and she sees Wyatt on her tail ; she runs and succeeds on escaping from the hit-man . Agent Self recognizes the Treasure Department Director Griffin Oren in one of the pictures took by Michael in the card holders gathering . Mahone meets Pam in a dinning and she recognizes Wyatt in one of the pictures . Sucre and Bellick chases T-Bag telling to the receptionist Trishanne that he has an award to receive from an insurance policy ; Trishanne recognizes his picture , but she decides to negotiate with T-Bag a better deal , demanding 3 % of his commissions . T-Bag tells that Trishanne has found a Leprechaun and agrees with the deal . Later he is visited by Feng Huan , who gives him a short period to deliver the Scylla card he believes Pfeiffer has . Sara tells to Mahone what happened with her when she left the Towne Lounge and she recognizes the picture of Wyatt for Mahone ; the former agent checks with Sara and Roland the possible hotel where the killer might have been lodged and they find fifty-three hotels matching the criteria . Agent Self visits Griffin and Michaels finds that the Scylla card is kept : inside a sophisticated and impenetrable safe with an insignia on the 10th floor of a Federal Building that needs the secret and Oren's fingerprint to be opened . However Michael plots a scheme to get the card . Meanwhile Wyatt tortures Gretchen with bad smell but later she escapes . Michael's team discovers that Lisa is in Laos and now Griffin is going also to Asia . Sara finds that the fragile economy of Laos is chaotic and the country needs to be rebuilt after the release of a large amount of false money . Agent Self investigates General Krantz and tells Michael that he is a ghost in charge of The Company . However the security system of The Company finds that Self has investigated Krantz . My greatest question after this show is who will find Wyatt first , Mahone or Gretchen ? I am looking forward for the episode where this cold blood killer will be captured by either one or both victims of his cruelties . Now Agent Self is exposed to The Company and his safety is certainly in danger . T-Bag is also getting in trouble playing a perilous game with extremely dangerous people . The greedy Trishanne is a menace to T-Bag and I can also guess her fate along the series . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Time to Make a Move	Sona's Commander General Zavala takes Michel and locks him in a " hot-box " in solitary confinement to be punished by law or by Panama's sun . Meanwhile Agent Lang brings Mahone back to Sona and gives an amulet to him that belonged to her father . Michael decides to tell the truth to General Zavala and he brings Whistler , who is submitted to torture and gives the name of Gretchen Morgan . Meanwhile Lincoln is blindfolded by Gretchen and has one minute of conversation with LJ . T-Bag proposes Mahone to kill Sammy ; in return he would supply drugs for free for him . Bellick is challenged by Papa for a fight and he uses acetone to defeat his opponent . Gretchen is arrested and tortured by General Zavala and she gives the location of LJ . However she reverts the situation and kills Zavala . Augusto gives a pistol to Sammy and tells him that it is time to make a move . " Boxed In " is another good but flawed episode of the Third Season . How could an experienced general travel with a dangerous prisoner in a hostage situation escorted by only one man ? This situation is amazingly ridiculous . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tentativa Frustrada " ( " Frustrated Attempt " )
Blue Magic Heroin and Frank Lucas	In 1968 , the loyal driver , bouncer and collector Frank Lucas ( Denzel Washington ) witnesses the death of his boss and mentor Bumpy Johnson ( Clarence Williams III ) and finds that Harlem lost its leadership . Frank decides to import heroin direct from the source in Bangkok , establishing a logistic of transportation using the US military airplanes from Vietnam to USA . The quality of his product associated to the trade mark " Blue Magic " and the lower prices bring Frank Lucas to the position of number one distributor of heroin in USA . Meanwhile , in the Essex County , the incorruptible detective Richie Roberts ( Russell Crowe ) that is studying for the Bar Examination is invited to join and head a Federal Investigation Force of Narcotics , seeking the leaders of the dealers in North America . " American Gangster " is a gangster movie based on the story of the powerful drug dealer Frank Lucas in times of Vietnam War , showing the absolute corruption in the police and the saga of an obstinate honest detective . The direction of Ridley Scott gives an adequate pace to the plot , supported by a magnificent cast leaded by Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe . In spite of being a good film , the IMDb User Rating Top 250 : # 210 is overrated . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Gangster " ( " The Gangster " )
The Real Plan	When Lechero , T-Bag and Bellick run to the fence , they are captured by the guards . However , this was the real plan of Michael that waits with Whistler , Mahone and McGrady the exact moment to leave the hideout . When Bellick shows the tunnel , the quartet breaks-out Sona , meeting with Lincoln on the beach , where Whistler notes that he lost the book with the coordinates . They use breathing apparatuses and swim underwater to a buoy , waiting for Sucre . However their fellow is cuffed to a file drawer in Sona . But McGrady's father finds the boat 312 moored in the marina and he rescues the escapees . McGrady follows with his father , while the car of Lincoln and the fugitives is chased by Gretchen's men . However they find the GPS in Whistler's watch and they lure the gangsters in a shootout later . When Sucre is released in Sona , T-Bag sees him and discloses his identity to the guards . Meanwhile , Mahone says goodbye and Whistler escapes from Michael and Lincoln , leaving them with nothing for a negotiation with Gretchen . The escape of Michael and the other inmates , luring the scumbags , is the engaging part of this show . However , the attitude of Whistler leaving the brothers and not having the coordinates by heart is disappointing . The coincidence of T-Bag seeing Sucre in Sona during the torture session is also a forced situation . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inferno ou Alto Mar " ( " Hell or Deep Sea " )
Touching and Heartbreaking	After another OD , the junkie Jane ( Samantha Mathis ) finds that she is HIV-positive . When she leaves the hospital trying to raise money for a dose of heroin , she is followed by the fifteen year-old Tony ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) , who protects her in difficult situations . The boy helps her to get free of her addiction , and she finds that he is alone without a family and terminal with AIDS . They get close to each other and form a firm bond . " Sweet Jane " is a touching and heartbreaking low-budget movie , supported by a realistic melodramatic story of addiction , friendship , illness and redemption and magnificent performances of Samantha Mathis and Joseph Gordon-Levitt . The plot is very simple and beautiful and works perfectly , based on two opposite characters that have in common a lethal disease . Jane comes from the upper-class , went to college supported by her parents , but lost everything with her addiction and is a cold person , without loving any person . Tony is an orphan born with HIV transmitted by his father to his mother , has no education but common-sense . He follows Jane believing she is an angel , but in the end he actually becomes her guard-angel , saving Jane from the drugs and making her a better woman . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vivendo no Limite " ( " Living in the Edge " )
Cruel and Heartbreaking	The skipper ( Gary Lewis ) of the Scottish trawler PD-100 has worked for more than thirty-two years to buy his fishing vessel but is bankrupt and near to lose his ship to the bank . While in the port of Ostend , Belgium , his first mate and son Sean ( Martin Compston ) accepts a lot of money to smuggle Chinese illegal immigrants to Scotland to keep the trawler with his father . The crewman Riley ( Peter Mullan ) helps him in the scheme , and they hide the group in a store below the boatswain store . However , a Chinese teenager hides in the engine room , stealing food and leaving money in the galley . The cook ( Steven Robertson ) , who is a little slow and has issues with sex , finds the stowaway ( Angel Li ) and helps her . Sean decides to stay longer in the North Sea to get catch and avoid problems with customs , leaving the immigrants in the most subhuman conditions . When one of the Chinese dies , despair is triggered leading the crew to tragic actions . " True North " is a simple , but very cruel and heartbreaking story of despair and how far a human being can go under the pressure of a desperate situation . None of the characters is evil , but their attitudes under unexpected situation are scary . Sean has no concern with the immigrants , but in finding a way to avoid problems with the coastal authorities ; the cold Riley has a touch of humanity with the terrible situation of the stowaways ; the cook surprisingly protects the girl ; and the captain has the most despicable procedure when he feels that he may lose his ship . The direction and the performances are awesome , and the screenplay is excellent . Title ( Brazil ) : " Verdadeiro Norte " ( " True North " )
Whoever Has the Money Has the Power	In 2003 , in Kansas , the popular and reckless high school hockey player Chris Pratt ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) goes to a party with his girlfriend and two friends on the backseat of his convertible through the old Route 24 . In a moment , he turns the headlights off to admire the bright sky and has a tragic car crash . Four years later , his head injury still affects his memories and he uses a notebook to help him to recall his activities . He is no longer admired and works as night janitor in the Noel State Bank & Trust due to his mental incapacitation . He lives with his only friend , the blind Lewis ( Jeff Daniels ) that he met while recovering in a medical center , and helps him in the daily activities . When he meets Gary Spargo ( Matthew Goode ) in a bar , he is introduced to the sexy Luvlee ( Isla Fisher ) and has sex with her after a long period of abstinence . Chris gets closer to Gary , and sooner he is invited to help his gang to rob the Noel Bank . Chris is upset with his lifestyle and sees the chance to change his life , convinced that whoever has the money has the power . " The Lookout " is an excellent dramatic thriller , in spite of the common theme " bank heist . The screenplay builds perfectly the lead character Christopher Pratt from a successful and promising teenager to a frustrated mentally incapacitated and with remorse and guilty complex young man , with a total lack of professional perspectives and no-longer successful with women . The result is quite predictable , but the way the plot is disclose is amazing . The resemblance of the talented actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt with the recently deceased Heath Ledger is impressive . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
A Great Adventure	In 1944 , an allied troop rescues a baby-demon from the nazis . The demon , called Hellboy ( Ron Perlman ) , is raised by a secret department of FBI to fight against evil forces . The opening screening of ' Hellboy ' in the movie theaters of Rio de Janeiro was on last 30 July 2004 , but I rented an imported DVD . This is another hero from American comics completely unknown in Brazil brought to the screen . However , ' Hellboy ' is a great adventure , with lots of special effects and many funny situations . An excellent entertainment for the whole family . The character of Liz ( Selma Blair ) recalls the X-Men . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Hellboy '
The Haunted Ship	While negotiating supplies and spare parts to repair the Enterprise with the alien trader D'Marr , he informs the location of a crashed ship in a planet near them where the crew of the Enterprise could find the necessary duratanium , beryllium and dilithium . However , he advises that the ship is haunted by ghosts . T'Pol scans the spacecraft and finds no evidence of life form . When Archer , T'Pol , Trip and Travis arrive in the vessel , they find that they are not alone . Sooner they meet survivors from the planet Kantare that tell them that they crashed on the planet three years ago , and Trip gets close to the gorgeous Liana . But when Reed analyses how long the vessel is in the planet and retrieves one escape pod with a corpse inside , he finds that there is a weird secret hidden by the group . In " Oasis " , Trip again falls for an alien female ; but Annie Wersching is really an extremely pretty woman , and Trip is not wrong this time . The reaction of T'Pol is hilarious . This good episode keeps a mystery well resolved in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " Oásis " ( " Oasis " )
Hallucination , Reality and Memory , In a Surrealistic Daydream	In 1942 , in Rio de Janeiro , the twenty-five years old Alaíde ( Simone Spoladore ) is run over while crossing Carioca Street . She arrives in coma in the hospital , and while being submitted to an emergency surgery , she recalls her life since her family moved to a former brothel , mixing hallucination , reality and memory . In her surrealistic daydream , she meets Madame Clessy ( Marília Pêra ) , the owner of the bordello that died in 1905 , killed by her seventeen years old lover , and she tells a passionate and tragic love story between her husband Pedro ( Marcos Winter ) , her jealous sister Lúcia ( Letícia Sabatella ) and herself , and how Madame Clessy died . " Vestido de Noiva " is a successful play written by the outstanding Brazilian dramaturge Nelson Rodrigues in 1941 . This adaptation to the cinema is directed by his son , Joffre Rodrigues , as homage to his father , who died on 21 December 1980 . Marília Pera is stunning as usual , and Simone Spoladore , Letícia Sabatella and Marcos Winter have also magnificent performances . The cinematography and art direction are splendorous and the music score is of first-rate . The highly recommended DVD has subtitles in English and French ; therefore I believe that can be found overseas . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vestido de Noiva " ( " Wedding Dress " )
The First Monarch of Krios Prime	The Enterprise receives a distress call from a Retellian cargo vessel and the crew tells Captain Archer that they have problem with the life support system of an alien that is transported in a cocoon . Trip goes to the alien ship to repair the system while Goff and Plinn come to Enterprise to have a shower and meal . Trip sees a beautiful woman in the cocoon that suddenly wakes-up , and Trip tries to help her to leave the spot . However , Trip is attacked by Goff , who leaves Plinn in the Enterprise and escapes with Trip and the woman . She introduces herself to Trip as Kaitaama , the First Monarch of Krios Prime , and she tells that she had been abducted by the Retellians that asked for a ransom . Trip decides to escape in the pod and convinces Kaitaama to come with him . " Precious Cargo " is a funny episode , and Trip recalled me Captain Kirk from " Star Trek " again , seducing another female alien . The unpleasant character of the gorgeous Padma Lakshmi actually did not need a consultation with Dr . Phlox to relieve her sexual tension with the presence of Trip . The Retellian Goff is easily lured by Archer and T'Pol , but I liked this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Carga Preciosa " ( " Precious Cargo " )
The Sexy Slave Rajiin	While in a trading planet buying a formula for synthesizing the volatile Trellium-D to insulate the hull and protect the Enterprise against anomalies in the Delphic Expanse , Archer , Reed and Trip seek information about the Xindis with a trader of female slaves . The sexy humanoid Rajiin asks for help to Archer and he rescues her from the alien merchant and brings the woman to the Enterprise . Rajiin uses her mysterious power to seduce men and women in Enterprise with a secret objective . In this new sequel of the saga of the Enterprise in the Delphic Expanse , the sex slave Rajiin has a great participation in the story and gives information about the objectives of the mysterious alien council . As most of the episodes of the Third Season , this episode is also full of action . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rajiin "
Meeting the Borgs	In the Polar Circle , three scientists find the debris of a spacecraft that crashed on Earth a hundred years ago with two humanoids . While examining them , they realize that they are rapidly regenerating and reanimating ; sooner the research team is assimilated by the Borgs and they leave Earth in their transport vessel . The Enterprise is called by Admiral Forrest with order to intercept the Borgs , but they receive a distress call from a Tarkalean ship and rescue two beings ; Phlox finds that there is nanotechnology regenerating them but he is surprisingly attacked by nanoprobes and contaminated . The Enterprise heads to confront the transport vessel while is internally attacked by the assimilated Tarkaleans . " Regeneration " is a full of action episode , with the Enterprise crew meeting the dangerous Borgs . The story is great and entwined with " Star Trek : First Contact " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Regeneração " ( " Regeneration " )
The Song of the Wandering Angus	The Enterprise finds an errant planet without humanoid life form with a vessel landed in a rain-forest . Archer , T'Pol , Trip , Malcolm and Hoshi take the Shuttlepod to explore and investigate the spot and they meet the Eska hunters Buzaan , Shiraht and Damrus that welcome the group in their camping area . They explain that they are chasing Drayjins , which meat is delicious , in a practice that has been adopted by their people for generations and they call the planet Dakala . They have not been detected by the sensors because they use camouflage to be protected and kill the aggressive shape-shifters wraths that leave a chemical signature when they are afraid . Along the night , Captain Archer hears a woman voice telling him that he needs to understand , and when he follows the voice , he sees a beautiful woman not totally strange for him wandering in the woods . " Rogue Planet " has an original story surprisingly without villains . In one side , the amicable group of hunters that practice the sport for generations in a wild planet , and in the other side , an intelligent life-form . Captain Archer recalls his childhood and uses his feelings to find with Dr . Phlox a masking agent to keep the wraiths safe . Title ( Brazil ) : " Planeta Errante " ( " Errant Planet " )
Guilt Complex	I watch many movies , but presently my genre number one is Asian horror . I have just bought this DVD and I initially found " Janghwa , Hongryeon " an intriguing but confused film , since I had not understood many parts of the story . But I saw in IMDb Board a message titled " Explanation of a Masterpiece ( all your questions answered ) Faster load " , written by opiemar , and I was really impressed with the high quality of the explanations this user provided to viewers like me that missed points of the story . I would like to congratulate opiemar for his excellent work and suggest him to write a correct summary of this movie in IMDb to help and guide other viewers . In the end , I agree that " Janghwa , Hongryeon " is a great Korean film , but I do not give ten in my vote because very few people can afford to see the same movie more than once , like this film demands , and without the great support of opiemar , I would not be able to understand the story as a whole . I intend to see this movie again in a near future . Title ( Brazil ) : " Medo " ( " Fear " )
Vulcan Intolerance , Human Morality	While in the Interspecies Medical Exchanges Conference , Dr . Phlox tries to learn the state-of-art treatment for the lethal and stigmatized disease Pa'nar Syndrome with the Vulcan physicians . He lies to the doctors and does not tell them that T'Pol has been infected when she was forced in the mind meld one year ago . The bigotry Vulcans do not give any information while T'Pol does not accept to reveal that she was assaulted because she does not accept the stigma and prejudice against the minorities in her planet . When the doctors discover that T'Pol is infected , they request her return to Vulcan to meet the High Command . Meanwhile , one of the wives of Dr . Phlox comes to the Enterprise to instruct Trip about the installation of a complex neutron microscope , and she flirts with him , trying to seduce the uncomfortable Trip . In " Stigma " , the Vulcans show their prejudice against minorities and that in spite of being technologically advanced , they have a very narrow mind . Trip shows his character , respecting Dr . Phlox in accordance with the best principles of human morality and respect . And T'Pol gives an example of strong personality , walking the way she talks . Title ( Brazil ) : " Estigma " ( " Stigma " )
Three Years Out of the Spot	Archer is piloting a shuttle together with an unconscious Degra , the Xindi in charge of design , build and test the Xindi weapon When Degra awakes , Archer tells him that Earth has been destroyed , he has been betrayed by the Insectoids and they had spent three years together in a prison . Now they are allied and escaping from their common enemy , and Degra's amnesia was caused by the interrogation process . The reluctant Degra does not trust on Archer while their ship is attacked . However , when they receive a transmission with interference from Thalen , Degra cryptographs the coordinates of the location of the weapon . " Stratagem " is an intriguing episode due to an ellipsis that is resolved later . The procedure Archer uses to lure Degra is original in spite of the flaws . Unfortunately I can not write further to avoid spoilers . Title ( Brazil ) : " Estratagema " ( " Stratagem " )
Protocol and Impulsiveness	The Enterprise locates an uninhabited planet very similar to Earth . T'Pol advises to scan the planet along six or seven days for a cautious approach , following the Vulcan protocols . However , the impulsiveness of Captain Jonathan Archer sends T'Pol , himself , Ensign Travis Mayweather , Commander Tucker , Crewman Ethan Novakovich and the entomologist Crewman Elizabeth Cutler to explore the planet . They find a nice and calm place and when nightfall arrives , the team asks to spend the night in the planet , and Captain Archer returns to Enterprise alone . There is a windstorm and the group seeks shelter in a cave , leaving their tents . Along the night , the group sees people hidden in the rocks , Ethan becomes insane and Tucker believes T'Pol is a traitor . The Enterprise rescues Ethan and Dr . Phlox finds that the pollen of the flowers contains the psychotropic compound Tropolisine , a toxin that provokes hallucination , and T'Pol and the team are in danger . In " Strange New World " , again the sensate and wise advices of T'Pol are disregarded by the impulsive Captain Archer , jeopardizing the exploration team in the planet . The story is tense , with a deranged Trip threatening T'Pol , who remains calm in spite of being also affected by the pollen . Title ( Brazil ) : " Explorar Novos Mundos " ( " Explore New Worlds " )
With " Heat " , One of the Best Action Movies of the 1990's	A group of former worldwide agents ? Sam ( Robert De Niro ) , Vincent ( Jean Reno ) , Gregor ( Stellan Skarsgard ) , Spence ( Sean Bean ) and Dapper ( Jan Triska ) ? are hired by the Irish Deirdre ( Natascha McElhone ) to steal a suitcase from a group of very well protected men . They use their military skills to elaborate and assault the other larger team on the road nearby Nice . The action works as planned , except that the group is betrayed by one of the members . Then , they spend their abilities chasing the traitor , who wants to sell the unknown content of the suitcase to the Russians . Lots of action , with car chase , shootings and deaths , happen along the story , most of them in Paris and Nice . The important character Seamus O'Rourke ( Jonathan Pryce ) has a highlighted participation in the plot . John Frankenheimer shows ' good shape ' and offers one of the best action movie of the 1990's . Maybe , ' Ronin ' and ' Heat ' are the best ones . The movie explains that ' Ronin ' are former Samurais who lost their master . The team of former agents , who lost their jobs with the end of the Cold War , would be the Ronins of the story . It is hard to believe that a viewer can not like this film .
Intolerance and Ethics	Dr . Phlox receives a message and asks Captain Archer to rescue three Denobulan researchers from the underground caves in planet Xantoras since the government decided to expel all the aliens due to a civil war . Trip , Reed and Travis travel to the planet with a schedule of three days to bring the scientists to the Enterprise . Meanwhile , the Enterprise helps a ship with a breach in her reactor , and Dr . Phlox faces an ethical dilemma when an Antaran patient , a race enemy of the Denobulan , does not accept his treatment . " The Breach " is an episode divided in drama of intolerance , ethics and action . Dr . Phlox faces the order of Captain Archer , based on the human Aristotelian ethics code , and his beliefs on the Denobulan ethics code , based on the will of the patient . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Ruptura " ( " The Breach " )
Unforgettably Cruel and Disturbing	I have been watching movies for decades , and as far as I remember , only three movies have disturbed me . The first one was ' Soldier Blue ' , when I was a teenager , explicitly showing the massacre of the American Indians . Later , in 1982 , ' Sophie's Choice ' , when a mother has to decide which son shall remain alive . ' Irreversible ' , which I saw yesterday , was the third one . The storyline is very simple : In Paris , a young couple goes to a party with a friend by subway . They discuss , and the woman decides to return back home alone . She is violently raped in an underground passage . Her husband and her friend decide to make justice by themselves . What makes the difference in this polemic movie ? First of all , like in ' Memento ' , the story is presented backwards , in a reverse chronology , from the credits to the beginning . Although not being original , unfolded this way , the story shocks much more . Then , the cruelty of at least two very explicit scenes ( the rape of Alexandra and the aggression and crime of Pierre in the gay night-club ) are amazingly well choreographed and real . The beginning of the film , with the camera spinning randomly , and a weird soundtrack , makes the viewer sick and so disoriented and disturbed as Marcus , the character of Vincent Cassel . Therefore , technically this film is outstanding . The performance of the cast and the direction , photography and soundtrack are stunning . Living in Rio de Janeiro , a violent city , the story is very real and scary , and that is why it shakes up more than a horror movie . We never believe that this situation may happen to ourselves or to our friends , but the daily newspaper shows many similar examples . The idea of the irreversibility of time and its destruction , the same way of the lives of the characters in this movie , is fantastic . Certainly a very sensitive person will be sick and will not like this movie . The box of the DVD should advise that this story is recommended to a specific audience . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Irreversível ' ( ' Irreversible ' )
Radioactive Storm and Invaders	Captain Archer is advised by three aliens that a dangerous storm is heading toward The Enterprise and will reach the ship in a couple of hours . T'Pol confirms that the radiation would be lethal for the crew , and Trip proposes to use the shielded catwalk to lodge the crew and the aliens that asked for shelter for eight days . However it would be necessary to shutdown the reactor to decrease the ambient temperature and move the controls to the remote location . Without any other alternative , Archer accepts the proposal . Three days later , Trip finds that the Enterprise has been invaded by aliens that want to deplete the ship . " The Catwalk " is a good episode , where Archer and the crew need to retrieve the command of the Enterprise in a very dangerous situation . T'Pol in the end fraternizes with the rest of the crew , I am not sure whether following orders or feeling the need of sharing her attention with the other humans . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Passarela " ( " The Catwalk " )
The Starship of the Lost Souls	The Enterprise is engulfed by a huge starship that disables the engines and weapons , but leaves the life support system working . While inspecting the interior of the ship with Archer and Reed , Trip is briefly possessed by a wispy being , having an incredible trip . Later Tucker is possessed again by the being that explains to Archer that they are an evolution of a race to non-corporeal form , and they are offering the crossing experience to anyone in Enterprise . However , Archer does not believe on the beings and T'Pol offers to try to contact one of them and find the real intention of the offer of the wispy aliens . " The Crossing " is a good episode , with an intriguing story but I did not like the conclusion . If a race is capable to evolve to a non-corporeal level , how could they be so mean and selfish ? Wouldn't be easier asking for help to Enterprise ? Title ( Brazil ) : " A Travessia " ( " The Crossing " )
Full of Action Episode	An unknown alien probe cuts a slice of 4 , 000 km length from Florida to Venezuela , killing seven million people . The Enterprise is ordered by Admiral Forrest to return to Earth , but Captain Archer is abducted by Silik with the intention to give a message of an emissary from the future . He tells Archer that the Xindi , from the mysterious and dangerous Delphic Expanse , are preparing to attack Earth . Archer succeeds to convince the Starfleet to enhance the Enterprise and let him travel to the Delphic Expanse , under the protest of the Vulcans . Meanwhile Trip grieves the death of his sister Elizabeth , while The Klingon Captain Duras pursues the Enterprise with the intention of capturing Archer . " The Expanse " is a full of action episode , but not totally original . I am curious about how the physics laws work in the spot based on the advice of Sival . T'Pol quits her commission with the Vulcan High Command to follow with the Enterprise , showing a great loyalty to Captain Archer . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Expansão " ( " The Expansion " )
Kidnapped Again	After six weeks in the Delphic Expanse with minor anomalies in the laws of physics taking place in cargo hold no . 2 , the Enterprise receives a hint of a captain of a freighter that they should find a Xindi working in the mines of a nearby planet . Captain Archer accepts the fees of half liter of liquid platinum charged by the foreman to interview the Xindi worker . However , Trip and he are betrayed by the alien foreman and abducted in the mines . Meanwhile , a council of aliens is discussing the destiny of the Enterprise . In this full of action episode , Archer is kidnapped again with Trip , forcing the security team leaded by Reed and Major Hayes to rescue them . The Xindis remain as a mystery as well as the council of different species of aliens . T'Pol is wearing different costumes in this season and Jolene Blalock has another sexy scene with Trip . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Xindis " ( " The Xindis " )
Goodbye , Elizabeth	The Enterprises manages to arrive on the schedule for the meeting with Degra , and Captain Archer invites Degra and Jannar to come on board of the damaged Enterprise to show evidences that the Xindi are being manipulated by the trans-dimensional builders of the spheres , and Degra becomes impressed with the evidences . Meanwhile Archer assigns Trip to write a letter to the parents of crewman Jane Taylor , who died on duty during the attack of the Reptilians , while he is working hard trying to make the Enterprise operational again with a short staff . When the hostiles Reptilians threaten the Enterprise , Degra takes a surprising attitude . The Fourth Season of Enterprise now is excellent , actually with one long story split in episodes . " The Forgotten " is dramatic , with the loss of eighteen members represented by Taylor and the reluctance of Trip in accepting Degra as an allied , superseded in the very end , when Trip accepts the loss of Taylor an Elizabeth . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Esquecidos " ( " The Forgotten " )
Bonds of Trust	T'Pol receives a message from the Vulcan High Command and tells Captain Archer that he will be called by Admiral Forest sooner to use the Enterprise to help her in a classified mission . Later she invites Archer to go with her because she trusts him . Archer asks for details , and T'Pol explains that she worked in a Security Agency many years ago and she had been assigned to capture six surgically altered Vulcan agents of a group that worked undercover in a corrupt planet and refused to return to Vulcan . However , the former agent Menos escaped from her in Risa , and now he has been located in a planet in the route of the Enterprise . They go to the planet with Travis in the shuttle pod and when they capture the fugitive , T'Pol partially recalls details of her past mission . Archer recalls T'Pol that her assignment is to capture the fugitive , not to judge him . " The Seventh " is another great episode of the Second Season . The story shows a vulnerable T'Pol maybe for the first time , and how important the wise Archer is for her . I feel that with the final statement of T'Pol , her bonds of trust and loyalty with Captain Archer have increased much more . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Sétimo " ( " The Seventh " )
First Contact	After an unsuccessful first contact with Kreetassans , where nothing works and the group feels offended by some attitude of the earthlings , a jelly lifeform invades the Enterprise and lodges in one of its cargo hold . Later the creature captures with its tentacles Captain Archer , Tucker and two crewmembers and engulfs them in its jelly form . While Reed tries to develop an effective weapon to release his mates from the alien , Dr . Phlox advises that they are short of time , since it will be not possible reversing the symbiotic relationship of the alien with its preys . Hoshi finds pattern of a language in the noise of the creature and with the support of T'Pol , they try to communicate with the dangerous lifeform and find its intention . " Vox Sola " is an episode that recalls " The Blob " , with a jelly lifeform attacking the crew of the Enterprise . The best moment of this film is when the crew goes to the movie theater to watch the cult Henri-Georges Clouzot's " Le Salaire de la Peur " , showing that the responsible for programming the movies for the crew has an excellent taste . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vox Sola "
Do not Sleep on Em Street	On Elm Street , the teenager Tina Gray ( Amanda Wyss ) has a creepy nightmare with a burned man wearing a glove with blades called Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) . She invites her friends Nancy Thompson ( Heather Langenkamp ) , who had also a nightmare with Freddy Krueger , and Glen Lantz ( Johnny Depp ) to spend the next night with her , but her boy-friend Rod Lane ( Nick Corri ) appears in the house and they spend the night together . In the middle of the night , Rod awakes and sees Tina having a nightmare and being sliced . He is accused of murder and arrested by Nancy's father Lt . Thompson ( John Saxon ) , despite the protests of his daughter . When Rod and Glen are mysteriously murdered , Nancy realizes that the only way to defeat the evil Freddy Krueger is bringing him to the real world . The classic " A Nightmare on Elm Street " is one of the best horror movies of the 80's and Freddy Krueger is my favorite villain . The story is original , very well written and directed by Wes Craven and is the debut of Johnny Depp in the cinema . As far as I know , the open conclusion was forced by the producers to give a sequel to the saga of Freddy Krueger . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Hora do Pesadelo " ( " The Hour of the Nightmare " )
Anomalies and the Osaarians Pirates	While facing anomalies in the Delphic Expanse that are affecting gravity , the warp drive , shields and weapon but not the life support system , the Enterprise is attacked by Osaarians pirates that rob antimatter fuel , ammunition , food and other supplies , but the security team captures one pirate . Captain Archer follows their track trying to recover their supplies and finds a mysterious sphere with reference about the Xindi culture . In order to get more information about the race , Archer tries to hack the computer of the Osaarian ship and download their database . The sequel of " Expanse " and " The Xindis " is another episode full of action . Now the Enterprise is feeling stronger effects of the Delphic Expanse that are affecting the engine and many systems . The costumes of T'Pol are more elegant that the one she used in the First and Second Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anomalia " ( " Anomaly " )
The Bounty Hunter and the Pon Far	The Enterprise crew is in shore leave in an uninhabited planet , when a Tellarite ship hails and her Captain Skalaar asks for Captain Archer . He is kidnapped while welcoming Skalaar on board , and finds that the Tellarite is a bounty hunter working for the Klingons that intend to send him back to the penal colony . Meanwhile , T'Pol and Phlox return from the planet infected by a resistant bacteria and while in quarantine , the metabolism of T'Pol is affected and she unexpectedly enters in the Pon Far , asking Phlox to " help " her . In " Bounty " , Captain Archer is abducted again but succeeds to escape . However , this episode is dedicated to T'Pol , more precisely to the sexy Jolene Blalock , who has a very erotic performance . Surprisingly Dr . Phlox adheres to the human morality and does not use a non-orthodox treatment to heal T'Pol , what is an inconsistency with his principles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Recompensa " ( " Bounty " )
Free to Choose	The Enterprise finds an iced comet with the rare mineral Eisilium in its core . Captain Archer sends Lieutenant Malcolm Reed and Ensign Travis Mayweather in the shuttlepod to collect samples 20 m beneath the crust using a portable drilling rig . Meanwhile , the Enterprise is observed by a Vulcan ship and the Vulcan Captain Vanik believes the humans are arrogant and prideful . When the Enterprise discovers an encrypted message from the Vulcan ship to T'Pol , Ensign Hoshi Sato gives the translation of the message to Trip , and he sees that it is a personal letter . The ashamed Commander seeks T-Pol and asks her to forgive him . Later she calls him to discuss the subject . When the drilling team is trapped in a hole in the comet , Captain Archer accepts the offer of help of the Vulcan vessel . " Breaking the Ice " is the best title of an episode that I have recently seen . This title is related to every situation disclosed in this episode : refer to the surface of the comet ; refers to the relationship of T'Pol and Trip , and also to humans and Vulcans . The wise T'Pol has lesson of human free will and uses it to define her destiny . I believe the respect among the humans in the Enterprise and T'Pol will increase . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quebrando o Gelo " ( " Breaking the Ice " )
Religious Fanaticism	After receiving a distress call from a Triannon ship , the Enterprise welcomes on board a group of religious followers leaded by the zealot D'Jamat . They call the Delphic Expanse of Chosen Realm and that the spheres were created one thousand year ago by the Makers along nine days . When the security team relaxes , the fanatics take control of the Enterprise using biological explosives that transform each one of them in a bomb-man or woman . D'Jamat plans to use the Enterprise to destroy the population considered heretic in his planet , but he finds the fate of their intolerance when he returns to Triannon . " Chosen Realm " is a tense episode with no originality that explores the religious fanaticism but has an excellent anti-war conclusion . Title ( Brazil ) : " Reino Escolhido " ( " Chosen Realm " )
Detroit 2004	Temporal Agent Daniels visits Captain Archer and tells him that three Xindi Reptilians have traveled to Earth in 2004 for unknown reasons , affecting the temporal line . Archer and T'Pol travel to Detroit and they discover that the employee of a blood bank Loomis is selling human beings with different type of blood to the aliens that are researching a biological weapon . " Carpenter Street " follows the style of film-noir in spite of happening in 2004 . The story is good , with Archer and T'Pol finding that the Xindi Reptilians expect to destroy the human race one hundred and fifty years before the present days . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rua Carpenter " ( " Carpenter Street " )
Anyone Can Cook	In the country of France , the rat Remy has accurate taste and smell , and he worships the chef Auguste Gusteau . People uses to say that the best food in the world is in Paris , more precisely in Gusteau's , and Remy dreams on becoming a chef . On the same day that his idol dies after reading a bad review of the arrogant critic Anton Ego , Remy gets lost from the clan of his father in the sewers and ends in Paris in front of the famous restaurant . Remy does not resist and goes to the kitchen , improving the soap that is being prepared with ingredients and spices . The clumsy garbage boy Linguini receives the credits for the successful recipe ; he is promoted to cook and starts a partnership with the little chef . But the greedy chef Skinner is not happy with the success of Linguini that is jeopardizing his future project for Gusteau's . " Ratatouille " is a delightful animation , with a very funny and original story . It is inconceivable to imagine a rat in the fanciest restaurant of Paris ; imagine a rat as a prominent chef , having a clan of rats in the kitchen helping him to prepare sophisticated meals for the upper-class of Paris and a harsh critic of restaurants . Only this sequence would be enough to make laugh . But the story has nice characters and good messages about the importance of making a dream come true and creativity in your work , friendship and loyalty . The story has many plot points and the resolution is great . In the end , I loved this animation . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ratatouille "
Not Playing God	The Enterprise finds a primitive starship with two dying alien astronauts , and one of them tells that his Valakian race is extinguishing due to an epidemic . Archer travels to their planet and assigns Dr . Phlox to find a cure for the disease . Dr . Phlox , who is trying to understand his relationship with the human crewman Elizabeth Cutler , discloses that the planet inhabited by two humanoid races that pacifically coexists : the developed Valakian and the primitive workers Menk . Further , he discovers that the Valakian have genetic epidemic that will annihilate their race in about two centuries while the Menk have linguistic and manual abilities to be developed . With the dilemma of interfering in the development of races , Phlox has a serious conversation with Archer . " Dear Doctor " presents a good discussion of ethical and moral concerns . The story is centered in the pleasant Denobulian Dr . Phlox , who is totally integrated to the human style of life but still have doubts related to relationship between male and female . The advice of T'Pol is very funny and logical , since she does not understand the matters of heart and love . The excerpts of " For Whom the Bell Tolls " , showing the gorgeous face of Ingrid Bergman with about twenty-seven years old , is a plus in this great episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Caro Doutor " ( " Dear Doctor " )
" Enemy Mine " Revisited	While making adaptations to the navigation system of the shuttle pod , Trip is attacked by a minor alien ship and both are forced to land on a moon of a complex system with sixty-two moons . Trip and the alien Zho'Kaan do not have universal translator and struggle against each other . But sooner they realize that they need to join forces to be rescued before the sunrise . " Dawn " is a good rip-off of the pacifist Wolfgang Petersen's " Enemy Mine " , in my opinion one of the best sci-fi ever made , with a strong and powerful message against war . Therefore the episode is good because revisits the first part of the feature displaying the same wonderful message of understanding , union and fraternity . Title ( Brazil ) : " Amanhecer " ( " Dawn " )
The Battle Begins	The Reptilian forces Hoshi through brainwash to decipher the code of the Aquatics and activate the weapon with the Insectoids and their own codes . Archer manages to convince the Aquatics to help them against the Reptilian , promising to help them to destroy the sphere system in the Expanse . The Humanoids , the Arboreals and the Aquatics join the Enterprise and they battle against the Reptilian and Insectoids . Meanwhile Major Hayes and his team are beamed to the Reptilian vessel where Hoshi is imprisoned . When the enemy is near to be defeated , the Sphere-Builders cause a strong anomaly destroying many ships and allowing the Reptilian to escape through a vortex . " Countdown " is another engaging episode , with a great star battle and dramatic fate of important characters . The saga of the Enterprise in the expanse seems to be near to the end with many casualties . Title ( Brazil ) : " Contagem Regressiva " ( " Countdown " )
A Great Debut of Bill Paxton as Director in a Very Scary Low-Budget Movie	Matthew McConaughey is a mysterious man waiting for Agent Wesley Doyle ( Powers Boothe ) in his FBI office . He claims to have information about a serial killer chased by FBI . When Agent Doyle arrives in the office , he tells him that the serial killer is indeed his dead brother . Agent Doyle requests some evidence , and the man tells the story of his life , since his childhood . They were a simple family of three : his widow father Meiks ( Bill Paxton ) , his brother and himself . One night , his father gathers the two brothers and tells them that an angel of God had just visited him and assigned his family to destroy demons . What happens next is one of the most scary movie I have ever seen . I watched this movie four months ago on VHS , and yesterday I watched again , now on DVD . Although being a low-budget movie , the screenplay is sharp , with no flaw . The cast is outstanding , but I would like to highlight the performance of Matt O'Leary as the young Felton . It is a very difficult and complex role to be performed by a young teenager . The direction of Bill Paxton is remarkable . There is no explicit violence in this horror movie . A great debut behind the camera . I regret the Brazilian title of this movie : ' A Mão do Diabo ' ( The Devil's Hand ' ) . If at least it were ' The God's Hand ' , it might be acceptable . But calling this movie as ' the devil's hand ' is indeed ridiculous . Brent Hanley , the screenwriter , did not deserve such a lack of respect from the Brazilian distributor . This film is highly recommended . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Mão do Diabo " ( " The Devil's Hand " )
Money , Sex , Drugs , Rock ' n ' Roll ? and a Lucky Painting	In London , the British mob boss Lenny Cole ( Tom Wilkinson ) rules the growing real estate business using a corrupt Councilor ( Jimi Mistry ) for the bureaucratic services and his henchman Archy ( Mark Strong ) for the dirty work . When he lures the small time criminals One Two ( Gerard Butler ) and Mumbles ( Idris Elba ) in a transaction , they lose their property and owe two million pounds to Lenny . Meanwhile the Russian entrepreneur and Russian mob boss Uri Omovich ( Karel Roden ) meets Lenny for a real estate business and Lenny charges seven-million Euros for the deal ; Uri accepts , calls his accountant Stella ( Thandie Newton ) to laundry and raise the necessary funds and lends his lucky painting to Lenny to bring success and fortune to their business . However Stella double-crosses Uri and hires One Two and Mumbles to steal the amount while the painting is stolen from Lenny's wall by his addicted rocker stepson Johnny Quid ( Toby Kebbell ) . " Rocknrolla " is another great movie of Guy Ritchie in the same style of " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " . The complex and intelligent screenplay entwines characters and funny situations and the result is an entertaining movie with witty lines and excellent acting . Tom Wilkinson is fantastic in the role of a powerful crime lord . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rocknrolla "
The Dirty Side of Justice	In 1996 , there is a triple homicide in a dinning place , and Sergeant Larry Starczek ( Tom Selleck ) is in charge of the investigation . His lover , the ambitious prosecuting attorney Muriel Wynn ( Monica Potter ) follows him and they get the name of a suspect . The smalltime crook Romeo ' Squirrel ' Gandolph ( Glenn Plummer ) is arrested , confesses the crime and is sentenced to the death row . Seven years later , Muriel is married and has had a meteoric professional ascension in her career ; Starczek is retired ; and the judge of the case Gillian Sullivan ( Felicity Huffman ) has just been released from prison after the accusation of bribery . A couple of weeks before the execution of Squirrel , the corporate lawyer Arthur Raven ( William H . Macy ) is assigned by his associates to defend Squirrel for free as a part of a political marketing . However , the confession of a cancerous prisoner assuming that he had committed the murder reopens the case exposing secrets and wounds . I have never read Scott Turow's novel and I really liked " Reversible Errors " a lot , actually a great surprise as a drama , thriller and even film-noir . I can understand the disappointment of the viewers that had read the book first and saw the movie later since the same usually happens with me . But the performances of William H . Macy and Felicity Huffman , in the first plane , followed by Monica Potter and Glenn Plummer are awesome and must be acknowledged and recognized even for those that did not like the film . I liked very much the despicable , ambitious and ambiguous character of Monica Potter . The story has an excellent beginning , then it slows down , but the plot points , the dirty and amoral behavior of Starczek inclusive destroying evidences and the romance between Gillian and Arthur hold the interest on the plot until the last scene in spite of the running time of 172 minutes . Last but not the least , in my opinion , this movie is underrated in IMDb . Title ( Brazil ) : " Erros Irreversíveis " ( " Irreversible Errors " )
Trans-dimensional Disturbance and Hallucination	While traveling to Azati Prime , the Enterprise needs to cross a trans-dimensional disturbance phenomenon that could kill the humans . Dr . Phlox proposes to put the crew in coma for four days while the Enterprise travels through the phenomenon in impulse . In the middle of the journey , Dr . Phlox hears weird noises and T'Pol helps him to stay in the command of the ship . When they realize that the disturbance is longer than expected , Dr . Phlox needs to activate the warp engines to save the crew . " Doctor's Orders " is an original episode in the style of " Twilight Zone " with great performance of John Billingsley , who acts practically alone along the story . The surprising spooky twist in the very end is unexpected and very funny . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ordens Médicas " ( " Doctor's Orders " )
The Pod from the Future	The Enterprise finds a pod drifting in the space , and after opening it in Bay Launch 2 , Archer discovers a human body . While investigating the interior of the pod , Trip and Reed find a mysterious stairway and conclude that somehow the ship is bigger inside . Meanwhile , Dr . Phlox finds that the DNA of the pilot has Vulcan and other alien genomes . When the hostiles Suliban and Tholian threaten the Enterprise with their warships demanding the deliver of the pod , Archer calls T'Pol and they go to Daniels ' cabin . They unravel that the commission of the pod is nine hundred years ahead in the future . " Future Tense " has interesting concepts and is full of action . The idea of a vessel bigger inside is revolutionary and original , against the existing principles of physics and therefore very intriguing . The reluctance of T'Pol in accepting that the pod is from the future is acceptable based on the logical principles of the Vulcan culture . However , how can she explain or contradict what she saw in Daniels ' cabin ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Futuro do Presente " ( " Future of the Present " )
The Night of the Living Vulcans	The Enterprise receives a distress call from the Vulcan ship Seleya where T'Pol had served before going to Earth , but there are asteroids with random movements in her way . Archer , T'Pol , Reed and Corporal Hawkins get Shuttlepod One to reach Seleya , but they are attacked by the Vulcan survivors that act like zombies and seal the bulkheads , and the rescue team is not able to return to their docked vehicle . When T'Pol feels that she is being also affected in the Seleya , she transmits the data she had obtained to Dr . Phlox for analysis . Dr . Phlox finds that a toxin in the Trellium causes brain damage in the Vulcans and T'Pol has to immediately return to the Enterprise for treatment . However , Shuttlepod Two needs to be repaired after an unsuccessful trial of Trip and Travis of bringing Trellium ore from one asteroid to be refined . " Impulse " is a tense episode with great performance of Jolene Blalock when her character becomes paranoid and incapable of controlling her emotions . The Vulcan survivors look like zombies , returning to the primitive status of violent race . Title ( Brazil ) : " Impulso " ( " Impulse " )
Scylla Room and Sickness	Sucre drills the concrete wall and introduces a micro-camera with Mahone to see the Scylla behind a glass wall and protected by sensitive sound and heat detectors . Michael's surgery needs to be on that day , and Sara describes each necessary step to Michael . T-Bag takes pictures of Gretchen wearing sensual clothes . Krants and Lisa discuss the transportation of Scylla , but Gretchen sends her pictures and he leaves Lisa to meet Gretchen . However he does not bring his card and Gretchen fails in her intention , claiming for her life due to their daughter Emily . Mr . White invites T-Bag for one week cruise due to his brilliant speech to the Idaho group , but he refuses . Then he tells Gretchen that Trishanne is a federal agent and Gretchen calls Feng and tells him that she needs his help . Self tells Michael that Gretchen failed , but sent one additional page to him . Sara tells Michael that it is time to go to the hospital , but he refuses , asking how he could live if all die . Gretchen tells T-bag that she has a new buyer that offered US$ 200 million , and gives the address for the meeting on 1917 Piermont . Trishanne calls Self and they go to the address where they are surprised by Feng and his men . Michael goes with Lincoln , Sucre and Mahone , and Sara injects a drug for epileptic in Michael while Sucre prays for him . Lisa skips lunch in Eagles and Angels to meet Krantz and he summons the card holders for a meeting . Michael asks for absolute silence , and they build a bridge to reach Scylla , using nitrogen and an electromagnetic field to avoid the detectors , but the alarm sounds and Krantz sees Michael with Scylla . In this episode , the careful operation to reach Scylla apparently blows in the end . Or is it a trick to attract the attention and reach the sixth card ? Michael postpones his surgery and puts his health and life in danger . Self is absolutely naive working with the untruthful and dangerous Gretchen and T-Bag . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Angel of Death and Revenge	After thirteen and half years in prison for kidnapping and murdering the boy Park Won-mo , Geum-ja Lee ( Yeong-ae Lee ) is released and tries to fix her life . She finds a job in a bakery ; she orders the manufacturing of a special weapon ; she reunites with her daughter , who was adopted by an Australian family ; and she plots revenge against the real killer of Won-mo , the English teacher Mr . Baek ( Min-sik Choi ) . With the support of former inmates from prison , Geum-ja seeks an unattained redemption with her vengeance . " Lady Vengeance " is a very dark tale of vengeance and search for redemption . The screenplay is confused in some moments , using symbols and metaphors , but the story is engaging blending black humor and unpleasant and bold scenes of torture and death of children with a harsh revenge . Yeong-ae Lee has a magnificently performance in the role of Geum-ja along almost fourteen years of her life . I am a big fan of Chan-wook Park , and I regret that in Brazil the first movie of his trilogy about vengeance ( " Boksuneun Naui Geot " a . k . a . " Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance " ) has not been released yet . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lady Vingança " ( " Lady Vengeance " )
A Joke and Tribute to Hollywood People	Dean and Sam go to Hollywood to investigate a haunted studio where the lead actress Tara Benchley of a horror movie saw a member of the crew dead and a ghost . Sam researches and finds that four people have died along the last eighty years and the ghost could be any of them . The Winchester brothers are mistaken as PAs and discover that the event was actually a marketing strategy to promote the film . But when the producer Brad Redding first and another executive later die in the set , they discover that a revengeful screenwriter is really summoning fiends in the shooting . " Hollywood Babylon " is a funny episode , a joke and tribute to Hollywood people . Dean is hilarious , fascinated with the life and the lead actress of the movie . There are also many references to horror movies in this enjoyable episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Assombração em Hollywood " ( Ghost in Hollywood " )
Bad Timing	Sara injects another shot and tells Michael that he needs a doctor . The lookout Lincoln keeps watching on the outside of the warehouse ; when Self throws gas bombs trying to force Michael and his group to leave the place , Lincoln surprises Self , hits him on his back and brings him into the warehouse . Self justifies that his motivation was not personal , just business , and proposes to sell Scylla and share the amount among the whole group ; however Gretchen appears out of the blue and balances the situation and they leave the place without a shootout . Meanwhile , Mahone meets agent Lang and tells her what happened in the last days , and asks who would be trustful in FBI since the agency and the National Security are compromised with infiltrated agents from The Company . General Krantz decides to chase Gretchen using a satellite ; Lisa gives her resignation letter to he father . Michael does not want to sell Scylla ; Sucre hides himself in the truck of Self's car and finds the low budget Fauntleroy Hotel where Self and Gretchen are lodged . He calls Michael and steals several cartridges of gas from the car . Michael hides the missing chip of Scylla on the ceiling of the bathroom , but Self sees the location using a camera he planted in the warehouse . Self calls T-Bag and asks him to kill Rita and Emily if he does not return the call within two hours . When the seller Ralph Becker arrives on the front door selling Bibles , T-Bag sees his ring and knock-outs the guy , telling Rita that he is a Company agent . He interrogates the man and Rita convinces T-Bag to release Ralph and T-Bag lets Emily and Rita go . However the seller is actually an agent and T-Bag is arrested by The Company . Meanwhile Mahone has a meeting with Agent Wheeler , asking to see someone to trust ; Wheeler proposes the Scylla per a meeting with thee General Attorney . General Krantz also locates Gretchen and Self in the hotel , but Sucre fights against Gretchen while Michael disassembles the emergency exit ; when Self leaves the room through the fire stairway trying to escape , he falls on the ground and Michael recovers the complete Scylla ; however , he starts bleeding though his nose and faints . Self retrieves Scylla and The Company catches Michael . Sara and Sucre see on the screen of Self's notebook the hidden camera in the warehouse . When they return to their hideout , they find that Self has found the chip . When Mahone calls Lincoln and finds that Scylla was lost , he is betrayed by Agent Lang and arrested by Wheeler . Lincoln surprisingly arrives at The Company to see Michael , and General Krantz proposes the best doctors and facility to Michael's surgery per Scylla , and gives a file named Tombstone II to Lincoln . Meanwhile Self kills the intermediate Vikan and his bodyguard to deal Scylla directly with the buyer . " Just Business " is a stalled episode , with many exaggerated twists and betrayals . If Michael and his group wanted a meeting with a trustful authority , why not the General Attorney Cooper Green they met on the episode " Wash " ? The bad timing rules this show : Michael faints in the exact moment he has the complete Scylla ; Lincoln unexpectedly hits Self and the whole group is surprised by Gretchen ; why Sucre would try to dominate a skilled killer like Gretchen with bare hands , when a weapon should have resolved the whole problem . Why Mahone would schedule a meeting with his opponent , the ambitious Agent Mark Wheeler , without having Scylla ? It would be more reasonable if he had helped Michael , Sucre , Lincoln and Sara first to retrieve and schedule an encounter with Wheeler later . When T-Bag does a good deed , he is betrayed . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The True Story of a Successful Con Man in a Time When Persons Were Very Innocent	Frank Abagnale Jr . ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) is the beloved son of Frank Abagnale Sr . ( Christopher Walken ) and the French Paula Abagnale ( Nathalie Baye ) . One day , his father has a problem with IRS . The Abagnale family looses all their assets for the government , becoming very poor . But his great deception happens when his parents decide to divorce . He leaves home with nothing but his checks and a few clothes , and moves to New York City . There , it is very difficult for a boy alone get a job , so he decides to use his checks without funds . Then he pretends to be a Pan An pilot , a doctor and a lawyer , being chased by Carl Hanratty ( Tom Hanks ) , but always escaping . He becomes one of the greatest con man of USA , being in the list of the most wanted . Carl only arrests him in France . A movie directed by Steven Spielberg and with Tom Hanks , Leonardo DiCaprio and Christopher Walken in the cast is the synonym of a good and high quality movie . This one , about a con man living in a innocent and romantic time ( like Butch Cassidy was a romantic bank thief ) , is also a great entertainment and very recommended for any audiences .
A Great Movie with a Moralist End	Gavin Banek ( Ben Affleck ) is a lawyer in a hurry to the court that hits the car of Doyle Gipson ( Samuel L . Jackson ) in a highway and leaves the scene of the accident without giving a lift to Doyle . He leaves a blank check to pay for the damage and refuses to give a lift to the victim . But he forgets his power of attorney in the scene of accident . Gavin is defending his company against the inheritor of a foundation , who claims that he deceived her grandfather to get the power of attorney and administrate the millions of dollars of the foundation . Doyle is also going to the court to defend himself in a separation process moved by his wife , and because of the twenty minutes lost in the accident , his case is decided by the judge on the behalf of his wife . From this point on , Gavin will start a war against Doyle , trying to retrieve his document . The rage between them will increase along the plot . This movie is great , although the moralist end of the story does not fit to the profile of the character of Ben Affleck . The acting of the cast and the direction are sharp and keep the attention of the viewer . Attention to the dialog of Ben's wife Cynthia Banek ( Amanda Peet ) with him in the restaurant : it is one of the most cynical I have ever seen . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fora de Controle " ( " Out of Control " )
An Excellent Perspective of the Stupidity of a War	' The Young Lions ' is the Second War II presented through the participation of three soldiers . Christian Diestl ( Marlon Brando ) is an idealistic German , son of a shoemaker . He joins the Army believing that life could improve in Germany under the administration of the Nazis . However , being a soldier , he cannot accept ' acting like a police ' in an occupied Paris and requests transference to the front , where he has another disappointment with the cruelty of the war . Noah Ackerman ( Montgomery Clift ) is a shy American Jew , a very simple man , just married with Hope Plowman ( Hope Lange ) and very discriminated in his platoon for being Jew . He goes to the war and leaves his family . Michael Whiteacre ( Dean Martin ) is a successful actor who became friend of Noah while in New York and is also obliged to join the army and go to London . There , he decides to leave the office activity and join his platoon in the front . This movie is excellent . It shows common people being used by government in a senseless war . All the main characters are peaceful common persons : Christian is a very simple person , wishing to climb socially in life in a Germany without opportunities and is misguided by the speech of Hitler and pretty soon he becomes aware how stupid war is . Noah is also a very simple person , a salesman from a department store , who indeed wishes to be with his family and join the Army just for obligation . And Michael is a selfish actor and bon vivant , without any sense of patriotism and who is not interest in anything but to have his life back . These characters are put together in a stupid war , having to kill persons to save their lives and to obey orders , which they do not agree . This movie is an excellent perspective of the stupidity of a war .
How to Make a Great Movie with a Very Low Budget	In Echo Park , Los Angeles , the teenager Eileen May Garcia ( Alicia Sixtos ) has a dream fifteen years old party . Her cousin Magdalena ( Emily Rios ) is fourteen years old and will be the next in the family to celebrate the " Quinceañera " . However , her father is the local preacher and security guard and cannot afford and expensive party and Magdalena will wear her cousin's dress and dreams on arriving in a limousine like Eileen did . However , her dreams are shattered when she finds that she is pregnant of her boyfriend Herman ( J . R . Cruz ) , in spite of being virgin . Her father expels her from her home and she moves to the house of her uncle Tomas Alvarez ( Chalo González ) , who lodges his troublemaker gay nephew Carlos ( Jesse Garcia ) in his house , and the trio raises family bonds . " Quinceañera " is the evidence that it is possible to make a great movie with a very low-budget , supported by excellent screenplay and performance . The enlightened character Tomas that survives selling " champarraro " is one of the most beautiful I have recently seen . Title ( Brazil ) : " Meus Quinze Anos " ( " My Fifteen Years " )
The Beginning of Brazilian Cinema's New Phase	Renato ( Agnaldo Camargo ) and Miro ( Grande Otelo ) are black brothers raised by the family of the Caucasian Marta ( Vera Nunes ) in an old mansion in Tijuca , Rio de Janeiro . Renato is graduated and has always looked for dignity , winning in life due to his honesty and search for social recognition . His brother , on the contrary , is a rebel small time crook and he says that his behavior is the fruit of the treatment he received while living in the Caucasian family's house . Their step sister Marta has a crush on Renato . When she meets the crook Walter Mendes ( Jorge Doria ) , Marta falls in love for him . Renato argues with Walter , they fight , Walter tries to shoot Renato , but Renato accidentally kills him . However , Moleque Miro is blamed and wrongly sent to prison . Renato assumes his guilty , and the young boy Hélio ( Agnaldo Rayol ) , who witnessed the crime , convinces Marta to testify that Renato killed Walter in self-defense . " Somos Todos Irmãos " is a movie made in the beginning of Brazilian cinema's new phase . In the end of the 40's , Brazilian cinema made a rupture with the previous model mainly due to the post-war ; political changes ; growing industrialization ; and new references of the traditions of the Brazilian man and culture . In this movie , both black characters have different views of the society . The story does not fall in the usual melodramatic Hollywoodian clichés and there is no final redemption . This movie was produced by Atlântida but unfortunately the available copy is almost impossible to be heard . I probably understood less than 40 % of the powerful dialogs . Title ( Brazil : " Também Somos Irmãos " ( " We Are Also Brothers " )
Very Gore With Potential of Cult-Movie	The school friends Paul ( Rider Strong ) , Karen ( Jordan Ladd ) , Bert ( James DeBello ) , Marcy ( Cerina Vincent ) and Jeff ( Joey Kern ) rent an isolated cabin in the woods to spend a week together . When they arrive , a man contaminated with a weird disease asks for help to them , but they get in panic and kill the man , who drops dead in the water reservoir . The whole group , except Karen , without knowing where the dead body is , makes a pact of drinking only beer along the week . When Karen drinks tap water and gets the disease , the group starts their journey to hell . " Cabin Fever " is a collection of clichés and parts of horror movies ( " Evil Dead " , " Outbreak " , " The Night of the Living Dead " ? the remake , " Braindead " etc . ) that works very well . It is a very gore story , with potential of cult-movie . In the cover of the Brazilian DVD , there is a reference to Peter Jackson , who seems to have liked this movie too . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cabana do Inferno " ( " Cabin of the Hell " )
Amoral and Tragic Tale About the Degradation of a Family	After the funeral of her father Arnaldo ( José Lewgoy ) , who committed suicide , Engraçadinha ( Lucélia Santos ) confesses to the priest the motives . On the engagement party of her cousin Sílvio ( Luiz Fernando Guimarães ) with Letícia ( Nina de Pádua ) , Engraçadinha seduces him in the library , and later she ends her engagement with Zózimo ( Daniel Dantas ) and lies to Letícia , telling that she is pregnant . Letícia decides to tell Arnaldo what happened , and he says that the child can not be born . He exposes dirty secrets to Engraçadinha , and a tragedy is announced . " Engraçadinha " is another adaptation of an erotic , amoral and tragic novel about the degradation of the family of Nelson Rodrigues , one of the best Brazilian dramaturge , to the cinema . The performances of Lucélia Santos , Luiz Fernando Guimarães , Nina de Pádua and José Lewgoy are magnificent . The beautiful title song is sang by the Brazilian singer Zizi Possi . Once again I regret that another great Brazilian film has not had a decent distribution . Even in Brazil , I have a very old VHS , bought from a rental , and this movie has not been released on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Engraçadinha " ( " Cute " )
Intense and Full of Emotions	In one day in the 21st Precinct of New York , many criminals are booked after being arrested : a shoplifter is brought after stealing a purse in a department store ; two burglars with extensive criminal record are captured by a policeman burgling an apartment ; the small time embezzler Arthur Kindred ( Craig Hill ) , who is primary , is arrested without any resistance . The tough Detective McLeod ( Kirk Douglas ) , who loves his wife Mary ( Eleanor Parker ) , is an honest detective with strong principles and code of honor and zero tolerance . He is near to conclude a case against an abortionist , Dr . Karl Schneider ( George Macready ) , with the testimony of a witness that is coming to identify Dr . Schneider in the precinct . However , the woman is bribed and the upset McLeod hits Schneider , and he insinuates to McLeod's chief , Lt . Monaghan ( Horace McMahon ) , that the problem is personal and gives the name of Mary McLeod . Lt . Monaghan invites Mary to come to his office for investigation , when deep innermost secrets of her past are disclosed leading to a tragedy . " Detective Story " is amazingly intense and full of emotions in spite of being shot practically in only one scenario in the interior of the precinct . Kirk Douglas gives an outstanding performance , developing a complex character that sees his principles destroyed in a couple of hours with a great intensity . Eleanor Parker is also fantastic , in the dramatic and heartbreaking role of Mary McLeod . The direction of William Wyler is perfect as usual . Title ( Brazil ) : " Chaga de Fogo " ( " Sore of Fire " )
A Delightful Adventure and a Sensitive Romance	In 1832 , a frightened France has a serious epidemic of Asiatic cholera , which is killing the population specially in the country , and Italy is invaded and dominated by Austria . In this scenery , Angelo ( Oliver Martinez ) is a 25 years old refined Italian colonel from a wealthy family exiled in France . He is trying to gather his exiled compatriots and return to Milan to organize the Italian resistance against Austria . Angelo is welcomed by the French noble Pauline ( Julliete Binoche ) in her house in a difficult moment for him , and Pauline travels together with Angelo , trying to find her missing husband in a chaotic country . Along their journey , Angelo becomes her protector , and they fall in love for each other . " Le Hussard Sur le Toit " is a delightful adventure and a sensitive romance . The story is beautiful and the platonic love and the chemistry between Angelo and Pauline are wonderful . An excellent movie , with a beautiful reconstitution of a dark period of French history and highly recommended for any audience . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Cavaleiro do Telhado e a Dama das Sombras " ( " The Knight of the Roof and the Lady of the Shadows " )
If You Can't Find a Friend , Make One	When May was a child , she was a lonely girl with one lazy eye and without any friend but a weird and ugly doll kept in a glass case given by her bizarre mother on her birthday . May ( Angela Bettis ) becomes a lonely weird young woman , working in an animal hospital and assisting the veterinary in surgeries and sewing operated animals most of the time . Her lesbian colleague Polly ( Anna Farris ) has a sort of attraction for her . When the shy May meets the mechanic Adam Stubbs ( Jeremy Sisto ) , she loves his hands and has a crush on him . They date , but the weirdness and bizarre behavior of May makes Adam moves away from her . Alone , May has a brief affair with Polly , but she feels rejected again when her colleague meets Ambrosia ( Nichole Hiltz ) . When her doll is accidentally broken , the deranged May decides to build a friend for her , using the best parts her acquaintances can offer . I saw " May " for the first time on VHS on 23 April 2005 , and I found it an original , weird and scary low-budget movie , with a great potential of cult-movie . The great direction of Lucky McKee pays homage to Dario Argento , inclusive with a direct citation of " Trauma " . The soundtrack also recalls Argento's movies , and when Adam projects his movie , the credit of his direction is written in Italian . Angela Bettis is perfect in the role of a deranged young woman , and the story is never predictable . Jeremy Sisto has also a great performance , and Anna Farris breaks the tension with her silly character . Today , 21 December 2006 , I have just seen May again on DVD and I recommend this movie to fans of original scary and twisted stories . Title ( Brazil ) : " May ? Obsessão Assassina " ( " May ? Assassin Obsession " )
A Living Hell	In the Nineteenth Century , in Japan , the American journalist Christopher ( Billy Drago ) is traveling through the country searching Komomo ( Michie ) , the missing love of his life that he had abandoned years ago promising to come back to her later . He arrives in a shadowy island inhabited by whores and caftans , where he has an encounter with a deformed prostitute that tells that his beloved Komomo had passed away . He drinks sake with her and later he asks the woman to tell the story of her life . The prostitute discloses a dark and cruel story about her life and the sad fate of Komomo . The macabre " Imprint " is another disturbing and brutal movie of Takashi Miike . Using magnificent camera-work and impressive make-up in an awesome atmosphere , " Imprint " approaches gruesome and gore theme like abortion , fetus , incest , torture , perversions and abuse along 63 minutes running time of pure and sick horror with many twists . I confess that I felt uncomfortable and disturbed with the sadistic sequence of the torture of Komomo . Takashi Miike really honors the title of this series , being a Master of Horror . Title ( Brazil ) : " Marcas do Terror " ( " Marks of the Terror " )
Unforgettable Sick SM Love Story	The successful Japanese model Aki ( Mako Midori ) is abducted by the obsessed and lonely blind sculptor Michio ( Eiji Funakoshi ) and his mother ( Noriko Sengoku ) . Aki unsuccessfully tries to escape from Michio's studio , and seduces and manipulates Michio against his mother . Aki develops a weird , sick and tragic relationship with Michio , after her long imprisonment and the close contact with him . The first thing that came up to my mind while watching " Môjuu " was the clear inspiration of its storyline in William Wyler's " The Collector " ( 1965 ) ; by the other hand , the screenplay of the recent " Tiresia " ( 2003 ) is certainly based in these two movies . These three films have the same storyline - an obsessed fan kidnaps a woman and imprisons her , but have very different conclusions . " Môjuu " follows a bizarre and weird way , using destructive sadomasochism between the two lead characters , and the most impressive , in a 1969 movie , i . e . , thirty seven years ago . Mako Midori is extremely beautiful ; the sets are awesome ; the cinematography is wonderful ; but this unforgettable sick SM love story is recommended for very specific audiences only , since it is impossible not to feel a disturbance after watching this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cega Obsessão " ( " Obsession Blind " )
Great Adaptation of Bram Stocker's Novel	I am a great fan of vampire movies , and was really surprised how good this classic version of Bram Stocker's novel is . I am not fan of Jack Palance , but he is amazing in the role of Dracula , maybe better than Christopher Lee or Bela Lugosi . He looks like a kind of " human animal " , while Christopher Lee is a sort of gentleman vampire . Good direction , great performances of the cast , excellent locations and very few special effects make this film a worthwhile vampire movie . I noted a great flaw in the shooting , almost in the end of the story , when Jonathan Harker is thrown in a hole in the count's property in Transilvania : Arthur and Dr . Van Helsing are alone in the place and when they approach to see Jonathan's body , a third person can be seen in the back of Van Helsing . However , this mistake is irrelevant and does not decrease my rating of this movie . In the DVD released in Brazil , there are some problems with the colors along the first third of the film , with the black turning into green . Title ( Brazil ) : " Drácula ? O Demônio das Trevas " ( " Dracula ? The Demon of the Shadows " )
Very Hilarious Sequel ? Be Ready for a Non-Stop Laughing Mode	In this very hilarious sequel , Gaylord Myron Focker ( Ben Stiller ) , his pregnant fiancée Pamela Byrnes ( Teri Polo ) , his future father-in-law and retired CIA agent Jack Byrnes ( Robert De Niro ) and his future mother-in-law Dina Byrnes ( Blythe Danner ) travel to Florida to visit Greg's parents , Bernie Focker ( Dustin Hoffman ) and the sex-therapist Roz Focker ( Barbra Streisand ) . The dispute between the " Focker-ized " and very " Zen " family and the rigid and paranoid Jack Byrnes made me burst in a " non-stop laughing " mode not only along the movie , but also after , recalling the funny scenes and gags . The talent of Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro as comedians is very well-known by the audiences , but Dustin Hoffman surprised me how funny he is . Barbra Streisand is also excellent , and the jokes with the English word " Focker " are great . For my surprise , there are IMDb users that hated this movie , probably bitter people without sense of humor that unfortunately we stumble in our lives . If the reader of my simple review wants to laugh , see this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Entrando Numa Fria Maior Ainda " ( a slang , that means " Getting into a Bigger Trouble " )
A Tale of Disillusion	In a post-war Italy , Maddalena Cecconi ( Anna Magnani ) is a woman from the lower classes abused by her husband Spartaco Cecconi ( Gastone Renzelli ) , who is obsessed to make her young daughter Maria ( Tina Apicella ) a star in the cinema industry . She expects a better life for Maria , and she sacrifices her marriage and her savings paying interpretation and ballet teachers , dress , hairdresser and bribe for the small time crook Alberto Annovazzi ( Walter Chiari ) to make her dream come true . When the director sees the test of Maria , Maddalena realizes the reality and cruelty of the entertainment industry . " Belissima " is a beautiful tale of disillusion . Anna Magnani has a magnificent interpretation in a role of a very poor mother and frustrated woman , spanked by her husband , trying to give a better life for her young daughter . Living nearby a movie theater , she sees the opportunity when a famous director is chasing a young talent for his next movie . Her characters gives the best effort within her short culture and vision trying to make her dream comes true , being very touching the moment when her dreams are shattered . The direction of Luchino Visconti is precise and flawless as usual , and the story is very real and credible . Title ( Brazil ) : " Belíssima " ( " Very Beautiful " )
A Dark , Gruesome and Surrealistic Psychological Thriller of Repressed Hatred and Revenge	Jûzô Murasaki is a boy miscast in his classroom , being frequently abused , tortured , beaten and humiliated by the bully Tôru Akai and his gang of juvenile punks . After years of repression , rejection and fear without facing Akai , he develops a psychopathic dual personality with a violent alter-ego . While living in the apartment 13 of a tenement building , he becomes unable to control his violent dark personality , who plots an evil revenge against his upper floor neighbor Akai and his family . I am a great fan of Asian movies and I found " Rinjin 13-gô " a hidden gem , developing a dark , gruesome and surrealistic psychological thriller of repressed hatred and revenge combined with horror . The screenplay follows the usual patterns of Asian horror movies , with a plot point in the very end , and the viewer must use his or her brain to understand the whole plot . I believe this is the greatest quality of screenplay writers and directors of this genre in Asia . I note that people accustomed to watch blockbusters and American movies only seem to have difficulties to properly understand the intelligent Asian screenplays . In this film , all the adult situations only have happened in the mind of the young Jûzô Murasaki , and when he faces the bully Tôru Akai , he resolves all his inner problems and the time-line will never happen the way it is disclosed in the film . Therefore , the screenplay is absolutely original and I do not recall seeing any similar story . In addition , the movie is stylishly shot , with unusual angle of camera and a nice cinematography . The actors and actress have great performances and there is a cult cameo appearance of the director Takashi Miike in homage to the promising Yasuo Inoue . My advice to the movie lovers is to keep his name in the pocket , since his debut could not be better . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ódio " ( " Hate " )
A Great Movie of Zombies Made Before the Classical ' The Night of the Living Dead '	In 1860 , Sir James Forbes ( André Morell ) and his daughter Sylvia ( Diane Clare ) receive a letter from his former brilliant student Dr . Peter Tompson ( Brook Williams ) , who is married to an old school friend of Sylvia , Alice ( Jacqueline Pearce ) . In this letter , Peter tells that mysterious deaths are happening in the area where he is the local doctor . Sir James decides to visit the friends with Sylvia and helps Peter to find out what is happening . There , he realizes that the bodies of the new dead are disappearing from their graves . A further investigation shows them the existence of zombies in that location . This 1966 movie from Hammer just released on DVD in Brazil is a great film of zombies . There are just a few good movies about this subject that I can remember ( the best of them and classical 1968 ' The Night of the Living Dead ' and the two others of George Romero's trilogy ? ' Dawn of the Dead ' and ' Day of the Dead ' , the good remake of ' The Night of the Living Dead ' , the great Bill Pullman's ' Brain Dead ' and also great Jennifer's Grey ' Ritual ' ) . This movie from Hammer is also an excellent one , and if the viewer pays attention , he will notice that it was made BEFORE the 1968 ' The Night of the Living Dead ' . I supposed that George Romero's movie was the first important one to explore the zombie theme , but now I realize that this 1966 Hammer's movie came first .
A Tale of Cruelty and Lack of Innocence	In 1985 , in a coastal town in Spain , the friends Koldo ( Christian Casas ) , Peti ( Roger Babia ) , Tito ( Pau Poch ) , Eugenio ( Daniel Casadellà ) and Moni ( Ivana Baquero ) stumble with a woman dressed like Santa Claus trapped in a hole in the woods . While to boys go to the police station to ask for help , the others find a rope to take the woman out of the hole . However , the boys find in the police station that the woman is the dangerous thief Rebeca Expósito ( Maru Valdivielso ) , who has just stolen two million pesetas from a bank and is wanted . The group decides to leave the woman in the hole without any food to force her to give the robbed money to them . Meanwhile , Peti and Eugenio that are fans of the movie " Zombie Invasion " , decide to make a voodoo ceremony with Rebecca to transform her into a zombie . When Rebecca escapes from her imprisonment , she uses an axe to chase the evil boys . " Cuento de Navidad " is a one of the best episodes that I have seen of the great Spanish series " Películas Para No Dormir " . The director Paco Plaza has an extraordinary effort to make such good movie working with five kids and one outstanding actress , Maru Valdivielso . The result is an original and very dark film , blending black humor and horror with cruelties and no innocence of the abusive teenagers that show no merci while torturing a " mean woman " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Delinqüentes Diabólicos " ( " Evil Delinquents " )
For the Mortgage	The chief spokesperson and lobbyist Nick Taylor ( Aaron Eckhart ) is the Vice-President of the Academy of Tobacco Studies . He is talented in speaking and spins argument to defend the cigarette industry in the most difficult situations . His best friends are Polly Bailey ( Maria Bello ) that works in the Moderation Council in alcohol business , and Bobby Jay Bliss ( David Koechner ) of the gun business own advisory group SAFETY . They frequently meet each other in a bar and they self-entitle the Mod Squad a . k . a . Merchants of Death , disputing which industry has killed more people . Nick's greatest enemy is Vermont's Senator Ortolan Finistirre ( William H . Macy ) , who defends in the Senate the use a skull and crossed bones in the cigarette packs . Nick's son Joey Naylor ( Cameron Bright ) lives with his mother , and has the chance to know his father in a business trip . When the ambitious reporter Heather Holloway ( Katie Holmes ) betrays Nick disclosing confidences he had in bed with her , his life turns upside-down . But Nick is good in what he does for the mortgage . " Thank you for Smoking " is a great politically incorrect movie , that satirizes the phobia against smokers and cigarette industry . Aaron Eckhart is simply awesome in the role of a man that has argument and is good in talking . The witty screenplay is original , using cynical lines and amoral characters . I quited smoking almost twenty-five years ago , and I do not like smokers and cigarettes , but Nick Taylor is amazing spinning the truth to defend the cigarette industry to pay his mortgage . Like said in " An Inconvenient Truth " : " It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends upon his not understanding it " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Obrigado Por Fumar " ( " Thank you for Smoking " )
A Duel of Titans in One Great Movie of the 1990's	Neil McCauley ( Robert De Niro ) is a lonely and sophisticated thief and leader of a gang composed by Chris Shiherlis ( Val Kilmer ) , Michael Cheritto ( Tom Sizemore ) and Trejo ( Danny Trejo ) . They and their families are also close friends . Is the heist of an armored car , the outsider bandit Waingro ( Kevin Gage ) participates and he unnecessarily executes the guards . Neil decides to eliminate the killer , who escapes due to an incident . Lt . Vincent Hanna ( Al Pacino ) is a dedicated detective from LAPD , having personal problems with his wife and her teenager daughter . Vincent chases Neil , trying to arrest him . This Michael Mann's movie is one of the best of the 1990's . There are many very well developed and important characters , many action , drama , betrayal , shooting and a great duel between two titans : Al Pacino and Robert De Niro . The story is long , but the viewer does not get tired . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fogo Contra Fogo " ( " Fire Against Fire " )
Crocodile Tears and Sick Games	Debra locates the refrigerated truck with the frozen finger tips of the last victim of the unknown serial-killer , who continues to play sick games with Dexter , and she is promoted to homicide detective by Captain Tom Matthews . Meanwhile an undercover detective that is infiltrated in the local mafia is found dead . When Sergeant James Doakes and Lt . Maria Laguerta go to his home to tell the news to the widow , they find her lethally wounded by two shots . Dexter interests by a case of an alcoholic driver that killed a teenager from Harvard and is considered not guilty in the court . " Crocodile " is another great episode of this promising series . The " damaged relationship " of Dexter and Rita Bennett is of a total black humor . Who is the serial-killer is the great question in this moment . Angel Batista might be the unknown killer , who knows ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Crocodilo " ( " Crocodile " )
Funny Popcorn	When Reuben Tishkoff ( Elliott Gould ) is double-crossed in a real state business with a luxury hotel in Las Vegas by Willie Bank ( Al Pacino ) , he has a heart attack . Danny Ocean ( George Clooney ) and Rusty Ryan ( Brad Pitt ) plots a heist with their friends to revenge Reuben breaking Bank's casino . The first point that calls the attention in " Ocean's Thirteen " certainly is the constellation of stars in the cast . The shallow screenplay makes this movie a funny popcorn , with a reasonable story and good acting . The producers that invested a high budget in the cast could have been more ambitious and selected also a better screenplay and director . Anyway , in spite of being disappointed with the flawed story , the film is entertaining and it is worthwhile watching it . Title ( Brazil ) : " Treze Homens e um Outro Segredo " ( " Thirteen Men and Another Secret " )
A Frightening Thriller About Obsession	In England , Gary Ellis ( Christopher Exxleston ) is a very insecure and jealous pilot , who owns an airplane . He loves his wife Tess Ellis ( Kate Hardie ) , but maybe because of his physical condition , she cheats him with the writer and her colleague Alex Madden ( Rhys Ifans ) . One day , after his wife has had sex with Alex , Gary has a heart attack . Meanwhile , a seventeen years old man has a fatal accident with his motorcycle , and Gary receives his heart , through a successful operation . Gary decides to look for the donator's mother , Maria Ann McCardle ( Saskia Reeves ) , a very religious woman and she becomes obsessed for Gary . The explosive combination of jealousy , affair and obsession leads the quartet to a tragic end . This movie is a really frightening thriller about obsession . The screenplay is very tight , the direction is very sharp , the atmosphere is scary and the four lead actors and actresses have really a great performance . It works perfectly on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available ? I Saw It in an Imported DV
Scary and Claustrophobic Cave of Horror	The sportswoman Sarah ( Shauna Macdonald ) loses her husband and daughter in a car crash , but she survives . One year later , her friends Beth ( Alex Reid ) , Rebecca ( Saskia Mulder ) , Sam ( Myanna Buring ) and Holly ( Nora-Jane No one ) , leaded by Juno ( Natalie Mendonza ) , invite her to explore a deep cave in the mountains . When the expedition is about three kilometers underground , a rock collapses and blocks the access tunnel , trapping the group inside the cave . With limited supplies , they try to find a way out , but sooner they face a hunger and savage breed of predators . The storyline of " The Descent " is not original , inclusive a couple of months ago I saw a very similar movie called " The Cave " . But on the contrary of the foregoing film , " The Descent " has a great screenplay , with a scary , claustrophobic , tense and gore story , and a psychological study of the characters under a huge condition of stress , deteriorating the relationship among them . The use of light and darkness in the special effects transmit a sensation of fear for the unknown . Title ( Brazil ) : " Abismo do Medo " ( " Abyss of Fear " )
Delightful and Critical View of the Behavior of the Japanese Working Class Under the American Influence	In a small community of workers in Japan , two brothers decide to not speak because they want to force their parents to buy a television . With this single storyline , Japanese director Yasujiro Ozu exposes a delightful and critical view of the behavior of the Japanese working class under the American influence in the post-WWII . Once again the major concern of Ozu is with the family and human relationship . The situation of the retired people is magnificently pictured through the desperate men looking for a job ; the domination of the USA in Japan is represented through the need of private English classes for the two brothers , and the translation of documents to English ; superfluous consume of the American society is represented through the importance of the useless television for the younger generation , while their parents are concerned with have some savings for their retirement . The destructive little gossips , the difficulties of communication , and many other problems of relationship are also shown in this little gem . For movie lovers like me , I regret to inform that this is the first DVD of the great director released in Brazil . Only in festivals , and occasionally in cable television , Brazilians have the chance to see the work of this great director . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bom Dia " ( " Good Morning " )
A Great Documentary for a Very Specific Public	' Olho da Rua ' ( Eye of the Street , the correct translation in English ) is a documentary filmed on the streets of Rio de Janeiro , with very peculiar and unique people that works on the streets . The target of this movie is a very specific group of Brazilians that lives in big cities and is interested on this type of information ( like me ) . Foreigners , even those who live in Rio , São Paulo , Belo Horizonte , Porto Alegre or any other big and developed city in Brazil , will not catch , for example , the wrong Portuguese spoken by most of the interviewed or the funny accent from the country in the North of Brazil . The ' amolador de facas ' ( knife sharpener ) is a profession extinguished in big cities . Imagine that one presented in the documentary , who play the Hymns of the City of Rio de Janeiro and Flamengo ( the most popular soccer team in Brazil ) and the Bolero of Ravel using a blade ? Since I was a kid I have not seen one of this knife sharpener any more . The movie also shows many persons originated from the circus ( the dog trainer , the gypsy , the ' repentistas ' - very funny singers originated from North of Brazil , the soccer player with one leg , the traffic light jugglers ) and working now on the streets . You can see also many persons that works on the street repairing small objects , like pans , chairs or umbrellas . Or the street vendors , selling oranges , cookies , herbs , or painting posters . In the periphery of big cities or in the interior and country of Brazil , you probably will find this type of professions , since the income of this population is very low . It may be difficult to a foreigner understand how , for example , a man that fix umbrellas can survive making about 50 cents per repaired umbrella , but do not forget that the minimum wage paid in Brazil is about eighty ( 80 ) US Dollars per month and a great part of the population receives less than that ridiculous amount . The only universal street profession showed in this movie is the whore . A great documentary for a very specific public . Title ( Brazil ) : " Olho da Rua " ( " Eye of the Street " )
A Naive and Metaphoric View of the Effects of the Progress	In the beginning of the Twentieth Century , in Belo Horizonte , the industrial Sampaio lives in a manor house with his stepdaughter Carmen , who has a sort of engagement with Roberto . Sampaio's daughter Neusa , of same age as Carmen , was sent to a metropolis to have a modern education and returns to Belo Horizonte . In the São João party in the country of Acaba-Mundo , promoted by the traditional Marta , Neusa has a one night stand with Roberto . Carmen witnesses their affair and decides to commit suicide . Meanwhile , Cristovão and his cousin Max decides to go to a cabaret in town instead of staying in the party , . They find Carmen and bring her to Marta's property , where she stays with the family and Tufy , Max's younger brother . Along this period , Cristovão falls in love for Carmen , and she has to decide between the love of the unfaithful Roberto and Cristovão . Watching " Sangue Mineiro " in 2005 , as I have just done , transform many dramatic scenes in comedy . First , because of the archaic Portuguese , with very unusual words , used in the inter-titles . And mainly because of the too much conservative moral values that ruled the society in those years . Humberto Mauro , considered by the expertise as the first great Brazilian director , had a slogan : " The Progress is too much Anti-Photogenic " . In " Sangue Mineiro " , there is a conflictive situation between the new and progressive ( represented by Neusa , the new-comer from a modern education , and Cristovão , a man from Rio de Janeiro that creates a situation in the breast of Marta's family ) and the old and traditional ( represented by Carmen , Max and Marta ) , prevailing the destruction of the traditional values through the introduction of the modernism . " Sangue Mineiro " in the present days is a naive and metaphoric view of the effects of the progress . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sangue Mineiro " ( " Mineiro Blood " ? obs : " Mineiro " means a person born in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais )
From Russia with Violence	In London , the Russian pregnant teenager Tatiana arrives bleeding in a hospital , and the doctors save her baby only . The Russian descendant midwife Anna Khitrova ( Naomi Watts ) finds Tatiana's diary written in Russian language in her belongings and decided to find her family to deliver the baby , she brings the diary home and ask her uncle Stepan ( Jerzy Skolimowski ) to translate the document . Stepan refuses , but Anna finds a card of a restaurant owned by the Russian Semyon ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) inside the diary and she visits the old man trying to find a lead to contact Tatiana's family . When she mentions the existence of the diary , Semyon immediately offers to translate the document . However , Stepan translates part of the diary and Anna discovers that Semyon and his sick son Kirill ( Vincent Cassel ) had raped Tatiana when she was fourteen years old and forced her to work as prostitute in a brothel of their own . Further , Semyon is the dangerous boss of the Russian mafia " Vory v Zakone " , jeopardizing the safety of Anna and her family . Meanwhile , Semyon's driver Nikolai Luzhin ( Viggo Mortensen ) gets close to Kirill and Semyon , climbing positions in the criminal organization , but he helps Anna , her family and the baby . After " A History of Violence " , David Cronenberg makes another engaging an d violent thriller with the excellent actor Viggo Mortensen . His character recalls the one he performed in the magnificent " American Yakuza " in the beginning of his successful career . After the Italian mobsters , Latin drug dealers and Yakuza , it seems that Russian Mafia and human trafficking are the present mobster organization and business explored by the cinema industry . In addition to the great direction of Cronenberg , the performances of Vincent Cassell and Armin Mueller-Stahl are top-notch and Naomi Watts is efficient as usual . In the end , " Eatern Promises " is a great entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Senhores do Crime " ( " Lords of the Crime " )
A Great and Enjoyable Movie	Lola ( Franka Potente ) receives a phone call from her boy friend Manny ( Moritz Bleibtreu ) . He lost 100 , 000 DM in a subway train that belongs to a very bad guy . Lola has 20 min to raise this amount and meet Manny . Otherwise , he will rob a store to get the money . Three different stories may happen depending on some minor event along Lola's run . With this simple plot , but a great imagination , screen player and director Tom Tykwer gave us an excellent and frantic movie . There is no way that the viewer does not like it . This theme ( the same story been repeated in time in a different way ) has been already approached at least in ' 12 : 01 ' , an excellent Sci-Fi action movie ( 1993 ) with Jonathan Silver and Helen Slater . In ' Groundhog Day ' , a movie also from 1993 , where the characters are trapped in time and it is a romantic comedy . ' Sliding Doors ' is a beautiful dramatic romance of 1998 , where is shown the two possible lives of Gwyneth Paltrow character depending on getting ( or not ) a train . But in ' Run Lola , Run ' , the viewer will find almost a video-clip in high-speed , with some cartoons , with rave music and lots of action . Title ( Brazil ) : " Corra Lola Corra " ( " Run Lola Run " )
A Great Tale of Obsession , Paranoid and Redemption	Walter Sparrow ( Jim Carrey ) is a family-man married with Agatha Sparrow ( Virginia Madsen ) , and works catching dogs in the Department of Animal Control and has a teenager son very close to his wife and him . On the day of his birthday , he is bitten by a dog and comes late to meet Agatha . While waiting for him , Agatha buys a detective book with a novel about the mystery around the number 23 in a bookstore as a gift to Walther . He becomes captivated with the story and obsessed with the number 23 , finding many coincidences with his own life , and he decides to find the author , believing the story is about him . His further investigation discloses a mysterious situation that makes Walther paranoid . The dark " The Number 23 " is a great tale of obsession , paranoid and redemption . The story and the characters are very well developed , the final twist is totally unexpected and the film has a stylish cinematography and edition , with intense use of dark colors . There are stunning sequences , like for example when the boy meets the widow dead on her bed , or the meeting of Fingerling with Suicide Blonde . Jim Carrey is perfect and Virginia Madsen is still a very beautiful and sexy woman and has a great performance . In spite of having a moralist conclusion , it works and leaves a magnificent message of justice and moral standards that are almost forgotten in the present days . Title ( Brazil ) : " Número 23 " ( " Number 23 " )
Sometimes , During the Seventh Month , Strange Things Happen	" Every year , for thirty days during the lunar seventh month , the Chinese believe that the gates of hell are thrown open . Vengeful spirits or hungry ghosts wander among the living , seeking revenge and justice before the gates of hell are closed again for another year . " The eighteen years old Rosa Dimaano ( Alessandra de Rossi ) arrives in Singapore from Philippines to give support to her family working as a maid in the house of the artists of a Chinese opera troupe Mr . and Mrs . Teo ( Huifang Hong & Shucheng Chen ) on the first day of the seventh month of the lunar calendar . She is welcomed by the family and introduced to their friends and their retarded son Ah-Soon ( Benny Soh ) . Later , Mrs . Teo advises her about their beliefs and how the dead should be respected and honored along the seventh month . However , Rosa sweeps their offer on the sidewalk breaking a basic rule and offending the spirits , and she is haunted by ghosts everywhere . When Ah-Soon calls her Esther Santos and she finds some belongings of the unknown Esther in the house , she discloses a dark and scary secret about the past of her masters . " The Maid " is an original , scary and very-well constructed ghost story based on a Chinese superstition . The screenplay introduces with an explanation about the seventh month of the lunar calendar , and Mrs . Teo explains the rules to be accomplished to Rosa , giving the big picture about the theme to the viewers like me that are not familiarized with this tradition . I startled many times with the creepy ghosts , and the scene when Rosa is watching the presentation of the troupe sat in the middle of the spirits is really frightening . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Sétimo Mês " ( " The Seventh Month " )
A Magnificent Transposition of an Erotic and Amoral Play of Nelson Rodrigues to the " Big Screen "	In Rio de Janeiro of the 80's , Maria Cecília ( Lucélia Santos ) , the virgin seventeen years old daughter of the wealthy and powerful Dr . Werneck ( Carlos Kroeber ) , is raped by five black men when her car has an engine problem nearby an isolated junkyard . Her upper class family decides that Maria Cecília needs to get married , and Werneck assigns his manager Peixoto ( Milton Moraes ) to find a fiancée among the employees of the family's company . Peixoto selects Edgard ( José Wilker ) , a simple and single man , and offers him an unusual proposal : if he gets married with Maria Cecília , he would receive a huge amount , as a gift or dowry . However , Edgard has a crush on his neighbor Ritinha ( Vera Fischer ) and has his own moral principles . An inner fight between greed and moral values divides Edgard , while revelations about Ritinha , Maria Cecília and Peixoto are disclosed to him , ending in a tragedy . I have just finished watching this version of " Bonitinha , Mas Ordinária " for the fourth or the fifth time , and I found it again a magnificent transposition of an erotic and amoral play of Nelson Rodrigues , one of the best Brazilian dramaturge , to the cinema . Indeed , this is the second transposition to the " big screen " of this play ( the first one was in 1963 , and I have never find this movie to rent or buy ) . A Brazilian with short culture , or a foreigner who is not aware of details of our contemporary history , might think that this film is decadent , trash and use other depreciable adjectives to express his opinion . However , it is necessary to see the " big picture " of 1981 to understand this movie . Brazil from the 60's to the beginning of the 80's lived a dictatorship , and the common " relief valve " in the cinema industry was the erotic movies . Being a Catholic country , the common practice in the past ( and even in the present days , specially in some traditional families and depending on the region of Brazil ) was the woman keep her virginity until her wedding . There are many references to this procedure along the movie . Further , it was a common hypocritical practice , marrying the daughter in an urgent basis when she lost her virginity or got pregnant . Therefore , there is no absurd in the situation of Werneck's family trying to marry Maria Cecília as soon as possible . The writer Nelson Rodrigues had also a very amoral view of the Church , the family and the mankind . In his view , all the families are or become rotten ; the middle class is very decadent and false ; all the women are bitch and like to be spanked ; mankind and church are corrupt and hypocrite . Therefore , " Bonitinha , Mas Ordinária " is a masterpiece in terms of the world of Nelson Rodrigues , and the movie was very successful in 1981 , projecting the name of Lucélia Santos on the spots in Brazil . Her performance is really amazing . Just to give an idea to the foreigners ( and sorry for the comparison ) , but Nelson Rodrigues had his rich universe , the same way Pedro Almodóvar has his own outrageous universe and the same way David Lynch has his bizarre universe . If the viewer does not know his universe , probably will not understand and enjoy the story . Another remark is that the Brazilian cinema is one of the best of the world , not in quantity , but in quality . It had a bad moment in the 70's , but fortunately recovered and presently is producing excellent films again . Last but not the least , I regret that this important film has not had a decent distribution . My VHS , horribly recorded in LP , was released by " Isto É " in a collection of important Brazilian movies , and the sound in some parts makes almost impossible to understand what the actors and actresses are speaking . There are only fifty-four votes in IMDb , meaning that probably there is no worldwide distribution of this movie . I feel sorry for the overseas movie lovers , not having the chance to know such film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bonitinha , Mas Ordinária " ( " Cute , But Bitch " )
Little Did He Know	For twelve years , the methodic IRF agent Harold Crick ( Will Ferrell ) has had a routine lonely life guided by his wristwatch . However , one day he hears the narration of his life in off , telling that he is going to die pretty soon . Meanwhile , he audits Ana Pascal ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , the owner of a bakery that is in debt with the IRF , and falls in love for her . Harold is advised by Professor Jules Hilbert ( Dustin Hoffman ) to change his monotonous lifestyle while he tries to find Karen Eiffel ( Emma Thompson ) , the author of the story of his life , who is researching means of killing the character , and convince her to change the ending of the story . The surrealist " Stranger than Fiction " has one of the most refreshing screenplays I have ever seen , and it certainly is the best performance of Will Ferrell . The quest for life of Harold Crick is fantastic , blending a great humor , wonderful lines , literature and a dramatic situation supported by a magnificent music score . The connection of Harold Crick with his wristwatch recalled me a tale of Julio Cortázar's " Historias de Cronopios y de Fama " , where the author recalls the day that he was given as a gift to his wristwatch . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mais Estranho Que a Ficção " ( " Stranger Than Fiction " )
A Matter of Attitude	Elmer Finch ( W . C . Fields ) is a good man , married for the second time and working for twenty years in a company as accountant . However , he is not respected by his wife and his stepson and even by his dog . In his work , his boss and colleagues spend an abusive treatment , and clients do not respect him either . His life changes when he is accidentally hypnotized and transformed in a lion , changing his attitude . " Running Wild " is an excellent comedy , with a great screenplay and performances . The beginning is very dramatic for a comedy , but when Elmer is hypnotized , becomes very funny . The dog is cute and responsible for most of the best sequences , and his mean stepson Junior ( Barnett Raskin ) is amazingly funny and irritant . The DVD presents in the Extras the " famous sentences " of W . C . Fields , and they are also very ironical and funny . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Selvagem " ( " The Savage " )
The Raise and Redemption of a Drug-Dealer - The Most Positive Story I Have Recently Seen	In the 90's , In Rio de Janeiro , the middle-class João Guilherme Estrella ( Selton Mello ) is introduced to the world of drugs consuming marijuana and cocaine first and later becoming a drug-dealer with many connections inclusive in Europe . However , he spends all the money he makes in his addiction , parties with clients and friends and travels , never structuring or organizing a network or saving money . When he is arrested , he is sent to the prison first and later to the judicial asylum for treatment , reintegrating to the society . Presently João is a successful musical producer . " Meu Nome Não É Johnny " depicts the raise and redemption of a drug-dealer in the most positive story I have recently seen . The dynamic narrative discloses the true story in a wonderful combination of drama and comedy , with the excellent Selton Mello in the lead role . The dialogs are intelligent , the corruption of police is slightly disclosed but the screenplay never goes deeper in the connections of João Guilherme ? who are the suppliers or the users , for example , are totally forgotten . Have they helped Johnny later ? In the prison , the relationship of João Guilherme and the criminals are also not very clear . However , the objective of the movie is achieved and I personally loved the message of the possibility of recovering of a doomed person . Title ( Brazil ) : " Meu Nome Não É Johnny " ( " My Name Is not Johnny " )
Refreshing Shock of Cultures	In a province in China , Detective Ma Shan ( Wen Jiang ) wakes up on the day after the wedding party of his sister Ma Juan ( Huang Fan ) and finds that his gun with three bullets is missing . Ma Shan drank too much in the party and does not recall what might have happen with his weapon . He falls in disgrace with his superiors and investigates who might have stolen the gun . When his former sweetheart Li Xiaomeng ( Jing Ning ) is found dead with a shot of his weapon , he becomes the prime suspect . When the police force arrests his acquaintance Zhou Xiaogang ( Shi Liang ) , he discloses that Li Xiaomeng was accidentally killed since his friend was the real target of the murderer . Ma Shan uses Zhou Xiaogang as a bait to lure and arrest the criminal an retrieve his missing gun . " The Missing Gun " was one of the greatest and best surprises among the movies I have recently watched . China Video usually produces low budget , violent and full of action movies with messed screenplays , but " The Missing Gun " is actually a refreshing story that exposes a shock of cultures . In most of Western movies , it is very easy to get a gun ( banal in North American movies ) , but in Communist China , guns are prohibited for the population and therefore they are a symbol of power , respect and honor to the policeman . Even the number of bullets are limited in accordance with this film . Based on this explanation , we can understand the saga of Ma Shan to find his missing gun . This movie has great interpretations , wonderful locations and a beautiful cinematography . The bicycles chase is surrealistic and unusual and one of the most attractive scenes along this great film . The ambiguous conclusion , with the death of Ma Shan , ends this highly recommended movie with golden key . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Arma Perdida " ( " The Lost Weapon " )
Great Gothic Adventure	Vampires and werewolves are fighting against each other in a battle of hundred of years . In the present days , the gorgeous vampire Selena ( Kate Beckinsale ) is a werewolf killer warrior . Both races use very special guns : the vampires use a bullet made of silver nitrate , while the werewolves use a sort of special bullet with daylight glow . The werewolves chase the human Michael Corvin ( Scott Speedman ) , and Lucian ( Michael Sheen ) , the leader of them that is supposed to be dead , bites Michael . Selena is intrigued with the interest of the werewolves in Michael , and while protecting him , she falls in love with him . Kaven ( Shane Brolly ) , the leader of the vampires ' coven , does not pay much attention on the observations of Selena about Michael . She decides to wake-up Viktor ( Bill Nighy ) , the ancient leader of the vampires , when deep secrets are disclosed . ' Underworld ' is a great Gothic adventure . Once all the characters are night creatures , the story takes place along the night and the dark photography is wonderful . The acting is good , but the grimaces of Shane Brolly , trying to look evil , are the weak point of the film . However , the story hooks the attention of the viewer until the last scene . I saw this movie for the second time on 12 November 2006 . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Underworld ? Anjos da Noite ' ( ' Underworld ? Angels of the Night ' )
Two Beautiful True Stories of Sympathy of Two European Couples	1 ) ' Aart and Johtje Vos'Directed by Tim HunterIn Amsterdam , in the Second World War , Aart Vos ( Martin Donovan ) and Johtje Vos ( Dana Delany ) is a Dutch couple , who jeopardize their own family lives lodging many Jews in their house . In a moment , they have thirty-six persons living and sharing their rationed food with them . 2 ) ' Marie Taquet'Directed by Lynne LittmanIn Jamoigne , Belgium , in the Second World War , Emile Taquet ( Alfred Molina ) and Marie Taquet ( Linda Hamilton ) is a couple without children , who takes care of eighty boys in a school , most of them Jews , like they were their own sons . In the end of the war , the parents and relatives come to have their sons back , and the orphans are not allowed to be adopted by them and are sent to Palestine . Both true stories are very beautiful and show that even in the worst periods of mankind , good persons do exist , no matter their nationalities , ethnic groups or religions . Impossible not empathize with such persons , who made the difference and deserve this homage for what they did , showed through these films . A great moment is when the picture of the real Madame Taquet is shown in the end of the story with the information that , in 1988 , all the boys came together to visit her , and on the following year she died . It seems that her mission on Earth had finished . My vote in IMDB is eight . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Histórias de Coragem 2 ? Dois Casais ' ( ' Stories of Courage : Two Couples ' )
Crude and Dark Gem	In London , the pimp Derek ( Johnny Harris ) assigns the prostitute Kelly ( Lorraine Stanley ) that works for him to find a young girl on the streets to escort the powerful mobster Duncan Allen ( Alexander Morton ) . Kelly finds the twelve year-old runaway Joanne ( Georgia Groome ) in the train station and Derek proposes one hundred pounds for the service and the girl accepts . Kelly befriends Joanne and takes her to Duncan's mansion . When Joanne cries in the bedroom where she is with Duncan , Kelly runs and defends the girl . At 3 : 07 AM , the bruised Kelly and the tearful Joanne lock themselves in a public toilet . Kelly asks Joanne to stay there because she will raise some money for them to travel to Brighton . Meanwhile , Duncan's son Stuart Allen ( Sam Spruell ) calls Derek and asks him to meet him in a night-club . When Derek arrives , Stuart tells that his father is dead and he wants the responsible ; further , he cuts his knee sinew to prove that he is not kidding . Derek calls his associate Chum ( Nathan Constance ) and they begin to chase the girls . The excellent " London to Brighton " has a magnificent screenplay that discloses a crude and dark tale of friendship and lost of innocence through flashbacks and a surprising conclusion . This low-budget gem has a stunning cast , with top-notch performances , and the debut of director ( and writer ) Paul Andrew Williams in a feature could not be better . In the DVD , there is an awesome and cruel alternative ending that should not be deleted , as well the sequence in Duncan's bedroom with the two girls . The comradeship of Kelly and Joanne and the final redemption of Kelly protecting the girl are touching and beautiful . Title ( Brazil ) : " Londres Proibida " ( " Forbidden London " )
Finally I Was Able to See an Original and Recent American Horror Movie That Is not a Remake of a Successful Japanese Film !	The nurse Caroline Ellis ( Kate Hudson ) decides to quit her job in a hospital and work for a family in the swamps of Terrebone Parish , Louisiana , one hour far from New Orleans . The family lawyer Luke ( Peter Sarsgaard ) hires her for US$ 1 , 000 . 00 per week to take care of Ben Devereaux ( John Hurt ) , the beloved husband of Violet Devereaux ( Gena Howlands ) , who had a stroke and is totally paralyzed . Violet gives a skeleton key of the huge house to Caroline , and the curious young woman finds a secret creepy hoodoo room in a scary attic that belonged to a couple of sorcerers that worked in the house . Caroline , who does not believe in magic , decides to learn about hoodoo , and believes Violet put an evil spell on Ben . She decides to help the invalid man , and asks for help to Luke . Finally I was able to see an original and recent American horror movie that is not a remake of a successful Japanese film ! " The Skeleton Key " is really a good movie , using psychological horror and mystery in a very consistent story , and a great conclusion . Kate Hudson has an excellent performance , and it is good to see her fixing her career after some terrible movies . I did not recognized Gena Howlands , who I believe was submitted to plastic surgery and has a completely different face . I am not sure whether fans of gore horror movies will like this film , but for those who liked " The Others " , " The Sixth Sense " , " Haunted " or " El Espinazo del Diablo " will certainly appreciate this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Chave Mestra " ( " The Master Key " )
The Movie of One of the Funniest Brazilian TV Series , About the Marriage of Two Typical Medium Class Couples From Rio de Janeiro	' Os Normais ' was a successful Brazilian TV Series , composed of seventy-one episodes as per the information on the DVD . The series was such a hit , that this movie was released , explaining the beginning of the relationship between Vani ( Fernanda Torres ) and Rui ( Luiz Fernando Guimarães ) . The story is very , but very funny . In this film , Vani got married with Sérgio ( Evandro Mesquita ) at 6 : 30 PM , and Rui with Marta ( Marisa Orth ) at 7 : 00 PM , in the same day and at the same church . There are lots of confusion and misunderstands , exploring jokes , bad language , and all the stereotypes related to the behavior of the ' carioca ' ( natives from the city of Rio de Janeiro ) medium class . Like in the series , this movie is very funny for Brazilians , but I am not sure whether a foreigner will understand most of the jokes . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Os Normais ? O Filme ' ( ' The Normals ? The Movie ' )
Great Classic	Phillip Raven ( Alan Ladd ) is a hit-man hired by Willard Gates ( Laird Cregar ) to execute the blackmailer Albert Baker ( Frank Ferguson ) and retrieve a letter and some documents for his unknown boss . When the work is done , Raven is double-crossed by Gates , receiving marked ten dollar bills . Gates delivers the list with the serial number of the bills to the police , expecting they find and kill Raven . Meanwhile , the performer Ellen Graham ( Veronika Lake ) , who is the fiancée of the L . A Detective Lieutenant Michael Crane ( Robert Preston ) , is contacted by Senator Burnett ( Roger Imhof ) and asked to help investigating Gates . She accepts the invitation , and is hired by Gates to work in his private club in Los Angeles . The police force , leaded by Det . Crane , chases Raven for the death of Baker ; Raven chases Gates and his unknown boss , expecting to kill them for their betrayal ; Ellen secretly chases Gates for the government . This is the beginning of a great classic . Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake have fantastic performances in this movie . Alan Ladd is magnificent in the role of a cold blood killer , needy of a friend , that loves cats . In order to show the personality of his character , there is a scene in the beginning of the story , where he almost shoots a crippled girl to eliminate any possible witness of his murder . Veronika Lake is wonderful and very gorgeous , inclusive singing two songs . I disagree with the reference of film-noir for " This Gun For Hire " , since there is no " femme-fatale " , no dirty cop , no weak man ( other than Gates ) or sordid motivation . Indeed it is a police story , showing a cold-blood hit-man without compassion , capable of killing without showing any emotion , hunting " worse guys " looking for his personal vengeance . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alma Torturada " ( " Tortured Soul " )
A Scary Movie About Intolerance and Racism	Yaron ( Oliver Platt ) is a Jew journalist assigned for a matter about Neo-Nazis in German . There , the skinheads believe he is the representative of a wealthy American , who wants to sponsor a German Neo-Nazis group . This film is very scary , since it is based on a true story . It is almost unthinkable that , in 2004 , there are persons having such a feeling of rage in their hearts against other human beings , just because of their religions or ethnicity . Oliver Platt has a great performance as a brave and audacious man . Very disgusting , but also a very important and highly recommended film about intolerance and racism . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Infiltrator ? Em Busca da Verdade ' ( ' Infiltrator ? Looking For the Truth ' )
An Almost Perfect Political Marketing	Al Gore presents this outstanding documentary about the effects of the global warming that will certainly be his flag for the next North American election to the White House . I do not trust on politicians , but the flag of defending our planet must be the individual objective of every human being ; therefore this documentary is a must see to be promoted to every friend or acquaintance of each viewer , inclusive in schools and universities . The presentation discloses , like in a seminar , a compilation of scientific data about the degradation of Earth and the effects of the global warming along the centuries , highlighting in the last decades . Further , it gives a pessimist projection for the next decades unless the world in general and particularly USA do not change the relationship and concerns with the health of Earth . His presentation is almost perfect , but unfortunately he uses and entwines footages of personal dramas of the Gore family , such as the accident of his six year old son and the death of his sister by lung cancer , as metaphoric examples with the global warming issue , but actually it is a sentimentalism to move the electors , revealing a family-man politician in a visible political marketing . There are excellent lines , and I would like to highlight the following ones : " It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends upon his not understanding it " . " Doing the right thing move us forward " . " When you pray , move your feet " ( African proverb ) . " Political win is a renewable resource " . Congratulations to Mr . Al Gore for his brilliant presentation of this moral issue , but he should have kept the global warming issue on focus without the insertion of his personal biography to give more credibility to his concern . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Uma Verdade Inconveniente " ( " An Inconvenient Truth " )
The Three Blind Sisters of Campina Grande	In Campina Grande , Northeastern of Brazil , the three fifty and something year old illiterate Barbosa sisters ( Maria das Neves a . k . a . " Maroca " , Regina a . k . a . " Poroca " and Conceição a . k . a . " Indaiá " ) are daughters of cousins and born blind . They have survived playing " ganzá " and begging on the streets of Campina Grande since their childhood . The director Roberto Berliner discloses in this remarkable documentary their sad stories , with poverty , rape , abuse inclusive sexual and love , but never corny ; on the contrary , with a great message of strength , faith and hope . My brother was born in Rio de Janeiro , but he moved to and settled in Campina Grande in the 80's and he told me that the Barbosa sisters are very popular in this town . The wonderful work of the also " carioca " ( born in Rio de Janeiro ) Roberto Berliner was very important to the sisters that became famous in Brazil , inclusive participating of a concert with Brazilian Minister of Culture Gilberto Gil , and improved their lives getting also a new house . Roberto Berliner interacts in many footages , and I particularly loved when he tells that he gave part of what he earned in his first documentary of 1998 to the Barbosa sisters . Further , when Maria confesses that she had fallen in love for Roberto Berliner in an awesome moment of this beautiful documentary . My only remark is its long running time , which could be a little shorter . I recommend this documentary to overseas viewers that expect to watch a different reality in this contemporary global world . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Pessoa É Para o Que Nasce " ( " The Person Is For What She Is Born " )
Beautiful Low-Paced Love Story	While shooting an international movie about peace in Hiroshima , a married French actress ( Emmanuelle Riva ) has a torrid one night stand with a married Japanese architect ( Eiji Okada ) . They feel a deep passion for each other and she discloses her first love in times of war in the French town of Nevers to him . He falls in love for her and asks her to stay with him in Hiroshima . " Hiroshima Mon Amour " is a beautiful low-paced love story . With a wonderful cinematography and great interpretations of Emmanuelle Riva and Eiji Okada , this romance about wounds that never heal is poetic and unforgettable . The scenes of the bombed Hiroshima are still very impressive in the present days . Title ( Brazil ) : " Hiroshima Mon Amour "
The Ugliest Thing Ever Seen	In August , 1939 , a worker has an abortion while working in a slaughterhouse and dies . The deformed baby is dumped in a garbage container and found by a beggar later , who brings him home . Along the years , the freak creature called Thomas is raised by the Hewitt family in spite of having psychological problems , working in a meat plant . In July , 1969 , when the facility is closed , the inhabitants move to other places , but the deformed insane Thomas kills the foreman . His deranged stepfather executes the sheriff that is going to arrest Thomas , and assumes his identity , wearing his clothes , driving his car though the roads in Texas and entitling himself as Sheriff Hoyt ( R . Lee Ermey ) . Meanwhile , the brothers Eric ( Matt Bomer ) and Dean ( Taylor Handley ) are traveling in a Jeep with their girlfriends Christie ( Jordana Brewster ) and Bailey ( Diora Baird ) , Eric to serve in Vietnam and Dean escaping to Mexico . When the group has a car accident , Hoyt arrests Eric , Dean and Bailey and brings them to his house . Christie follows them trying to rescue the trio , trapped in the house of sadistic and insane cannibals , in a trip of horror and gore . " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning " is a great prequel to the classic " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . The story gives a good explanation to the origins of Leatherface , " the ugliest thing ever seen " , and the movie is extremely violent and gore , with touches of surrealism . R . Lee Ermey has a great performance in the role of the deranged leader of the Hewitt Family . I had a very low expectation with this film and in the end I had a very pleasant surprise . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Massacre da Serra Elétrica : O Início " ( " The Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning " )
Loneliness , Survival , Hope , Anguish , Despair , Adaptation ? A Tale of Missed Dreams	In 1910 , in Maranhão , the insane Vasco de Sá moves with his pregnant urban wife Áurea ( Fernanda Torres ) and her mother Maria ( Fernanda Montenegro ) to a wilderness land near a lagoon and surrounded by shifting dunes . Sooner his workers abandon the place , and Vasco dies , leaving the two women alone and without any resources . They are supported by a local son of a former slave , Massu ( Seu Jorge ) , and they learn how to survive creating goats . Along the years , Áurea raises her daughter Maria ( Camilla Facundes ) , hoping to move back to the capital someday . Her hope becomes anguish and despair as years go by , until her final adaptation to the place . " Casa de Areia " is a beautiful story of hope and missed dreams . The first point to call the attention of the viewer is the wonderful landscape where the story takes place . The wind is so intense in the beginning that I need to put subtitles to understand the dialogs . The cast is leaded by two icons of the Brazilian cinema , the awesome Fernanda Montenegro and her daughter , Fernanda Torres . The story is engaging and depressive , showing the phases of loneliness , fight for survival , hope , anguish , despair and adaptation of Áurea . In the end , as a kind of consolation , she is informed by her daughter that the man reached the moon and found nothing but sand . Title ( Brazil ) : " Casa de Areia " ( " House of Sand " )
A Simple , But Very Suspenseful Thriller	Stu Shepard ( Colin Farrell ) is a publicist , who lies to his clients pretending to be more important than he is . He is married with Kelly Shepard ( Radha Mitchell ) , but he has a sexual interest in his client Pamela McFadden ( Katie Holmes ) , a beautiful aspirant to actress . Stu is trapped in a phone booth in Times Square by a sniper and by the New York police , under the command of Captain Ramey ( Forest Whitaker ) , accused of killing a pimp who was shot by the sniper in front of the cabin a few minutes ago . The sick sniper wants Stu to confess and humiliate himself in front of the cameras , threatening Kelly and Pamela with his rifle . The police is not aware of the existence of the sniper and believes Stu has a gun . This movie is an excellent thriller , having an excellent director and cast . The running time of 81 minutes is perfect for the plot . On the behind of scenes on the DVD , Joel Schumacher tells that this film was shot in ten days , ten pages of the screenplay per day , in the sequence of the story and without the cast knowing the screenplay . Therefore , the actors and actresses were also anxious to know the end of the story . A simple , but very suspenseful film . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Por Um Fio ' ( ' To Hang By a Thread ' )
Light in the Mountains	The runaway teenager Joe ( Jana Pallaske ) leaves her dysfunctional mother after being beat by her lover Harry . She meets Engel ( Robert Stadlober ) and his punk friends on the streets and the boy lodges her in the abandoned building where he lives . Engel tells her that he dreams on living in the mountains in a community of his own , raising animals and planting his own food , and they fall in love for each other . When Joe gets pregnant , Engel assumes the baby , but without a profession , the young couple faces serious financial difficulties and problems . When Engel gets addicted on drugs , he drags Joe to a low life including prostitution . But there is light in the mountain . " Joe & Engel ' is another dramatic screenplay of Kai Herman , the author of " Christiane F " . The story is very realistic , bitter and sad , but the optimistic open conclusion relieves the tension and makes the movie more pleasant . The performances of the young Jana Pallaske and Robert Stadlober are stunning and deserved nominations to the Oscar ; the absence of their names withdraws any credibility of the Oscar nominations in any credible list . This film is another great example of the excellent German cinema . I liked the cinematography , dark along the whole story , with a kind of symbolic fusion of their spirits when they make love in the swimming pool and with light when the couple reaches the mountains , transmitting a beautiful final message of hope and peace . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Nova Geração Christiane F " ( " The New Generation Christiane F " )
Powerful and Striking	In World War II , the sanitation engineer and family man Kurt Gerstein ( Ulrich Tukur ) is assigned by SS to be the Head of the Institute for Hygiene to purify the water for the German Army in the front . Later , he is invited to participate in termination of plagues in the concentration camps and he develops the lethal gas Zyklon-B . When he witnesses that the SS is killing Jews instead , he decides to denounce the genocide to the Pope to expose to the world and save the Jewish families . The idealist Jesuit priest Riccardo Fontana ( Mathieu Kassovitz ) from an influent Italian family gives his best efforts being the liaison of Gerstein and the leaders of the Vatican . I do not have the knowledge of history to know whether this story is accurate or manipulative , but as a movie it is powerful and striking . Costa-Gavras directs this film about Holocaust based on the history of the German Kurt Gerstein , who unsuccessfully tried to tell the world about the mass murderers in the concentration camps . The performance of Ulrich Tukur is magnificent , giving total credibility to his character . With regard to the role of the Catholic Church , I believe the exposition is simplistic and does not show the big picture of the political environment that the Vatican was living in that historical moment , focusing only in the attempt of the SS officer in having an audience with the Pope . Title ( Brazil ) : " Amém . " ( " Amen . " )
Hypocrite Society	In World War II , the illiterate , starving and alcoholic twenty years old René Le Guen ( Marcel Mouloudji ) fights to survive and lives with his dysfunctional family in a slum . The French Resistance invites and teaches him to kill Germans and traitors . When the war ends , he continues to kill and is arrested , judged and sentenced to death in the guillotine . While in prison waiting for a possible presidential pardon claimed by his lawyer , he meets other prisoners also waiting for the dishonored death . " Nous Sommes Tous des Assassins " is the most impressive movie against capital sentence that I have ever seen . The lawyer André Cayatte wrote and directed this film where the defendant is actually the hypocrisy of the whole society , the church and the justice system . He does not spare the prejudgment and behavior of every social class , mostly the dominant class , to defend his opinion about the lack of humanity in the French prisons for the prisoners waiting for the executioner . In my country , we do not have capital sentence , but in my opinion this great movie is manipulative , using very sad and unfair examples to justify the position of the author . I agree that children and those that need should be assisted by the State but in spite of being fruit of the society , criminals destroy families and must pay for their crime the same way the families grieve their beloved loss . Title ( Brazil ) : " Somos Todos Assassinos " ( " We Are All Assassins " )
Master of Manipulation	The writer and college professor Alexandre Fayard ( Benoit Magimel ) studies and gives lectures about the gruesome literary work of the mysterious Japanese writer Shundei Oe that is considered by him the master of manipulation . In his underground detective novels , evil always prevails and Shundei Oe has never allowed anyone to see his face , and his only image available is a frightening picture on the back of his best-sellers . Alex travels to Kyoto to promote his successful detective story that follows the same style of the Shundei Oe but with a positive message instead and meets his publisher Ken Honda from the publishing house Hakubunkan . While in an interview in a TV show , Alex receives a phone call from Shundei Oe that advises him to return to Paris , and Alex believes it is a marketing strategy of Ken . Then Alex and Ken go to a tea house where he meets the Masochist geisha Tamao ( Minamoto Lika ) , and Alex has a crush on her . Tamao discloses to Alex that she knows Shundei Oe and his real name is Hichiro Irata ; further they were lovers when she rejected his proposal many years ago . From this moment on , Hichiro Irata loathed her and vanished . When she got pregnant of the wealthy and powerful business man Ryuji Mogi ( Ryo Ishibashi ) , Shundei Oe returned and stalked her . Alex decides to help Tamao and Ryuji Mogi against the menace of the deranged writer , and his mind is blurred between fiction and reality in dreadful nightmares . " Inju , La Bête Dans L'Ombre " is flawed , but also mysterious and intriguing . The story is supported by good screenplay with murders and twists , direction and performances and a wonderful cinematography . Unfortunately there are very few characters and based on the explanation of Alex that Shundei Oe would be the master of manipulation , I could predict the identity of the bleak writer that recalled the unforgettable conclusion of " Body Heat " . Nevertheless this movie is engaging and highly recommended . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inju , O Despertar da Besta " ( " Inju , The Awakening of the Beast " )
Separations	When a van of Luthor Corp . is hijacked by three criminals , Clark Kent accidentally witnesses the robbery . He recognizes the leader of the gang , Eric Marsh ( Zachery Ty Bryan ) , a baseball player of Smallville high school . Clark quits his job in The Torch after discussing with Chloe Sullivan . Lana Lang sees Jennifer Small with her lawyer , and Jennifer tells that she will divorce from Henry Small . Lex Luthor tries to find what cargo was stolen from his father . In this episode , Lana Lang is the pivot of two separations , between Clark and Chloe , and between Jennifer and Henry . The conclusion of the story is flawed , since Eric Marsh and his gang see the abilities of Clark Kent without any further consequences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Testemunha " ( " Witness " )
Disclosing the Hidden Past of Lex Luthor	When Lex Luthor is threatened by Jude Royce ( Corin Nemec ) , he remembers his past in Metropolis when his former friend Jude stabbed him in the shoulder and was killed in a night-club . The scary Lex tries to find who is haunting him , pretending to be a dead man . Meanwhile , in the high school , each student is assigned to survey the life of another one , and Chloe Sullivan questions the adoption process of Clark by the Kents . " Zero " is another good episode of Smallville where the lead character is Lex Luthor indeed . His dark and hidden past in Metropolis is disclosed in three different versions of a fatal incident , and his friendship with Clark Kent shakes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Volta ao Passado " ( " Return to the Past " )
A Classic Western Movie With an Unforgettable Soundtrack	Three bad guys ? the chaser of rewards Joe ( Clint Eastwood ) , the outlaw Tuco ( Eli Wallach ) and the very bad assassin Angel Eyes ? become aware of a fortune of US$ 200 , 000 . 00 in golden coins , hidden in a cemetery . Only Joe knows the name of the grave , therefore there is a great dispute between the two gunmen , but always keeping Joe alive . This is a really classic western movie . This movie has never been released on VHS in Brazil , and only now the distributor Fox do Brasil ' released on DVD format . I am a great fan of Sergio Leone , and the first DVD I bought for my collection was ' Once Upon the Time in America ' . ' The Good , the Bad and the Ugly ' is great in all aspects : the story is very funny , the actors have great performances , and the soundtrack from Enio Morricone is unforgettable : it is certainly one of the most beautiful and known in the cinema history . This movie is really a great entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Três Homens em Conflito " ( " Three Men in Conflict " )
Finding and Controlling the X-Ray Vision	The teenage mutant Tina Greer ( Lizzy Caplan ) has the power to transform into the shape and face of whoever she wants . She robs Smallville Bank pretending to be Lex Luthor , and accidentally kills her mother Rose Greer ( Beverly Breuer ) . She becomes obsessed with Lana Lang's family , and decides to assume her identity . Meanwhile , Clark Kent finds that he has X-ray vision , and has troubles to control his new-found power , with the support of his stepparents . Lex Luthor is blackmailed by a dirty journalist , who found his hidden obscure past , but reverts the situation in the end . In " X-Ray " , Lex Luthor finally shows his evil hidden side , and honestly he is my favorite character up to this moment due to the unpredictability of his steps . Maybe I am repetitive , but the charming cast , the great cinematography and the better and better special effects , make " X-Ray " another great episode of this excellent TV series . Title ( Brazil ) : " Visões de Raio-X " ( " X-Ray Visions " )
A Delightful Romance in Dogma 95	In Denmark , six lonely persons are having Italian classes sponsored by the City Hall . Jørgen Mortensen ( Peter Gabtzler ) is a shy hotel manager who has a crush on Giulia ( Sara Indrio Jensen ) , a young Italian woman who works in an Italian restaurant and is secretly in love with him . Olympia ( Anette Støvelbæk ) is a clumsy clerk of a candy shop , who lives with her sullen father and is in love with Andreas ( Anders W . Berthelsen ) , a young widow priest recently arrived in town . And the hairdresser Karen ( Ann Eleonora Jørgensen ) , whose mother is an alcoholic woman , who loves Hal-Finn ( Lars Kaalund ) , an incompetent and aggressive bar manager of the hotel where his best friend Jørgen Mortensen works . I am not a fan of Dogma 95 movies ( the movement which uses handheld camera , natural light and sound and no special effects ) , but in this delightful romance the actors are so spontaneous that indeed it works . This unconventional love story , with euthanasia , common people , losers in general , Danish persons speaking Italian , is actually a great romance . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Italiano Para Principiantes ' ( ' Italian For Beginners ' )
The Attack of the Invisible Being	The teenager Amy Palmer ( Azura Skye ) has a crush on Lex Luthor . Her mother works in the Luthor's mansion and they live with her brother Jeff Palmer ( Kett Turton ) in the property . Amy is jealous of Luthor's girlfriend Victoria Hardwick ( Kelly Brook ) , and Luthor and Victoria are attacked by some invisible being . Meanwhile , Lana Lang and Whitney Fordman decide to give a break in their relationship , and Clark gets close to Lana , but when he finds the motives for the attitude of Whitney , he approaches Lana to Whitney again . " Shimmer " is another good episode of " Smallville " . In this episode , the beginning of a romance between Clark Kent and Lana Lang certainly is the greatest attraction . The business advices of Lionel Luther ( " Empires are not brought down by outside forces - they are destroyed by weaknesses from within . " ) , some of them based on the " Art of War " , are always very interesting . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Mistério " ( " The Mystery " )
The Project 1138	Lana Lang tells Clark Kent that she is moving to the Metropolis University and she is accepted in the Tri Psi Sorority , a sisterhood with hot vampires leaded by Buffy Sanders , and Lana is transformed in a vampire . Meanwhile , the chief-editor of The Daily Planet Pauline Kahn denies an intern position to Chloe Sullivan , but in the end she proposes Chloe to write a good story to prove that she might be part of the team of reporters . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor intimidates Professor Milton Fine , but in retribution he shows a dossier about the secret experiments that Luthorcorp is performing in the campus of the Kansas University . When Clark sees Lana at Chloe's room , he believes she is with a hangover ; later , he goes with Lana to a costume party promoted by the Tri Psi . When Lana attacks Chloe , Clark discloses the truth about Buffy and her sisterhood and tries to find a means to save Lana and Chloe . " Thirst " is a delightful episode of " Smallville " and homage to the cult " Buffy , the Vampire Slayer " . Now there is another great mystery relative to Professor Milton Fine : " Who is he ? " and " Is he good or evil ? " are probably the two more important questions about this character , inclusive with an advice of Lex to Clark in the end . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sede " ( " Thirst " )
The Prophecy is Coming True	Lionel Luthor calls Professor Joseph Willoebrook ( Gordon Tootoosis ) to the Kawatche caves to show a recently found ancient object . Professor Willoebrook brings his assistant Jeremiah Holdsclaw ( Nathaniel Arcand ) , who takes the relic from the hands of Lionel . It transforms in a knife and makes Jeremiah as powerful as Clark . He runs away from Lionel's security men with the mythic knife . Professor Willoebrook insists that Clark Kent is Namam , the man who fell from the stars , and in accordance with the Indian prophecy , that knife belongs to him and could be destroyed only by his greatest enemy . Meanwhile , Lana Lang decides to move to Paris . " Talisman " is a reasonable episode of Smallville . The story is based on the Indian prophecy , and the greatest enemy of Namam is shown in the very end . The always undecided Lana Lang seems to have finally decided to move to Paris . Amen , since I hate this character . Pete Ross finds that his parents are divorcing and becomes very upset . Title ( Brazil ) : " Talismã " ( " Talisman " )
A Classic Vampire Movie From Hammer	Jonathan Harker ( John Van Eyssen ) is hired to be the librarian of Count Dracula . Indeed , he is an assistant of Doctor Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) and tries unsuccessfully to destroy Dracula . Dracula is attracted by a photo of Lucy , Jonathan's fiancée , and moves to her city . There , Dr . Van Helsing and Dracula fight against each other as usual . Since I was a teenager , I have been a great fan of Hammer's vampire movies . This one is really a classic movie and certainly one of the best . There are funny situations , like Van Helsing studying how to kill vampires ( with garlic , cross , sunlight etc . ) . This type of British horror film nowadays is very naive , when comparing with Jason , Mike Myers , Freddy Krueger and other bloody killers , but fans like me love this type movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Drácula , O Vampiro da Noite " ( " Dracula , The Vampire of the Night " )
Delusion or Reality ?	Lex Luthor is investigating the dark past of his father . He meets Morgan Edge ( Patrick Bergin ) with a new face after a plastic surgery , and collects evidences to send Lionel Luthor to prison . However , a hit man tries to kill Lex in the mansion , but he escapes to Kent Farm . Clark goes to the mansion to retrieve the evidences from the safe and finds that life is normal and there is no hint of the claimed attempt against Lex's live . When Lionel goes to the Kent Farm and tells that Lex Luthor is paranoid , Jonathan and Martha Kent question his sanity . Clark decides to investigate deeper to see if his friend is delusional or there is an evil plot against him . " Shattered " is a good episode of " Smallville " , but could be better . The conclusion of Lana Lang that being close to Clark Kent is dangerous is simply awful . I am really upset with the relationship of Clark and Lana in this Third Season , since the writer seems to be lost , using the most ridiculous motives to keep them apart . I miss the character of Whitney in this series , because at least there was coherence in the relationship of Clark and Lana . Title ( Brazil ) : " Surto " ( " Break " )
A Fast Episode	While in Metropolis with Clark Kent , Jonathan Kent is saved from an uncontrolled lorry by a very fast teenager , Bart Allen ( Kyle Gallner ) , who also pickpockets his wallet . When they arrive back in Kent Farm , Bart is there waiting for Clark . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor buys a worthy manuscript with inscriptions in kryptonian , and he shows the unique document to Clark . Lana Lang discloses the secret of her tattoo to her boyfriend Jason Teague . " Run " is another reasonable episode of " Smallville " . The lead plot seems to be stuck , going and coming back to the same point . I recall from other movies that the origin of The Flash is a laboratory accident where a scientist called Barry Allen , who is hit by a lightening , achieves the power of super speed . He uses his ability to fight crime . I believe that Bart Allen might be the same character , as indicated in IMDb , but this teenager is a juvenile criminal and therefore the origin of the superhero would be totally different from the other movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fugindo " ( " Running Away " )
A Delicious Surrealistic Satire to the Moral and Costumes of the Society , to the Family and to the Church	Through many episodes with some linking points since 1808 in Toledo ( Spain ) to the present days in France , Bunuel presents a delicious surrealistic satire to the moral and costumes of the hypocrite society , to the family values and to the church . I liked very much some parts , like , for example , the hypocrisy of the priests in a hotel , praying for the health of the father of a guest in a moment , and drinking and playing cards like gangsters in the next moment . The bourgeoisie family sat on toilets in the dining room and producing crap while having a conversation is fantastic , reflecting his opinion about the dominating class . The little girl that " vanished " for her parents is a great critics to the behavior of most families . The hypocrisy of the justice , reflected in the segment of the sniper . It is amazing the interpretations each segment offers to the viewer through the symbolism of Bunuel . However , this movie is recommend for very specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Fantasma da Liberdade " ( " The Phantom of the Liberty " )
Close to Luthor	Lana Lang finds some poems from a secret admirer in the gravestone of her parents in the cemetery . Later , she meets the author , Byron Moore ( Sean Faris ) , a weird teenager kept locked by his parents in the basement of their farmhouse . They believe the boy is abused by his parents , but sooner they realize that he was the subject of an experiment of a laboratory of Luthor Corp , being powerfully evil . Meanwhile , Martha Kent is invited to work as the assistant of Lionel Luthor , and she accepts the invitation under the reluctance of Jonathan Kent . The greatest surprise of this episode is Martha Kent working with Lionel Luthor . I honestly would never believe to see this partnership in " Smallville " . The lead story of Byron is only reasonable . The music score is excellent as usual . Title ( Brazil : " Nocturne : Poemas de Amor " ( " Nocturne : Poems of Love " )
Action , Horror and Sense of Humor	In Scotland , a group of six soldiers leaded by the tough Sgt . Harry G . Wells ( Sean Pertwee ) are left in the forest by helicopter for a routine exercise , with the weapons loaded with blanks . When a dead cow with many bites falls in their camp , they move around the area and find another military camp with only one survivor , Capt . Ryan ( Liam Cunningham ) , who is wounded and scary . They find also a great quantity of live ammunition , when they are suddenly surrounded by huge and fast creatures . While escaping , a private is killed and Sgt . Wells is seriously wounded but saved by Pvt . Cooper ( Kevin McKidd ) . They see a jeep on a narrow road and the driver Megan ( Emma Cleasby ) rescues them and they go to an empty farmhouse . Megan tells that the creatures are lycanthropes , aka werewolves , and they have to fight along the whole night trying to save their lives , and disclosing hidden dirty secrets . A couple of days ago I saw " The Descent " and I were surprised with the excellent direction of Neil Marshall , who wrote and directed a great scary and claustrophobic horror movie . I have just watched " Dog Soldiers " , also written and directed by Neil Marshall , and this film is a great action horror movie . The story is well developed , with horror , action and even comedy in right doses , and I personally loved when the brave soldier after fighting like a tiger with the werewolf and without any further object for self-defense , wishes that the werewolf have diarrhea , showing a great will power and warrior spirit . The scene in the credits with the result of the soccer game between Germany and England is also witty . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dog Soldiers ? Cães de Caça " ( " Dog Soldiers ? Hunting Dogs " )
The Future Can Be a Different Story	In the suburbs , the boredom Sarah Pierce ( Kate Winslet ) lives a dull marriage without love with her selfish husband Richard Pierce ( Gregg Edelman ) , who is successful in his career but with awful sexual habits . She spends the mornings with her daughter Lucy ( Sadie Goldstein ) in the playground observing the behavior of the suburban mothers with their children . When Sarah sees the frisson caused by the handsome " househusband " Brad Adamson ( Patrick Wilson ) in the other women , she decides to talk to him . Brad tells her that he has failed twice in the Bar exams for lawyer and he is financially supported by his wife Kathy ( Jennifer Connelly ) , who is a documentary filmmaker . He omits that Kathy is a woman that gives all her attention to their son Aaron ( Ty Simpkins ) , refusing to have sex with him . Sarah feels trapped in her unhappy life and has an affair with Brad , who is the opposite of Richard , in the afternoons . Meanwhile , the pervert Ronnie J . McGorvey ( Jackie Earle Haley ) , who was in prison for indecent exposure , returns to his mother's house and feels the prejudice of his community against his presence , especially from the retired policeman Larry Hedges ( Noah Emmerich ) that is trying to force Ronnie to move away from their neighborhood . " Little Children " is an extremely well-acted movie that uses a modern adaptation of Madame Bovary to the present days in the American suburbs . The boredom condition of Emma Bovary and Sarah Pierce are very similar , both fell trapped in an unhappy marriage , and have love affairs to escape from their boredom . This movie really deserved the nomination to the Oscar in the categories of Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role , with Jackie Earle Haley having a top-notch performance in the role of a deranged sick man ; Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role to the stunning Kate Winslet , one my favorite and best actress ever ? my only remark is that , at least for my eyes and taste , she is a charming and beautiful woman , and apparently Sarah Pierce is a plain woman ; and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , to Todd Field and Tom Perrotta that were able to perfectly develop a complex story with entwined lives of many characters in an adequate pace and eroticism . In the end , " Little Children " is one of those unforgettable and highly recommended movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pecados Íntimos " ( " Intimate Sins " )
Magnetic Love	After being hit in the forehead by a snow ball containing flakes of meteor in a struggle , the teenager Seth Nelson ( Kevin Zegers ) is submitted to a magnetic resonance inspection , achieving magnetic abilities . He uses his powers to date and manipulate Lana Lang . Meanwhile , a snoopy investigator hired by Lex Luthor intrusively breaks in The Torch and finds that Chloe Sullivan is examining deeply the life of Lionel Luthor . Lex offers his protection to Chloe . In this episode , again Clark Kent does not date Lana Lang , although they have a crush on each other . This ridiculous relationship is spoiling the episodes of the Third Season . The main story with Seth is good , and the involvement of Chloe with the Luthors is becoming tougher . Title ( Brazil ) : " Magnetismo " ( " Magnetism " )
The Truth About the Relationship of John Winchester and Ellen	Dean and Sam visit Ellen and Joanna Beth in the Harvelle Bar , and Jo shows her file about the disappearance of six blonde girls during the last eighty years in an apartment building in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . She tries to convince the Winchester brothers to bring her to investigate the case ; but Dean refuses the request afraid of Ellen's reaction . They break-in the apartment of the last victim and when Sam finds ectoplasm , they realize that a fiend is hunting the location . When they leave the place , they meet Jo with the super and find that she had lied to Ellen telling that she was going to Las Vegas and had just rented the foregoing apartment . Their further investigation discloses that in the past , before the construction of the building , the field was next to a prison and used to execute criminals , including the serial killer H . H . Holmes . When Jo decides to search the last victim behind the walls , she is captured by the evil spirit , and Dean and Sam figures out how to rescue Jo and escape from the wrath of Ellen . " No Exit " is and engaging but flawed episode of " Supernatural " . The story has good moments , like the revelation of Ellen to Jo about her relationship with John Winchester , but I honestly believed Jo was actually sister of Dean and Sam . The greatest flaw of the story is the use of the sledge hammer in the walls of the apartment building does not bring the attention of the super or the dwellers . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sem Saída " ( " No Exit " )
Delightful and Sweet First Love	In Manhattan , the 10 ¾ years old Gabe ( Josh Hutcherson ) finds his first love when he meets his former kindergarten mate , the eleven years old Rosemary ( Charlie Ray ) , in his karate classes . Confused with his new feelings and with the divorce process of his beloved parents , Leslie ( Cynthia Nixon ) and Adam ( Bradley Whitford ) , he experiences the delightful unknown sensation of being in love for the first time . When my friends from the best rental in Rio de Janeiro recommended this movie , I was quite reluctant to buy it . Fortunately I listened to their advice and saw this great little gem . The sensitive director Mark Levin has captured many adorable scenes and sequence of this lovely and charming central pair in delightful situations . Further , orphans of " Sex & the City " like me have the chance to see Cynthia Nixon ( Miranda ) and Willie Garson ( Stanford Blatch ) again . I would like to thank you , Cris and my dearest friends of Imaginario , for your recommendation . Title ( Brazil ) : " O ABC do Amor " ( " The ABC of Love " )
Characters and Fraternal Sacrifices	In 1958 , the illiterate and naive hard worker Giovanni ( Enrico Lo Verso ) comes from Sicily to Turin to visit his younger and spoiled brother Pietro ( Francesco Giuffrida ) , who is studying supported by Giovanni . While Giovanni sacrifices his life and decides to stay in Turin working hard to give condition to his brother to become a teacher , the dishonest Pietro is an arrogant liar , skipping classes and failing in the exams . A couple of years later , when Pietro vanishes , Giovanni goes haywire . In the early 60's , Pietro has just graduated in high-school ; he seeks Giovanni out and finds that his brother is married ; leader of the local labor union organization ; and leaning how to write , but has lost his innocence . Their lives will never be the same after their reunion . " Così Ridevano " is a human movie about the relationship between brothers , and characters and fraternal sacrifices . The story is developed from 1958 to 1964 , showing the economical situation of Italy , more specifically of Turin , and how the Southern immigrants from Sicily were treated and explored by their employers . It is touching to see how Giovanni respects the books and sees the importance of education contrasting in a counterpoint with the feelings of his reckless brother . The screenplay is divided in six chapters ( " arrivals " , " deceptions " , " money " , " letters " , " blood " and " families " ) and uses ellipsis , jumping through the years and leaving many situations unresolved as if they were kept in secret . The storyline has many points in common with Luchino Visconti's masterpiece " Rocco e i Suoi Fratelli " ( Italy in early 60's , the fight for survival of a family from the countryside in Milano and the relationship among brothers ) . However , the plot is never corny and the conclusion is totally unexpected and unpredictable . Title ( Brazil ) : " Assim É Que Se Ria " ( " That's the Way We Laughed " )
One of the Weirdest Good Movie I Have Ever Seen	The dominating and careless mother of Jason ' Igby ' Slocumb Jr . ( Kieran Culkin ) , Mimi ( Susan Sarandon ) , is dying , killed by her other son , Ollie ( Ryan Phillipe ) . Then , we have 97 minutes of an authentic trip inside the weird family of this selfish and careless of love and affection character , Igby . His family is composed by his fascist brother Oliver ' Ollie ' Slocumb and his crazy and schizophrenic father Jason Slocumb ( Bill Pullman ) . His closest friends are his godfather D . H . Banes ( Jeff Goldblum ) and his drugged addicted lover Rachel ( Amanda Peet ) . His crush is the nymphomaniac Sookie Sapperstein ( Claire Danes ) . No character has a normal behavior in accordance with the standards or rules of the society . Even his former school teacher , Mrs . Piggee ( Cynthia Nixon , from ' Sex and the City ' , with a minor participation ) is a drug user , and becomes his client . Having many black humor and dramatic situation , it is indeed a good movie , with a great performance of the whole cast , highlighting Kieran Culkin . However , it is certainly not indicated for all audiences , but those who like a very different screenplay and a constellation of stars . A black comedy that does not make laugh , and a drama that does not make cry . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Estranha Familia de Igby ' ( ' The Weird Family of Igby ' )
A Great Tribute to Mário Peixoto	On 17 May 1931 , the young director Mário Peixoto released his masterpiece " Limite " in a premiere in Capitólio Theater to astonished audiences bewildered by the impressive and poetic images . Considered by many viewers ( including myself ) the best Brazilian movie ever made , this feature has never been released commercially . However , in a great paradox , Mário Peixoto has never made any other movie . The director Sérgio Machado pays a great tribute to the life and work Mário Peixoto a . k . a . Maçarico by his close friends with this documentary , using his diary ; footages of " Limite " , the never concluded " Onde a Terra Acaba " ( 1933 ) and the short " O Homem do Morcego " ( 1980 ) ; and interesting testimonies of Olga Breno , Ruy Solberg , Nelson Pereira dos Santos and Walter Salles among others . The concern of Mário Peixoto with the irreversibility of time is clear , inclusive he tells that " time is an illusion " . The title of " Onde a Terra Acaba " is homage to the 1933 movie that Mário Peixoto has never ended due to problems in the relationship with the greatest diva of the Brazilian Cinema of the 30's , Carmen Santos , who has a cameo in " Limite " and left the location in Marambaia many times during the shootings . Sérgio Machado also uses or details many parts of the short " O Homem do Morcego " , and among the most interesting parts I found the explanation of Ruy Solberg about the impossible request of Mário Peixoto of the Brazilian singer Roberto Carlos and the French actress Brigitte Bardot in the lead cast of his never made movie " A Alma Segundo Salustre " ; and the reference to the cinematographer Edgar Brazil , indicated by Adhemar Gonzaga and Humberto Mauro ( based on his work in " Brasa Dormida " and " Sonho Mineiro " ) to work in " Limite " . In the 30's , due to the lack of technical resources , Edgar Brazil used inventions and improvisations such as the use of a litter for scenes in movement and a lift to act like a crane , to overcome the difficulties and show the world of Mário Peixoto through his eyes . The DVD released by VideoFilmes has subtitles in English , French and Spanish and the Making of " Limite " ; fragments of " onde a Terra Acaba " ; and the documentary " O Homem do MOrcego " in the Extras . Therefore , this DVD is mandatory for any student or lover of cinema or collector . Title ( Brazil ) : " Onde a Terra Acaba " ( " Where the Land Ends " literally , meaning " At the Edge of the Earth " )
For Us , Orphans of Pink Floyd and Syd Barrett	A good lecture must begin approaching some very interesting subject , or a joke , to catch the attention of the audience . I believe the same principle applies to the opening of a concert . In this regard , David Gilmour almost spoils a great concert with an awful presentation of the wonderful " Shine on You Crazy Diamond Parts 1-5 " , with a very cheap and boring lonely solo . In this moment , I was completely disappointed with the DVD . Fortunately , he seems to be only warming-up for a great presentation . Listening to the songs of Syd Barrett , and the most of the classics of Pink Floyd sang in the soft and beautiful voice of David Gilmour worth the show . I loved also Caroline Dale , magnificently playing the cello . The singers are efficient as usual in a Pink Floyd concert , only in a higher number ( twelve , I guess ) . I personally did not like the narrative of " Confortably Numb " made by a guy in a wheelchair , in the Melldown Concert ; and Bob Geldof reading the text , in the Royal Festival Hall Concert 2002 , disappointed me a lot . I am Brazilian and I know the lyrics by heart , and the guy needs to read them ? Further , lasting the arrangement of the song , extending the compass to change the guitar to an electric guitar is also very unusual in a live presentation . David Gilmour singing in French is also weird . The DVD has lots of Extras and I believe no fan will be disappointed with its content . Title ( Brazil ) : " David Gilmour in Concert "
Passion , Religion and Insanity	While driving through the forest to the isolated house of the lovers Callie ( Ashley Judd ) and Clay ( Viggo Mortensen ) , the driver Jude ( Loren Dean ) finds a young man fainted on the road . He rescues the stranger and the sensual Callie welcomes him while Clay is retired in the woods . When he awakes , he tells his name , Darkly Noon ( Brendan Fraser ) , and explains that his religious parents had been killed in their house by the furious locals and he had successfully escaped with his bible . Clay returns and accepts the presence of the new-comer in his house . Along the next days , Darkly becomes sexually obsessed by the sexy Callie and uses flagellation to punish himself for his desire . When the confused Darkly meets the deranged widow Roxy ( Grace Zabriskie ) in the woods , she tells him that Callie is a witch that killed her husband and that bewitches young men . When Roxy commits suicide , the insanity of the fanatic Darkly leads him to punish the sinners . " The Passion of Darkly Noon " is another excellent and underrated movie of director Philip Ridley . I do not understand how this awesome director has only two movies in his filmography ( the other is fantastic " The Reflecting Skin " ) . Today I have watched " The Passion of Darkly Noon " for the second time and this movie still very impressive . The story has drama , romance , eroticism and suspense , supported by magnificent direction , top-notch performances , beautiful landscapes and an awesome soundtrack . In 1995 , Brendan Fraser proved for me that he is a great actor with his performance of a young man living in a conflictive situation between his religious credo and his carnal desire in spite of being miscast , since his character is a kid and Brendan was twenty-seven year-old in 1995 , the same age of the sexy Ashley Judd ( both were born in 1968 ) . This gorgeous actress in her first lead role has an extremely sexy performance , with some of the hottest scenes of the cinema history with the great actor Viggo Mortensen . Unfortunately this disturbing movie is recommended for very specific audiences only . Title ( Brazil ) : " Paixões na Floresta " ( " Passions in the Forest " )
Pure Action	The gangster Joey Gazelle ( Paul Walker ) is in charge of getting rid of the guns that killed dirty cops in a transaction of drugs between Italian mobsters and Afro-Americans . However , Joey hides the guns in the basement of his house instead of throwing in the river , and his ten years old son Nicky ( Alex Neuberger ) and his best friend Oleg Yugorsky ( Cameron Bright ) witness Joey hiding the gun . When Oleg's abusive stepfather Anzor Yugorsky ( Karel Roden ) beats his mother Mila ( Ivana Milicevic ) , Oleg steals the weapon from the basement and shoots Anzor , running away home with the gun . Along the night , Joey , the Russian and the Italian mobster and the dirty cops chase the little boy trying to retrieve the gun and disclose who ordered the boy to shoot his stepfather . " Running Scared " is a great surprise and pure action , recalling the style of " Pulp Fiction " and " Reservoir Dogs " . The camera work is stylish and amazing , and the gore story in spite of having many clichés is engaging with great lines . Paul Walker is excellent in this type of role , and I particularly loved the scene of Teresa Gazelle ( Vera Farmiga ) with the two pornographers , when she calls 911 . Title ( Brazil ) : " No Rastro da Bala " ( " In the Tail of the Bullet " )
The Perfect Heist	In Kansas City , the criminals Peter Harris ( Jack Elam ) , Boyd Kane ( Neville Brand ) and Tony Romano ( Lee Van Cleef ) are individually hired by a stranger ( Preston Foster ) that plots the robbery of an armored car after receiving the money from a bank in the next door of a flower shop . However , each one of them wears masks and does not know the identities of the others ; therefore they can not recognize each other . They succeed in the heist of 1 . 2 million dollars and escape in a van of the Western Florists , and the mentor of the robbery gives tickets to them to travel abroad , promising to share the money later . Meanwhile the decorated soldier and ex-con driver of the Western Florists van Joe Rolfe ( John Payne ) that is delivering flowers in the shop is framed . He is accused of participating of the heist , arrested and tortured by the police , loses his job , and when the police recognizes the mistake , he is released . Unemployed , he discovers that Peter Harris went to Tijuana , and he decides to chase the criminal and request one fifth of the amount . " Kansas City Confidential " is a great film-noir , with a good story and development of the characters . John Payne has an excellent performance in the role of a former war hero that tries to have a straight life after some gambling problems , but is framed , loses his job and the rest of his honor and sees his picture in the front page of the news , becoming impossible to find a new job . This injustice triggers his search for the real criminals , not seeking for justice , but a share of the money . The characters , with the exception of the sweet Helen Foster , have some sort of amoral behavior , as usual in this genre . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os 4 Desconhecidos " ( " The 4 Unknown " )
Tria Mera ? If You Save , You Must Kill	The family man Abe Dale ( Nathan Fillion ) is having lunch with his wife and son in a restaurant , when a man kills them in front of Abe and shots himself in the mouth . A couple of days later , the grieving Abe misses his family and commits suicide ingesting many pills at home , but is rescued by his friend Marty Bloom ( Adrian Holmes ) and saved by the doctors . His Near Death Experience makes him see white light in some people and to hear Electronic Voice Phenomena , i . e . , manifestations of voices of ghosts or spirits through static on electronic devices . Sooner he discovers that the white light means that the person is going to die , and Abe saves three lives including his nurse Sherry Clarke ( Katee Sackhoff ) . While watching to a video recorded by his son , Abe finds that the killer had save the lives of his wife and son three days before the murder . He investigates the incident and finds that when you save , you must kill ; otherwise many innocents will die three days later . I rented " White Noise 2 : The Light " with a lower expectation , but as a fan of horror movies , I decided to give a chance to this film . What a great surprise ! " White Noise 2 : The Light " is scary , having a creepy story with characters well developed and with good explanations for the most different situations . The concept recalls the " Final Destination " franchise ( if you cheat The Ripper , he will chase you ) but with a different approach , through NDE and EVP . The actress Katee Sackhoff has a sweet and nice smile and I liked her character . Title ( Brazil ) : " Luzes do Além " ( " Lights from Beyond " )
A Great Director Is Born	In the 30's , in Paris , the playboy Henri Pasquier ( Pierre Mingand ) is supported by his father , Dr . Pasquier ( Paul Escoffier ) with money and a brandy new car . When Dr . Pasquier decides to suspend the allowance and sell the car to force Henri to get a job , he leaves home and associates to a gang of car thieves . Henri falls in love for the thief Jeannette ( Danielle Darrieux ) , and when they are betrayed by their boss , they decide to move to Casablanca and straight their lives . " Mauvaise Graine " is the magnificent debut of Billy Wilder as director . The attractive story has action , romance , drama , comedy in right doses , and in 2006 , there is another great attraction : the wonderful old cars . The planes of shooting are amazing even for the present days . The seventeen years old Danielle Darrieux , in the beginning of career and extremely beautiful , is another attraction . This unknown movie is a gem to be discovered . Title ( Brazil ) : " Semente do Mal " ( " Bad Seed " )
A Delightful and Surrealistic Movie , With Touches of ' Sliding Doors '	Pamela Drury ( Rachel Griffiths ) is a single thirty and so years old woman very dissatisfied with her life . She writes a column in a magazine for women and she regrets why she did not say ' yes ' to the proposal of her boy friend Robert Dickson ( David Roberts ) thirteen years ago . Her dates are usually terrible , and the last guy she met apparently has a wife and two daughters . She is almost committing suicide , when she suddenly meets herself on the street , married with Robert . She becomes the other ' her ' , but with memories from her single life . The situations are very funny and dramatic . This is really a surprising good movie , with some touches of the 1998 ' Sliding Doors ' . Rachel Griffiths has a great performance and is very charming and delightful in this surrealistic movie . Since Pamela keeps her memory of her previous life , it is really funny to see how she handles a type of life 180 degrees from hers .
A Refreshing and Extremely Delightful Comedy That You May Love	When the fishes finished in the small fishing village of St . Marie-La-Mauderne eight years ago , the pride and joy of the place ended . The unemployed fishermen have been financially supported by the government welfare checks for two weeks and have been living with shame for the month . When a company raises the possibility of building a small factory in the village , the dwellers need only a full-time doctor living in the community to make the dream come true . But they do not find any doctor that want to move to St . Marie-La-Mauderne . When the thirty-three years old Montreal's doctor Christopher Lewis ( David Boutin ) has an incident in a highway , the former Mayor of St . Marie and presently highway patrolman forces him to stay in the village for a month . Meanwhile , the locals under the leadership of Germain Lesage ( Raymond Bouchard ) bug his telephone and plot a scheme to convince him to sign a five years contract with the village . " La Grande Séduction " was a great surprise for me : I saw this DVD on sale and after checking IMDb User Rating of ( 1 , 208 votes ) , I decided to buy it . I found an extremely delightful dramatic comedy , funny most of the time , but with a profound message about a contemporary worldwide problem : the unemployment . If you reader , wants to see a refreshing and awarded comedy , winner of fourteen awards and with eleven nominations , try " La Grande Séduction " , and you may have also a good surprise and love it . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Grande Sedução " ( " The Great Seduction " )
Fragments of the History of the Wonderful City	In 1922 , the Portuguese Silvino Santos , who lived in Manaus ( Amazonas ) , came to Rio de Janeiro to prepare a movie about the centenary of the Independence of Brazil . He was so fascinated with the wonderful city of Rio de Janeiro , that he called the city of " Enchanted Land " . Silvino tried to understand why people became ( or become ? ) fascinated with Rio de Janeiro , and shot a film of about three hours , releasing a movie of two hours running time . There are images of the Exposition of the Independence , and many areas of Rio de Janeiro . The movie is very innovative , filming the " Canal do Mangue " in a vehicle , using fade-out , lens and other unusual technical resources in that time . Unfortunately , in the present days , rests only fragments of this film , available only in the Cinematec of MAM ( Modern Art Museum of Rio de Janeiro ) . All the inter-titles were lost , making very difficult to understand the vision of the director . A great lost for students and lovers of cinema in general , and dwellers and natives of the Enchanted Land . Title ( Brazil ) : " Terra Encantada " ( " Enchanted Land " )
Second Chance	In London , the British architect Will ( Jude Law ) lives with his Swedish mate Liv ( Robin Wright Penn ) a worn-out relationship , without the former passion , consumed by the dedication of Liv to her autistic daughter Bea ( Poppy Rogers ) . The needy of love Will and his partner Sandy ( Martin Freeman ) have an ambitious architectural project to improve the dangerous neighborhood of King's Cross where their firm Green Effect is located . The practitioner of parkour and refugee from Serbia Mirsade a . k . a . Miro ( Rafi Gavron ) breaks in Green Effect in the night to deactivate the alarm system to burgle computers and others electronic devices with a gang of compatriots leaded by his uncle . Will decides to stake-out during the nights to find the culprit , and he witnesses Miro trying to break-in the firm again . Will pursues Miro and finds his address , where Miro lives with his seamstress mother Amira ( Juliette Binoche ) . Will does not call the police , and on the next day , he visits Amira with the pretext of sewing a coat . Will gets closer to Amira , visiting her everyday , and more distant from Liv , When Miro finds that Will had been in his room , he tells the truth to his mother and she decides to give Will's laptop back to him . Will sexually desires Amira and she has an encounter with him to get pictures to compromise and blackmail him . " Breaking and Entering " is another great movie of Anthony Minghella that explores the theme of second chance in life through a dramatic triangle of love of the needy lead character and the maternal love of two mothers . Jude Law performs a successful but needy of love architect that misses the passion and attention of his girlfriend ; Robin Wright Penn neglects her mate and gives her total attention to her daughter ; and Juliette Binoche is a Serbian refugee capable of any sacrifice to save her son from prison . Their daughter Bea and son Miro are the key elements that trigger the plot . The lead trio has magnificent and credible interpretations and the story concludes with a final non-commercial redemption . Title ( Brazil ) : " Invasão de Domicílio " ( " Invasion of Domicile " )
A Melodrama in Rio de Janeiro With Influence of the Italian Neo-Realism	The simple and naive country girl Mariana ( Fada Santoro ) arrives in Rio de Janeiro from Minas Gerais trying to find her fiancé , José da Silva ( Hélio Souto ) , with his picture only , and without his phone number or address . She is lodged and welcomed by her simple lower middle class relatives , and sooner they are informed that Mariana is pregnant . The family decides to help her to find José da Silva : her aunt , the kind hearted housewife D . Gisa ( Sara Nobre ) : her cousins , the bus driver Baiano ( Jackson de Souza ) and the aspirant radio singer Elisa ( Dóris Monteiro ) ; the family's friend , the street-car driver Eduardo ; and their neighbor composer , all of them join Mariana in her almost impossible quest , equivalent to find a needle in a haystack . When the shy Eduardo and the simple Mariana fall in love for each other , José da Silva is finally found . But the winding road of love keeps them together . " Agulha no Palheiro " is a good melodrama , with a narrative different from the traditional Brazilian " chanchadas " of that period . The director Alex Viany was originally influenced by the German cinema , mostly by the German Expressionism through the Communist Party , and in this particular film he was very influenced by the Italian Neo-Realism . This movie uses professional actors and actresses and also non-actors or actresses , like , for example , Dória Monteiro , who has an amazing and very natural performance in the role of Elisa . There is a preoccupation of integrating the insertion of the musical presentations with the story , on the contrary of the traditional " chanchadas " , where any situation was a motive for a musical presentation . Further , this movie uses many locations , and shows where the places are physically located , presenting the big picture . Maybe the romance of Mariana and Eduardo is dated in 2006 , but anyway this movie is still better than most of the present romantic-comedies of Hollywood and much related to our culture . Title ( Brazil ) : " Agulha no Palheiro " ( " Needle in a Haystack " )
The First Brazilian Animation	" Macaco Feio . . . . Macaco Bonito " is the first Brazilian animation , therefore of great importance for Brazilian viewers . The cartoon is drawn by Luiz de Barros and the story is very simple and naive : a smart monkey escapes from its cage , takes the plush bear of a kid from his handcart and disguises of a toy , cheating the porter of the zoo . When its trick is found , the monkey jumps into a wagon , and throws the cargo of eggs in the porter that is chasing it , followed by the animals of the zoo . This rare animation is not available on VHS , DVD or cable , and belongs to the patrimony of the M . A . M . ( Modern Art Museum of Rio de Janeiro ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Macaco Feio . . . . Macaco Bonito " ( " Ugly Monkey ? Beautiful Monkey " )
Life in the Periphery of a Big Brazilian City	In the periphery of São Paulo , the very low middle-class dysfunctional and hypocrite family of Teodoro ( Giulio Lopes ) , Cláudia ( Leona Cavalli ) and the teenager Soninha ( Sílvia Lourenço ) have deep secrets . The religious Teodoro is indeed a hit-man , hired to kill people in the neighborhood with his friend Waldomiro ( Ailton Graça ) . He has a lover , the very devout woman Terezinha ( Martha Meola ) , and he wants to regenerate , going to the country with her . Cláudia has a young lover , Júlio ( Ismael de Araújo ) , who delivers meats for his father's butcher shop . Soninha is a common sixteen years old teenager of the periphery , having active sexual life , smoking grass and loving heavy metal . When Júlio is killed and castrated in their neighborhood , the lives of the members of the family change . " Contra Todos " is a great low budget Brazilian movie that pictures the life in the periphery of a big Brazilian city . The story is very real , uses the usual elements of the poor area of the big Brazilian cities ( drug dealers , hit men , fanatic religious evangelic people , hopeless teenagers etc . ) , has many plot points and a surprising end , and the characters have excellent performances , acting very natural and making the story totally believable . The camera follows the characters , giving a great dynamics to the film . In the Extras of the DVD , the director Roberto Moreira explains that his screenplay had no lines , only the description of the situations , and was partially disclosed only one week before the beginning of the shootings . The actors have trainings in workshops and they used lots of improvisation , being the reason for such natural acting . Title ( Brazil ) : " Contra Todos " ( " Against Everybody " )
In the Swamp of Corruption and Children Prostitution	I bought this DVD without any reference , and for my surprise it is an excellent thriller . The theme about children prostitution is very well exposed , the beginning of the movie is very impressive , and the actress Lauren Van de Broeck that plays Bieke Cuypers really looks like a little Lolita . The story of an old hit man that has a code of honor and does not accept the job of killing a teenager , turning against the powerful men that hired him , is magnificently disclosed , in a right pace and with stunning performances . The emphatic character of Angelo Ledda is played by the unknown actor Jan Decleir , and I was really impressed with his acting . I have just seen in IMDb that " De Zaak Alzheimer " won seven prizes and three nominations in European Festivals and this movie certainly deserved these awards . The character of Baron Gustave De Haeck , living in a swamp of corruption and children prostitution , would certainly not adapt living in the jungle , as mentioned in the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alzheimer Case "
Psychological Torture	In London , at Thorton Square 9 , the prima donna Alice Alquist is strangled and her famous jewels miss . Her young niece Paula ( Ingrid Bergman ) is sent to Italy to study music and the house stays empty . Ten years later , Paula decides to get married with the older pianist Gregory Anton ( Charles Boyer ) , who convinces her to move back to the old address in London . When they arrive , Paula finds a letter from a mysterious and unknown Sergis Bauer , making Gregory upset . He psychologically begins to torture Paula and she has a nervous breakdown , insecurity and memory problems . When the Scotland Yard policeman Brian Cameron ( Joseph Cotten ) sees Gregory Anton in a tourist place , he immediately recognizes Gregory and decides to investigate and find evidences to connect Gregory with the unsolved murder , while Paula is being driven mad and menaced of being interned in an asylum by her husband . The American version of " Gaslight " is not as good as the claustrophobic and Machiavellian original 1940 British version , but it is also a great movie . Ingrid Bergman in some moments seems to be too strong for the lead role , but has an excellent performance , alternating moments of lucidity with madness and winning the Oscar of Best Actress in a Leading Role . Joseph Cotton seems to be too young for the role of the snoopy detective , and Charles Boyer in any moment shows chemistry with Ingrid Bergman . The debut of Angela Lansbury in the role of the vulgar and slut maidservant is very good . The Art Direction-Interior Decoration also won an Oscar . Just as a curiosity , the 1 . 75 m height Charles Boyer climbed a box in some romantic scenes with the 1 . 78 m height Ingrid Bergman to look taller . Title ( Brazil ) : " À Meia-Luz " ( " Dimly " )
A Lovely Low Budget Movie About Family , Relationship , Feelings and Love	In Rhode Island , in the Italo-American family Sposato , Danni ( Amanda Detmer ) is going to marry Geoffrey Brancato ( Johnathon Schaech ) . Danni is virgin , lives with her parents Santo ( Burt Young ) and Irena ( Talia Shire ) and is the third and ' the good daughter ' of her family . Her three sisters come for her wedding : the older Nikki ( the gorgeous Brooke Langton ) , a successful TV starlet , who works in a TV show very similar to ' Baywatch ' . Nikki brings her boy-friend and manager Marty Weinberg ( Johnny Whitworth ) to be introduced to her family . Chrissy ( Vanessa Parise ) , who deals with investments in Wall Street ; and the rebel younger Toni ( Monet Mazur ) , who plays in a rock-and - roll band with her lesbian lover Amy Kayne ( Alissa Milano ) . Together , they have meals in the restaurant of Tom Terranova ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) , the former and first love of Nikki . Many discussions in the breast of the Sposato family show wounds not healed , when the characters expose their real feelings . This lovely low budget movie is a gem about themes related to family , relationship , love , feeling , religion and sex . I respect , but do not understand the unfair ' IMDB User Rating ' of only 5 . 6 , specially after seeing the ' Demographic Breakdown ' , the ' Arithmetic Mean ' of 7 . 8 and the ' Median ' of 9 . The story about a Latin Catholic family is wonderful and the performances of the beautiful cast are excellent . There is romance , comedy and drama in right doses . I was particularly impressed with the beauty of Brooke Langton , and the wonderful smile of Vanessa Parise . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Beijo da Noiva ' ( ' The Kiss of the Bride ' )
Funny With a Great Message	When Fiona's father and King of Far Far Away passes away , the clumsy Shrek becomes the immediate successor of the throne . However , Shrek decides to find the legitimate heir Artie in a distant kingdom with his friends Donkey and Puss in Boots to be able return to his beloved house in the swamp with the pregnant Fiona . Meanwhile , the envious and ambitious Prince Charming joins the villains of the fairy tales plotting a coup d'état to become the new king . " Shrek the Third " is very funny , having a great message in the end and completely underrated in IMDb . There are many unfair reviews and I really do not understand what these users have seen to dislike in this animation . There are many new characters from the fairy tales , but all of them has space along the plot , in at least one scene , and I liked , for example , the Cyclops with his beautiful daughter or the lines of Captain Hook just to mention two of them . I saw a version dubbed in Portuguese and the dialogs are excellent . The soundtrack is a plus and I loved " Immigrant Song " and " Baraccuda " in the attack of the heroines . Title ( Brazil ) : " Shrek Terceiro " ( " Shrek The Third " )
Another Great French Crime Movie	Dris ( Samuel Le Bihan ) is an ex-con , living in the borderline between a decent and a criminal life . He has a regular and simple work and lives a simple life with his wife Lise ( Marie Guillard ) and loves his family . However , his childhood friends from his Arab community , including his best friend Yanis ( Samy Naceri ) , are mobsters and his brother is a small time delinquent . Yanis tries to bring Dris back to his gang , and uses his former lover Nina ( Clotilde Courau ) to seduce him , taking him to expensive places to feel the importance of big money . Dris fights against the temptation , but an event will route him back to Yanis ' gang and in a fight between gangs with tragic consequences for the whole community . " La Mentale " is another great French crime movie . The story is excellent , the performance of the whole cast is great and the music score is wonderful . The excellent French cinema is showing excellent thrillers , crime and horror movies . I do not understand the purpose or reason of some unfair reviews I glanced in IMDb . Probably these viewers intended to watch a Walt Disney cartoon , or maybe a French romance ( they usually are excellent ) and saw " La Mentale " by accident , because it is indeed an excellent mob movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Último Favor " ( " The Last Favor " )
Discovering a New Man	After the death of the oil tycoon Howard ' Red ' Stevens ( James Garner ) , his greedy family is gathered in the office of his lawyer , partner and friend Mr . Theophillis ' Ted ' Hamilton ( Bill Cobbs ) and his associated Miss Hastings ( Lee Meriwether ) for reading the will . For his reckless and selfish grandson Jason Stevens ( Drew Fuller ) , who hated him , Red assigns twelve apparently simple tasks called " gifts " ? of work , money , friends , learning , problems , family , laughter , dreams , giving , gratitude , a day and love ? challenging the playboy Jason to a journey of discoveries . When he meets the leukemic girl Emily ( Abigail Breslin ) and her mother Alexia ( Ali Hillis ) , Jason changes his perspective of life and money , superseding the expectations of Red , improving and becoming a better man and receiving the ultimate gift from his wise grandfather . What a wonderful surprise " The Ultimate Gift " is ! This simple little movie has a magnificent story of discoveries , friendship , family values , redemption and love , supported by awesome performances highlighting the girl Abigail Breslin , whose witty dialogs make the viewer laugh and cry . Do not pay attention in the bad reviews in IMDb , and you will see a pleasant movie with a beautiful message . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Presente " ( " The Gift " )
Black Hearted	Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) is absolutely happy and fascinated with the success and fame of the Spider-Man . His girlfriend Mary Jane ( Kirsten Dunst ) is the lead star of a musical show in Broadway , and he wants to propose her . After defeating Harry " New Goblin " Osmond ( James Franco ) , Harry is hit on the head , has amnesia and they become friends again . Meanwhile , the smalltime crook Flint Marko ( Thomas Haden Church ) , who had actually killed Peter's uncle , escapes from prison and is accidentally submitted to an experiment in a sand pit of a laboratory , transforming in the Sandman . Peter Parker is also threatened in his job by the new ambitious photographer Eddie Brock ( Topher Grace ) . His life turns upside down when an alien being is attached to him , increasing his aggressiveness and his dark side . Harry recalls his last memories and decides to destroy Peter ; the jealous Mary Jane breaks out with him ; the alien Venon bonds to Eddie , increasing his revenge wish ; and the Sandman wants to destroy the Spider Man . " Spider-Man 3 " is not as good as the other two previous movies , but it is also a great film . The characters change their attitudes along the story , with Peter Parker beginning silly and fascinated , showing off his " Tom Cruise " hidden side , and returning to a balanced man in the end and capable to forgive . Harry Osmond begins revengeful , and I just question why his butler only discloses the truth about the death of his father in the very end . Flint Marko is a complex character , presented as a cold blood killer in the beginning and ending as a desperate father with bad luck . The special effects are top-notch ; there are many stunning action scenes and the final message about choices is very positive . Title ( Brazil ) : " Homem-Aranha 3 " ( " Spider-Man 3 " )
A Different Horror Movie In an Unusual Environment	Sergeant Neil Howie ( Edward Woodward ) arrives in a Scottish private island looking for a missing teenager girl , Rowan Morrison ( Geraldine Cowper ) . The place belongs to Lord Summerisle ( Christopher Lee ) and is famous because of their plantation of apples and other fruits and their harvest . Sgt . Howie realizes that the locals are pagans , practicing old rituals , and Rowan is probably alive and being prepared to be sacrificed . The end of the story is a tragic surprise . This movie is a different horror movie in all aspects : first , the environment , with beautiful and happy people , naked women , full of sunshine , love scenes and songs , contrasting with those dark and Gothic movies , with monsters or weird persons , taking place in the night , in shadowy castles or forests . The simple and original story , which has a surprising end , hooks the attention until the last scene . The cast , mainly Edward Woodward and Christopher Lee , has a great performance , especially in the duel of their religious beliefs . Just as a curiosity , when Britt Ekland dances naked in the inn , tempting Sgt . Howie , the beautiful and sexy body belongs to a double body . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Homem de Palha ' ( ' The Straw Man ' )
Family Comes First	The architect Michael Newman ( Adam Sandler ) has a typical middle-class family with his lovely and gorgeous wife Donna ( Kate Beckinsale ) and their son Ben and daughter Samantha , and a constant visit of his parents . However , Michael is workaholic and under stress , trying to satisfy his boss with overwork and get a partnership in his company , giving priority to his work and neglecting the family issues . When the tired Michael goes to a department store to buy an universal remote control , he rests on a bed and he meets the weird salesman Morty ( Christopher Walken ) that offers him a remote control capable of controlling his own universe . Michael uses too much and loses the control of the device , having his own life controlled by the remote control . Then Michael sees the worthwhile parts of his personal life he missed while working , and in the end of his life he lately concludes that the family comes first . " Click " is a very interesting comedy , with a serious approach about the importance of having a balanced life between family and work businesses . Adam Sandler performs the role of a liberal professional that does not give priority to his family trying to be successful in his own career , and having the chance to see how his procedure would affect his beloved family . There are some low level jokes , like the " entertainment " of his dog , but they are also hilarious . Kate Beckinsale is extremely beautiful , as usual , even when she is aged , and shows a great chemistry with Adam Sandler . Christopher Walken is very funny in the role of a quite crazy angel . In the end , this highly recommended " Click " is a big surprise , leaving the important message that family comes first and many entertaining moments . Title ( Brazil ) : " Click "
The Remedy for Migraines , Headaches and Boring and Tedious Married Life	Alex ( Albert Dupontel ) and Claire ( Marianne Denicourt ) are living a boring and tedious life after years of marriage . They do not communicate to each other anymore , and Alex is almost speechless at home and without motivation and inspiration in his work as a former successful photographer . When Claire decides to leave him to live with her sculptor teacher , and Alex , completely wasted , accidentally orders an expensive and desirable sex molded doll called " Monique " , his life changes completely . Alex falls in love with Monique , making all his fantasies come true , while his privacy is respected . His behavior affects the lives of his closest friends and Claire . This witty and original comedy plays with endured and routine relationships that are completely exhausted , without communication or sex life . Alex represents those men in middle-age crisis that keep their boring and tedious marriage without any further emotions or dialog , actually accommodated to the situation . Claire represents those women afraid to give a step ahead in life , balancing between a stable finished relationship and the fear for new feelings and experiences . Monique represents the new , the refreshment of a wasted life and the dream of most " Alexs " . The director Valérie Guignabodet shows a great sensibility , approaching this delicate theme in a funny and neutral way , never being corny or accusing or defending who is right or who is wrong in this battle of sexes . One correction : The Worldcup of 1950 was in Brazil , director Valérie Guignabodet committed a serious research mistake . Title ( Brazil ) : " Monique ? Sempre Feliz " ( " Monique ? Always Happy " )
A Very Scary French Horror Movie	In Paris , Marianne ( Karin Viard ) and Jacques ( Charles Berling ) , and their son Julian ( Alexandre Bongibault ) and daughter Aude ( Camille Vatel ) compose a happy upper class French family , living in a huge apartment ( for European standards ) . The children have a baby-sitter , Daphnée ( Ludivine Sagnier ) and Jacques has just been promoted in his job . The family's life changes when Marianne receives two weird old visitors , the Worms ( Pierre Julien and Manuela Gourary ) . They ask Marianne for permission to visit the apartment , where they live when they were children . Marianne receives a phone call from her husband , and when she returns to the living room , the strange couple was leaving the children's room . From this moment on , the most mysterious and bizarre things happen with Marianne and Jacques , affecting their lives . I liked this very scary French horror movie a lot . It has the same atmosphere of ' Stanley Kubrick's The Shining ' , the characters are well developed , and the tension increases in an intelligent way . The viewer is never 100 % sure whether the mother or the father is getting deranged or the children became evil , until the end of the plot . Unfortunately , there is a great flaw in the script regarding the visit of the Worms : why have they waited so long to come back to the apartment ? Title ( Brazil ) : ' Jogos Sinistros ' ( ' Sinister Games ' )
One of the Best Comedies of the 80's	The sophisticated English Georges ( Tom Georgeson ) , the stuttering English and owner of an aquarium where the fishes have names Ken ( Michael Palin ) , the ex-CIA killer and very dumb American Otto ( Kevin Kline ) and the sexy American Wanda ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) executes a perfect heist of a fortune in diamonds in London . After the robbery , a double-crossing game among them will cause the funniest situation the viewer can imagine . Archie Leach ( John Cleese ) , the stereotype of an Englishman , is hilarious as a successful attorney and failure with his wife and daughter . Jamie Lee Curtis is not a beautiful woman , but she is certainly one of the most sexy star in the cinema . In this movie , she is perfect as a smart and amoral woman . Kevin Kline as the stupid Otto is very funny . The guy is so stupid that , for example , he does not get used to the British way of driving and causes accidents when he drives a car . This is one of the best comedies of the 80's and I myself have watched this movie at least five times ( now on DVD ) . Recommended for those viewers who like comedy , black-humor and flicks with amoral end .
A Bitter and Sad Worldwide Contemporary Story , With Magnificent Performances	In an industrial city in Spain , five unemployed middle-aged friends daily meet in a bar , whose owner was also a former employee of the local shipyard , for drinking and small talk . Santa ( Javier Barden ) is their rebel leader , who dreams to move to Australia , and is being sued by the owner of the shipyard for breaking a 8 , 000 pesetas light . The insecure José ( Luis Tosar ) feels inferiority complex of his wife Ana ( Nieve the Medina ) , who is supporting their home with a temporary work in a tuna can factory . Paulino ( José Ángel Egido ) is permanently trying to find a job through unsuccessful applications . The Russian Serguei ( Serge Riaboukine ) studied in Soviet Union to be an astronaut and seems to accept his life status . The depressed Amador ( Celso Bugallo ) misses his wife , who left him some time ago . For all of them , each jobless idle day looks like a Sunday . " Los Lunes al Sol " is a bitter and sad worldwide contemporary story , with magnificent performances . I am marine engineer and Rio de Janeiro is the greatest Brazilian pole of naval construction . In the 80's and 90's , I saw many people of this sector , including friends and colleagues , losing their jobs and many of them changing their professions with the crisis in this sector . This type of situation happened in many other economical sectors , and Brazil has presently about a ten percent unemployment rate . I feel very sorrow for those who lost their jobs , and the large number of street vendors and slums in my hometown , associated to very low wages , reflect our present situation . The universe of Santa and his friends may be extended too to many other countries and sectors of the economy , therefore it is very easy to sympathize and understand the drama of the characters . This impressive film is also very well directed and watching it is a worthwhile experience , mainly for the younger generations . Title ( Brazil ) : " Segunda-Feira ao Sol " ( " Monday in the Sun " )
Liberty , Equality and Fraternity	In World War II , the Muslims from French colonies enlist to fight for their motherland France . In the 7th battalion commanded by the tough Sergeant Roger Martinez ( Bernard Blancan ) , the soldier Abdelkader ( Sami Bouajila ) has leadership with the troop and seeks promotion and recognition from the command ; Said Otmari ( Jamel Debbouze ) is a servile and illiterate private , happy in serving his sergeant ; Messaoud Souni ( Roschdy Zem ) is the sniper of the group and has fallen in a corresponded love with the French Irène ( Aurélie Eltvedt ) ; and Yassir ( Samy Naceri ) is fighting together with his brother to raise some money . Along the campaign in Italy , France and Alsace , they realize that French soldiers are promoted , have better food and have leaves to visit their families , while the Arab soldiers are shamefully discriminated and treated like 2nd ranking soldiers . " Indigènes " is an excellent movie of war , disclosing an unusual theme : the discrimination of the soldiers from the French colonies in World War II . The anti-Semitism is presented in most of the films about WWII ; racism and segregation with the American soldiers has been explored in a couple of movies ; but the treatment spent to the Arab soldiers in World War II by France command is the first time that I see in a movie . The screenplay , the direction , the performances , the pace and the cinematography are great and gives a magnificent homage to these forgotten and discriminated heroes . The lack of payment of pension plan to the survivors and families by the French government is another example of the level of intolerance and lack of respect in the world of the present days . In the end , it is a great deception that the beautiful message " Liberty , Equality and Fraternity " is not applicable to the soldiers from the exploited colonies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dias de Glória " ( " Days of Glory " )
Delightful Silliness	The clumsy and reckless Jack Fuller ( Ashton Kutcher ) is fired by his boss and father ( Treat Williams ) and together with his friend and unsuccessful lawyer Hater ( Rob Corddry ) , they decide to go to Las Vegas to have a good time . Meanwhile the fiancé of the workaholic stock broker Joy McNally ( Cameron Diaz ) breaks up their engagement because of her lack of attitude . Her friend and bartender Tipper ( Lake Bell ) convinces Joy to spend a couple of days also in Las Vegas . Due to a hotel management mistake , they are lodged in the same room and later they hang around together . During the night , they get completely wasted and on the next morning , Jack and Joy find that they got married . While discussing to briefly end their wedding , Jack borrows a coin from Joy to gamble in the jackpot machine and wins three million dollars . They question in court the ownership of the money and the conservative Judge R . D . Whopper ( Dennis Miller ) freezes the money and sentence them to live together with Joy moving to Jack's house for six months and attending regular counseling sessions . Each one decides to make the life of the other hell on Earth to force to get out of the marriage . " What Happens in Vegas " is silly , but one of the most delightful romantic comedies I have recently seen . There are many hilarious scenes that made me laugh a lot in my flight ; the gorgeous , sexy and funny Cameron Diaz shows a wonderful chemistry with Ashton Kutcher that performs his traditional role of a goofy guy . My only remark is that it is hard to believe that a man could resist the charm of Cameron Diaz living together with her . Title ( Brazil ) : " Jogo de Amor em Las Vegas " ( " Game of Love in Las Vegas " )
Shadowy Secret from the Past	After a farewell party , Sandra Dawson ( Claudia Cardinale ) and her American husband Andrew Dawson ( Michael Craig ) travel to her hometown in the province of Volterra for a homage of the locals to her father , a prominent scientist that died in the concentration camp of Auschwitz . The couple is welcomed by the maid Fosca ( Amalia Troiani ) , and Andrew becomes fascinated with the house . Sandra has issues with her stepfather Pietro Formari ( Fred Williams ) and her insane mother ( Marie Bell ) and misses her brother Gianni Wald-Luzzati ( Jean Sorel ) , who is an aspirant writer . When Gianni appears in the house out of the blue , Andrew unravels a shadowy secret from the past of the siblings . The unknown " Vaghe Stelle dell'Orsa . . . " is another great movie of this artist called Luchino Visconti . The plot about incestuous relationship and family issues in the hands of another director could have become a melodramatic soap-opera . But Visconti explores the sensuality and beauty of Claudia Cardinale to deliver an intriguing and quite erotic family drama without any redemption . The set decoration , as usual , is another piece of art , supported by a classy music score . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Listening to the Dead	A stranger with a sick skin full of scars is abducted by a man that was hired by a collector to peel his skin . The stranger tells the story of the PhD college professor and writer Mary Florescu ( Sophie Ward ) , who investigates paranormal phenomena with her technical assistant Reg Fuller ( Paul Blair ) . When the newcomer student Simon McNeal ( Jonas Armstrong ) attends her class , she recognizes him as a clairvoyant boy that was a sensation in the media years ago when he foresaw the death of his older brother in a car accident . Mary invites Simon to team up with Reg and her in the investigation of the Tollington House , a creepy house where a teenager was slayed a couple of years ago , since she believes that Simon would be capable to " open " the house to communicate with the spirits . When the souls apparently write " Don't mock us " and other advices on the wall ; cause interference in Reg's equipment ; and beat Simon , Mary believes she has succeed in collecting evidences of the afterlife . However , she finds first that everything is a fraud ; but later she realizes that the dead have highways and the Tollington House is located at the intersection between worlds . Further the dead want someone to listen to them and tell the world through a book of blood . Tales of haunted house seemed to be an exhausted theme for horror movies ; however , Clive Barker reinvents the terror of this theme in " Book of Blood " . The intriguing screenplay is very well developed in a slow pace , supported by a great direction and performances , using a bleak cinematography and good special effects . This movie is underrated in IMDb with the User Rating of 5 . 2 ( 39 votes only ) and deserves to be discovered by fans of genuine horror movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Livro de Sangue " ( " Book of Blood " )
A Sick and Dark Game with Dexter's Recollections	Dexter secretly recognizes in the arrangement of body parts in a different style left by the Ice Truck Killer that he has studied his pictures with his family in his childhood and adolescence and is playing with his recollections in a sick and dark game rebuilding his past . The body parts are identified and belongs to security guard Tony Tucci ; the arrogant Lt . Laguerta tries to comfort Tucci's mother after her accusations to her son in television . Angel tries to find an appropriate gift for his wife while Sergeant Dokes is chased by Guerrero's gang . Meanwhile a barking dog from Rita's next door careless and cynical neighbor is upsetting Rita and her children ; near Halloween , she makes a move to resolve the situation . In " Let's Give the Boy a Hand " , the plot evolutes and Dexter's past is disclosed a little more through glimpses of his memories with his stepfather and his family . The human attitude of the arrogant Lt . Laguerta is a plot point in the story . The relationship of Angel with his wife was a great surprise , as well as the surprising rescue of Sgt . Dokes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vamos Dar uma Mão ao Menino " ( " Let's Give the Boy a Hand " )
Do not Think Too Much , and Have a Good Entertainment	In 2035 , robots are mandatory electronic devices in every home , being the proportion of four men for each robot in the American society . They are built by US Robotics following three basic laws for preservation of the human being , and no robot is allowed to harm a human being in any circumstance . In Chicago , detective Del Spooner ( Will Smith ) , who hates robots , is assigned to investigate the suicide of the scientist and his old friend , Dr . Alfred Lanning ( James Cromwell ) , in the facilities of US Robotics . The CEO Lawrence Robertson ( Bruce Greenwood ) asks the psychologist Susan Calvin ( Bridget Moynahan ) to support Spooner in his investigation . Spooner believes that Dr . Lanning was murdered , and looks for the criminal , finding the robot Sonny hidden in Dr . Lanning's room , becoming the prime suspect . While following the hints left by Dr . Lanning , Spooner and Susan are initially misguided , finding the truth in the end . " I , Robot " is a good action sci-fi movie , using elements of " Blade Runner " and " Terminator 2 " . However , the characters and the society of 2035 are not well-developed , and if the viewer starts questioning details , will find many shallow points and flaws . Therefore , my advice is : do not think too much , and have a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Eu , Robô " ( " I , Robot " )
Five Female Friends	The young woman Laura Fischer ( Caro Lenssen ) has a session with a psychologist . The session begins with Laura telling that after two years of successive rapes of female students riding bicycles in the woods nearby the campus of the college where she studied , the student Emma Machielsen ( Liesbeth Kamerling ) forms a committee with Josien Schippers ( Josefien Hendriks ) , Marieke Kopermode ( Victoria Koblenko ) , Bonnie Javoer ( Christel Oomen ) and her to discuss a possible solution with the dean . However , the dean claims that he has no budget to improve the security and could only afford to provide three buses for the students . The girls decide to bike through the woods together in convoy , but when Marieke is late , they leave her alone in the campus . She decides to cross the woods alone , and the serial rapist rapes her . Her friends decide top investigate the crimes by themselves and they prepare a list of possible rapists , leading the group to a tragic consequence . " Stille Nacht " is a simple but realistic thriller , without special effects but supported by a solid screenplay and great performances that give credibility to the tense and dramatic plot . The five unknown lead actresses are excellent and the director does not need to use any sort of exploitation in spite of the sexual theme to make the story work perfectly well . The cover of the Brazilian DVD distributed by Daylight Films makes references to IMDb reviews ; unfortunately the DVD has interviews in Dutch without subtitles in Portuguese , in a total lack of respect with the viewers . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quando a Noite Cai " ( " When the Night Falls " )
They did not Want to Play With Us	The teacher of the French School in Bucharest Clémentine ( Olivia Bonamy ) lives with her husband , the writer Lucas ( Michaël Cohen ) , in a remote real estate in Snagow . Along the night , Clémentine is awakened by weird noises outside the old house and Lucas sees their car being stolen . Then the lights are turned off , phone line is dead and they see that their property gate has been trespassed and they are surrounded by weird persons with lights . They hide in the cellar and try to escape to ask for help in a dreadful night of pure terror . The unknown " Ils " is one of the scariest movies I have ever seen , almost comparable to Michael Haneke " s " Funny Games " . The story of this low-budget movie is very simple , does not have special effects and apparently is based on a true story , but the direction of David Moreau and Xavier Palud is stunning , supported by the awesome and credible performances of Olivia Bonamy and Michaël Cohen that make the difference with most of the American movies of this genre . I was tense and nervous with the frightening atmosphere of this film . The alienation of the youngsters " them " in the end is perhaps the scariest part of this gem of horror . Title ( Brazil ) : " Eles " ( " Them " )
A Sweet , Cute and Delightful Tale of a Young Negotiator That Wanted to Be an Astronaut	On 1969 , in Argentina , the eight years old Valentin ( Rodrigo Noya ) is a boy that dreams to be an astronaut . He is raised by his poor widow grandmother Abuela ( Carmen Maura ) , and is totally abandoned by his parents . His mother has apparently forgotten him , and his stupid father does not pay much attention on him . The smart , but needy kid missed his mother , and when his father introduces his new girlfriend Leticia ( Julieta Cardinali ) , Valentin has a strong connection with her . Meanwhile his grandmother gets sick , and the boy tries to resolve all his family problems using his persuasion and viewpoint of life . " Valentine " is a sweet , cute and delightful tale of a young negotiator that wanted to be an astronaut . I am not sure whether Rodrigo Noya is a great actor or not , but in this particular and peculiar role he is simply amazing . Carmen Maura is fantastic as usual , and the unknown Julieta Cardinali has a very beautiful participation . The story makes the viewer laugh and certainly will bring tears so touching and sensitive it is . This movie was one of the greatest good surprises for me and I really loved it . The scene of Valentin negotiating with the doctor in the hospital to see his grandmother in the market is one of the most beautiful scenes I have ever seen in cinema . Unfortunately life is not as beautiful as pictured in this remarkable scene . Title ( Brazil ) " Valentin "
A Magnificent Journey of Friendship , Discoveries and Redemption	The quiet mechanic Carter Chambers ( Morgan Freeman ) is a man with a great general culture ; has been married for forty-five years with his beloved wife Virginia ( Beverly Todd ) and has two sons ? one lawyer the other engineer ? and a violinist daughter . The caustic and bitter billionaire Edward Cole ( Jack Nicholson ) owns many hospitals , has many divorces and one missing daughter . Following the policy of Edward , his hospital makes no exception giving a private room to him and he shares the same room as Carter . Along the days , they become close to each other and when Edward finds in the garbage the bucket list that Carter had prepared , listing all he wanted to do before dying , he includes his own items and invites Carter to a journey of friendship , discoveries and redemption . " The Bucket List " has a wonderful screenplay , two fantastic actors and a predictable story about the journey of two terminal patients with cancer that find friendship , discoveries and redemption . The contrast between the two lead characters offers very beautiful moments with witty and spirituous dialogs alternating with funny and dramatic scenes . This is one of those movies that bring happiness to the viewer in spite of the unpleasant theme ? illness and death . Title ( Brazil ) : " Antes de Partir " ( " Before Leaving " )
Excellent Thriller	After attending the funeral of her grandmother in Dallas , the Lux Atlantic Hotel manager Lisa ( Rachel McAdams ) is waiting for a flight to Miami . Due to the bad weather and consequent flight delay , she meets in the airport bar Jack Rippner ( Cillian Murphy ) , who is also in the waiting list . They sit together in the plane , and Jack reveals that he wants Lisa to change the room in Lux of an important American politician to facilitate a terrorist attempt against him . Otherwise , Lisa's father will be killed by a hit man . Lisa has to decide what to do with the menacing man at her side . " Red Eye " is one of the best thrillers I have recently seen . The claustrophobic first part of this movie is amazing , with a great performances of Rachel McAdams in the strong role of a heroine and the weird Cillian Murphy as a cold and cruel villain . Unfortunately , Wes Craven in the second half , after the plot point with the landing of the plane , uses the usual clichés and flaws of thrillers and the film loses its strong initial impact . Nevertheless , " Red Eye " is still an excellent thriller and a great entertainment for a Saturday evening . Title Brazil ) : " Vôo Noturno " ( " Night Flight " )
A Classic Horror Movie	In 1959 , the eccentric millionaire Frederick Loren ( Vincent Price ) and his fifth wife Annabelle Loren ( Carol Ohmart ) invite five different persons to a party in a house considered haunted by evil spirits . They are locked in the house at midnight by the house keepers , and who stays alive in the next morning will share US$ 50 , 000 . 00 . Along the scary night , dark secrets are revealed , in a story with a very surprising end . This classic horror movie is excellent . Although being a low budget movie with only 75 min . running time , the story is great and the sound effects and the black and white photography contribute for the fearful atmosphere . I do not recall how many times this storyline has been copied . In Brazil , there is a new distributor ( London Films ) specialized in horror movies . I bought many titles on DVDs , which have never been previously released , and now I am going to have the chance to watch films like ' The Wicker Man ' , ' Black Sabbath - The Three Faces of Fear ' , ' Possession ' , ' Black Sunday ( The Mask of Satan ) ' and others . Title ( Brazil : ' A Casa dos Maus Espíritos ' ( ' The House of Bad Spirits ' )
Although Being a Good Adventure , It Is the Weakest Story of the Trilogy	While travelling for his third year in Hogwarts , the grown-up Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is advised that the criminal Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) has escaped the Wizards ' Prison Azkaban . Sirius Black is blamed for being responsible for the death of Harry's parents and their best friend , Peter Pettigrew . In the train , Harry Potter faces an evil Dementor , sort of creature who drains good memories and life of their victims and which was sent to chase Sirius Black , but he is saved by Professor Lupin ( David Thewlis ) . Once in Hogwarts , he realizes that the school is surrounded by Dementors , sent to protect Harry Potter and the students against Sirius Black . After many adventures , the truth is disclosed . Although being a good adventure , I found " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " the weakest story of the trilogy . There are many situations used in the other two stories , like the game they play , or the bad treatment of Harry Potter's relatives , the character of Emma Thompson is too silly and not funny and Daniel Radcliffe does not correspond in some dramatic situations . Emma Watson , in the role of Hermion Granger , has another excellent performance . It is funny to see how the cast grew and changed in a couple of years . However , this movie is a great entertainment and does not disappoint . Title ( Brazil ) : " Harry Potter e o Prisioneiro de Azkaban " ( " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban "
Healing Wounds ? A Tale of Forgiveness	In order to escape from the abusive boy-friend Gary Winston ( Damian Lewis ) , Jean Gilkyson ( Jennifer Lopez ) moves with her young daughter Griff Gilkyson ( Becca Gardner ) without previous notice to the ranch of her father-in-law Einar Gilkyson ( Robert Redford ) in Wyoming . Jean and Einar are disaffected , since he blames her for the death of his beloved son in a car accident . Einar is taking care of his friend Mitch Bradley ( Morgan Freeman ) , who was attacked and seriously wounded by a bear , and he does not know that he has a grand-daughter . While Mitch heals his wounds and forgives the bear , Einar also changes his feelings regarding Jean , finally understanding that accidents happen and accepting her and loving his grand-daughter . " An Unfinished Life " is a beautiful tale of forgiveness , with the lead characters healing their wounds ? Mitch , the ones provoked by a savage bear , and Einar his innermost feelings of loss . The cast has amazing performances , showing the importance of a director of the weight of Lasse Halltröm : Robert Redford and Morgan Freeman are unanimity , but I myself like a lot the versatile Jennifer Lopez and strongly believe that even the viewer that dislike her as actress must admit her excellent performance in this touching film . Josh Lucas is a great support actor and the favorable surprise is the performance of the young and unknown Becca Gardner . Although being a predictable story without any twist , this sensitive movie is highly recommended . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Lugar para Recomeçar " ( " A Place to Restart " )
Excellent Sci-Fi Adventure and Sequel of the Cult-Movie " Pitch Black "	Five years after the events related in " Pitch Black " , the Furyan fugitive Riddick ( Vin Diesel ) is hunted by mercenaries , hired by Abu ' Imam ' al-Walid ( Keith David ) of New Mecca , as the last hope of the universe against the Necromongers . This evil breed , leaded by Lord Marshal ( Colm Feore ) , converts or eliminates the human as part of the plan of conquering the universe . Aereon ( Judi Dench ) , an ambassador from the Elemental race , tries o convince the also evil Riddick to save the human race . " The Chronicles of Riddick " is a movie with flaws , cliché , even it is brainless , as most of the movies of this genre , and it will certainly not receive an Oscar nomination . However , for its proposal of entertainment , it is an excellent sci-fi adventure and sequel of the cult " Pitch Black " . The story is narrated in off , and Vin Diesel's voice is magnificent in this aspect . In the DVD , Vin Diesel also presents the set , were most of the story takes place , and it is interesting to see the illusion of the cinema . I believe that fans of sci-fi action movies like me will love " The Chronicles of Riddick " , which is underrated in IMDb . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Batalha de Riddick " ( " The Battle of Riddick " )
Surprisingly Good Film-Noir	After three years in a penitentiary , the thief Frank Miles ( Rene Russo ) is released in probation . He is sent to a small town , where he lives in a very low budget hotel downtown and works as a mechanic in a junkyard . His best friend is Stan ( Brad Dourif ) , an ex-small-time drug dealer , who became his friend in the prison . While having his meals in a simple restaurant , Frank meets the waitress Dora Baker ( Theresa Russell ) , a woman with a hidden past , and they feel attracted for each other , starting a romance . Meanwhile , Frank tries to retrieve his US$ 200 , 000 . 00 , left with a former partner , and Dora is threatened by her former husband , the scum Jake Ragna ( Steve Railsback ) . When Dora finds a mysterious box hidden in her beautiful house , their troubles begin , as if it were the Pandora Box . " The Box " is a surprisingly good low-budget film-noir . Having a great low-paced dark story written by James Russo and very well developed characters , this movie is completely underrated in IMDb . The whole cast has an excellent performance , highlighting James Russo , maybe in his best role , and the good actress Theresa Russell . The pessimist and non-commercial storyline is very real , having no plot point or surprises , becoming darker and darker and without redemption , being a gem to be discovered by adults . Congratulations to James Russo , Richard Pepin , Theresa Russell and the cast and crew for such a good film . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Caixa " ( " The Box " )
Wonderful Love Story	Victor Van Dort is going to marry Victoria Everglot in a wedding of interest of their families : his believes that will climb to the aristocracy , while hers is completely bankrupted and expecting the wealthy of the new-rich groom's family . Viktor and Victoria fall in love for each other in the first sight , but during their wedding rehearsal in the eve , Viktor messes up his vows and the priest asks him to practice . The shy and clumsy groom goes to the woods to recite his vows , and accidentally proposes Emily , a Corpse Bride that was murdered before her marriage and is waiting for her true love . She claims that Viktor is her husband and brings him to the world of the dead . Viktor tries to return to the arms of Victoria . What a wonderful love story " Corpse Bride " is ! The fantastic Tim Burton presents a delightful animation , with romance , comedy , fantasy and musical using characters the slightly recalls " The Nightmare before Christmas " , which is better , but in a totally different story . I was checking his filmography from 1988 on , and it is awesome , since all his movies are at least good . The voices of Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter are amazing , and music score Danny Elfman is great and I highly recommend this stunning animation . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Noiva-Cadáver " ( " The Corpse Bride " )
The Lost of the Innocence	While waiting for the night rehearsal of the ballet Swan Lake , the lonely twenty-eight year-old ballerina Marie ( Maj-Britt Nilsson ) receives a diary through the mail . She travels by ferry to an island nearby Stockholm , where she recalls her first love Henrik ( Birger Malmsten ) . Thirteen years ago , while traveling to spend her summer vacation with her aunt Elisabeth ( Renée Björling ) and her uncle Erland ( Georg Funkquist ) , Marie meets Henrik in the ferry and sooner they fall in love for each other . They spend summer vacation together when a tragedy separates them and Marie builds a wall affecting her sentimental life . " Sommarlek " is a simple little film of the great director Ingmar Bergman in the beginning of his successful career . The plot discloses through flashbacks a tragic and timeless love story affecting the life of the lead character that builds a wall to protect her sentiments and loses her innocence with her corrupt uncle . The cinematography , landscapes , sceneries and camera work are awesome , using magnificent locations and unusual angles to shot the movie . Maj-Britt Nilsson and Birger Malmsten have great performances in this beautiful and melancholic film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Juventude " ( " Youth " )
Martha Kent , the Heroine	Three months later the last episode , Lois Lane ( Erica Durance ) , the cousin of Chloe Sullivan , drives to Smallville trying to find Clark Kent to help her to find the responsible for Chloe's murder . After the strike of a ray , she loses control of her car , and finds Clark naked with amnesia in a cornfield . She brings him to Smallville Medical Center , where Martha is with Jonathan Kent , who is in a hopeless coma . Martha brings Clark back to the farm , expecting him to retrieve his memory . Meanwhile , Lana Lang has an American boyfriend in Paris , Jason Teague ( Jensen Ackles ) , and is having good time with him . Lex Luthor's blood is poisoned and he travels to bring an ancient object retrieved from an excavation . The first episode of the Fourth Season shows news characters ( Lois Lane , Jason Teague and Bridgette Crosby ) and situations . I loved to see Margot Kidder again , the unforgettable Lois Lane of " Superman " . Pete Ross left the show , and we do not know what has happened with Chloe . The effect of the black kryptonite is very different and in this episode , the greatest heroine is to Martha Kent , who saves her son and her husband . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cruzada " ( " Crusade " )
When Words Are Not Necessary	In the Second World War , probably in a concentration camp somewhere , Gary Sinise is a soldier who conducts Jews everyday to some place where only clothes come back , under the eyes of an young prisoner boy ( Elijah Wood ) . This witness disturbs the soldier , driving the story to a tragic and sad end and a new beginning . Excellent short story , with a great duel between the soldier and the boy . The running time of 19 minutes is perfect for the plot .
Their Friendship Is Over	In Kent Farm , Clark Kent is surprised in the middle of the night by a naked young woman claiming that she is Kara ( Adrianne Palicki ) from Krypton , and asking him to go with her somewhere through the Kawatche caves . Meanwhile , he decides to testify against Lionel Luthor to keep him in prison . Lionel sends a key of the secret chamber in the Mansion Luthor to Clark , and he finishes his friendship with Lex Luthor . Lana Lang travels to Paris and Chloe Sullivan and her father are included in the witness protection program . In " Covenant " , there are many new situations to be explored in the Fourth Season , such as the travel of Lana Lang to Paris ; the incident of Chloe Sullivan and her father in their new home ; Lionel Luthor in the prison ; but the most important , the end of the friendship of Clark and Lex . The " reborn " Clark will certainly be another possible attraction . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Acordo " ( " The Agreement " )
Losing the Abilities and Revelations	Together with the meteor shower , two evil super powerful Kryptonians beings , Aethyr and Nam-Ek , arrive in Smallville looking for Kal-El . Clark Kent is transported with Chloe from the Kawatche caves to the Artic and the Fortress of Solitude is built in the ice . Jor-El begins to educate Clark , but when he sees Chloes needing help , Clark stops the class and promises Jor-El to return until the sunset . Chloe discloses to Clark that she knows his secret . Lois Lane helps Jonathan to rescue Martha from the debris of their house . Lana lures Aethyr and Nam-Ek , and Clark arrives just in time in the Luthor's mansion to save Lana and trap the Kryptonians in the Ghost Zone , but Jor-El removes his abilities to punish Kal-El for not committing with his promise . " Arrival " is a great conclusion for the last episode of the Fourth Season . Clark Kent , without his powers , finally confess his love to Lana . Chloe reveals that she knows his secret and Luthor steals the alien spacecraft . The beginning of the Fifth Season is promising . Title ( Brazil ) : " Chegada " ( " Arrival " )
Flawed Specimen	When Lana Lang sees in Talon and in her bedroom her ten years old friend Emily Eve Dinsmore ( Jodelle Micah Ferland ) who died six years ago in a fatal accident in a river , Clark Kent believes on her and tries to find an explanation to the mystery . Emily's father Mr . Dinsmore ( Neil Flynn ) has an accident provoked by Emily and Lionel Luthor visits him in the hospital , and Lana and Clark realizes that Emily is the fruit of an accelerated cloning experiment of Luthor Corp . with problems in her chromosomes , being however a flawed specimen . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor is planning his wedding with Dr . Helen Bryce . In this episode , the experiment of Luthor Corp . with the refined kryptonite is disclosed with a weird and dangerous result . Lionel Luthor steals the guard of the Kawatche caves from Lex Luthor . Title ( Brazil ) : " Acelerado " ( Accelerated " )
Simple and Touching	In New York , while driving his convertible with his manager for a collective interview and to sign a contract with a New Yorker team , the soccer player Jose ( Eduardo Verástegui ) has a car accident that ends his career . Five years later , Jose is the chef of the restaurant of his step-brother Manny ( Manny Perez ) ; when his friend and waitress Nina ( Tammy Blanchard ) is fired by Manny for being late for the third time in the week , Jose follows her to comfort her and finds that she is pregnant and decided to abort the pregnancy . Jose invites Nina to spend the day with his family in their house nearby the beach and he retrieves his lost passion with a second chance in life . " Bella " is a simple and touching story , supported by a great non-linear screenplay and magnificent direction and performances . The story of second chance in life is very realistic and never corny , and the surprising conclusion is certainly the best and most beautiful moment of this excellent movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bella "
Joyful Concert	On July , 31st and August 1st , 1991 , in Belfast , The Chieftains , hosting Roger Daltrey and Nanci Griffith as guest stars , present a joyful concert at the Grand Opera House . Along 59 : 50 minutes running time , they show typical and traditional Irish songs and dances , highlighting the performance of the dancer Jean Butler . Roger Daltrey sings the wonderful and very known ' Behind Blue Eyes ' among other songs . The DVD released in Brazil does not present subtitles or closed caption , and unfortunately it is very difficult for me to understand the Irish accent in most of the words and songs . Anyway , the show is very nice and highly indicated for viewers who want to know a little about Irish culture . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Irish Evening : Live at the Grand Opera House , Belfast , An '
Be Careful With New Friends and Opportunities	While interviewing Lex Luthor in his mansion , three thieves pass through the walls , steal the safe , and Chloe Sullivan suffers a serious accident . Lex Luthor brings doctors from Metropolis to heal her . Meanwhile , the gang invites Whitney Fordman , who is frustrated after losing the scholarship in a university , to join the group without telling him what they do for living . When Whitney is tattooed with a green substance , he also achieves the power . " Kinetic " is a reasonable , but still good episode of " Smallville " . In this episode , Clark Kent has almost a secondary participation in the plot , which is centered in the character Whitney Fordman . He leans to be careful in the selection of new friends and opportunities . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cinético " ( " Kinetic " )
Only the Firemen and Clark Kent Can Hold This Coach	The coach of the football team ? " The Crows " ? of Smallville high school Walt Arnold ( Dan Lauria ) is close to his victory number 200 along twenty-five years of a successful career . He is exposed to burning kryptonite ore in the sauna , and achieves the power of burning whatever he wants . The new-arrival Principal James Kwan ( Hiro Kanagawa ) finds that seven athletes cheated in the Mathematic test , and decides to punish the group not permitting them to participate in the final game . Coach Walt burns his car , and Mr . Kwan goes to the hospital . Meanwhile Clark Kent is invited by the coach and decides to join the football team , against the will of his stepfather Jonathan . When Coach Walt Arnold loses control of his power , Clark has to fight with him to save Jonathan and his friend Chloe Sullivan . Although not liking American football , this third episode of Smallville follows the excellent standard of high-quality of the previous episodes . The charming cast , the great cinematography and special effects and the music score make another great episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pegando Fogo " ( " On Fire " )
A Persuasive Shake of Hands	The evil tycoon Bob Rickman ( Rick Peters ) intends to build a very pollutant plant in Smallville , and he needs to buy Jonathan Kent's farm . Rickman is famous because of his capacity of convincing people , but indeed he has a powerful gift of changing people's mind with his shake of hands , and he uses his power against Jonathan . Meanwhile , the eremite Kyle Tippet ( Gregory Sporleder ) , who was the former partner of Rickman , helps Clark Kent and Lex Luthor against the powerful industrialist . " Hug " is another good episode of Smallville . In this episode , Clark Kent realizes that he is invulnerable to bullets , and that Lex Luthor is his best friend . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Aperto de Mãos " ( " The Shake of Hands " )
On Fire	When the " hot " new Biology teacher Desiree Atkins ( Krista Allen ) arrives in Smallville , Clark Kent gets excited in her presence and his hormones sets fire to his classroom . After the incident , Lex Luthor informs that he will get married with Desiree and invites Clark to be his best man . When Desiree tries to seduce Clark Kent , he realizes that she has the power of seducing men . " Heat " is a funny episode of Smallville , with Clark Kent leaning how to deal with his sexuality and his hormones . Krista Allen is really hot and her dresses are wonderful . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Novo Poder " ( " A New Power " )
Flawed , but also Great Episode	The deranged teenager Gabriel Duncan breaks in the control room of a nuclear silo in Smallville , kills the two security guards and starts the launch sequence to send one missile to reach Smallville in one hour . He calls his friend Chloe , who is moving to the university , and asks her to leave the town that he wants to destroy because of the population of meteor freaks . The army does not know which of the sixteen silos might have been broken in by Gabriel . Meanwhile , Clark and Lana sleep together in his room and early in the morning , Lana sneaks out of the house , but Jonathan and Martha see them . When Chloe calls Clark , he plots a simulation of a car accident with Chloe to force Gabriel to disclose his position . When Gabriel meets Chloe , Clark is deadly shot by the insane teenager , dying in the hospital . Lionel Luthor awakes from his catatonic situation in Belle Reve and Clark's body vanishes from the hospital . " Hidden " is a flawed , but also great episode of " Smallville " . The tense story has three huge mistakes : the first one , all the situations that happen within one hour ; second , Clark arrives in the hospital with an enormous loss of blood , therefore one of the first procedures would certainly be blood transfusion ; his revival would be a motive for a series of examinations , which would be impossible with his powers back . The writer should be more careful in these details . Title ( Brazil ) : " Oculto " ( " Hidden " )
Love , Betrayal and Terrorism	In Chicago , the host of a controversial radio talk show Sam Kraus ( Richard Libertini ) is assassinated in the garage of his building by the terrorist group Z . O . G . ? " Zionist Occupied Government . FBI agent Catherine Phillips ( Debra Winger ) is assigned to work undercover in a rural area to investigate the prime suspect Gary Simmons ( Tom Berenger ) using the identity of Katie Weaver . Katie meets the family man and widower Gary , his mother , his son and his daughter , and she believes he is innocent and they fall in love for each other . Gary trusts on Katie , proposes her and discloses the truth about his separatists and bigot friends and himself to her . Katie lives a dilemma and asks her superior Mike Carnes ( John Heard ) to be taken off the case because of her feelings . Mike insists and Katie is divided by her love and her duty , leading to a tragic consequence . The thriller " Betrayed " is still impressive nineteen years after its release . The story is ahead of time , showing terrorism inside North America thirteen years before the tragic September 11th . In 1988 , Iraq was allied of United States of America and Iran was the enemy . Sam Kraus foresees in his show that in the future Iran would be allied of USA . Director Costa-Gravas disclose a story with drama , romance , thriller and action through two needy characters : the agent Catherine Phillips is orphan , lives alone , and when she meets the family of her suspect she can not believe that he is a criminal . Gary Simmons is a honest man , disclosing his world to his beloved mate . This conflict of emotions and feelings leads to a sad and pessimist conclusion . Title ( Brazil ) : " Atraiçoados " ( " Betrayed " )
The Ancestor and the Warlock from the XVII Century	In 1692 , in Salem , Massachusetts , the evil warlock Matthew Tate ( Billy Wirth ) is trapped in a locket by Melinda Warren ( Tyler Layton ) before she is being burnt at stake . In the present days , the also evil Rex Buckland ( Neil Roberts ) and Hannah Webster ( Leigh Allyn Baker ) give the locket to Prue as a piece to be cataloged , and Prue accidentally releases Matthew , the real intention of the wicked double . Matthew steals Prue's power and while chasing Piper and Phoebe to get their powers , the trio resurrects Melinda to help them to curse the powerful Matthew and imprison him again . " The Witch Is Back " is another good episode of " Charmed " , where the evilness and malice of Rex and Hannah are disclosed a little bit more , but not their master . The romance between Piper and Leo seems to have finally started . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Bruxa Está de Volta " ( " The Witch Is Back " )
An Excellent Anti-War Movie , Which Does Not Insult My Intelligence Like Other Movies About Vietnam	In Vietnam , after a battle in the jungle , Captain Keene ( Beau Bridges ) is captured by Ho ( Liem Whatley ) , an educated Vietnamese commanded by Colonel Tuong ( Haing S . Ngor ) . Although recently losing his father , a teacher killed by the Americans , Ho does not have the feeling of vengeance in his heart and treats the prisoner with dignity , inclusive saving his life . In the end , there is a retribution from Keene to the attitude of Ho . I have never heard anything about this movie . Based on the diary of an unknown Vietnamese soldier ( Ho ) , this excellent movie is indeed a gem , which shows both side of the war with dignity and in a pacifist view . Americans and Vietnamese are presented as human beings , through the character of Captain Keene and Ho . Most of the narrative of Beau Bridges is in ' off ' , when he describes each situation , including his feelings . Ho is a seventeen years old teenager fighting to protect his country against the invader , and Captain Keene is in the war because he is a soldier who follows orders . The dialogs in this movie are intelligent , specially between these two characters . Further , it shows the Vietnamese as persons , defending their invaded country , and not as animals , acephalous beings or numbers , like in most of the films related to the Vietnam war . It is great the way the story is disclosed , showing both sides basically at the same time . The cast and the direction are very sharp and it is amazing the lack of publicity about such a good story . I bought this unknown VHS from a rental for about US$ 1 , 00 ( it was used ) . However , the lesson of life in the end of the story is priceless . Captain Keene develops himself as a man and learns that in front of his weapon , there was a human being . Before I forget , in the beginning of the story , Captain Keene is presented as a man who speaks Vietnamese language . Therefore , indeed , when the locals speak in ' English ' , actually they would be speaking in their language . Captain Keene is able to understand them and also to maintain a conversation with Ho . Therefore , there is no problem the fact that the movie is spoken in English . It is common sense that Americans usually do not like and are not used to read subtitles , and I believe that was the reason why the story is not spoken in another language . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Triângulo de Ferro ' ( ' Iron Triangle ' )
The Warlock Terminator	Gavin , a warlock from the future , comes to the present to eliminate people that will develop a vaccine against the evil warlocks . Meanwhile , Prue casts a spell making people around the Halliwell sisters and themselves telling only the truth for twenty four-hours and then forget everything . She wishes to disclose her secret about being a good witch and her ability to Andy and see his reaction . But sometimes truth hurts . " The Truth Is Out There . . . and It Hurts " is a very good episode of " Charmed " , a sort of " The Terminator " and " Liar Liar " blended together . Both stories are interesting and funny , and the conclusion with Prue finding how Andy would react to her secret is consistent . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Verdade Está Lá Fora s Dói " ( " The Truth Is Out There and It Hurts " )
True Love Conquers All	A couple of days before the wedding of Elliot Spencer and Allison Michaels , his mother Mrs . Grace Spencer is unexpectedly visited by her old acquaintance Hannah Webster and Jade D'Mon , who put a spell on Elliot to marry Jade , actually the demon Hecate , with the intention to get pregnant and have an offspring . Piper is hired to cater the wedding , while Phoebe has a premonition of the birth of a demon baby . When a priest is murdered in the mansion with an ancient dagger , Prue discloses the mystery and together with her sisters , they decide to help Allison and destroy the demon . " The Wedding from Hell " is a good episode with a weak conclusion , since nobody including Andy question what happened with the ceremony and mostly with Jade . Anyway , the situations with the nice trio of lead actresses make this show worthwhile . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Casamento dos Infernos " ( " A Wedding from Hells " )
Take Care with the Full Moon	Piper stops alone at a park in the night with a flat tire and is attacked and scratched by a bestial creature , while calling the auto club . She is save by Billy , a man that has recently lost his fiancée to the monster , and he uses a flare to scare the creature . While recovering in the hospital , the FBI agent Ashley Fallon arrives and tells Andy that Piper is the first victim to survive the attack of the creature , and she joins Andy in the investigation . Pipe reads in the Book of Shadow that the Wendigo is a normal person during the day , unleashing along three consecutive full moon nights and eating the hearts of their victim . She tells Billy , and he calls Fallon , but when they meet each other , he discloses that she is actually the Wendigo . Meanwhile Piper sees the beginning of her transformation in the arm and her attitudes . Prue and Phoebe need to kill the Wendigo to save Piper . " The Wendigo " is a beast that recalls the werewolf , and in this episode Prue and Phoebe needs to take a decision to save Piper . The story is good , but the killer is disclosed too soon . The other story , relative to a missed child , is very forgettable . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Wendigo " ( " The Wendigo " )
Excellent Batman	" Batman Begins " is certainly the best among the five movies of this great hero released in the theaters . After 1776 reviews in IMDb , I do not know what I can write that have not been written before . In my opinion , this film begins wonderful with the director , Christopher Nolan , of the fantastic " Memento " , one of my favorite movies . The cast is a constellation , composed of excellent actors and actress : Christian Bale is awesome in the role of the troubled and confused Bruce Wayne ; Michael Caine , as Alfred , elegant , gentle and tough , is also perfect ; Cillian Murphy , Liam Neeson , Tom Wilkinson , Hutger Hauer are very evil bad guys ; Katie Holmes , Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman complete this lovely cast . The special effects are very good , and the cinematography recalls " Blade Runner " , with rainy and dark locations . The story explains the origins of Batman since his childhood in Gotham City . The soundtrack fits perfectly to the scenes . It is amazing to see that there are bad reviews of this movie , which is a very above average entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Batman Begins "
New Mysteries , No Answers	Bernard finds the body of a man on the beach and Daniel identifies that he is the doctor of their ship . Meanwhile , Alex is captured and forced to shutdown the defense system of the housing compound , releasing a warning code . Ben organizes the defense of house and when Alex is executed by her captors , he releases the smoke monster to destroy the enemies . Meanwhile , in the future , Ben escapes from Tunisia to Iraq where he helps Sayid in the funeral of his wife Nadia ; later Ben has an unexpected meeting with Charles Widmore in his suite late night in London . After more than one month without " Lost " , at least " The Shape of Things to Come " is a great and intriguing episode , one of the best of the Fourth Season . Unfortunately new mysteries are raised and there is again an absolute lack of answers . I question whether these successive breaks in this show do not indicate that the writers are unable to resolve the countless mysteries raised along the three successful first seasons . In this episode , the smoke monster is apparently released and controlled by Ben . Jacob remains an unsolved mystery . The mysterious agreement between Ben and Charles a . k . a . " rules " that does not permit to kill each other is weird . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Great Brazilian Film-Noir	In Rio de Janeiro , when the socialite Delfina Delamare ( Maitê Proença ) is found dead in her Mercedez Benz with a shot in her heart , having a 22 caliber gun in her hand , the police conveniently believes she committed suicide , since she had leukemia and only six months of life . Delfina was the wife of the powerful Eugênio Delamare ( Gracindo Júnior ) and lover of the successful writer Gustavo Flávio ( José Mayer ) . However , the honest , competent and incorruptible detective Guedes ( Tony Ramos ) is not convinced about the alleged " causa mortis " , and when the receives the autopsy report , he finds that she had no powder on her fingers and the shirt was buttoned after the shot , and consequently she was murdered . Meanwhile , Gustavo is writing a novel , based on his life ten years ago as the Pan-American insurance investigator Ivan Canabrava , living with his mate Zilda ( Zezé Polessa ) , when he found a huge fraud against Pan-American with the support of his friend Minolta ( Isabel Guéron ) and Prof . Ceresso ( Juca de Oliveira ) , and hidden by Eugênio . The two stories are simultaneously unfolded , having a surprising open conclusion . " Bufo e Spallanzani " is a great Brazilian film-noir , having a great screenplay , magnificent direction and acting and wonderful locations in Rio de Janeiro and Serra da Bocaina . Based on a book of the famous Brazilian writer Rubem Fonseca , " Bufo e Spallanzani " presents two intriguing parallel tales , and is another excellent example of the present great moment of the Brazilian cinema . The beautiful naked body of Isabel Guéron is a collyrium for the eyes and the subtitle of this fictional tale could be " The Hard Life of an Incorruptible and Competent Brazilian Detective " . This movie participated of the following film festivals : 1 ) Festival do Rio BR ; 2 ) Mar del Plata Festival ; 3 ) Festival de Cinema do Recife ( " hors concours " ) ; 4 ) Miami Festival of Brazilian Movies : - Best Movie ; - Best Screenplay ; - Best Support Actor : Tony Ramos ; - Best Soundtrack . 5 ) Montreal Festival ( " hors concours " ) ; 6 ) Festival de Gramado : - Best Lead Actor : Tony Ramos ; - Best Lead Actress : Isabel Guéron ; - Best Support Actor : Juca de oliveira ; - Best Art Direction : Gualter Pupo . 7 ) Festival de Natal : - Best Support Actress : Zezé Polessa ; - Best Art Direction : Gualter Pupo . 8 ) Del Nuevo Cine Latinoamericano International Festival ( Cuba Festival ) ; 9 ) Palm Springs International Film Festival ; 10 ) Tiburon International Film Festival ; 11 ) Philadelphia Festival of World Cinema ; 12 ) Chicago Latino Film Festival ; and , 13 ) Paris Brazilian Cinema Festival . The Brazilian DVD , released by Warner do Brasil , wrongly spells the French expression " hors concours " in the list of film festivals in the " Extra " and does not provide the year of each foregoing festival . Considering that Warner is not a minor distributor , it is a shame and a lack of respect with the Brazilian consumer ! Title ( Brazil ) : " Bufo e Spallanzani "
Extremely Original ? A Must-See	While celebrating his anniversary with his black roommate and friend Henri Dieudonné ( Frédéric Pierre ) in a bar , Thierry Richard ( Marc Paquet ) is invited by Henri to a program with two hookers . They go to a motel , and Henri is attacked by his girl , being saved by Thierry . Later , Thierry meets the red-haired musician Claire Lefrançois ( Marianne Farley ) , they have wild sex and he falls in love for her . But she tells him that she has a disease and she breaks with him . When Thierry meets Claire again , he finds how she may be cured . I loved this Canadian movie . I started watching the DVD without any clue about the genre , and based on the beginning of the story , I thought it was a dramatic romance . However , when the secret of Claire and her family is disclosed , I realized that it is a very well developed low paced horror movie . This genre is my favorite , and I confess that the excellent screenplay of this movie is really an extremely original story . The acting is great , but there is confusion in the concept of succubus , which is basically a female demon that drains energy from men through sexual intercourse with minor variations in the definition . I have never read or heard anything about cannibalism associated to succubus . Title ( Brazil ) : " Carne Branca " ( " White Flesh " )
Another Impressive Example of the Powerful German Cinema	In World War II , after a period living hell on earth in the concentration camp of Dachau with other catholic priests , Father Abbé Henri Kremer ( Ulrich Matthes ) gets a nine days leave to return to his home town for his mother's funeral . Along this period , the SS Gestapo lieutenant Gebhardt ( August Diehl ) tries to persuade Henri , who was born in silver-spoon and member of an influent Luxembourgian family , to convince the local bishop to give-up resisting to the Germans and write a letter to the Vatican in the name of the Catholic Church of Luxemburg convincing the Pope to support Hitler and the Nazi regime . The ambivalent Henri questions himself and the bishop what he shall do . Based on a true story , " Der Neunte Tag " is an awesome movie and another impressive example of the powerful German cinema , of which I am a great fan . The philosophical duel between the characters of Ulrich Matthes and August Diehl is simply fantastic , with magnificent silence and dialogs . Sometimes , silence associated to the expression of the face is more significant than words . The direction is stunning and very realistic , particularly in the concentration camp ; the music score and the cinematography are very beautiful ; and the performances are perfect , with the two lead actors deserving nominations to the Oscar . Title ( Brazil ) : " 9o Dia " ( " 9th Day " )
The New Born and the Janitor	Sun tells Jin that she does not trust on the new acquaintances Daniel and Charlotte and she decides to move to Locke's camp . Juliet discovers her intention and tries to stop Sun telling Jin about her affair . Meanwhile in a flash forward , Sun delivers the baby girl Ji Yeon while Sun insistently seeks a Panda for the new born . Sayid and Desmond are introduced to Captain Gault immediately after the suicide of the crewman Regina in the supply vessel Kahana owned by Charles Widmore ; when they are sent to their new accommodations , they meet the janitor Kevin Johnson responsible for the cleaning of their cabin . " Ji Yeon " together with " Eggtown " are the best episodes of the Fourth Season of " Lost " so far . We see that Sun and her baby survives and , Sun is another name officially included in the list of the Oceanic Six together with Hurley , Kate and Jack , but it is not clear what might have happened with Jin ; but the most intriguing part of the episode is the identity of Ben's spy on board of the Kahana , Kevin Johnson . The new mystery about Jin is also very interesting in spite of the manipulative flash forward . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Son	Kate is living with Claire and contacts Miles trying to discover what he knows about her past of runaway of the justice . Mile proposes Kate to arrange a brief meeting with Ben and in return he would tell her the requested information . Kate asks Sawyer to help her and she lures Locke , getting what she wanted . Meanwhile , in a flash-forward , Kate goes to trial where the main witness is her own mother . " Eggtown " is centered in Kate and so far it is the best episode of the Fourth Season , in spite of having no new revelation . The totalitarian behavior of Locke is despicable , imposing his leadership by force ; the relationship between Miles group and Ben is still a great mystery ; and the final twist of the episode when Kate comes back home is totally intriguing . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
When a Sequel Works and is as Good as the Original Movie	A mutant attacks the president of USA . Military forces commanded by the evil William Stryker , the mentor of the whole plot , attack the Xavier school for mutants . His intention is to use the cerebral machine and destroy all the mutants in the world . With this simple storyline , Bryan Singer presents a great sequel of the first X-Men . To the original movie , the greatest new is Nightcrawler ( Alan Cumming ) , supported by state-of-art special effects . A magnificent entertainment , indicated for the whole family .
See You In Seven Days	Sayid , Kate , Jack and Juliet reach the camp of survivors , and the group does not accept the presence of Juliet . Jack protects Juliet , while she recalls her arrival to the island and her relationship with Ben . When Claire gets sick , Juliet advises that Claire was the subject of an experiment with pregnant women carried by her , and she brings the necessary vaccine to inoculate and heal Claire . Later she recalls the last assignment Ben gave to her a couple of days ago . In " One of Us " , I was completely disappointed with the behavior of Jack , trusting on the evil and manipulative Juliet . I still do not understand how the balanced Jack could change his judgment and bring Juliet to the breast of their community without asking explanations about The Others . The last remembrance of Juliet of her meeting with Ben promises another great episode on the next week . See you in seven days . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Partnership and Recollections	Lincoln proposes to crash the General's car to copy the last card using the trick he did in 2001 , in Chicago , to rob a wallet . Michael tells Sara that Gretchen is alive and dealing with Agent Self a partnership together with T-Bag . Sara is disturbed with the new partner and recalls the torture she was submitted , whipped on her back . Roland sends an untraceable message to Wyatt asking how much he would pay for Michael and Lincoln . Mr . Feng visits T-Bag in his office in Gate , but Gretchen negotiates Scylla for US$ 125 million , offering US$ 25 million to T-Bag . Lincoln plans the accident with Sucre while Lincoln and Michael rob an ambulance in a federal yard . Gretchen gives a message to Self inviting Sara to meet her in a motel room . Sara is worried with Michael's health . Roland tells Wyatt where Michael and Lincoln are , and the killer shots Sucre . Michael presses Roland that denies being a rat . Self makes clear to Gretchen and T-Bag that they are scum . T-Bag plots with Trishanne against Gretchen . Gretechen proposes a cease-fire to Sara , and she asks about Michelle Taylor . Roland removes the GPS monitor and escapes to meet Wyatt , who shots his knees . Roland gives the address of the warehouse in Pier 31 , San Pedro , but Michael , Lincoln , Bellick and Mahone arrive just in time and capture Wyatt . The general concludes that the attempt was against his card and orders to move Scylla . The partnership of Michael's team with the cold sociopath Gretchen and the despicable T-Bag certainly will never work . In this episode , Sara discloses the reasons for her emotional disturbance with the recollection of her period of captivity and torture with Gretchen . Roland deserves his fate , and finally Mahone has captured Wyatt . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The Box and the Gravedigger	Lincoln finds the content of the dreadful box left by Susan but he does not tell Michael during his daily visit . Michael asks Lincoln to contact the gravedigger , and he meets with the bitch Susan that tells him that they are just soldiers from different armies . Michael distracts the paranoid Mahone , who is having hallucinations , asking him to get a black pen to forge some documents , and borrows the crucifix from McGrady . When there is a failure in the power supply to Sona , Luchero asks Michael to fix it . Luchero calls the colonel and Michael and he go to the no man's land between the prison and the fence to work . Meanwhile Sofia visits Whistler and she presses him to disclose the break-out plan ; then she seeks out Lincoln and tells him that she wants to help him . Lincoln tells the fate of Sara to Sofia and Sucre and then he schedules a meeting with Sona's gravedigger , who asks US$ 15 , 000 . 00 to help Michael . Bellick tries to approach to Michael and then he betrays him telling Lechero that Michael is plotting to escape from Sona . T-Bag kills Lechero's drug dealer Nieves and he is invited by Lechero to work for him distributing drugs in Sona . T-Bag gives heroin to Mahone . In " Good Fences " , the impressive fate of Sara is disclosed to Lincoln and I confess that I did not expect such violent twist in the story . Mahone has lost for his addiction and now he is consuming heroin . Michael lures Lechero and now he can count with Sucre's support . Bellick is probably the most despicable character of this series and T-Bag is indeed a deranged cold blood killer . Just as a curiosity , the soccer game between Fluminense versus Grêmio showed in Lechero's television happened in 1996 , the year that the player Mauro Galvão played in Grêmio . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Cerca " ( " The Fence " )
Moments of Truth , In the Most Intriguing Conclusion of " Lost "	Juliet invites Sun along the night to submit to a medical ultrasonography examination in a facility of The Others hidden in the hatch to determine the date of conception of the fetus . Juliet discloses that the women that became pregnant in the island had died , driving Sun to a dilemma about who could be the father of the baby . Meanwhile she recalls when she was blackmailed by a stranger about the origins of Jin . Desmond , Charles , Jin and Hurley capture Mikhail and he makes an offer : he could heal the wounded woman if they release him after the conclusion of the medical procedures . The last minute of " D . O . C . " is certainly the most intriguing conclusion of " Lost " , when Naomi tells the fate of the Oceanic Airlines Flight 815 . There are many moments of truth in this episode centered in Sun , like when she finds who the father of her baby is or the secret about Jin's mother . The evil Juliet may hate Ben , but I believe I hate this despicable woman most . Unfortunately Sayid is not in the group leaded by Desmond to " take care " of Mikhail ; I believe Desmond will regret his decision . Further , in my opinion every viewer and fan of " Lost " is anxiously expecting the next episode . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
The " Bang and Burn " Operation	Lincoln tells Michael that they have four more days to rescue Whistler , but Michael is upset with his brother that used him . Gretchen has a meeting with General and they decide to use power to release Whistler in an operation called " Bang and Burn " ; later she asks Whistler to kill Michael . In Sona , the guards reinforce the bars in the windows , and Michael tells Lechero that this way it will be difficult to break-out . Sammy requests more men to Lechero to keep Sona under control . Sofia receives a call from Whistler's mysterious landlord telling that he has some " insurance papers " from her boyfriend ; however , the Company intercepts the conversation . When Sofia receives the documents , she finds a passport of Whistler in the name of Gary Miller . But Gretchen arrives and takes the documents . Mahone tells Agent Lang how he killed Shales and then he addicted in pills , and asks her to get some drugs for him otherwise he will not be able to speak in the hearing . T-Bag gives a message from Lechero with the blueprint of his cell with a hidden door and an access code . Whistler is ready to stab Michael when Lechero arrives and he hides the knife . Michael asks McGrady to request his father to call Lincoln and tell him : " - Don't come home for dinner . " Mahone fails in the hearing and is sent back to Sona . Lincoln , Sucre and Sofia are attacked by the Company's agents and the brothers realize that something is happening , i . e . , the Company does not need them anymore . When the " Bang and Burn " Operation begins , Michael catches Whistler and Gretchen fails in her intent . The command of Sona captures Michael for the attempt of breaking-out . " Bang and Bum " is one of the best shows of the Third Season . Now the story is moving on , with many twists and new situations . Who is Whistler is probably the greatest question in this moment . The fate of LJ is also very doomed after the failure of the operation leaded by Gretchen . Mahone back to Sona is great since this killer deserves his destiny . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tentativa de Fuga " ( " Attempt of Breakin-out " )
A Greater Sacrifice	Desmond has a premonition with the death of Charlie in the woods and Penny coming to the island in a helicopter . On the next day , he organizes an expedition with Hurley , Jin and Charlie , expecting to find Penny , but not disclosing the whole truth to the group . Meanwhile he recalls his period in a monastery , after leaving his fiancée Ruth a couple of days before their wedding , where he became a monk and later met Penny . Kate flirts with Jack , but he gives a cold treatment to her and has dinner with Juliet . Kate has one night stand with Sawyer . The episode " Catch 22 " is centered in Desmond , who recalls how he met his beloved Penny when he was fired from the monastery after getting drunk . Between his love for Penny and the life of Charlie , he acts like Abraham sacrificing his most precious love . A new character is introduced in the plot , probably related to the past of Desmond . The " square of love " between Jack , Juliet , Kate and Sawyer is the weak part of the story . I was intrigued with the Brazilian edition of " Catch 22 " ( called " Ardil 22 " in Portuguese ) that Desmond finds in the forest . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Shutdown and the Five Card Holders	In Los Angeles , Michael argues with Agent Self since there are six cards and not only one . The agent gives the rest of the day to find a second card holder ; otherwise the project would be shutdown by The Powers That Be and the group would be sent to prison . Mahone calls Agent Lang in Gainesville , Florida , and asks her information about the death of his son . Lincoln overhears the conversation . Wyatt tortures Bruce with drugs ; when he gets the information that Sara is in LA , he kills his victim . Agent Self meets Director Herb and ask him to call Senator Dalo to give more time to Michael and his crew , but Herb refuses . Roland discovers that his device has copied the PDA of Tuxhorn , and he notes that he received one e-mail from London and two others from a server in Anaheim . They use Sara to help Michael and Roland to break in the building where the server is located . Sara steals a security card , and when she is arrested by the security guard , Michael activates the fire alarm , but he is trapped with Roland in the server room without oxygen . Lincoln rescues them with an ax , and while checking the e-mails from the data copied by Roland , the computer freezes and they discover that the project has terminated . They try to escape but the GPS in their ankles give their position to Agent Self and his agents . They hijack a cab and Michael discovers the fives card holders in a meeting in a power plant in Newport Beach . Agent Self calls himself Senator Dalo and the project restarts , but with him isolated like an island and without the support of Herb . Meanwhile T-Bag deciphers part of Whistler's codes and contacts the Gate's executive White using the identity of Cole Pfeiffer . Lincoln promises Mahone to help him to capture the responsible for the death of his son . This third episode is engaging and I liked the bond of Lincoln with Mahone . The sympathy he feels for the former FBI Agent , projecting LJ's recent situation in Panama with Cameron , is for me the highest part of the show . On the contrary , the coincidences of the termination of the Scylla's Project and Michael finding the other five card holders is a forced situation , but who cares ? Unfortunately the initial chemistry between Michael and Sara is gone and they do not form a romantic pair , actually they look like good partners . The cleverness of Mahone and T-Bag are also great parts of the show . Title ( Brazil ) : " Not Available "
How Personal Things Can Get	Michael and his group are in the jockey chasing card number five . Michael and Mahone plant the device in the office of the operation manager ; Bellick argues with the clerk in the counter and Lincoln plants a device in the horse's gate , provoking a delay in the opening of one of the gates . When Nataniel Edison goes to the office to complain with the manager , the fourth card is copied . However Mahone is arrested while retrieving the device and sent to the precinct . Meanwhile the disturbed Gretchen arrives at her sister's house in Riverside , California , and gets a pistol , money and credit card hidden in a glass owl she sent to his sister from Germany . T-Bag is pressed in some businesses by his coworker Andy , and uses his position of top-seller in Northeast area . Lincoln calls Self to release Mahone , but even using his badge , he does not succeed . Wyatt meets General Krantz , who tried to hack Self's computer , but the equipment is protected by a powerful firewall . Then Wyatt startles Self in the garage , identifies himself as a hired contractor and gives a friendly advice to Self , telling that General Krantz likes his privacy . Then he goes to the police station and Mahone sees him ; later he calls Michael asking him to promise to kill Wyatt and tell Pam . However , Michael and the group plot a plan to release him from the court in the Los Angeles Municipal Building and rescue his fingerprints . Gretchen seeks the possessions of Gary Miller in the morgue and finds T-Bag in Whistler's apartment . In this episode , Michael refuses to leave Mahone behind , using a daring plan to rescue him and his fingerprints from justice . Self is threatened by Wyatt following orders of General Krantz . Gretchen is back more dangerous than never . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Playing with the Wrong Bitch	Gretchen tortures T-Bag and asks information about the Bird's Guide and Scylla . Meanwhile , the Agrishow executive Howard Scuderi travels with his wife and the fifth card to Las Vegas . General Krantz calls Wyatt and tells him that Don Self is the head of the snake that is threatening The Company , and he asks the killer to eliminate Self simulating an accident . Trishanne calls Bellick and tells that she has information about T-Bag , and requests the promised reward . Michael stays with Bellick and Mahone to chase T-Bag while the rest of the group travels to Las Vegas . Bellick calls Michael telling that Trishanne is requesting more money , and when he goes with Mahone to meet the receptionist , they are captured by T-Bag ; however , Mahone escapes from the van . Michael is forced by T-Bag to work with the Bird's Guide , but the hidden Gretchen sees the GPS monitor around the ankle of Bellick . When Mahone arrives in the apartment tracking the equipment , he finds it empty and the monitors on the table ; however Michael left an origami with a clue for him . Lincoln tells Sara that his mother had a brain tumor with an aneurysm and that she died when she was thirty-one year-old . He tells that Michael has the same age and his nose is also bleeding . Gretchen kidnaps Andy , forces him to sign-up a resignation letter and kills him . Wyatt arrives in Self's house that is empty , while the agent pays a visit to General Krantz and tells him that if he disappears or dies , he sent documentation pointing his name to five lawyers . Lincoln and his group find that the fifth card is in Scuderi's apartment and Sara tries to seduce him to go to his room . However , the bartender tells that Scuderi is gay , and Sucre is assigned to " visit " him , having a surprising encounter . Meanwhile Michael finds an access hatch below the carpet of the locker and T-Bag has a surprise . Roland is recognized by the surveillance cameras and is arrested with the device by the security guards of the casino . Gretchen calls Self and talks to Michael . In this episode , the dangerous Gretchen teaches the witty T-Bag that he is playing with the wrong bitch . The reason for the bleeding of Michael's nose is finally disclosed to Sara . Self seeks self-protection being pro-active against General Krantz . The funny part of the show is Sucre in Scuderi's room . Roland jeopardizes the mission of the group with his reckless attitude in the jack-pot gambler machine . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Water and Birds	Michael befriends the seventeen year-old inmate McGrady and discovers that James Whistler was arrested for murdering the son of the Panama City Mayor , and that Lechero has put an award on his head . Sona has no water and the thirsty Bellick exchanges water with Michael for the information that there is a man is living in the sewage . Michael succeeds in contacting James , who tells him that he would be a dead man outside the hole . Mahone sees the movement , seeks out and finds Whistler , while Michael meets Lechero and proposes a deal to release Whistler from the pursuit . Meanwhile Susan B . Anthony presses Lincoln , and Michael gives the note Bellick put in his pocket to Lincoln and tells him that he needs money . Sucre buys a gun , and visits Bellick that tells him that Maricruz is safe and sound and he has never touched her . Lincoln meets Sucre by chance and he tells that Maricruz is back to Chicago . The minion T-Bag gets close to Lechero serving him ; Bellick proposes to meet Lechero with good information and tells him that there is a man hidden in the sewage . Lincoln follows Whistler's girlfriend that goes to the safe of a bank , and robs her purse with a pocket book about birds . Michael gets water for the inmates and Lechero drops the price of James Whistler's head , saving his life . In this second episode of the Third Season , Michael saves the mysterious James Whistler from the prisoners of Sona . Lechero defeats Wyatt , who has dared to challenge him . Sucre finds the truth about the fate of Maricruz . And Lincoln lures the bitch Susan , giving another pocket book to her . Who is James Whistler and what the Company wants from him is the greatest mystery . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fogo e Água " ( " Fire and Water " )
Sonata for a Good Man	In 1984 , in East Germany , the popular actress addicted in pills Christa-Maria Sieland ( Martina Gedeck ) becomes the pivot of an investigation of the successful writer and her boyfriend and mate Georg Dreyman ( Sebastian Koch ) by the secret police . The Minister of Culture Bruno Hempf ( Thomas Thieme ) and former lover of Christa orders the ambitious Chief of Police Anton Grubitz ( Ulrich Tukur ) to find evidences that Georg is not loyal to the party to get rid off him and stay with Christa , and the efficient agent Gerd Wiesler ( Ulrich Mühe ) is assigned to conduct surveillance on Georg's apartment . Wiesler does not find any evidence that could compromise Georg , until the day of his blacklisted friend and director Albert Jerska ( Volkmar Kleinert ) commits suicide . Georg decides to write an anonymous article to Der Spiegel about the hidden numbers of suicides in East Germany . However , Wiesler becomes fascinated with the lives and thoughts of George and Christa and covers his findings from his superiors . " Das Leben der Anderen " is another powerful German movie , showing the repressing and corrupted system supported by fear in East Germany in times of Cold War . This movie is practically perfect : the screenplay and story are engaging , disclosing a triangle of love that causes a political surveillance of an innocent man based on several characters that are perfectly developed . The pace is neither slow nor fast but very adequate , and uses an awesome cinematography . Therefore the work of the director and writer Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck is outstanding . The performances are top-notch , but the actor Ulrich Mühe is amazingly perfect , deserving an Oscar , and Martina Gedeck gives a great credibility to her abused character . I usually watch many movies , but " Das Leben der Anderen " is certainly among the best recent movies I have seen , if not the best . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Vida dos Outros " ( " The Life of the Others " )
Powerful and Real	In a small village in Colombia , the pregnant seventeen years old Maria ( Catalina Sandino Moreno ) supports her family with her salary working in a floriculture . She is fired and with a total lack of perspective of finding a new job , she decides to accept the offer to work as a drug mule , flying to USA with approx . seventy pellets of cocaine in her stomach . Once in New York , things do not happen as planned . " Maria Full of Grace " is a very powerful and real movie about the lack of perspective in the life of teenagers in poor countries . The dramatic story takes place in Colombia and is based on real events , the use of poor people to transport drugs to United States of America . Once there , the poor adolescent sees a chance to join to the American Dream and give a better life to her unborn child and make money to send to her family . In my country , mules are not the problem , but the use of children , protected by law , by the dealers in the traffic of drugs . The story is very well written , and the movie has a stunning direction . Catalina Sandino Moreno has awesome performance and this film really deserves the nomination for Oscar and another twenty-seven ( 27 ) wins and twenty-one ( 21 ) nominations in Festivals . The title plays with the Catholic prayer " Ave Maria " . Title ( Brazil : " Maria Cheia de Graça " ( " Maria Full of Grace " )
A Surrealistic , Dark and Bizarre Fairytale	In a surrealistic and bizarre society , children have been abducted by a mad and evil scientist , Krank ( D . Emilfork ) , who wants to steal their dreams and stop and reverse his accelerated aging process . When the gang of Cyclops kidnap Denree ( Joseph Lucien ) , the little brother of the former whale hunter One ( Ron Perlman ) , he is helped by the young street orphan girl Miette ( Judith Vittet ) , who steals for the Siamese Pieuvre ( Geneviève Brunet & Odille Mallet ) , to reach the platform where Krank leaves with his cloned dwarf wife Mademoiselle Bismuth ( Mireille Moissé ) , his six cloned sons ( Dominique Pinon ) and a brain , and rescue the children . " La Cité des Enfants Perdus " is a mesmerizing movie , with one of the most beautiful cinematography and music score of the cinema history . This surrealistic , dark and bizarre fairytale is almost perfect , and my only restriction is the quite confused screenplay . When I saw this movie for the first time in 1995 , I was impressed with the stunning performance of the young actress Judith Vittet and I expected that she would become a star , but eleven years later I have just read in IMDb that she quitted her promising career and now she is graduated in Economics Science . The soundtrack of Angelo Badalamenti is another wonderful work of this outstanding composer . I love the sequence that begins with the tear of Miette and ends with the ship hitting the harbor . I am also impressed with some sick twisted-minded persons that can see pedophilia in the beautiful relationship of One and Miette . I have this movie on VHS , but I have just bought the recently released DVD , and I do not regret , since this film deserves the better image and sound of the DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ladrão de Sonhos " ( " Thief of Dreams " )
Delightful Romantic Adventure	In the south of Algiers , in a camp of outcasts , the Frenchman André ( George Fawcett ) leads a troupe of mountebanks and thieves . His daughter Yasmin ( Vilma Banky ) is the dancer of the group and is promised to the cutthroat Moor Ghobah ( Montague Love ) . However , Yasmin meets Ahmed ( Rudolph Valentino ) , who is the Sheik's son but she does not know , and they fall in love for each other . When the young couple secretly dates in the ruins of Touggourt , where Yasmin dances , the criminals attack Ahmed , beat up and capture him , expecting to ask for a ransom . Ghobah poisons Ahmed , telling that Yasmin is a bait to lure victims for them . Ahmed escapes , and he abducts Yasmin and despises her . When he knows the truth , he fights against the gang of criminals trying to rescue her from Ghobah . " The Son of the Sheik " is the last movie of Rudolph Valentino and a delightful adventure with romance , action and drama . The cinematography is impressive , and I particularly liked very much the sequences when Vilma Banky dances in Touggourt beginning with a close and opening to the whole place , and when Ahmed chases Ghobah and Yasmin in the desert . Considering the equipment available in 1926 , big , heavy and with serious limitations , it is amazing how these scenes were shot . Rudolph Valentino is fantastic in the role of the son of the Sheik , and his agility recalled me Errol Flynn , when he fights in the bar of Touggourt , jumping on the chandelier . The beautiful Vilma Banky dances magnificently well , shows a great chemistry with Rudolph Valentino and has also a great interpretation . The intense music of Arthur Gutmann gives a perfect dynamic to this wonderful underrated film . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Filho do Sheik " ( " The Son of the Sheik " )
Back in Business	Papa is dead and Sammy presses Lechero to kill Michael ; Lechero replies that he also wants Michael dead , but he does not want an uprising in Sona . Mahone receives a mail with a picture of his son . Lechero , Michael , Mahone , Whistler and T-Bag inspect the hole in the tunnel and Michael requests a saw and hammer to support the tunnel . Sammy takes the power of Sona with the pistol delivered by Augusto and other three gangsters and promises a box of bottles of rum for the inmate that kills Michael . T-Bag convinces Bellick to give the chicken foot to Sammy promising him to join the escape team ; when he discovers that there is no acetone , he unsuccessfully tries to call-off the fight . Meanwhile Lincoln and Sofia visits Osberto and buys a bomb ; Sucre plants the bomb under the seat of Gretchen's car but she unravels that she found Maricruz tracking the US$ 25 , 000 . 00 check she gave to him . Sammy leaves the fighting with Bellick to chase Michael , who is locked behind the door in the tunnel with Mahone . Sammy beats Whistler , who was left behind , trying to get the combination of the door . Michael removes a wedge from the hole and the tunnel collapses over Sammy , burying him , while Lechero and Mahone kill the three other gangsters . Sofia finds a wallet hidden in Whistler's bag . The greatest question in " Dirt Nap " is who Whistler is . The quintet and maybe Bellick are " back in business " after the death of Sammy , and Lechero is stronger in Sona . The ambiguous Mahone is uplifted after receiving the picture of his son ( I believe that it was sent by Agent Lang ) . Sucre is really a stupid guy , sending the check to Maricruz instead of the untraceable money . Title ( Brazil ) : " Por um Fio " ( " In the Edge " )
Change of Plans	Michael concludes that they are behind schedule and they have twenty-four hours to dig a tunnel . However , when it begins to rain , he tells that they must change the plans and break-out during the night since the tunnel will collapse . McGrady asks Michael to go with him , but he is in doubt whether he should escape with criminals like Lechero , T-Bag , Bellick and the mysterious Whistler . Michael believes he is paying for his sins in Sona . Later he confesses that he is tired of causes and consequences and invites McGrady to join the break-out team . Gretchen delivers the bomb planted in her car to Sucre . Sofia is kidnapped by Gretchen's men and she tortures her to get the coordinates from Whistler . Bellick tries to plot a betrayal with Mahone , but he refuses . Michael calls the costumer service of the emergency generator's manufacturer and discovers that they have just thirty seconds lag to reach the fence in the darkness . T-Bag overhears the conversation between Michael and Whistler when he tells that surviving is not giving-up . Sucre sabotages the jeeps but he is detained since there are issues in the records of Jorge Rivera . Whistler gives only half coordinates for the safety of Sofia , LJ , Michael and Lincoln . Lincoln hijacks a bus and crashes it against Sona's transformer initiating the blackout . Lechero , T-Bag and Bellick betray the rest of fugitives telling that they will be the first to leave . This engaging episode is one of the best of the Third Season , with many twists . Ballick and T-Bag are indeed despicable scumbags ( I believe this is a pleonasm ) and among the worse villains of cinema history . Michael is having another crisis of conscience since many innocent people has died since the beginning of his plan . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fuga Noturna " ( " Night Escape " )
Delightfully Naive and Funny	The entrepreneur and owner of a factory of cans Tancredo ( Nelson Vaz ) and his wife Luiza ( Margot Louro ) are extremely happy with the return of their only son Sérgio ( Cyl Farney ) from Madrid , graduated in nuclear engineer . Tancredo plans a convenience marriage of Sérgio with Lucy ( Doris Monteiro ) , whose aunt owns an aluminum plant . However , Sérgio has studied music instead , and while traveling back to Brazil , the captain of the ship invites him to organize a farewell show for the passengers . Together with the steward Chico ( Oscarito ) and the stowaway Mara ( Sonia Mamede ) , they present a successful concert and Sérgio invites the couple to work with him . But Madame Frou-frou ( Zezé Macedo ) is cheated by Chico and promises to revenge . In Rio de Janeiro , Sérgio introduces Chico and Mara as a Professor from the University of Ohio and his assistant , and they lure Tancredo building the night-club " Boite Atômica " as if it were a power plant . They invite the international attraction Melvis Prestes for the grand-opening . However , Madame Frou-frou discloses their scheme and they have to improvise to succeed in the show-business . " De Vento em Popa " is a delightfully naive and funny comedy in the present days , but still a marvelous entertainment . The story and the situations are hilarious , making the viewer laugh and cry , and Sonia Mamede and Oscarito are amazing in the role of a talented double from the Northeastern that comes to Rio de Janeiro to become famous . The lines of Mara are magnificent , and I loved the definition of " interview " given by Tancredo's maid ( " interview is everything that we do not say that is published " ) . Sonia Mamede and Oscarito dancing in the night-club and Oscarito performing Elvis Presley " ( " Melvis Prestes " ) are among the best scenes I have ever seen in a Brazilian movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " De Vento em Popa " ( " Tail Wind " )
An Ethical Issue	While trying to stabilize the warp engine for longer voyages in warp 5 . 0 , Trip has an accident and enters in coma . Dr . Phlox convinces Captain Archer that the only way to save Trip is developing a symbiotic using a Lyssarian worm and then transplanting a brain nervous system . Archer authorizes the procedure but he has troubles with the fast-growing clone that has Trip memories and his own personality together . Meanwhile the Enterprise is trapped without propulsion in a dangerous particles field . " Similitude " is a good episode where the ethical issue of using clone to replace parts is exposed . I immediately recalled " The Island " , proving that the cloning process shall be discussed by the society and controlled through well-studied laws . Unfortunately the plot is disclosed in the very beginning , but the ambiguous feeling of Sim ( or Trip ? ) for T'Pol is rewarded with her farewell kiss . Title ( Brazil ) : " Semelhança " ( " Resemblance " )
Convincing the Xindi Council	The Enterprise arrives for the meeting with the Xindi Council ahead of the schedule and Archer with the support of Hoshi explains the true intention of the Sphere Builders , telling also that the humans and Xindi should be allied against the trans-dimensional beings . The Council split , with the Humanoids and Arboreals accepting the evidences , the Reptilians and Insectoids denying them and the other Xindi absolutely neutral and expecting conclusive evidences . Meanwhile T'Pol travels with Trip , Reed and Corporal Hawkins trying to get the memory core from a key sphere . The Reptilians have a secret meeting with the liaison of the Sphere Builders that promises a leadership position among the Xindi if they succeed to deploy the weapon on Earth . " The Council " is one of the best episodes of the Fourth Season of Enterprise . Now Archer succeeds in his diplomatic task of convincing the Xindi that humans are not the menace to their races , and the attitude of the Reptilians gives the necessary support to his speech . The very last scene with Hoshi being abducted by the Reptilian is a promise of another excellent sequel to the saga of the Enterprise in the Expanse . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Conselho " ( " The Council " )
Wonderful Movie	In 1926 , in a troubled China , the efficient navy engineer Jake Holman ( Steve McQueen ) meets the American teacher Shirley Eckert ( Candice Bergen ) , while traveling to take his new position in the gunboat ' U . S . S . San Pablo ' . Shirley is going to work in a mission with the idealistic missionary Jameson ( Larry Gates ) . Once in the steamship , the newcomer Jake has problems to accept the use of collies in the daily duty of the vessel , but Captain Collins ( Richard Creena ) orders him to replace the coolie chief of the engine room , who died in an accident while repairing a shaft bearing . Although reluctant , Jake trains Po-han ( Mako ) and becomes his friend , treating him equally with respect and dignity . In the crew , Frenchy Burgoyne ( Richard Attenborough ) becomes his greatest friend . The other crew members do not accept Jake , believing he brings bad-luck to the vessel . On land , Frenchy and Jake meet the Chinese woman Maily ( Marayat Andriane ) working in a brothel , and Frenchy falls in love with her and tries to get US$ 200 , 00 to buy her debts with the owner of the house of prostitution . In order to avoid spoilers , I am not going to extend my plot summary further than that . I bought ' The Sand Pebbles ' one year ago and only yesterday I decided to watch this DVD . What I have missed along this year ! This movie is a wonderful adventure , having a magnificent cast and direction . I do not know the accuracy of the historical events , but as a movie , it is a masterpiece . It has drama , romance , action , war and although having 182 minutes running time in the Brazilian DVD , the viewer never gets tired of watching it . I regret only acknowledging in IMDb that this is a mutilated version , since there are two other extended ones ( UK : 243 min ( BBFC submission before censorship ) / Sweden : 193 min ) . This is the second role of the most beautiful American actress of the end of the 60s , Candice Bergen , performing a very sweet character . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Canhoneiro de Yang-Tse ' ( ' The Gunboat Man of Yang-Tse ' )
Police and Bandit Are All the Same Stuff	Lúcio Flávio Lírio was a famous bank-robber in the early seventies in Rio de Janeiro , glamorized by part of the population and press due to his bold robberies and escapes . " Lúcio Flávio , o Passageiro da Agonia " is a spectacular and brave film of Hecto Babenco , which shows themes like " Death Squad " and the corruption in the police of Rio de Janeiro . The viewer shall understand that these subjects where hidden from the Brazilian society in those times of military dictatorship , but Lucio Flávio disclosed names and how the system operated before being killed in the penitentiary on 29 January 1975 . José Louzeiro wrote a book with his revelations and Hector Babenco made this daring movie . Even in 2005 , this film is very attractive : the performances of the cast are outstanding , and Reginaldo Farias is superb in the role of the famous outlaw . The dialogs are amazing , and I have selected my three favorite lines for the readers ( Obs : it is a free translation , since the movie is spoken in Portuguese ) : ( 1 ) Moretti to Lúcio Flavio : " - Heads and tails are in different sides of the coin , but very close to each other . Police and bandit are all the same stuff , both of them are in the same boat . " ( 2 ) Lúcio Flávio : " - I have been " dead meat " for a long time . I am just waiting time to come . " ( 3 ) Lúcio Flávio : " - Jail without money does not work . " " Lúcio Flávio , o Passageiro da Agonia " was awarded with the 1978 Golden Kikito in the following categories : Best Actor ( Reginaldo Farias ) , Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Supporting Actor ( Ivan Cândido ) . Unfortunately , it seems that this is another excellent Brazilian movie without international distribution . Even in Brazil , I have a very old VHS , bought from a rental , and this movie has not been released on DVD . IMDb users , lovers of films like the dear Bob the Moo , will probably not have the chance to see this excellent film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lúcio Flávio , o Passageiro da Agonia " ( " Lúcio Flávio , the Passenger of the Agony " )
Negotiation and Attack	The Enterprise arrives in Azati Prime and finds that the location is protected by an impenetrable and complex security grid . Trip and Mayweather propose to use the Insectoid shuttle to cross the grid and investigate the exact location of the Xindi weapon . They find the compound underwater and return to the Enterprise where Archer assumes the responsibility to make a trip without return with the shuttle loaded with two torpedoes to destroy the facility . However , the time agent Daniels brings Archer to the future and tells him that the enemies of the Xindi are the trans-dimensional beings and Archer should convince the Xindi that humans are not the menace to their planet . Archer does not accept the argument , travels to Azati Prime but is captured and tortured . Without any other alternative , he manages to convince Degra and two other members of the council that he might be telling the truth , while the Enterprise is attacked by the Xindi reptiles . The tense and dramatic " Azati Prime " is one of the best episodes of the Fourth Season , with Archer trying to negotiate with the Xindi instead of attacking . It seems that the Xindi breeds begin to understand who their real enemies are . Title ( Brazil ) : " Azati Prime "
The Efficient " Pink-Skin " Diplomat	Admiral Forrest advises Captain Archer to travel to the small Class D planet called Weytahn by the Andorians and Paan Mokar by the Vulcans on the border of their empires and motive of a long dispute . The Andorian commander Shran does not trust on the Vulcans and has invited Archer to mediate a negotiation of cease fire with their enemies . Archer and T'Pol meet Shran and he releases one hostage to indicate his good faith in negotiating personally with the Vulcan Ambassador Soval . Archer succeeds to convince Soval to go with T'Pol and him to the planet , but they are attacked by Andorians that do not believe in a peaceful solution for the situation . " Cease Fire " is one of the best episodes of the Second Season . The story has action , good dialogs ( I personally liked the dialog between Soval and T'Pol ) and a great peaceful message of peace and understanding in the end . The " pink-skin " Captain Archer proves that is very efficient also as a diplomat , winning the deserved respect from the Andorians and Vulcans . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cessar Fogo " ( " Cease Fire " )
Music Saved His Life	In Glasgow , Danny ( Jet Li ) is a young specialist in marital arts raised like a dog by his owner , the gangster and collector Bart ( Bob Hoskins ) . When Bart unleashes his collar , Danny behaves like a wild animal , savagely hurting and killing people as commanded by Bart . After an accident , the wounded Danny is lodged by the blind tuner of piano Sam ( Morgan Freeman ) and his stepdaughter Victoria ( Kerry Condon ) . They welcome him in the breast of their family , humanizing Danny , who feels attracted by music . But his past haunts him . I borrowed this DVD from a colleague not expecting to see a good movie , but only martial arts fights in a stupid plot . . . but I was absolutely wrong ! " Danny the Dog " is a dramatic story , with an excellent construction of a character , from a brutal animal to a kind human being . Jet Li has certainly his best performance in the role of Danny , who will certainly shake the emotions of the viewer and make him or her think about how many people , including children , are badly treated around the world , and what society can expect from them . The optimistic conclusion gives us hope that some day this situation may be fixed with love , dignity and care . Bob Hoskins and Morgan Freeman are fantastic , as usual , and the unknown Kerry Condon is lovely playing the sweet Victoria . I see many movies , but " Danny the Dog " was probably the best surprise I have had this year . I do not give a ten because of the exaggerated conclusion . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cão de Briga " ( " Fight Dog " )
Loyalty is an Emotion	Captain Jonathan Archer , T'Pol and Trip meet Sarin and she explains that Klaang is a courier , bringing an important message from her to the leaders of the Klingons in Kronos about rebels Suliban that intend to promote the Temporal Cold War among the Klingons . Archer feels the need of rescuing Klaang and travels to the Suliban mother-ship with Trip to bring the Klingon back to Enterprise . T'Pol seems to understand that loyalty is an emotion that cannot be avoided by humans . In spite of being a huge fan of Star Trek , I have not followed the episodes of " Enterprise " on cable television . I have decided to buy the DVD box of the First Season and this first episode surprised me . The adventure of the first Enterprise , Captain Jonathan Archer , the gorgeous T'Pol , Reed , Mayweather , Dr . Phlox , Hoshi and Trip is excellent , at least in this pilot . I have noted in IMDb that this episode is actually divides in two parts , but on DVD they are just one , therefore my review is valid for both . I did not like the music score theme , which I found very annoying , but this was an exception in this great show . Title ( Brazil ) : " Broken Bow "
Obsession and Mutiny	The Enterprise finds a Xindi ship crashed on the surface of a planet , and while the team leaded by Captain Archer is investigating , they meet an insectoid hatchery in a compartment protected by heavy and reinforced bulkheads . Reed realizes that the air inside is breathable and the group removes the helmet of the breathing apparatuses , but Archer is hit by a sort of substance on his face and sent to the sickbay . After the examination , Dr . Phlox realizes that no damage was caused to Captain Archer , but the crew notes that he becomes obsessed to save the insectoid offspring claiming humanistic reasons . When he orders to give one third of the supply of antimatter to restart the reactor of the Xindi ship to maintain the life support system of the hatchery , T'Pol questions his command and is confined in her cabin . Then Reed , Trip and Dr . Phlox are successively dismissed , and the senior officers decide that only a mutiny can save the Enterprise . " Hatchery " is a tense episode of the Third Season , with Archer completely obsessed by saving the Xindi eggs . T'Pol , Reed , Trip , Dr . Phlox and Major Hayes have remarkable participations in this predictable but great story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Incubadora " ( " Hatchery " )
Rivalry and Jealousy	Trip seduces the private Amanda Cole performing the Vulcan neuro-pressure technique with her in her quarter and T'Pol feels jealous . Major Hayes proposes a drill of defense to Captain Archer , breaking the chain of command in Enterprise , and Reed becomes upset with the training program of his rival . Meanwhile , the Enterprise finds a pod in a huge expansion field with a slight and erratic vital life signal of humanoid inside . They bring the alien on board and Dr . Phlox realizes that he is dying of cellular decay . When the alien awakes , he tells that he is a prisoner that had accepted to participate in an experiment . However , Archer believes he knows more than that . I liked " Harbinger " a lot , first because of the jealous reaction of T'Pol to the flirt of Trip and Amanda , and then after her one night stand with Trip . The rivalry of Reed and Hayes also gives funny moments to the episode . Last but not the least , the dying alien gives the action to the good story . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Precursor " ( " The Harbinger " )
A Bond of Trust , Respect and Friendship	T'Pol suggests and Captain Archer accepts a leave for the crew in planet Risa , famous for the relaxation technique of the local masseuses . However , Captain Archer is called by Admiral Maxwell Forrest , who assigns the Enterprise to bring the Vulcan ambassador V'Lar from planet Mazar to the Vulcan warship Sh'Raan . V'Lar has fallen in disgrace with the accusation of being a criminal , and the Vulcan High Command requested her urgent removal from the planet . T'Pol prepares the Enterprise to welcome the ambassador , and after a brief meeting with V'Lar , she becomes disappointed with her former idol . Out of the blue , the Enterprise is attacked by a Mazarite ship , whose captain demands that V'Lar should be delivered to them . Captain Archer asks V'Lar the reason for the attack , but she does not justify , pleading classified information , and Archer decides to return to Mazar . After having a private meeting with V'Lar , T'Pol goes to Captain's Archer's cabin and asks him to return immediately to the course to Sh'Raan . " Fallen Hero " is one of the best episodes of this First Season . The beginning is hilarious , with T'Pol suggesting a " relaxation " of the earthlings due to the reduction of productivity and need of " relieving the stress " of the command of the Enterprise . The gentle and nice ambassador V'Lar seems to be a path to approach the relationships between Earth and Vulcan . Jolene Blalock is fantastic in the role of a Vulcan woman with bond of trust , respect and friendship with Captain Archer and the Enterprise crew-members . Title ( Brazil ) : " Herói Decadente " ( " Decadent Hero " )
Teaching How to Fish	The Enterprise arrives in a colony with a plant of deuterium , but the poor locals only accept to sell 200 liters , under the condition that the crew repairs two pumps . Captain Archer is wondering how the colonist could be so poor trading a valuable good , when a Klingon cruiser with seven crew-members arrives in the planet and they realize that they are marauders . Archer decides to help the colonist to defend the refinery with tactical training and courage . I liked " Marauders " a lot . The story recalls the original Star Trek series , with Archer , T'Pol , Trip , Reed , Travis and Hoshi having noble participation helping the locals to defend their property instead of attacking the Klingon cruiser with the weapons of the Enterprise . As Captain Archer wisely says , " not giving the fish , but teaching how to fish " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Saqueadores " ( " Marauders " )
Lots of Things Changed	Michael's group is sad with the death of Bellick , and they demand that Self sends his body to his mother . Michael asks the missing pages to Self and Gretchen returns and tells that The Company is moving Scylla to a bunker in Pennsylvania . Michael tells that the map does not make sense , but he deciphers the message " CME David Baker " meaning " See me David Baker " . Trishanne commits a serious mistake , mentioning the name of Frank Whistler to T-Bag while giving Gretchen's file to him . The smart criminal investigates and finds that the receptionist is actually a Federal Agent working for Self . Michael faints and Sara takes him to a neurologist in a hospital using fake identities and he is submitted to a tomography . Dr . Malden recognizes Michael but protects him . Mr . White calls T-Bag to have a meeting with clients to see his " magic " . The transportation of Scylla is complicated and General Krantz asks his men to bring David Parker ; however Mahone is trying to convincing him to give information about Scylla . Sucre tells Lincoln that Bellick saved him in Sona , and he calls Bellick's mother . While in the underground of The Company's headquarter , Sucre steps on a land mine and Lincoln calls Gretchen to help him . Meanwhile The Company arrives at David Parker's home and Mahone escapes ; but David Parker's wife gives the code to understand the map . Lincoln calls Mahone and tells about Sucre and Mahone finds that there is a manual override and the mine is connected to an alarm system ; he avoids that Gretchen disarms the mine and saves Sucre . Now Scylla is behind the wall protected by an electronic alarm barrier . However Dr . Malden calls Sara and tells that Michael needs to be operated on the next day . This engaging episode is great but also flawed with inconsistencies . First , it is hard to believe on the sadness of Michael's group with the fate of Brad Bellick . The guy saved Sucre in Sona , made a huge sacrifice for the group , but his past was dreadful . But lots of things changed . Why nobody presses Gretchen to know how she got inside information about The Company , especially Self ? The truth about Trishanne is the great surprise of this show . The silly speech of T-Bag to the executives is very unconvincing and disappointing and could be better and better . The arrangement of land mines and manual override beneath " The Company " does not make sense for me . I can not understand how could an explosion in the foundation of the building be helpful to the criminal organization ? Anyway I liked this episode a lot . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
A Delightful and Charming Classic Romantic Movie	Nearby Paris , in Deauville , the widow race pilot Jean-Louis Duroc ( Jean-Louis Trintignant ) incidentally meets the widow Anne Gauthier ( Anouk Aimée ) , who works checking the continuity of movies , in the boarding school of his son and her daughter . They meet each other along the next weekends while visiting their children , disclose their lives to each other and begin a friendship . After a race " 24 Hours of Le Mains " , where Duroc is well-succeeded , Anne realizes that she loves him . However , when they have an affair , Anne finds that she still misses her husband and is not ready for a new love . The open end of the story permits a great variety of possibilities and different interpretations for the viewers . In 1966 , I was too young to see " Un Homme et Une Femme " in the movie theaters . Some years ago , I bought the VHS but somehow I forgot to watch this movie . A couple of days ago , my friend Dieckmann mentioned this movie and I decided to see it . I was impressed how such a simple storyline was transformed in a delightful and charming classic romantic movie by the talent of Claude Lelouch . The perfect chemistry of Anouk Aimée and Jean-Louis Trintignant , associated with their very natural and authentic performances and the beauty of Anouk Aimée , are very impressive and unique . The use of an excellent camera , a wonderful photography alternating colors and black & white and a fragmented screenplay is very ahead of time . The soundtrack is one of the most beautiful and known in the cinema history . I have seen this movie for the first time in 2005 , almost forty years later , and it is not aged . " Un Homme et Une Femme " was awarded in the Festival of Cannes 1966 and with the Oscar of the Best Foreigner Movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Homem , Uma Mulher " ( " A Man , A Woman " )
Powerful Humanistic War Movie	After surviving a massacre in Malmedy , a location behind the German army in Europe , four American soldiers with only one weapon rescue the British pilot Oberon Winley ( Kirby Heyborn ) in a tree and they move together , trying to reach the allied forces and save a great number of allied soldiers from a German attack with the information got by Winley in his flight . While marching , each soldier discloses inner secrets to the rest of the group . What a great movie this " Saints and Soldiers " is ! Awarded with many prizes in minor festivals , and recommended by some friends of mine , I saw it yesterday and I was really surprised with a powerful humanistic war story . I do not know how precise it is , but the screenplay was based on true events as per the information in the beginning of the film . The performances are very human and real , touching in some moments , and presented in a very suitable pace . This team of unknown actors and director really made an excellent war movie , and I really would like to record my congratulation to all of them . Title ( Brazil ) : " Santos ou Soldados " ( " Saints or Soldiers " )
Powerful Movie ? Probably the Best Police Story that I Have Recently Seen	A couple of days ago I saw the trailer of " 36 Quai des Orfèvres " and I decided to buy the DVD . What a powerful movie it is , probably the best police story that I have recently seen . The dramatic and amoral story is a contemporary film-noir , with action , betrayal , shootings and hooks the attention from the beginning to the end . There is a great duel between two titans : Gérard Depardieu , in the role of a scum detective , and Daniel Auteuil , playing a detective with non-conventional procedures , and they both deserved nomination to the Oscar for such brilliant performances . The music score , with the song " Don't Bring me Down " , is also wonderful . The grandiosity of " 36 Quai des Orfèvres " recalled me 1995 " Heat " , one of the best police stories of the 90's . I really do not understand why there are negative reviews for such great film . Title ( Brazil ) : " 36 "
Impressive and Violent Kafkanian Tale of Revenge	On the day of his daughter's birthday , Ho Dae-su ( Min-sik Choi ) gets completely drunk and is arrested . His best friend No Joo-hwan ( Dae-han Ji ) releases him from the police station , and while calling home from a phone booth , Dae-su vanishes . Indeed he has been abducted and imprisoned in a room for fifteen years . One day , he is suddenly released , receives clothes , money and a cellular and meets the Japanese chef Mido ( Hye-jeong Kang ) , and they feel a great attraction for each other . However , Dae-su seeks for his captor and the reason of his long imprisonment . While looking for revenge and explanation , Dae-su discloses deep secrets from the past . " Oldboy " is really a very impressive and violent Kafkanian tale of revenge . With a stunning direction and supported by an excellent screenplay , where there is explanation for every apparently weird situation , " Oldboy " is also very unpleasant , with the hero being indeed an anti-hero . The theme incest is very strong and almost forbidden for us , westerns , but when I worked in South Korea , I learned that this theme is simply unconceivable for Korean people . Further , a man be called a " dog " is very offensive and a great humiliation . Therefore , I believe that this movie is tougher and more offensive for Korean people , and explains the reaction of Dae-Su when the final secret is disclosed . Based on some unfair bad reviews , I believe this movie is not recommended for certain audiences that need ( and has problem ) to read subtitles and has difficulties to understand other cultures . Title ( Brazil ) : " Oldboy " Obs : Why are there so many users with only one review writing about this movie ? It is very usual to find people writing only one standard favorable review to promote awful movies in IMDb , probably hired by the production of the film . But with " Oldboy " , we can find also many bad reviews written by persons with only one review issued in IMDb . Sounds very weird and fake for me this type of " inspiration " ! Further , what is the meaning of " That user does not exist " in the message board profile of these users ? Is this message correct ? How can a user that " does not exist " write reviews ( and certainly vote ) ?
USA ? The Land of Freedom ? At Least , not in Cincinnati , 1990 for Robert Mapplethorpe's work .	In 1990 , in Cincinnati ( USA ) , a director of an Art Museum , Dennis Barrie ( the outstanding James Wood , one of the best American actors ) decides to expose the pictures of Robert Mapplethorpe . This is the trigger to be prosecuted , go on a civil trial and destroy his private life . The presentation of this movie , showing the position of both sides , questioning what is pornography through the discussion of the jury , is in my opinion very neutral and positive , leaving a chance for the viewer reflecting in a very controversial theme . Another great point in this film is the comments of personalities and intellectuals , such as Salmon Rushdie , or Susan Sarandon . Inclusive , Robert Mapplethorpe had shot photos of the son of this great actress . However , it is funny the label of USA being ' The Land of Freedom and Opportunity ' showing the power of conservative persons in the end of the Twentieth Century , no matter they were the majority or minority part of the society . In the end of the movie , there is a statement about the real intention of the trial that is scary . USA had had its apartheid until the 60's fortunately resolved in the present days . I believe it is one of the few countries where there is no Communist Party , maybe due to the serious restrictions in the past ( McCarthyism , for example , has been showed in many movies , including ' Citizen Cohn ' , where James Wood is the main character ) . If a person wants or needs to visit America , has to submit an application for an expensive VISA , on the contrary of most of the countries , but , anyway these are their internal society rules and are to be very respected . Especially in the present days , with threatens everywhere . What I was not aware and is completely new for me was about such a case of restriction to Arts . Arts are universal and belong to the citizens of planet Earth and should not be censored . I do not know the real intention of Dennis Barrie in exposing the photographs of Mapplethorpe after a previous prohibition in another American town , but anyway the exhibition was placed in a private and paid close place , with restriction to teenagers and children . Therefore , you would go there only if you liked it somehow . I myself am not fan of this type of theme , but I have visited some museums in Amsterdam and Hamburg , with expensive tickets , just for curiosity . The viewer will not be disappointed with this film .
A Theatrical Movie of Direction and Performances	Elisabeth Vogler ( Liv Ullmann ) is an actress who became mute in a play . Her doctor ( Margaretha Krook ) says that Elisabeth is mute by option , in a kind of sophisticated suicide , and decides to send Elisabeth to her house on the beach with the company of the nurse Alma ( Bibi Andersson ) . While together , Alma initially worships the actress , opening her heart and secrets to her . Later , she feels betrayed , after reading a letter of Elisabeth and then she changes her personality to act like Elisabeth . This movie is open to the most different interpretations and it probably is a marvelous essay for those professionals and students of psychological area . As a lover of cinema , I really appreciated the usual outstanding direction of Ingmar Bergman and the stunning performances of Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann . This theatrical film keeps the camera basically all the time focusing the two lead actresses , and Liv Ullmann , even performing a mute character , offers to the viewers magnificent expressions . Unfortunately , the quality of the VHS released in Brazil by the Brazilian distributor Continental is a shame , having subtitles in Portuguese on ( covering ) the English subtitles . Further , this is the unique option we have in my country to watch this film , since it has not been released on DVD or in restored copy . The title in Brazil is simply ridiculous ! Title ( Brazil ) : ' Persona ? Quando Duas Mulheres Pecam ' ( ' Persona ? When Two Women Sin ' )
The Lost of the Childhood in a Landmark of the Nouvelle Vague	Antoine Doinel ( Jean-Pierre Léaud ) is a fourteen years old boy rejected by his mother and his stepfather , who gave him his name . This lack of affection in his home makes him a rebel , bad student , liar , reckless and stealing objects and money at home . This movie was the first one directed by François Truffault and is a landmark of the Nouvelle Vague , a French style of making films initiated by Truffault and Godard . This movement has produced low budget , but high quality movies , using a small crew , hand camera and free screenplay , with lots of creation and improvisation . The character Antoine is the alter-ego of Truffault . His crimes , watched in the Twentieth-First Century , are minors , but in 1959 were much serious . It is a very good movie , recommended for those who indeed loves cinema .
Far Before " Forrest Gump " . . , Chauncey Gardner	The slow and illiterate gardener Chance ( Peter Sellers ) has spent all his life inside the house of Mr . Jennings in a poor area of Washington D . C . His only contact with the outside world was through television . When Mr . Jennings dies , the house is shut-down by the family lawyer and Chance is forced to leave the place . While wandering on the streets , a limousine hits his leg and the owner , Eve Rand ( Shirley MacLaine ) , invites him to go to her house to be treated by her husband's doctor and avoid any trouble in the hospital . She misunderstands his name and calls him Chauncey Gardner . When the simple Chance is introduced to her husband , Benjamin Rand ( Melvyn Douglas ) , that is terminally ill with anemia , he becomes his friend and Ben interprets his wordings as metaphoric , transforming Chance in adviser of President Bobby ( Jack Warden ) and prominent figure in the world of economy and politics . I must confess that this is the first time that I watch " Being There " and my first thought was that " Forrest Gump " is visibly inspired in this movie . Peter Sellers is once again fantastic in the role of a man that does not know that he does not know and therefore is capable to achieve everything . The forty-five years old Shirley MacLaine is still an extremely beautiful and seductive woman in this film . Melvyn Douglas has a top-notch performance in this movie , unfortunately one of his last movies . Jack Warden is hilarious in the role of an annoying president . The situations are surrealistic but seem to be realistic , and indeed it is a great joke with politicians and their cynical world . Title ( Brazil ) : " Muito Além do Jardim " ( " Far Beyond the Garden " )
The Bloodiest War in Brazil in a Great Epic	In the country of Bahia about 1860 , a man called Antônio Vicente Mendes Maciel , known by the nickname of Antônio Conselheiro ( note . : ' conselheiro ' in Portuguese means ' advisor ' ) drifts through the remote rural interior of Brazil ( called ' sertão brasileiro ' ) , building churches , restoring cemeteries and collecting followers , with the opposition of the Catholic Church and the Brazilian elite . He claims to be one apostle , and his legion is composed by miserable illiterate simple persons . In 1889 , Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca proclaims the Republic of Brazil and Antônio Conselheiro blames the republic for the misery of the forgotten ' sertão brasileiro ' . In 1892 , Antônio Conselheiro founds the monarchic ' Império do Belo Monte ' in Canudos , with 20 , 000 followers , having an independent government with their own laws and moral values . The Federal Government feels threatened and sends a first expedition to fight in Canudos , being the federal troops defeated . A second expedition is sent and also defeated . A third expedition , commanded by Colonel Moreira Cesar , o Corta-Pescoços ( ' cut-necks ' ) is also defeated . The fourth and last expedition , commanded by General Artur Oscar , is sent with 6 , 000 soldiers first plus 4 , 000 replacement and finally kills all the followers of Antonio Conselheiro . Antonio Conselheiro dies on September , 22nd 1897 and the ' Império do Belo Monte ' finally falls on October , 5th 1897 . After one year of war , 20 , 000 followers of Antônio Conselheiro and 5 , 000 soldiers die in these battles and in accordance with Brazilian writer Euclides da Cunha in his book ' Os Sertões ' , Canudos was the unique war with no survivors , their inhabitants never surrender and resisted until the fall of the last man . In the final moment of the battle , two men , a boy and an old man were the last survivors and were still fighting against the armed troop . ' Guerra de Canudos ' is an epic and dramatizes a historic event through the drama of a rural family composed by Zé Lucena ( Paulo Betti ) , Penha ( Marieta Severo ) , the older daughter Luiza ( Cláudia Abreu ) and their younger son and daughter . Antônio Conselheiro is performed by the excellent actor , director and cinema critic José Wilker . The songs were composed by Edu Lobo , and there are 5 , 000 figurants . Paulo Betti was born in São Paulo and Cláudia Abreu and Marieta Severo are from Rio de Janeiro and they have special training to speak using the expressions and accent of people from the northeastern of Brazil ( Bahia ) . ' Guerra de Canudos ' is a worthwhile entertainment for viewers who want to learn a little of history of Brazil . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Guerra de Canudos ' ( ' War of Canudos ' )
A Disturbing , Impressive and Unforgettable Movie	The aircraft pilot Marcello , the chef Ugo , the TV choreographer Michel and the judge Phillipe decide to terminate their lives with a great pleasure , eating and having sex with three prostitutes and one school teacher invited to participate in their orgy . I watched this unforgettable film in the 70's and I was very impressive with this metaphoric movie . In Brazil , it remained unreleased on video until a couple of months ago , when fortunately it was ' rescued ' and released on DVD by the Brazilian distributor ' Versátil ' , specialized in masterpieces such as Fellini , Rosselini and Visconti . Now I have just had the chance to watch again this weird and daring movie about the decay of the society of consumption , empty and compulsive , searching for sex and food . The main characters uses their Christian names . This movie is also a great black humor comedy .
The Most Intriguing Episode	While in the barn of Kent Farm with Shelby waiting for Chloe , Clark is attacked and awakes in a mental institution in the middle of a session with Dr . Hudson . The psychologist tells him that for five years he has been delusional , believing that he has come from Krypton and had superpowers . Clark succeeds to escape , and meets Lana , Martha and Lex that confirm the words of Dr . Hudson . Only Chloe believe on his words , but she is also considered insane . Clark fights to find the truth about his own personality and origin . " Labyrinth " is undoubtedly the most intriguing episode of " Smallville " . The writer was very luck and original denying the whole existence of the powerful boy from Krypton . The annoying hum gives the sensation of disturbance and the identity mysterious saver need to be clarified . Title ( Brazil ) : " Labirinto " ( " Labyrinth " )
Peace Is Preserved Hiding the Truth ? A Touching Antiwar Movie	After a shootout at the common security area at the border of the two Koreas , when two soldiers were murdered , Maj . Sophie E . Jean ( Yeong-ae Lee ) is assigned by the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission to investigate the incident . The smart Major finds lack of consistency in the statements of the survivors , and in spite of being pressed by her superior , she interviews South Koreans Sgt . Lee Soo-hyeok ( Byung-hun Lee ) and private Nam Sung-shik ( Tae-woo Kim ) , and the North Korean Sgt . Oh Kyeong-pil ( Kang-ho Song ) , disclosing a tragic story of friendship . In the end , peace and Sgt . Oh are preserved hiding the truth in her report . " Gongdong Gyeongbi Guyeok JSA " is a magnificent and touching antiwar movie . Directed by Chan-wook Park , the director of the cult " Oldboy " , only now this film was released in Brazil , after the success of " Oldboy " . This movie has a fantastic screenplay that keeps the interest in the impressive story until the very last scene . I was moved with the sad story of friendship between brothers in this polemic theme . The Common Security Area , created on 27 July 1953 with the armistice between the two Koreas after three years of war , and their reunification , seem to be a taboo for these peoples and I appreciate the courage of this group of excellent actors and actress in approaching such theme . In the Extras of the DVD , the cast and director give interviews about the story but never give their opinion about the reunification of these nations . The stunning cinematography and camera work are also very beautiful . Yitle ( Brazil ) : " Zona de Risco " ( " Zone of Risk " )
Learning Democracy	In 1933 , after leaving Dogville , while traveling with her father ( Willem Dafoe ) and his gangsters to the south of USA , Grace Margaret Mulligan ( Bryce Dallas Howard ) sees a slave ready to be punished in a property called Manderlay . The slavery had been abolished seventy years ago , and Grace becomes revolted with the attitude of the owners of Manderlay , keeping slaves in their cotton fields and following predetermined despicable rules called " Mam's Law " . Grace decides to stay with some gangsters in Manderlay and give notions of democracy to the slaves and to the white family . When harvest time comes , Grace sees the social and economical reality of Manderlay . " Manderley " is the second part of Lars von Trier trilogy initiated with the awesome " Dogville " and following the same aesthetic of theatrical scenarios . I was impressed with the magnificent performance of the gorgeous actress Bryce Dallas Howard that I know only from her minor participation in " Book of Love " and her lead role in " The Village " . The screenplay of " Manderlay " is great , with the narrative being very well conducted by John Hurt , and in spite of having no action and being developed in a low pace , the plot is interesting until the very last scene . I did not understand the point of Lars von Trier in the end , since Grace defends the democratic principles inclusive with the suffrage , but Wilhelm tells her that " she sent the guns away too soon " . Therefore , does Mr . von Trier believe that guns are necessary to establish democracy ? Or is he making an analogy to the present situation in Iraq , showing that democracy can not be reached by the use of force ? Another point is the social and economical situation of the poor former slaves , free only in laws but without condition to survive seventy years after the abolishment of slavery . The same happened in Brazil and I believe in the countries that used slave labor , therefore the wounds exposed in Manderlay are universal , and not only an American issue . The kind of assistance that Grace gives to the former slaves is full of good intentions and does not resolve their situation , since she has never reached the root of their problem . Title ( Brazil ) : " Manderlay "
A Classic Western	While chasing Dutch Henry Brown ( Stephen McNally ) , Lin McAdam ( James Stewart ) and High-Spade Frankie Wilson ( Millard Mitchell ) ride into a town , where there is a shooting competition , being the prize an ' one-in-a thousand ' Winchester 73 . Lin and High-Spade are introduced to sheriff Wyatt Earp ( Will Geer ) , when the singer Lola Manners ( Shelley Winters ) is leaving town in a stagecoach , and leave their guns with him , as a rule for staying in town . Lin decides to participate in the dispute against Dutch and wins the desired rifle , but Dutch steals it . While Lin and High-Spade follow Dutch , the rifle changes hands , being shortly owned by a trader , an Indian chief , a soldier , a common man , a gunfighter and finally Dutch again . Meanwhile , Lin and High-Spade face many dangerous situations , until a final duel against Dutch in a rocky mountain . The reason for the obsession of Lin for Dutch is only disclosed in the end of the story . Winchester ' 73 is a classic western , with shootings , Indians , ' soldiers blue ' , ' bad guys ' , ' good guys ' , Bat Masterson , Wyatt Earp , romance , pursuit , revenge , revelations in the end , therefore a must-see in the genre . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Winchester ' 73 '
The Saddest and Most Touching Journal Ever Written	From 1942 to 1944 , in a Nazi occupied Amsterdam , the thirteen years old German Jewish girl Anne Frank ( Millie Perkins ) lives hiding in an attic of a condiment factory with her sister , her parents , three members of another family and an old dentist . Along more than two years , she wrote in her diary , her feelings , her fears and relationship with the other dwellers . When I was about the same age of Anne Frank , I read her book for the first time and I recall how sad I became . Then I read it at least two times more , and in the bottom of my heart , I was maybe expecting a happy ending and that this teenager and the other persons were saved after their tough struggle for survival . In the 90's , I visited her Museum and again I became very sad . Her story is certainly the saddest and most touching journal ever written and published , and shows how cruel the human being can be . This movie has been recently released on DVD in Brazil with 171 minutes running time , and I really liked it . The cinematography is very beautiful , and the tense and claustrophobic story highlights some of the most important parts of the book with minor modifications to keep the movie tense and in an adequate pace . The cast is excellent , and although having about twenty-one years old at that time , the mignon Millie Perkins performs a good Anne Frank . The person who betrayed Anne Frank and the other Jews has never been discovered . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Diário de Anne Frank " ( " The Diary of Anne Frank " )
Wonderful . Stunning . If You Liked ' Fame ' , You Will Love This Movie .	A group of young dancers ' fight ' against each other to be selected in a workshop promoted by ABA ( American Ballet Academy ) . Only a few of them will have a chance to be professional dancers , but all of them love to dance . The movie focuses the plot in Jody Sawyer ( the delicious , gorgeous , graceful Amanda Schull ? what a beautiful woman she is ! ) , the rebel Eva Rodriguez ( Zoe Saldana ) and the anorexic Maureen Cummings ( Susan May Pratt ) , in the female side , and Cooper Nielson ( Ethan Stiefel ) and Charlie Sims ( Sascha Radetsky ) in the male side . There are many other secondary characters that participate in the plot , like the mother of Maureen , the director of the company Jonathan Reeves ( Peter Gallagher ) and many others . The first point that impressed me was the number of characters , all of them well defined in the plot having a major or a minor participation in the story . Second , the natural and powerful acting of these young and unknown actors and dancers . It seems that they are indeed fighting for a chance to be recognized by Hollywood as great actors and actresses , trying to show their skills to the studios . It shows a splendid direction of the excellent Nycholas Hytner . The choreography and soundtrack are also great . Certainly it is a lovely and wonderful film , highly indicated for fans of ' Fame ' , dance , ballet and good movies . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sob a Luz da Fama " ( " Under the Spotlight of the Fame " )
Magnificent Ecological Fable	A bear cub loses its mother while being fed . The orphan bear cub follows a huge male bear , being " adopted " , protected and fed by the adult bear . Meanwhile , two hunters are following the big animal , which tries to evade in the mountainous forest . " The Bear " is a magnificent ecological fable , having the story developed through the eyes of the bears , which are indeed the " lead actors " . I have read somewhere that it has been taken four years to Jean-Jacques Annaud prepare such a homage to the nature . Sometimes , the shooting recalls a National Geographic movie . Unfortunately the DVD released in Brazil does not have any information about the preparation of this movie . In the present days , it is hard to point out what computer makes , and what is real in a film , but it seems that the movie was shot using real trained animals . " The Bear " is another excellent work of the outstanding director Jean-Jacques Annaud and highly recommended as a perfect family entertainment and even to be presented for children in classrooms . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Urso " ( " The Bear " )
" Never Stray From the Path , Never Eat a Windfall Apple , and Never Trust a Man Whose Eyebrows Meet . " ? An Adult and Stylized Version of Little Red Riding Hood	Rosaleen ( Sarah Patterson ) is a teenager , living in a country house in England with her family in the present days , and having a nightmare with wolves and werewolves in the Middle Ages . In her dream , her boring sister is dead , she lives with her father ( David Warner ) and her mother ( Tusse Silberg ) , but she spends lots of time with her lovely grandmother ( Angela Lansbury ) . Granny tells her many stories of werewolf and gives her the following advice : " - Never stray from the path , never eat a windfall apple , and never trust a man whose eyebrows meet . " One day , Rosaleen , while going to visit her grandmother , meets a handsome man and bet with him who would arrive first at her granny's house . The story has an open end . The first time I watched this movie was in 1984 or 1985 in a imported VHS of a Brazilian video-club , and I liked it a lot . This video-club closed and unfortunately , this film has not been available in Brazil since then . Yesterday it was released on DVD and I immediately bought it . I have just saw it and I really can say that it is an excellent movie . The story is based on the fairy tale of the Little Red Riding Hood . Indeed it is an adult and stylized version of the tale . But further than that , it is also a spectacular approach of the beginning of the puberty , losing of the innocence through wild and erotic dreams , when the character of Sarah Patterson is becoming an young woman . Neil Jordan made an excellent work , with a wonderful horror movie , which can have the most different interpretations , depending on the eye and experience of the viewer . He used many symbols , such as the use of lipstick , or the first date of Rosaleen . I do not understand what happened to the gorgeous and very promising actress Sarah Patterson . With her interpretation in this film , I would bet she would have a great career ahead , what has never come true . This film is really a cult-movie , and I am one of its greatest fan . I would like to thank the Brazilian distributor Flashstar , for giving me the chance of see this wonderful movie again . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Companhia dos Lobos ' ( ' The Company of the Wolves ' )
A Great Movie Recommended for Fans of The X-Files	John Klein ( Richard Gere ) is a Washington Post reporter in love of his wife Mary ( Debra Messing ) . One day , while driving after buying a new house for them , she has her attention distracted by an angel shaped shadow and crashes the car in a fatal accident . Two years later , the widowed John Klein is impelled to go to Point Pleasant , a small town in West Virginia , where he realizes that many strange events have happened and other persons have also seen the same shadow as his wife . Connie Parker ( Laura Linney ) , a local cop , together with him will investigate those spooky facts associated with the moth-man . Mark Pellington , after the tense ' Arlington Road ' , does not disappoint and directs again a great movie . The drama in the beginning switches to a scary plot that looks like an episode of X-Files : replaces John Klein and Connie Parker by Fox Moulder and Dana Scully , and it would be a splendid X-Files story . Finally the great accident , like in those disaster movies in the 70's makes this movie worthy . The sound effect on DVD ( Dolby Digital 5 . 1 ) is scary and the camera movements ( like in ' Evil Dead ' and the introduction of ' The Lost Boys ' ) are wonderful . Although the screenplay raises many unanswered questions , it is a great movie with a remark : the X-Files fans will certainly love it . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Última Profecia " ( " The Last Prophecy " )
A Great Experience of the Life and Lifestyle of a Different Culture	In the spring of the Gobi Desert , in South Mongolia , a nomadic family of shepherds has troubles when one camel has a tough two days delivery , immediately rejecting the offspring . The family unsuccessfully uses their best efforts trying to force the female to accept and feed the newborn . When there is no further hope of saving the animal , they send their two sons to bring a musician from the nearest town to perform a ritual and save the " baby camel " . I do not know , and I was really curious to know , how could be the original screenplay of this documentary . I believe the first intention of directors Byambasuren Davaa and Luigi Falorni would be to document the lifestyle of a nomadic family of shepherds , showing a different culture for the Westerners . However , fortune gave them the opportunity of sharing a great experience with the viewers with the ritual that brought the camel to accept the offspring . Thank you , Messrs . Byambasuren Davaa and Luigi Falorni , for such touching , beautiful and wonderful film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Camelos Também Choram " ( " Camels Also Weep " )
Delightful Sequel of One of the Most Beautiful Romances I Have Ever Seen	In Paris , the American writer Jesse Howard ( Ethan Hawk ) is in the end of an European tour , promoting his novel about the one night stand he had with a young French woman nine years ago . In the end of the debates in a bookstore , he finds Celine ( Julie Delpy ) in the audience , who works in an environmental organization , and they leave the place to drink coffee and talk to each other before Jesse goes to the airport . Along the moments together , they realize that they are still in love for each other . " Before Sunset " is a delightful sequel of " Before Sunrise " , which is in my opinion one of the most beautiful romances I have ever seen . The screenplay was written by Ethan Hawk , Julie Delpy and Richard Linklater and it is fantastic , with wonderful dialogs . It is also amazing the natural performances of Ethan Hawk and Julie Delpy , who intensively live the characters of Jesse and Celine . It is impossible not liking this movie ! The simple song sang by Julie Delpy is a great complement to this lovely fairy tale . Title ( Brazil ) : " Antes do Pôr-do-Sol " ( " Before Sunset " )
Excellent Conclusion	Clark Kent saves Lana Lang , but his father Jonathan Kent is missing , trapped with the despicable reporter Roger Nixon ( Tom O'Brien ) in an old tomb . Lex Luthor saves his father , who is submitted to a surgery . Chloe Sullivan decides to be only friend of Clark . The first episode of the Second Season of Smallville , " Vortex " , is an excellent conclusion of " Tempest " . In this episode we clearly see the different reactions and attitudes of Lionel Luthor and Jonathan Kent to his sons , Lex and Clark respectively . Lana Lang becomes suspicious of the abilities of Clark Kent . Title ( Brazil ) : " Vortex "
From Outer Space ?	When the weird and lonely teenager with healing power Cyrus Krupp ( Jeremy Lelliott ) claims to be an alien , Clark Kent approached to him trying to know his origins . Meanwhile , Dr . Helen Bryce ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) moves to Lex's mansion , but she realizes that her skeleton key opens all but one room . " Visitor " is another great episode of " Smallville " . Clark continues to seek information about Kripton and increases his expectations of being not alone on Earth . The obsession of Lex Luthor is disclosed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Visitante " ( " Visitor " )
Wounded by a Friend	While returning home after leaving Jonathan Kent in the hospital recovering from a heart attack , the truck of Martha and Clark is almost his by two cars racing in the road . For the greatest surprise and deception of Clark , one of the pilots is Pete Ross , who has become friend of the bad element Jason Dante ( Ryan Merriman ) . Pete does not accept Clark's advice and gets into serious trouble . Meanwhile , Lex investigates the prominent Dr . Lia Teng ( Françoise Yip ) about her research of blood platelet with Adam Wright , and Lana feels threatened by the mysterious dark secret of Adam . In " Velocity " , Clark Kent finds that the necessary attitudes in life sometimes do not stay in the black or white limits of morality and correctness , but in the gray zone . He becomes wounded with the wrong things he does to help Pete . I am curious with the interest of Lex Luthor in the research of Dr . Teng and the secret of Adam . Title ( Brazil ) : " Velocidade " ( " Velocity " )
Reading Minds	While escaping from his mean stepparents James Gibson ( Jim Shield ) and Sky ( Courtney Kramer ) , the boy Ryan James ( Ryan Kelley ) is hit by Martha Kent's car in a road . She brings Ryan to a hospital , and the boy claims to have amnesia . The Kent's family offers to lodge Ryan in their farm while waiting for the social service . The boy becomes friend of Clark Kent and his friends , and has the power of reading minds . Clark helps the boy against his stepfather . " Stray " is a good episode , but there are some flaws along the story . For example , when Clark opens the garbage truck , we do not see the consequences . What happened to James Gibson ? But I like the character of Clark Kent , and I believe that his solid personality and principles are one of the greatest attraction of this series . Lex Luthor is also excellent , as usual . Title ( Brazil ) : " Perdido " ( " Lost " )
Three Evil Witches in Kansas	In 1604 , in France , three evil witches , one of them Lana Lang's ancestral Countess Margaret Isobel Tharow , are condemned to the pyre by Magistrate Wilkins , and Isabel spits blood on a symbol on a page of a book . In the present days , Lana buys the book , and when she touches the blood entwined with the symbol , her evil ancestor possesses her body . She makes a spell , bringing the other two witches to Chloe Sullivan and Lois Lane bodies . The powerful trio tries to seize the three Kryptonian stones to increase their power . Meanwhile , a surprise birthday party for Chloe in the barn of the Kent Farm becomes really hot , and the trio cast spells against Jason Teague , Lex Luthor and a powerless Clark Kent . " Spell " is a great episode of " Smallville " . The story is excellent , and Lex finally tells Lana that he was the one that fired Jason , and not Clark . It is very funny when one of the witches believes that she is in the woods of France , instead of in Kansas speaking in English . Title ( Brazil ) : " Feitiço " ( " Spell " )
The Truth About Professor Milton Fine	While retuning home with Lois , Martha is hit by a flash of light followed by a thunder and contracts a lethal Kryptonian disease . Clark believes that Jor-El is charging for his resuscitation and asks for help to Professor Milton Fine . He discloses to Clark that Jor-El was a dictator in Krypton , who destroyed their great leader Zod first , and the planet later and sent Clark to Earth to dominate the world . Further , the salvation of Martha would only be achieved though the destruction of the Fortress of Solitude . Meanwhile , Lionel convinces Chloe to investigate Professor Milton Fine and find who he really is . When Lois , feeling offended because Lex called her of " muffin peddler " , meets Chloe , the double decides to visit the LuthoCorp . , where the truth about Professor Milton Fine is revealed . " Solitude " is one of the best episodes of this excellent Fifth Season of " Smallville " . The naivety and pure heart of Clark once again jeopardizes him . The loyalty and skill of the snoopy Chloe once again saves his life . The love of Martha for him and the good advices of Jonathan show why Clark is such good person . Last but not the least , live your life to its fullest with those you love is the great message of this show . Title ( Brazil ) : " Solidão " ( " Solitude " )
Love at First Sight	While practicing motocross with Pete Ross , Clark Kent falls down through a hole in an underground cave and meets the Indian descendant Kyla Willowbrook ( Tamara Fieldman ) . The girl is investigating some mysterious ancient paintings in the walls of the cave , which might explain the origins of Clark , and they immediately fall in love for each other . Her grandparent and some ecologists are fighting against the construction of a Luthor Corp . building that will destroy the caves , but generate one thousand new jobs in Smallville . Martha becomes split between the both interests . Meanwhile , a wolf threatens one constructor , Martha Kent and Lionel Luthor , and Clark Kent believes that the Indian Chief is a mutant with the power of transforming himself in a wolf . " Skinwalker " is the first episode where Clark Kent has a girlfriend and is completely in love . The actress Tamara Fieldman is very beautiful and slightly reassembles Kristin Kreuk . The relationship between Lana and Mr . Small is finally disclosed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mutantes " ( " Mutants " )
The Dangerousness of the Absolute Truth	Chloe Sullivan visits a former friend of her father in Luthor Corp . to know if he is blacklisted , since all his applications are not accepted and he is not able to find a job . She steals his security card and breaks in the Luthor Corp . laboratory trying to find evidences , but she accidentally is exposed to a sort of gas that makes people tell the truth , exposing their innermost secrets . Chloe uses her ability to explore her curiosity of journalist , hurting people and showing the dangerousness of the absolute truth . " Truth " is a great episode of Smallville , showing the real feelings of many characters . We see a needy Lex Luthor looking for parental love ; Martha Kent's fears about Jonathan Kent recent attitudes ; Pete Ross's feelings for Chloe ; the application of Lana Lang in an art course in Paris ; the confirmation of the crime of Lionel Luthor against his parents . It shows also how people in general hide some of their feelings in order of not hurting the others . I recalled Jim Carrey's " Liar Liar " , where his character can not lie , getting into troubles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Verdade " ( " Truth " )
Homage to " Rashômon "	Lionel Luthor is shot twice in the Luthor's mansion . When Jonathan Kent is found drunken , with a pistol in one hand and a bottle of tequila in the other hand sleeping in his truck , he becomes the prime suspect of the attempt . All the evidences point to him , but Clark Kent believes in his innocence and tries to prove that his father has not shot Lionel . " Suspect " is an episode of " Smallville " visibly inspired in Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece " Rashômon " . Showing different perspectives of a crime , the surprising motives are disclosed only in the very end of the story . The destructive and evil character of Lionel Luthor is really disgusting . Title ( Brazil ) : " Suspeito " ( " Suspect " )
Miraculous Power	When Jonathan Kent goes to Smallville Medical Center for physical examination , his doctor diagnoses arterial blockage and recommends a heart surgery procedure with triple bypass . Meanwhile , Vince Davis ( Tahmoh Penikett ) , the older brother of Clark Kent's friend Garrett Davis ( James Kirk ) , needs a liver transplantation , but he does not resist and dies . His body is sent to be the subject of an experiment of Dr . Lia Teng ( Françoise Yip ) with blood platelet and revives . When Vince gets sick again , Garrett looses control and becomes a threat to the patients , employees and visitors of the hospital . " Resurrection " shows a miraculous power of Clark Kent . The story is good , and we finally understand the sort of research that Dr . Lia Teng is developing with blood platelet . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ressurreição " ( " Resurrection " )
An Almost Perfect Episode	While visiting his sick mother Rose Randall ( Retha Htton ) in the hospital , Tyler Randall ( Reynaldo Rosales ) is requested to commit euthanasia with her . The nurse witness the attempt , the security guard tries to arrest Tyler , he falls from the sixth floor and dies . When the coroner removes a green stone from his wrist , Tyler returns to life with a lethal touch . He decides to help terminal people to die becoming " The Reaper " . " Reaper " is an excellent episode of " Smallville " , with a discussion of father and son relationship : Clark and Jonathan , Lex and Lionel , Whitney and George , all of them facing and superseding somehow different situations . The difficulty of Clark and Jonathan to approach to each other after arguing is very human and real . Lex Luthor again is amazing , with his bitter relationship with his father , and trying to resolve the problems of his real friends , and Jonathan Kent finally shows some respect for him . The quote of Lex talking to Clark highlighted in IMDb ( " When my father dies , kings will come to his funeral , but when your father dies , his friends will come " ) is one of the best moments of this episode . In my opinion , " Reaper " is not perfect because of the sad fate of the character of Tyler , who was pressed by his mother's request ( " you will do it if you love me " ) and became " The Reaper " . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Anjo da Morte " ( " The Death Angel " )
Showing Integrity	After a drinking competition , the winner Lois Lane hits a drunken abusive player of the Bulldog football team and later , the guy is found paralyzed and Lois is arrested for aggression . The Metropolis University offers a scholarship to Clark Kent to play football , and he is welcomed by the idol Geoff Johns ( Chris Carmack ) . Seduced by the sorority girls and the reception of the other players , Clark takes a tough decision . Lex Luthor advises Lana Lang about the secrets of Jason Teague , including his encounter with her in Paris . In " Recruit " , Clark Kent shows a great integrity , sacrificing his love for football and building the character of a future national hero . I liked the proud reaction of Chloe Sullivan . The new mystery arisen by Lex Luthor about Jason and his mother Genevieve is very promising . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Novato " ( " The Rookie " )
Nightmare at Luthor Corp .	After having a scary nightmare , Jason Teague is interned in Metropolis Health Center with risk of death . Clark Kent and Chloe Sullivan decide to investigate , and find that Jason had had a meeting at Luthor Corp . a couple of hours before . They go to the plant , and Chloe has the same trouble . Sooner , many dwellers of Smallville have the same mysterious disease , and Clark finds that it is caused by an experimental bacteria released from Luthor Corp . ' s laboratory after an explosion in the facility , and the team of scientists is working in an antidote . Meanwhile , Lionel Luthor is released from prison . " Scare " is an episode that recalls " A Nightmare on Elm Street " , where Luthor Corp . would be the Freddy Krueger . The story is excellent , and the nightmare of Lex Luthor recalls a scene of " Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines " . I have a guess of who set Lionel Luthor free from the prison . Title ( Brazil ) : " Susto " ( " Scare " )
Seeking the Truth , Finding Some Answers	Clark Kent has some weird dreams with the Kawatche caves . When he puts the octagonal key in a hole in the wall of the cave , he immediately learns how to decode the symbols . Then , while waiting for Chloe Sullivan in the Kent's farm , his uncontrolled vision burns a symbol on the wall of the barn . Chloe publishes the picture in the front page of The Torch , and Clark receives an e ? mail from a wealthy and prominent scientist from New York . He schedules a meeting with Dr . Virgil Swann ( Christopher Reeve ) and learns about his origins in Krypton . The greatest attraction is this episode certainly is the participation of the former Superman Christopher Reeve disclosing to Kal-El his origins . The story is basically centered in Clark seeking the truth about his origins , and being partially satisfied with the answers . Title ( Brazil ) : " Respostas " ( " Answers " )
Blackmailed by a Dirty Cop	While visiting an exposition sponsored by the Luthor Corp . in Metropolis , Clark Kent saves a homeless from an out of control bus using his powerful body to stop the vehicle . The dirty detective Sam Phelan ( Cameron Dye ) witnesses the event , and blackmails the Kent family , promising to disclose the secret unless Clark steals his files from the internal affairs . Meanwhile Lex Luthor is visited by his former lover Victoria Hardwick ( Kelly Brook ) , the daughter of the greatest competitor of the Luthor Corp . " Rogue " is a very tense episode , one of the best of this series . Unfortunately the way the plot is resolved is quite predictable . Cameron Dye has an excellent performance in the role of his disgusting character , and the extremely beautiful actress Kelly Brook is another attraction . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Mau-Caráter " ( " The Bad Character " )
Reckless and Bold	During a rave party in the underground Kawatche caves discovered by the Indian descendant Kyla Willowbrook , the student Travis has a reckless attitude climbing a lamp tower and dies . Pete Ross is pierced by a parasite , becoming reckless and bold . Lex Luthor hires the linguistic specialist Dr . Fredrick Walden ( Rob LaBelle ) to decipher the meaning of the paintings in the cave . Clark invites Lana Lang to date on the next evening . Later , Clark Kent goes with Chloe Sullivan to the cave , and she is also pierced , changing immediately her behavior . When Pete puts a red kryptonite in the pocket of Clark , the trio makes lots of mess in Smallville and hurts the feelings of Lana . " Rush " is another great episode of Smallville . In this episode , Clark Kent finally invites Lana Lang to date , but the reason for the failure of the scheduled date is not compatible with the situation and problems of Pete and Chloe . Lana is not reasonable with her attitude . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pura Adrenalina " ( " Pure Adrenaline " )
A Great Hero From a Romantic Time	When I was a kid , ' The Phantom ' was my hero number one . I liked also the magazines of ' Mandrake ' , ' Superman ' , ' Batman ' , ' Tarzan ' and ' Zorro ' ( in this sequence ) , but I would not dare to compare any of them with ' The Phantom ' . For my surprise , the Brazilian distributor ' Classicline ' released an unknown ( at least for me ) 1943 version of a serial of ' The Phantom ' , in a double DVD without any extra . The story is composed by fifteen episodes as follows : 1 ) The Sign of the Skull ( ' O Sinal da Caveira ' ) ; 2 ) The Man Who Never Dies ( ' O Homem Que Nunca Morrre ' ) ; 3 ) A Traitor's Code ( ' Um Código de Traidor ' ) ; 4 ) The Seat of Judgement ( ' O Banco de Julgamento ' ) ; 5 ) The Ghost Who Walks ( ' O Fantasma Que Anda ' ) ; 6 ) Jungle Whispers ( ' Sussuros da Selva ' ) ; 7 ) The Mystery Well ( ' O Poço do Mistério ) ; 8 ) In the Quest of the Keys ( ' Em Busca das Chaves ' ) ; 9 ) The Fire Princess ( ' A Princesa do Fogo ' ) ; 10 ) The Chamber of Death ( ' A Câmara de Morte ' ) ; 11 ) The Emerald Key ( ' A Chave de Esmeralda ' ) ; 12 ) The Fangs of the Beast ( ' As Presas da Fera ' ) ; 13 ) The Road to Zoloz ( ' O Caminho Para Zoloz ' ) ; 14 ) The Lost City ( ' A Cidade Perdida ' ) ; and , 15 ) Peace in the Jungle ( ' Paz na Selva ' ) . The plot begins with the death of the ' old ' Phantom and his son ( Tom Tyler ) assuming his spot with his dog Devil ( Capeto , in Portuguese ) . Meanwhile , there are two expeditions trying to reach the lost city of Zoloz : the good one leaded by Professor Davidson ( Frank Shannon ) , with his daughter Diana Palmer ( Jeanne Bates ) in the team , having the intention of archeological research for an university in Melville . The evil one leaded by the diabolic Dr . Max Bremmer ( Kenneth MacDonald ) , who is serving a foreign country , and having the intention of building a hidden airport . The foreign nation is not specified in the story , but in 1943 , there were the World War II in Europe , therefore it is not difficult to guess which power Dr . Max Bremmer was serving . For reaching his intent and find the city of Zoloz , Prof . Davidson has a partial map composed of six ivory pieces , needing the last one to complete the track . The story follows the pattern of action movies of those romantic times : the hero never bleeds ; the villains use the most complicated ways and tricks to get rid off the hero ; in the end of each chapter , there is a missing scene , where the hero escapes from a dangerous situation ( explosions , gas , avalanche of stones , fire , water , shot etc . ) ; the heroin always screams when in danger ; when a porter dies , nobody cares . Further , it is politically incorrect in the present days , having an animal hunter as Phantom's best friend . This naive type of story may be silly in the present days for the younger generations ( and indeed it is ) , but it brings parts of my childhood back to my mind , and consequently I love it . The athletic actor Tom Tyler is in an excellent shape . I have no idea whether stunts were much used in 1943 . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Fantasma ' ( ' The Phantom ' )
Out of Control	After stealing an experimental flower from Dr . Steven Hamilton ( Joe Morton ) , the employee of the Luthor Corp . James Beales ( Bill Mondy ) has a truck accident on the road and is rescued by Jonathan Kent . However , the flower releases its pollen on Jonathan's faces , and he unleashes his innermost repressed desires first , and enters in coma later . Then , Lana Lang and Pete Ross are also affected by the Nicodemus flower in the same way . Lex Luthor hides from Clark Kent that Dr . Steven Hamilton is working for him , but they find the cure in an old book . " Nicodemus " is another great episode of this magnificent series . The dramatic story shows a surprisingly sexy Kristin Kreuk seducing Clark Kent , and I believe she seduced all the male viewers instead . There is an excellent sequence in the beginning with the accident on the road . The friendship of Lex Luthor and Clark Kent now shows some lies and omission of information from Lex . I am impressed with this series , since all the episodes are very good . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Flor " ( " The Flower " )
Closer Than Blood Brother	Lois Lane's sister Lucy leaves her boarding school in Switzerland and arrives in Smallville with the pretext of missing Lois . She is lodged in Kent Far , and later she discloses to Clark Kent that she owes $50 , 000 to a loan shark , and Clark asks Lex Luthor to help her . When Lois and Lucy are kidnapped by the criminal , Clark finds the truth of Lucy's visit . Meanwhile , the knowledge stone vanishes from Lana's apartment , and Jason threatens Lionel Luthor , asking for the stone . Lionel claims innocence . " Lucy " is a good episode of " Samllville " , with a new character , the troublemaker Lucy Lane . The story has the usual flaws , with the lack of explanations for most of the situations , but entertains . My favorite character is Lex Luthor , and in this episode he seems to really like Clark . Title ( Brazil ) : " Minha Irmã " ( " My Sister " )
Meeting the Future Boss	When a huge comet collides on the surface of the sun , the surge provokes changes in the abilities of Clark Kent . While running to meet Pete Ross and Lana Lang in the Talon , Clark suddenly stops on the road , and the drunken driver journalist Perry White ( Michael McKean ) crashes his car against a pole trying to avoid him . Perry blackmails Jonathan Kent , requesting Clark to support him for a couple of days in Smallville . Perry is writing a matter about the meteor shower and becomes interested in the abilities of Clark . Meanwhile , the upset Lex Luthor has psychoanalysis due to imposition of the insurance company to Luthor Corp . In " Perry " , Clark Kent has an interesting meeting with his future Daily Planet boss Perry White . The episode is well constructed and is the best of this Third Season up to this moment . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Reporter " ( " The Reporter " )
The Arrival of the Greatest Superhero on Smallville	A meteor shower falls in the city of Smallville , killing dwellers and destroying properties and plantations . The locals Jonathan Kent ( John Schneider ) and his wife Martha Kent ( Annette O'Toole ) are found by a baby boy in a destroyed cornfield after crashing their car ; they find his spacecraft ; and they adopt him . Many years later , while in high school , the shy teenager Clark Kent ( Tom Welling ) has a crush on his neighbor Lana Lang ( Kristin Kreuk ) , the cheerleader girlfriend of the football player Whitney Fordman ( Eric Johnson ) ; he has two great friends , Chloe Sullivan ( Allison Mack ) and Pete Ross ( Sam Jones III ) . He saves his friend Lex Luthor ( Michael Rosenbaum ) from a car accident ; his father tells him his origins from the outer space ; he finds his weakness with kryptonite ; and although humiliated by Whitney Fordman , he saves his life from a disturbed powerful electric man . This first episode of " Smallville " series is excellent : very nice cast , wonderful cinematography and music score , and a great story . Could not be better and my vote is nine . Title ( Brazil ) : " Piloto " ( " Pilot " )
Acts of Violence and Consequences	When Lana Lang is assaulted by three drunken costumers , Clark Kent defends her and hits the guys , and the new Smallville Sheriff Nancy Adams ( Camille Mitchell ) arrests Clark . One of bad elements , Andrew Connors ( Michael Adamthwaite ) , fakes a serious injury and sues the Kent in a huge amount . Dr . Helen Bryce is stalked by her former university boy-friend Paul Hayden ( Anson Mount ) , a very sick and deranged man . Meanwhile , Lana Lang decides to have training in self-defense with Lex Luthor . " Precipice " is another great episode of " Smallville " . The story shows that for any act of violence , there is a consequence , which sometimes may not be fair and inclusive generate false accusation . Title ( Brazil ) : " Precipício " ( " Precipice " )
Investigating the Past and Disclosing Hidden Secrets	When Lana Lang is hit by a blow of a gas pipeline in the field , she has visions of a criminal and sees Chloe Sullivan being kidnapped . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor is visited by the despicable reporter Roger Nixon ( Tom O'Brien ) that convinces him to open again the investigation of the mysterious events surrounding the meteor shower of years ago . " Obscura " presents two different stories at the same time : the one about the power achieved by Lana Lang in her accident , but the most important is the one about the achievement of a piece of Clark Kent's spacecraft by Dr . Steven Hamilton ( Joe Morton ) in the fields and the investigation of Roger Nixon . I believe the series will take another route along the next episodes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Oculto " ( " Hidden " )
The Dark Side of Luthor	While performing an experiment with heated kryptonite at the Luthorcop's facility , the laboratory blows and the dark side of Lex Luthor is separated from him . The mean Lex controls and imprisons the good one in a room , wearing an iron mask like in Alexandre Dumas's novel , and spread evil among Lana Lang , Clark Kent , Chloe Sullivan and Lionel Luthor . In this episode , the evilness sleeping within Lex Luthor is disclosed , showing how wicked he can be , destroying people , relationships and awaking the worst of Lionel Luthor . Now it seems that the old Lionel is back : his last sentence , " We are the Luthors " , is something scary . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Vilão " ( " The Villain " )
The Enemy of My Enemy Is My Friend	Michael and Lincoln escape with Kellerman , who crosses a road block using his badge , and they fly to Blackfoot , Montana , to meet Terrence Steadman . In Fox River , Bellick is having a hard time especially with Banks and his gang . In Ness City , Kansas , T-Bag meets Susan and her children ; when she tries to kill him , he ties the whole family to chairs . In Mound City , Nebraska , Dede is missing her mother and C-Note is trying to contact her . Mahone is alive in a hospital in Albuquerque ; when Mahone tells that he is out , Bill Kim hits his son with a car to intimidate him . Mahone leaves the hospital and calls him telling that he is back . Kellerman , Michael and Lincoln abduct Steadman and Kellerman kills the two bodyguards . However , they realize that Steadman is actually a John Doe , since his existence has been erased by the Company . Michael decides to call the press to turn himself in with tragic consequences . In " John Doe " , Bellick tastes all the corrupted system in Fox River that he used on his favor . C-Note is in check-mate with the situation of Kacee . T-Bag will probably revenge against Susan and her family . Mahone is now an unpredictable time-bomb ready to explode . The attitude of Terrence Steadman was predictable . Title ( Brazil ) : " João Ninguém " ( " John Doe " )
The Essence of Evil in a Future Classic	Kelby Unger ( Ward Roberts ) is a young man from a dysfunctional family that lives with his girlfriend Amelia Gates ( Christy Jackson ) and has sleeping problems with dreadful nightmares . When he proposes Amelia , he coincidently receives a phone call from the warden of the prison of his hometown telling that his father had just died from heart attack . He decides to return to Bisbee for the funeral and Amelia goes with him . Kelby and Amelia lodge at his mother's house and he meets his slut sister Trish ( Alexa Havins ) , his former friends James Lilly ( Aaron Gaffey ) and the policeman Wally ( Jeremiah Jordan ) and his unknown uncle Tom ( John Coffman ) . When Wally has a nervous breakdown with the name of Joshua , Kelby is haunted by the evil past in Bisbee . Yesterday I saw " Joshua " and I am still impressed with this disturbing and sick movie . The director and writer Travis Betz has been well-succeeded in capturing the essence of evil and horror , creating a very original low-budget movie that confronts the innocence of a baby with the twisted and mean minds of three very bad boys . I dare to compare the importance and originality " Joshua " in the horror genre to George A . Romero's " Night of the Living Dead " , Sam Raimi's " The Evil Dead " or Tobe Hooper's " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , just to mention a few of movies that became the basis for many rip-offs . Further , with an appropriate distribution and marketing , I believe " Joshua " has potential to be a future classic in the genre . The story is very simple but credible , with a fantastic camera that explores unusual angles , great acting of unknown actors and actresses and I must confess that I had trouble to sleep after watching " Joshua " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Joshua "
Very Delightful Thanksgiving Tale	In a very poor zone of New York , April Burns ( Katie Holmes ) and her boyfriend , the Afro-American Bobby ( Derek Luke ) , are preparing to receive April's family for a thanksgiving dinner . While Bobby tries to borrow a suit for him , April realizes that her stove is broken and she tries desperately to find a neighbor that can let her cook the turkey , since she does not want to fail ( again ) with her family . Meanwhile , in a suburb of Pennsylvania , her dysfunctional family is preparing to travel to New York . While driving in the road , the relationship between the Burns and the black-sheep April is disclosed through the conversations between her father Jim ( Oliver Platt ) , her resented mother Joy ( Patricia Clarkson ) , her brother , her sister and her grandmother . " Pieces of April " is an enjoyable and very delightful thanksgiving tale . This low budget movie has a very simple story , being sometimes a mean dramatic comedy of errors , but touching deep in the heart of the viewer . The cast is very inspired , highlighting the performances of Katie Holmes and Patricia Clarkson . The parallel way the story is disclosed is magnificent , developing clearly each character , and showing their feelings and resentments . I did not like the character of April's neighbor Wayne ( Sean Hayes ) , since it is not clear if he is a weird or just a stupid man . " Pieces of April " is a gem to be discovered by sensitive viewers . Title ( Brazil ) : " Do Jeito Que Ela É " ( " In the Way She Is " )
One of the Most Delightful Movies of the 80's	Yesterday I watched this movie for the 5th or 6th time , now on DVD . Certainly it is one of the most delightful comedies of the 80's . Steve Martin is a lawyer by career and musician by hobby who shares the soul of a selfish millionaire ( Lily Tomlin ) during an unsuccessful transmigration to the body of the character of Victoria Tennant . The situations are so funny , the magnificent cast is so sharp ( specially Steve Martin and Lily Tomlin ) , that the viewer will certainly love this movie . Please stay watching it until the end of the credits , when you will see Steve Martin falling down while dancing with Lily Tomlin . Title ( Brazil ) : " Um Espírito Baixou em Mim " ( " One Spirit Possessed Me " )
Outstanding Familiar Drama	In Baixada Fluminense , a proletarian and large area in the State of Rio de Janeiro , the fifteen years old Eliane ( Fernanda Torres ) lives with her neurotic and frustrated mother Eunice ( Marieta Severo ) , and her sick father Milton ( Reginaldo Farias ) , an earlier retired sergeant of the army and they do not have a good relationship at home . When Eliane meets Otávio ( Carlos Augusto Strazzer ) , a divorced man eighteen years old older than Eliane , and they fall in love for each other , her family presses Eliane in such an unbearable situation that she runaway from home to another city . " Com Licença , Eu Vou à Luta " is an outstanding drama of a low middle-class family , based on the biography of Eliane Maciel . The story is based on the conflicts between the frustrations of a mother and the sentimental life of her young daughter , and is very engaging . Although being a low-budget movie , the story is real and very updated and the performances of the cast are excellent , highlighting Fernanda Torres and Marieta Severo . Title ( Brazil ) : " Com Licença , Eu Vou à Luta " ( it is a idiomatic expression in Portuguese , meaning : " Excuse-me , I am Leaving " )
Traitors and Truth	In 1944 , in the occupied Holland , the Jewish Rachel Stein ( Carice van Houten ) is hiding from the Nazis in a house of a Christian family . When her hiding place is bombed , Rachel escapes by chance , but she is found by a stranger called Van Gein ( Peter Blok ) that invites her to join a group of Jews in a boat to escape to Belgium on the next night . He advises her to bring money and jewels for her survival and very few luggage . Rachel visits lawyer and friend of her family Wim Small ( Dolf de Vries ) that gives her a large amount for her travel . When she meets the refugees , she finds that her family is in the group . While crossing the swamp , a Nazi patrol boat arrives and kills the fugitives , but Rachel is the only one to survive . Later she joins a cell of resistance leaded by the Dutch Gerben Kuipers ( Derek de Lint ) under the identity of Ellis de Vries ; after meeting the Nazi Officer Ludwig Müntze ( Sebastian Koch ) in a train , Kuipers proposes Ellis to work as a spy seducing Müntze . During her assignment , Rachel recognizes Günther Franken ( Waldemar Kobus ) as the commander of the attack to the boat of refugees and later she discovers that the murders are part of a scheme with a traitor in the resistance team . " Zwartboek " is a spectacular epic , with an impressive theme that joins drama , romance , action , betrayals and thriller in times of war in a story full of twists . Paul Verhoeven has another awesome work not only as director , but also as writer together with Gerard Soeteman . The locations , cinematography and art decoration are amazing , with a magnificent reconstruction of the landscapes of Netherlands in the end of World War II . The performances are top-notch , and the actress Carice van Houten is wonderful , giving a unique acting . I regret only that this skilled actress is absolutely unknown in Brazil , and I really expect to have a chance to see her again on the screen . I only do not understand why this outstanding movie has no nominations to the Oscar . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Espiã " ( " The Spy " )
Intriguing and Unique	In New Orleans , while in her deathbed , the elder Daisy ( Cate Blanchett ) asks her daughter Caroline ( Julia Ormond ) to read the journal of Benjamin Button ( Brad Pitt ) for her . Caroline reads the fascinating story of a man that was born a diseased old man on the day that the First World War ended ; abandoned by his desperate father Thomas Button ( Jason Flemyng ) in an asylum for elders and raised as a son by the black caregiver Queenie ( Taraji P . Henson ) . While aging backwards , Benjamin meets the girl Daisy and they become friends ; then he works as a sailor in the towboat Chelsea and travels through the world , participating of the World War II after the attack to Pearl Harbor ; finds love with Mrs . Elizabeth Abbott ( Tilda Swinton ) and returns to New Orleans , when he meets his biological father and Daisy , who is working as ballerina in New York until he finally dies as a baby . While reading the diary , Caroline discloses a secret about her family . " The Curious Case of Benjamin Button " is one of the most intriguing movies ever . The original story is supported by an interesting and curious screenplay that discloses the whole life of Benjamin Button and a stunning direction of David Fincher . The cast is magnificent , and it is not easy to highlight an individual performance ( I loved Cate Blanchett ) , supported by magnificent cinematography and make-up . Surprisingly there are bad reviews of this movie that I recommend for those viewers that seeks a gem that is unique . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Curioso Caso de Benjamin Button " ( " The Curious Case of Benjamin Button " )
A Very Sad Drama Based on a True Story	In New York , the Catholic Italian musician of the Stork Club Christopher Emanuel " Manny " Balestrero ( Henry Fonda ) is a simple man , married with his beloved wife Rose ( Vera Miles ) and having two sons . On 14 January 1953 , his wife needs an expensive teeth treatment , and Manny goes to the insurance company , trying to raise a loan . However , he is wrongly identified by a clerk as the man who robbed the place twice , being arrested and sent to jail . His friends pay the bail and he tries to prove his innocence . Meanwhile , Rose has a nervous breakdown , caused by her mistrust on his innocence , and is sent to an institution for treatment . " The Wrong Man " is a very sad and touching story of the injustice against an innocent man , affecting the health of his family . Henry Fonda is amazing in the role of an ordinary man , who accepts passively the situations , believing on God and praying for strength and justice . Vera Miles is fantastic in the role of a wife who believe she has part of the guilty for the action of her beloved husband . This movie was filmed in many authentic locations , and is a very different work of Alfred Hitchcock . Maybe due to the theme be so serious , Hitchcock appears only introducing of the story , and does not have any other small participations as he usually does in his movies . The black and white photography , with shadows , and the score of Bernard Herrmann , complete the magnificence of this great underrated movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem Errado " ( " The Wrong Man " )
A Tale of Obsession , Loneliness and Machiavellism	The bitter , cynical and lonely Barbara Covett ( Judi Dench ) is a tough and conservative teacher near to retirement that is loathed by her colleagues and students . In the loneliness of her apartment , she spends her spare time writing her journal , taking care of her old cat Portia and missing her special friend Jennifer Dodd . When Sheba Hart ( Cate Blanchett ) joins the high-school as the new art teacher , Barbara dedicates her attention to the newcomer , writing sharp and unpleasant comments about her behavior and clothes . When Barbara helps Sheba in a difficult situation with two students , the grateful Sheba invites her to have lunch with her family . Sheba introduces her husband and former professor Richard Hart ( Bill Nighy ) , who is about twenty years older than she ; her rebellious teenager daughter Polly ( Juno Temple ) ; and her son Ben ( Max Lewis ) that has Dawn Syndrome . Barbara becomes close to Sheba , but when she accidentally discovers that Sheba is having an affair with the fifteen year-old student Steven Connolly ( Andrew Simpson ) , Barbara sees the chance to manipulate and get closer to Sheba , hiding the secret from the school headmaster . When Portia dies and Sheba does not stay with Barbara in the veterinary office to see Ben in a theater play , Barbara plots a Machiavellian revenge against Sheba , creating a scandal and consequent turmoil in their lives . " Note on a Scandal " is a gem to be discovered by movie lovers . This tale of obsession , loneliness and Machiavellism is supported by a magnificent screenplay and awesome performances of Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett , two of the best actresses of the cinema industry in the present days . The story has drama , romance , passion , lust , obsession and eroticism disclosed in an adequate pace . The development of the lead characters is perfect , disclosing two lonely and obsessed women , one compulsive and loathed by everybody around her , and the other that is the object of desire of the old teacher , her husband and a young student . The result is one of the best movies that I have recently seen . Title ( Brazil ) : " Notas Sobre Um Escândalo " ( " Notes on a Scandal " )
A Wonderful Concert For a Great Cause	On December 10th , 1998 , at the Bercy Omnisport Arena in Paris , a concert was presented celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , beginning with Peter Gabriel , Tracy Chapman , Bruce Springsteen and Youssou N'Dour singing ' Get Up , Stand Up ' . Then , Alanis Morissette sings ' Baba ' , ' Hand in My Pocket ' and ' Thank U ' . Kasav presents a medley , followed by ' Asian Dub Foundation ' presenting ' Black White ' . Tracy Chapman sings ' New Beginning ' . Bruce Springsteen sings ' No Surrender ' , ' Born in USA ' with a different arrangement and ' Working in the Highway ' . The marvelous Jimmy Page and Robert Plant present ' Babe I'm Gonna Leave You ' and the classic ' Rock and Roll ' . Shania Twain sings the song she made for her husband , ' You're Still the One ' and ' Black Eyes , Blue Tears ' . Radiohead presents ' Karma Police ' , ' Bones ' and ' Paranoid Android ' . Last but not the least , Youssou N'Dour sings ' 7 Seconds ' with Peter Gabriel , Tracy Chapman and Jocelyn Beroard ' . Between the presentation of each artist , beautiful messages about the importance of the Human Rights and the role of the Amnesty International are presented , inclusive with the touching presence of Dalai Lama himself live on the stage . Michael Stipe ( REM ) , Richard Gere , Ray Liotta , Matthew Modine and many other personalities of the artistic world give their support to this great cause through important statements . A must see concert ! Title ( Brazil ) : ' The Paris Concert for Amnesty International ? The Struggle Continues '
Never is too Late to Live , Watch the Sunset and Plant a Seed of Love	In a Post-War Tokyo , when the bureaucratic chief of department of the City Hall Kanji Watanabe ( Takashi Shimura ) finds that he has a terminal cancer , he decides to intensively live his last months of life . While dying , he finds the meaning of life , and fights for the construction of a playground in a poor zone of the city and the legacy of his existence . " Ikiru " is another beautiful movie of Master Akira Kurosawa . The story is very touching and shows the lifestyle of Japan in the 50's . The performance of Takashi Shimura is amazing and heartbreaking , in the role of a man that finds that he spent his life for nothing : his son , motive of his sacrifice , does not care for him and his unproductive job does nothing but useless paperwork and a pejorative nickname of " Mummy " . In the end , a wonderful message that never is too late to live , watch the sunset and plant a seed of love . Title ( Brazil ) : " Viver " ( " To Live " )
Stolen Identity	Meow ( Anat Klausner ) is a young woman that wanders on the streets of Tel Aviv , dealing drugs in nightclubs to survive and spending the nights in empty apartments . When she meets Alex Kaplan ( Pini Tavger ) in a chat room , he schedules to meet her and she invites him to go to a nightclub . However , the place has a terrorist attack with a suicide bomber and Alex is seriously wounded , being hospitalized in coma . Meow moves to his apartment and gradually she assumes his identity . When Alex vanishes from the hospital , Meow discloses the escapism of her mind . " Yamim Kfuim " is a fascinating and unforgettable movie that any fan of David Lynch will certainly worship . The promising director and writer Danny Lerner presents on his debut a stylish and intriguing low-budget movie shot in a magnificent black and white cinematography and with an awesome screenplay that uses the concept of " Jacob's Ladder " to end the story . In spite of that , the plot point is totally unexpected and I really loved this film . His work is supported by the gorgeous and sweet Anat Klausner , an unknown actress that has a stunning performance . I hope to have a chance to see his next work in a near future , and I can not understand how an actress with the potential of Anat Klausner has only this excellent movie in her filmography . Title ( Brazil ) : " Identidade Roubada " ( " Stolen Identity " )
Learning the US & A Culture	The second best reporter of Kazakhstan , Borat Sagdiyev ( Sacha Baron Cohen ) , and his producer Azamat Bagatov ( Ken Davitian ) are sent by the Ministry of Culture of his country to New York , to prepare a documentary about " The American Way of Life " . Once in the Apple City , Borat sees an episode of " Baywatch " and falls in love for Pamela Anderson . He lures his producer and convinces him to travel to California to achieve better interviews . Along his road trip , Borat has good and bad experiences with the North American people . " Borat " is one of the funniest and most hilarious comedies I have ever seen . The original story has many low level and politically incorrect jokes , and may be unpleasant for intellectuals , Jews and people from Kazakhstan , not necessarily in this order . I saw the trailer of this film and immediately watched the DVD , and I laughed so much that I started coughing and need to have a break . I have just included this film in my IMDb profile as one of my favorites ever . If you open-minded and enjoy jokes , most of them offensive to conservative people and some minorities , you will love this film ; otherwise , why spending your time ? Just to write bad reviews ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Borat "
And Now George Lucas Can Rest in Peace	In the end of the beginning of the Star Wars saga , the origin of the dark Darth Vader is satisfactorily explained in this third episode . The story is good , but very short , and most of the time we see excessive special effects , sometimes polluting the screen with too much details . I love " Star Wars " series , but I do not like George Lucas . This director , in 1971 , surprised the world with the cult " THX-1138 " . In 1973 , another great movie : " American Graffiti " . Then , in 1977 , he directed the fantastic " Star Wars " . That was the end of a promising career of director : from this moment on , he limited to the sequels and prequels of Star Wars . Sometimes I wonder if Steven Spielberg limited his career to " Duel " ( 1971 ) , " Jaws " ( 1975 ) , " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " ( 1977 ) , and then " Raiders of Last Ark " episode IV , then V , then VI , then many special editions , then I , then II , and at last III . He would be certainly wealthy , but probably without the recognition he has and certainly " dead " as director . Title ( Brazil ) : " Star Wars III ? A Vingança dos Sith " ( " Star Wars III ? The Revenge of the Sith " )
A Frightening and Awesome Personification of Evil	Jon ( Andrew Howard ) is a cold blood and very efficient assassin and torturer with no friends , who works to his mentor and protector , the sadistic Tattooed Man ( David Calder ) . The murders of Jon are very clean and sophisticated , as if they were a work of art . When Jon meets his former school friend Andy ( Andrew Thiernan ) and his wife Cathy ( Geraldine O'Rawe ) , his world becomes divided by life ( with Andy and Cathy ) and death ( with Tattooed Man ) , and Jon becomes a conflicted man , living between good and evil in the in-between of these realities , and trying to redeem his soul . " Mr . In-Between " is probably the greatest surprise of the year for me , a gem to be discovered by movie-lovers . This low-budget movie , if found by the viewers , certainly will become a cult-movie . The frightening and awesome story showing the personification of evil is spectacular , without any concessions to any characters . The battle between the good and the evil is amazing , and there are two specific scenes that impressed me a lot : the first one when Jon " saves " Cathy and her daughter from the Tattooed Man ; and when the Father vomits in the church after hearing the confession of Jon , when he asked : " - Do you still love me , Father ? " . The direction is amazing , using magnificently the camera . Andrew Howard is one of the most scariest killers I have ever seen in films , and his cruelty is comparable to John Doe ( Kevin Space ) in " Seven " . David Calder is perfect as the personification of the Devil , in a cruel and sadistic character . Sometimes , some friends of mine question me why I spend time watching B or C-movies , instead of only classics and famous movies . Movies like " Mr . In-Between " show that my procedure is correct , otherwise I would never find unknown jewels like this one . I am very impressed with this movie , scarier than most of the Hollywood horror movies , which I recommend to a very specific audience . Title ( Brazil ) : " Sr . Morte " ( " Mr . Death " )
A Great Tale of Rivalry , Obsession , Revenge and Sacrifice	In the end of the Nineteenth Century , in London , Robert Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) , his beloved wife Julia McCullough ( Piper Perabo ) and Alfred Borden ( Christian Bale ) are friends and assistants of a magician . When Julia accidentally dies during a performance , Robert blames Alfred for her death and they become enemies . Both become famous and rival magicians , sabotaging the performance of the other on the stage . When Alfred performs a successful trick , Robert becomes obsessed trying to disclose the secret of his competitor with tragic consequences . " The Prestige " is a great tale of rivalry , obsession , revenge and sacrifice . The unpredictable screenplay has many twists , disclosing unusual situations and hooking the attention of the viewer until the very last scene . Christopher Nolan , after the masterpiece " Memento " , offers another excellent movie for the cinema lovers , better and better than the Oscar winner " The Departed " . The amazing dispute between the outstanding Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman is supported by the extraordinary Michael Caine and a wonderful cinematography . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Grande Truque " ( " The Great Trick " )
Three Amoral Tales of One of the Best Brazilian Writers	' Betrayal ' is an adaptation to the screen of three amoral tales of Nelson Rodrigues , one of the best Brazilian contemporaneous writers . 1st Episode : ' O Primeiro Pecado ' ( ' The First Sin ' ) Director : Arthur Fontes ( 02 Nov 2004 ) Mário ( Pedro Cardoso ) meets the married woman Irene ( Fernanda Torres ) in the bus station , and a few days later , he invites her to go to the apartment of his friend Jordão ( Tonico Pereira ) for having sex . Revelations and lies are disclosed in the end . 2nd Episode : ' Diabólica ' ( ' Evil Woman ' ) Director : Claudio Torres ( 02 Nov 2004 ) On the rainy day of his wedding with Dagmar ( Fernanda Torres ) , Geraldo ( Daniel Dantas ) goes to a precinct with the dead body of his bride's sister Alicinha ( Ludmila Dayer ) . While waiting for the family , Geraldo tells Marshal Argemiro Santos ( Francisco Cuoco ) a sordid and sick story . Further dirty revelations are disclosed in the end . 3rd Episode : ' Cachorro ! ' ( ' Dog ! ' , literally , but meaning ' Bastard ! ' ) Director : José Henrique Fonseca ( 02 Nov 2004 ) A husband ( Alexandre Borges ) goes to a cheap hotel room , where he finds his best friend ( José Henrique Fonseca ) having sex with his wife ( Drica Moraes ) . The story has a tragic end . I am a great fan of Nelson Rodrigues and I used to read his column on the newspaper ( although many of his texts were about his soccer team ' Fluminense ' , and mine is his opponent ' Flamengo ' ) and some of his books . Many screenplays in the Brazilian cinema or TV series or theater plays are adaptation of his stories . His corrupted and amoral view of the values of the society and religion has always fascinated me . ' Betrayal ' is performed by some of the best Brazilian actors and actresses , leaded by Fernanda Montenegro and Fernanda Torres . My global vote is nine . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Traição ' ( ' Betrayal ' )
Cruel Classic Romance	In Columbia Clay , Missouri , the young and naive Carrie Meeber ( Jennifer Jones ) boards the train expecting to meet her older sister in Chicago and have a better life in the big city . While traveling in the train , she meets the fabric salesman Charles Drouet ( Eddie Albert ) , who gives her his card . Once in Chicago , she finds a simple job in a shoe factory sewing shoes , but when she injures a finger , she is fired . Unable to find another job , she looks for Charles , and he invites her to have dinner at the Fitzgerald's , the most expensive restaurant of Chicago , where she meets the elegant middle-age manager George Hurstwood ( Laurence Olivier ) . Carrie moves to Charles ' apartment and becomes her lover due to the lack of options , and later George falls in love for her . Pressed by his wife and by the owner of the restaurant to forget Carrie , George leaves all his possessions behind and embezzles a fortune from the restaurant , traveling with Carrie to New York expecting to rebuild his life , but the shadows of his past are cruel with him . Meanwhile , Carrie matures and becomes successful in her business . " Carrie " is a cruel classic romance , with a stunning performance of the great British actor Laurence Olivier , who surprisingly was not nominated as Best Lead Actor to the Oscar . I am really impressed with his acting in this movie , being perfect either as an elegant upper class man or as a beggar . The direction of William Wiler is brilliant and stylist as usual , supported by magnificent costumes and decorations . Jennifer Jones , Eddie Albert and Miriam Hopkins give credibility to their characters with their great performances . The romantic and dramatic story does not have the usual commercial happy end of Hollywood movies , but a credible and realistic conclusion , and maybe that is why I loved this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Perdição Por Amor " ( " Perdition for Love " )
How Many Acts of Genocide Does It Take to Make a Genocide	In April , 1994 , the airplane of the Hutu President of Rwanda crashes and the Hutu militias slaughter the Tutsi population . In the Ecole Technique Officielle , the Catholic priest Christopher ( John Hurt ) and the idealistic English teacher Joe Connor ( Hugh Dancy ) lodge two thousand and five hundred Rwandans survivors in the school under the protection of the UN Belgian force and under siege of the Hutu militia . When the Tutsi refugees are abandoned by the UN , they are murdered by the extremist militia . After the magnificent 1994 " Hotel Rwanda " , the world has the chance to see another testimony of the genocide in Rwanda , where eight hundred thousand ( 800 , 000 ) people was killed between April and July of 1994 under the total absence of protection or intervention of the United Nation . This powerful and touching true story was filmed in the real locations with the support of the survivors of the massacre . John Hurt is fantastic in the role of a suffered Catholic priest that dedicated his life to the people of this poor country , and Hugh Dancy is also amazing with an excellent interpretation . There are magnificent lines , but I personally was moved when Joe asks Christopher how much pain can a human being take , when he sees the mother being killed by machete strikes with her baby son by one killer of the militia . The questions about God's role the children ask Father Christopher are also great . The feelings of Rachel about the differences between the situation in Bosnia and in Rwanda are very sincere and the sacrifice of Christopher is something very beautiful in this film . The last question to the UN representative " - How many acts of genocide does it take to make a genocide ? " in the procedures , regulations , viewpoint of whatever from UN closes this sad but recommended movie with golden key . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tiros em Ruanda " ( " Shots in Rwanda " )
A Wonderful and Very Realistic Movie About Relationship in Different Phases of Life	Carlos ( Stefano Accorsi ) is a twenty-nine years old man , who works in an advertisement agency and has been living with his girlfriend Giulia ( Giovanna Mezzogiorno ) for three years . When she gets pregnant and he meets the delicious eighteen years old Francesca ( Martina Stella ) , his relationship with Giulia have a crisis , since he is not ready to reach adulthood . Francesca has a crush and dreams on Carlos . His three best friends have also problems with their mates : Adriano ( Giorgio Pasotti ) has just had a son and has problems to take the responsibilities of the fatherhood , while his wife Livia ( Sabrina Impacciatory ) becomes very connected to the baby , neglecting their marriage ; Alberto ( Marco Cocci ) has no ties with any woman , limiting to use them sexually ; and Paolo ( Claudio Santamaria ) has a passion for his former lover . Meanwhile , Giulia's mother , Anna Stefania Sandrelli ) , has a middle-age crisis , jeopardizing her marriage . " L'Ultimo Bacio " is a beautiful and delightful movie about relationship in different phases of life . The story is very intelligent and realistic , reaching characters of different ages to show the crisis that most of the persons pass along their lives in their relationship with their mates . Whose teenager has never had a passion for a man or woman , like the character of Francesca ? And the doubts and insecurity about fatherhood or motherhood , like Carlos , Giulia , Adriano and Livia ? And the love jealousy , like Paolo ? And the middle age crisis , like Anna ? Therefore , the story certainly catch a phase in the life of the viewer himself or herself , and he or she will certainly identify the situation of a character as his or her own . The beauties of Giovanna Mezzogiorno , with her magnificent blue eyes , and Martina Stella , with her wonderful body and look , are another attraction in this lovely and highly recommended movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Último Beijo " ( " The Last Kiss " )
The Karma of a Wealthy Country , In an Engaging Movie	In 1990 , the producer Robert Wiener ( Michael Keaton ) convinces the direction of CNN to go to Iraq with his crew due to the increasing tension of this country with USA . When Baghdad was bombed and Iraq invaded in 1991 , CNN was the unique television broadcasting the events , being worldwide projected as a great news channel . I liked very much ' Live From Baghdad ' , mainly because the story is very decent and engaging and stays politically neutral , trying not to manipulate the viewer with any political crap , and limiting to show the hard work and difficulties of the CNN team to work in country under the pressure of an eminent war and with a totally different culture . The direction and the performance of the cast are excellent , but Michael Keaton , Helena Bonham Carter and David Suchet ( whose name I have not found in the IMDb credits ) are superb . The original title of my review was ' A Decent Movie ' , and for my surprise there is another review with this title . Once there is a very interesting line about the karma of a country with oil fields , which would be a cemetery of forest and dinosaurs , I decided to highlight this uncommon reference . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Ao Vivo de Bagdá ' ( ' Live From Baghdad ' )
A Great Adventure	The story of Buffalo Bill ( Joel McCrea ) is showed basically in two parts , beginning in 1877 : in the West , when he meets his future wife Louisa Frederici Cody ( Maureen O'Hara ) , his friendship with the Indians , specially with Yellow Hand ( Anthony Quinn ) , and his work , as an explorer of the wild West , ending when his wife returns to the East with his baby son and with a battle against the Cheyenne . The second part begins when he moves to the East , loses his son , separates from his wife , defends the Indians in the civilized society until his retirement . I liked this movie a lot : the battle scenes are fantastic , the story has action , romance , drama and is not corny . I do not know whether the facts are correctly presented or not , but as a movie , it is a great entertainment , recommended for all audiences . Maureen O'Hara's beauty is stunning . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Buffalo Bill '
Paintings at an Exhibition , in a Magnificent Contemplative Art Work	In Delfti , Holland , 1665 , the poor seventeen years old Griet ( Scarlett Johansson ) is hired as a maid in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( Colin Firth ) , to maintain her family . The Vermeer family is supported by the powerful and wealthy commissioner Van Ruijven ( Tom Wilkinson ) , and is totally dependent on the inspiration of master Johannes Vermeer to keep their high standard of living as if they were rich . When Griet arrives in the breast of Vermeer's family , she understands the relation of power among the members of the family and Van Ruijven , and meanwhile , a platonic love and attraction develop between Johannes and her , due to her feelings and perspective relative to his work . " Girl With a Pearl Earring " is a magnificent contemplative art work and a beautiful dramatic romance based on a famous painting , which has this name . It is known that the maid who worked in Vermeer's house was the model and inspiration for such a piece of arts . However , the dramatization , based on an adaptation of Tracy Chevalliers's novel , is a fiction . The reconstitution of Delftt in the Seventeenth Century is amazingly perfect , being based on paintings of that time . Watching this film , the viewer feels as if he or she were seeing paintings at an exhibition , and if he or she pauses the DVD on any scene , will have a magnificent painting on the screen of the TV . The intense performance of the cast and direction are overwhelming , highlighting the spectacular Scarlett Johansson , who is in my opinion , one of the best " new " actress in the cinema industry . Most of the feelings and sensations of the characters are transmitted through the looks and expressions of the actors and actresses . This movie had three Oscar nominations in 2003 ( cinematography , art direction and costume design ) and two Golden Globe nominations , and is highly recommended to any viewer who appreciates arts . I am a positive fan of movies , I always try to find the beautiful points or entertainment it can offer , instead of looking for destructive parts , like most of the professional critics do , but " Girl With a Pearl Earring " has superseded my uppermost expectations . Title ( Brazil ) : " Moça Com Brinco de Pérola " ( " Young Woman With Pearl Earring ' )
The Question Is to Survive	Michael receives Mahone's e-mail as if he were Sucre telling that T-Bag is in the Fin del Camino Hotel in Panama City . Michael watches T-Bag and discovers that two agents are stalking him . Out of the blue , Bellick and Sucre arrive in the spot and Michael finds that he was lured by the message . Sucre explains to Michael that Bellick kidnapped Maricruz and asks for help to get the money . Meanwhile , the tape is allowed in Sara's trial in Chicago but the testimony of Michael does not help her . The prosecutor proposes a twelve years sentence deal . Kellerman polishes his medals , writes a letter to Kristine and tries to commits suicide ; however , his pistol jams and he fails in his intention . Kristine finds her brother and he has a crisis of conscience and tells her that he did terrible things . Kristine suggests him to undo his evilness . Meanwhile Bellick activates the fire alarm and T-Bag leaves the hotel with his backpack of money ; he is followed by the two agents , plus Michael , Sucre and Bellick . Mahone appears on their back , but he is surprised by Lincoln . Michael and his partners dominate the two agents from the Company ; however T-Bag lures and traps them with the dead body of a prostitute and Bellick is shot and arrested by the Mexican police . Michael captures T-Bag later and drives him to the American embassy to be deported ; however T-Bag stabs Sucre in the car , but Michael arrests him again and ties him up to the police . Kellerman comes to Sara's trial as a new witness . Mahone reverts his situation and arrests Lincoln ; he proposes Michael to exchange Christina Rose plus the money for Lincoln because he also needs to disappear . There are many surprises in the great episode : the greatest is certainly the surprising appearance of Kellerman in court to testify for Sara . The true intention of Mahone is also totally unexpected . The scum Bellick and T-Bag arrested are excellent ; will that be their end of the way ? In this case , how Maricruz will be rescued and saved ? The hesitation of Lincoln now jeopardizes Michael's plan . Title ( Brazil ) : " Fim do Caminho " ( " End of the Way " )
Back in Course	In the survivors ' camp , Jack and Kate decide to seek the location in the woods where the helicopter landed expecting to find Sayid and Desmond . They meet Miles and Sawyer with Aaron , and Sawyer tells what has happened with Claire and their group . Kate returns with Aaron to the camp where she meets Sayid , who tells the true objectives of Keamy and his men . Daniel offers to take groups of six to the supply vessel , while Sayid and Kate track Jake and Sawyer . Meanwhile , Ben , Locke and Hurley reach the Orchid but Keamy has taken the site . In a flash-forward , the survivors of the Oceanic 815 are called Oceanic 6 by the press and meet their relatives . Jack is informed that Claire is his sister . In " There's No Place Like Home : Part 1 " , " Lost ' seems to be back in course with an engaging episode based on the lives of the original characters that the fans worship . The identities of the six survivors are finally revealed , their lives go on , but there is still a great mystery about what has happened with the other survivors . Meanwhile , the situation in the island is tense , with the sub-groups in dangerous situations . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Where Is the Island ?	Jack and Sawyer find Hurley in the Orchid , and Locke asks Jack to stay in the island or lie if he leaves the place to protect the island . Meanwhile , Kate , Sayid and The Others rescue Ben from Keamy , killing his men , but Keamy escapes from the ambush . Ben agrees to leave Kate and Sayid go to the helicopter , where they meet Jack , Sawyer and Hurley , and they fly to the supply vessel with Frank . Meanwhile , Daniel brings the survivors to the vessel in the Zodiac , but Michael , Desmond and Jin try to disarm the powerful bomb , using nitrogen to hold the battery activation . When Keamy reaches the Orchid , he tells Ben that if he dies , the ship would explode , but Ben kills the killer of his daughter , arming the bomb on board . Then Ben provokes an explosion in the Orchid and opens an access to a refrigerated spot where he spins a device , moving the island . In the future , Jack tries to convince Kate to return to the island to save the survivors . Walt visits Hurley in a mental institution and later Sayid asks Hurley to leave the asylum to go to a safer place with him . Sun has a meeting with Widmore in London . In the end , Jack meets Ben in the funeral house where the identity of the corpse in the coffin is finally disclosed . " There's No Place Like Home : Parts 2 & 3 " is another spectacular episode of " Lost " in this irregular Fourth Season . In this amazing show , many secrets are revealed , like for example what has happened with the Oceanic Six and the identity of the body in the coffin . There are new intriguing mysteries , like for example , how the island was moved and where is it now ? Or why the Oceanic Six must return to the island to save the other survivors ? Who is Jacob ? Ben as usual shows how cold and indifferent he is , killing Keamy in spite of condemning innocents to die . Once he promised to kill Penny , who is now together with her beloved Desmond , probably the destinies of Desmond and Ben will cross again . I honestly expect that the Fifth Season flows normally without interruptions , keeping the great level of these last episodes of the most intriguing series of television ever . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Unforgettable , Touching , Human , Realistic , Sad , Spectacular ? One of the Best Dramas I Have Ever Seen	Yesterday I finally saw the great Oscar winner of 2005 , and I can say that " Million Dollar Baby " really deserves the awards of best film , director , lead actress and supporting actor , and even the prize of lead actor in the hands of Clint Eastwood would not be a mistake of the Academy : Ben Kinsley and Jamie Foxx were great , but in a whole I would have given the award to Clint Eastwood . The story is very simple and real : Maggie Fitzgerald ( Hilary Swank ) , a poor thirty-one years old waiter from the very lower classes and with a dysfunctional loser family , decides to make a difference through the box . She convinces the experienced hardened box trainer Frankie Dunn ( Clint Eastwood ) to couch her and be her manager , with the support of his old partner Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris ( Morgan Freeman ) , who sees her potential as a boxer . Frankie has a problem of relationship with his daughter , and practically adopts Maggie along her career , until she is seriously wounded in a fight for the championship and he has to take a decision . This unpleasant and sad theme , in the hands of another director , might have become corny . But the awesome Clint Eastwood deals with such touching story without final redemption , very realistic , making a future unforgettable classic in the genre . The characters and the dramatic situation are perfectly developed , and in the end , the viewer becomes sad , but never depressed . Title ( Brazil ) : " Menina de Ouro " ( " Golden Girl " )
Delightful Classic Adventure	In 1685 , in England , the Irish Dr . Peter Blood ( Errol Flynn ) is unfairly accused of treachery of King James just because he treated a wounded rebel . He is sent to prison and six months later sentenced to hanging . In the very last moment , he is sent to Port Royal , a British colony in Jamaica , to work as a slave . Arabella Bishop ( Olivia de Havilland ) , the niece of the powerful landlord Col . Bishop ( Lionel Atwill ) , saves him from dying in the labor work in the mines , and when he heels the foot of the governor of Port Royal , he achieves a partial freedom in the island . With his intelligence and leadership , he escapes with his British slave comrades and becomes Captain Blood , a famous pirate in the Caribbean Seas . " Captain Blood " is a delightful adventure , certainly one of the best pirate movies I have ever seen . The direction of Michael Curtiz is perfect as usual . The screenplay has excellent lines , many plot points , and action , funny scenes and romance in right doses . The elegant Errol Flynn with the gorgeous Olivia de Havilland have a great chemistry in their charismatic roles . " Captain Blood " is a highly recommended movie for fans of adventure films . Title ( Brazil ) : " Capitão Blood " ( " Captain Blood " )
Watching Each Girl's Back	Juliet is left behind by The Others cuffed to Kate in the woods , and Locke joins them and the group leaves the village to another unknown location . Kate recalls her trip to Iowa , when she saves Cassie from the police and in retribution she helps Kate to meet her mother . Later she reveals to Kate that she is pregnant , but Cassie never tells the name of Sawyer to Kate . Juliet and Kate escape from the black smoke monster and returns to the empty village to meet Jack and Sayid . Meanwhile , Hurley deceives Sawyer , telling him that the survivors would vote to banish him from the camp , and Sawyer changes his selfish behavior , being nice , gentle and cooperative with the group hoping to stay with them . " Left Behind " is another excellent episode of " Lost " , centered in the past of Kate . Her dramatic relationship with her mother entwined with the personal drama of Cassie , left by Sawyer without her savings and pregnant , is one of the best flashbacks of this show . Sawyer changing his behavior is the funny part and the return of the weird black smoke monster is intriguing . Further , why Locke joined The Others ? I would never trust in the treacherous Juliet , who inclusive had the key of the cuffs , but it seems that Jack has been seduced by the beautiful woman . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
People Are Crazy ? The Scariest Episode of Supernatural	Dean and Sam go to Hibbing , Minnesota , to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a local . Once there , they realize that there are many missing persons in the place . When Sam vanishes in a parking area , Dean asks for help to Officer Kathleen ( Jessica Steen ) , whose brother also disappear a couple of years ago . Dean and the sheriff disclose that Sam was abducted by a family of deranged hillbillies that hunt human beings . " The Bender " is the scariest episode of this series up to this moment . In this tense story , the Winchester brothers do not face demons , ghost or fiends , but sick human beings worse than their usual enemies . I liked the open scene when Kathleen kills the father of the Benders ; it is not explicit , and each viewer is allowed to have his or her own interpretation . In my point of view , justice worked through the hands of the female sheriff . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Família Bender " ( " The Bender Family " )
A Sequel in the Same Level as the Original Movie	This sequel of the best movie of fantasy and adventure ever made can not be seen as another movie , but the second part of a splendid film . The journey of Frodo Baggins and his friends in this movie is also outstanding , stunning , a masterpiece . I believe there is nothing else to be said about this fantastic movie .
The Conclusion of an Adventure in the Same Level of the Other Two Parts of a Splendid Story	The conclusion of the best movie of fantasy and adventure ever made is in the same level of the other two parts of this splendid story . The journey of Frodo Baggins and his friends in this movie is again outstanding , stunning , a masterpiece . I believe there is nothing else to be said about this fantastic movie . The eleven Oscars , the IMDB User rating of 9 , 0 with 62 , 820 votes and the 2 , 219 reviews are sufficient . I just want to record my enthusiasm with such a film . Unfortunately the same did not happen with the sequence of Matrix , where the first film was excellent , but the sequences were very disappointing . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Senhor dos Anéis : O Retorno do Rei ' ( ' Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King , The ' )
The Best Episode of the Third Season	Michael and Lincoln chase Whistler that calls Gretchen in the warehouse . However the brothers capture him and Michael schedules the exchange meeting in the public space Plaza de Francia . Gretchen invites him to join The Company , and he changes the spot to the lobby of the Museum of Antiques . Meanwhile , Mcgrady's truck is stopped for inspection in a police barrier and the policemen sees that the cargo is fertilizer ; however , McGrady is hidden in a hideout in the cabin . Then his father drives to Acandi , Colombia , where he is welcomed by his family and friends with a party . T-Bag apparently protects Lechero and lures him telling that they may buy their freedom for US$ 50 , 000 . 00 . When Lechero calls his prostitute to bring the money , he finds that this is actually T-Bag's plan to escape and the traitor kills him . Sucre is beaten and forced to dig his grave ; he does not give any information about Michael , is buried alive and then brought to Sona , where he sees T-Bag . When Gretchen arrives in the museum , she finds that there is metal detector on the entrance . She leaves the armed agents at the exits to kill Michael and Lincoln . They trade LJ per Whistler , and Sofia asks the coordinates to Whistler ; they discover that there is no coordinates . Sofia leaves Whistler while Michael breaks a window and the security alarm sounds , and they walk together to the exit . There is a shootout , Sofia is wounded and LJ stays with her . Michael has the chance to kill Gretchen , but he hesitates and she escapes . T-Bag gets part of the Lechero's money , makes a speech to the inmates telling that they are all equal and distributes the money . LJ gives Sara's origami to Michael and tells him that Sofia has something that belongs to Whistler in her apartment ; he goes there with Lincoln , finds a file of Jason Lief and he splits and say goodbye to Lincoln telling that he must chase Gretchen . Meanwhile , Whistler meets Mahone in a bar and together with Gretchen , they leave the place as a team . " The Art of the Deal " is the best episode of the Third Season that closes with golden key . The bright Michael succeeds in trading the mysterious Whistler per LJ , and they find that the guy has an agenda with Gretchen . However he fails when he has the chance to kill Gretchen . The poor Sucre is loyal to Michael and does not deliver him to General Mestas . The tricky T-Bag shows his abilities luring the dangerous drug lord Lechero . Who Whistler is and what Michael will do when he reaches Gretchen are the greatest questions for the next promising Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Arte de Negociar " ( " The Art of the Deal " )
Magnificent , Impressive , Depressive and Mandatory Lesson of History	" Mein Kampf " presents the raising and fall of the Third Reich , showing mainly the destruction of Poland and the life of Hitler , which is told since he was a mediocre student and frustrated aspirant of artist living in slums in Austria and Germany , until his suicide in 1945 after being the responsible for the death of millions of people , and the destruction of Europe . All the footages are real and belonged to a secret file of Goebbels , inclusive with many very strong scenes filmed by Goebbels himself . It is impossible not crying with the scenes of the Jews in the ghetto of Warsaw and in the concentration camps . When a viewer sees a movie such as " Schindler's List " , for example , he or she knows that the characters are fictional , and they are actors and actresses using make-ups or edited using computer effects in the present days . However in " Mein Kampf " , when you see a person , he or she is real ; her bones , the flies around the wounds are reality ! This documentary is a magnificent , impressive and depressive lesson of history , and should be mandatory in any school worldwide . It is ironical when we see the following introduction : " As human beings , we are responsible for what he did ? for he was one of us and we permitted this to happen . May we be wise enough and strong enough to prevent this from ever happening again . " Or when the narrator advises in the end of the documentary that these things should never happen again . When I see on TV what is happening in Iraq or Palestine , just to mention recent examples , I really lose my faith in the human race . It is sad to see what mediocre , but powerful leaders , can do with mankind ! Just as a reference , another magnificent documentary about Adolf Hitler is " Undergångens Arkitektur " , and a great movie to see what happened with the megalomaniac dream of Hitler and the fate of Berlin and Germany is " Germania Anno Zero " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Minha Luta " ( " My Fight " )
A Masterpiece : The Original Story of ' The Postman Rings Twice '	Gino Costa ( Massimo Girotti ) is a young and handsome drifter who arrives in a road bar . He meets the young , beautiful and unsatisfied wife Giovanna Bragana ( Clara Calamai ) and her old and fat husband Giuseppe Bragana ( Juan de Landa ) , owners of the bar . He trades his mechanical skills by some food and lodging , and has an affair with Giovanna . They both decide to kill Giuseppe , forging a car accident . The relationship of them become affect by the feeling of guilty and the investigation of the police . This masterpiece ends in a tragic way . The noir and neo-realistic movie of Luchino Visconti is outstanding . This is the first time that I watch this version of ' The Postman Always Rings Twice ' . I loved the 1946 version with Lana Turner , and the 1981 version , where Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange have one of the hottest sex scene in the history of the cinema , but this one is certainly the best .
Another Ingmar Bergman's Masterpiece	The lawyer Marianne ( Liv Ullmann ) and the professor Johan ( Erland Josephson ) have been married for ten years , having two daughters . One night , Johan tells Marianne that he met a young woman , Paula , and he will travel to Paris with her for eight months . Caught by surprise , the perfect world of Marianne falls apart , and she starts living alone . Along the next ten years , they meet each other in different situations , in a relation of love and hate for each other . The first time I watched this theatrical movie I was single and was less than twenty years old . In that occasion , I loved the performances of Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson , but I found the story too long . Today , with twenty-five years of marriage , I have watched this film again on video : what a masterpiece ! Ingmar Begman presents an amazingly credible and honest story of the relationship of a couple along twenty years of their lives . Liv Ullmann is so beautiful and has such a stunning performance that impressed me . Erland Josephson also has a magnificent performance as an insecure but sensitive man , full of contradictions and without knowing how to make a decision about his feelings . Unfortunately the VHS spoken in Swedish distributed by Concorde in Brazil has many dialogs without subtitles . Sometimes , four , five sentences are omitted in the translation , or a long speech of a character is resumed to a five or six words sentence . A crime against the viewer ! Highly recommended for married couples as a lesson of life . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Cenas de um Casamento ' ( ' Scenes From a Marriage ' )
Trapped in the Future	Captain Archer is invited to visit the matriarchal mining society of the Paraagans , a colony with 3 , 600 dwellers , and receives instructions with the procedure to be followed to land with the shuttle pod in the hazardous atmosphere of the planet . However , something goes wrong and the shuttle apparently ignites a huge explosion , destroying the colony and killing the entire group of colonists . After the investigation , the crew of the Enterprise finds out that plasma leaking of the shuttle had ignited tetrazine , causing the destruction of the colony . Captain Archer contacts Admiral Forrest and he calls off the mission of the Enterprise . While returning to the Starfleet base with Archer absolutely depressed , the Captain awakes in San Francisco ten months ago , and meets Daniels in his room . The time traveler tells him that the Temporal Accord and the time line that he was supposed to protect had had problems . Further , he guides Archer how to develop technology ahead of time and find evidences of his innocence in a cloak Sulliban cruiser hidden in Paraagan . The skeptical T'Pol does not believe on Archer when he tells that he traveled to the past and Daniels is alive . When Archer meets Silik , he has to take a tough decision . " Enterprise - Shockwave : Part 1 " is definitely the best episode of the First Season of Enterprise . The complex story has a very well developed screenplay , with the most dramatic and surprising situations . Unfortunately , as a common practice of distributors of TV shows , the episode is to be continued and end in the climax of the story . That is the reason why I prefer to watch most of these shows on DVD years later , to avoid the deception of , for example , " Lost " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Onda de Choque ? Parte Um " ( " Shockwave : Part One " )
Excellent Conclusion	Archer and Daniels are trapped in the destroyed 31st century without a time portal to send Archer back to Enterprise . Meanwhile T'Pol surrenders to Silik to avoid the destruction of the Enterprise and the crew is imprisoned in their quarters . Daniel realizes that the future has changed with the absence to Archer , and together they go to the library to research how the time line was damaged . Later Daniels uses Archer's communicator and scanner to contact T'Pol . Meanwhile Trip and Reed organize a resistance with Hoshi and T'Pol against the Sullibans , simulating an explosion of the nuclear reactor . " Shockwave : Part 2 " is an excellent conclusion of the last episode of the First Season . The episode is very intense and full of action and twists , culminating with the awesome statement of T'Pol to the Vulcan Ambassador Soval . Title ( Brazil ) : " Onda de Choque ? Parte II " ( " Shockwave : Part II " )
A Time-Travel to a Magnificent Concert	On 11 December 1968 , The Rolling Stones presented two concerts on a stage of a circus , with the presence of great bands . About twenty-eight years later , the show was released on VHS and CD in USA , and I bought both of them . On January 2003 , this concert was finally released in Brazil on DVD . It was a time-travel to a magnificent concert and today I have seen it again . The opening , with Jethro Tull playing one of their best songs , ' Song for Jeffrey ' , from the successful album ' Living in the Past ' , is amazing . A very simple band , composed by Glen Cornic ( Bass , Harmonica ) , Mick Abrahams ( Guitar ) , Clive Bunker ( magnificently playing a very small drums for the standards of the present days ) and highlighting Ian Anderson in the lead vocal and flute in a wonderful performance . The Who ( Pete Townsend , Roger Daltrey , Keith Moon and John Entwhistle ) , Taj Mahal , Marianne Faithful , Dirty Mac ( John Lennon , Eric Clapton , Keith Richards and Mitch Mitchell ) and The Rolling Stones ( Mick Jagger , Keith Richards , Brian Jones , Bill Wyman , Charlie Watts ) are also excellent . The unique weak part of the whole concert is Yoko Ono screaming like a jay in ' Whole Lotta Yoko ' . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Rock and Roll Circus '
Spectacular Conclusion of a Saga and Promising Beginning of a Season	The Enterprise under the command of T'Pol prepares to destroy Sphere 41 as promised to the Aquatics , while Archer , Reed , Hoshi and three volunteers travel in fast Degra's ship with Humanoids and Arboreals trying to reach the weapon that is protected by only one Reptilian vessel . When Archer comes close to the weapon , Commander Shran with his powerful Andorian ship unexpectedly protects the ship of Degra , allowing the assault team leaded by Archer to be beamed to the interior of the weapon . Meanwhile , the trans-dimensional Sphere Makers protect Sphere 41 with a strong anomaly first and a direct attack to Enterprise later . " Zero Hour " is a spectacular conclusion of a saga . The story is excellent , with action and dramatic situations ; the funny moment is when T'Pol finally reveals her age to Trip . The beginning of Season Four is very intriguing , promising another great Season of this magnificent series . Title ( Brazil ) : " Hora Zero " ( " Zero Hour " )
The Three Musketeers	In Mumbai , the eighteen year-old orphan from the slums Jamal Malik ( Dev Patel ) is tortured by the policemen in a precinct accused of cheating a game show . Jamal , who has no education and works in a call center serving tea , is close to win twenty million rupees in the show " Who Wants to Be a Millionaire ? " hosted by Prem Kumar ( Anil Kapoor ) , giving precise answers to the questions and raising suspicion of fraud . The police inspector shows the videotape and after each question , Jamal tells parts of his childhood with his brother Salim , his crush for Latika and their fight to survive on the streets to justify each correct answer , guided by his common sense and past experience , and prove his innocence . The awesome " Slumdog Millionaire " is one of the best movies I have recently seen . The story is an original and simple tale of love , serendipity and fortune , in the environment of poverty and criminality in the slums and streets of India ; but the screenplay is fantastic , using flashbacks to disclose the life of the lead character , his brother and his passionate and pure love for another orphan in a perfect development of the characters and the plot . The acting is top-notch , and the boys and girls that perform the lead roles ( young Jamal , Salim and Latika ) have also amazing performances . In the credits , there is a great surprise with the cast singing and dancing like in most Bollywood productions . Title ( Brazil ) : Not AvailableNote : On 22 February 2009 , this movie was awarded with eight Oscar , including Best Picture and Best Director .
A Masterpiece	In the Nineteenth Century , in Unasaka , Province of Yamagata , in the Feudal Japan , the widow samurai Seibei Iguchi ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) works in the warehouse of the local Commissioner during the day and handicraftsman building cages in the night to have an income of 50 koku ( meaning " a quantity of rice , historically defined as enough rice to feed one person for one year " ) . Seibei raises alone his two daughters , the five year-old Ito ( Erina Hashiguchi ) and the ten year-old Kayano ( Miki Itô ) and his senile mother ( Reiko Kusamura ) in a simple property , and has a debt of 20 koku due to the expensive funeral of his wife , who died of tuberculosis , imposed by her family and can not afford to have another wife . His colleagues in the warehouse pejoratively call him " The Twilight Samurai " to express his life without glory . When Seibei meets Michinojo Iinuma ( Mitsuru Fukikoshi ) , his childhood friend tells him that his sister Tomoe Iinuma ( Rie Miyazawa ) has just divorced from he brutal husband Toyotarou Kouda ( Ren Osugi ) . Seibei reencounters Tomoe , for whom he has been in love since he was a child , but Tamoe is member of a family of 400 koku and Seibei believes their difference of classes makes their marriage impossible . When Kouda challenges Iinuma to a duel , Seibei accepts to replace his old friend and needs to use his skills of swordsman again . " Tasogare Seibei " is a masterpiece from the director and writer Yôji Yamada , who is unfortunately unknown for me . I am not sure whether other films of Yôji Yamada have been released on VHS or DVD in Brazil . The humanistic story takes place in the period of the Feudal Japan and discloses a totally different samurai , who has a heart full of love for his daughters and mother . I believe that persons like my daughter that has a deep knowledge on the rich and beautiful history of Japan will appreciate this gem much more than me , since they are aware of the social system and code of honor of this period . Nevertheless I loved this film that exposes the end of an era using many metaphors , and which is in the level of Akira Kurosawa or Yasujiro Ozu production . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Samurai do Entardecer " ( " The Twilight Samurai " )
Morbid Innocence	In 1940 , the five years old Paulette ( Brigitte Fossey ) loses her parents and her dog under a Nazi attack in the country while escaping from Paris . The eleven years old peasant Michel Dolle ( Georges Poujouly ) sees the girl wandering with her dead dog in her hands and brings her to his home . She is welcomed and lodged by his simple family and she becomes a close friend of Michel . They bury her dog and decide to build a cemetery for animals and insects , stealing crosses in the cemetery , bringing problems to Michel's family with their neighbors . This masterpiece is one of the most heartbreaking and realistic anti-war movies I have ever seen . The morbid effects of the war , death and religion twisting the minds of two innocent children is amazingly exposed under the direction of the brilliant René Clément and a magnificent screenplay . Working with the talented six years old Brigitte Fossey in the lead role with the twelve years old Georges Poujouly , Clément is able to achieve awesome performances of these children in very dramatic situations . This touching story is never corny and the open conclusion is extremely sad and pessimist . Title ( Brazil ) : " Brinquedo Proibido " ( " Forbidden Toy " )
Original , Dramatic and Tragic - The Best Episode of the Second Season	While preparing the sensors to observe a hyper-giant that will be transformed in a supernova , the Enterprise makes first contact with the amicable and highly developed Vissians . The race of explorers is invited to visit the Enterprise and the crews exchange information about each civilization . Trip is intrigued about the third gender of the Vissians , necessary for their reproductive process , and Dr . Phlox explains that there are many races with more than two genders and T'Pol asks him to not interfere with the Vissian culture . When Trip finds that the Cogenitor , who does not have a name , is illiterate and treated like and object , has the same level of intelligence of the males and females of its race , he decides to secretly encourage it to learn how to read and expand its culture , tragically affecting the relationship between humans and Vissians . " Cogenitor " is original , dramatic and tragic , and certainly the best episode of the Second Season up to now . The story is important to show that there are different cultures where the concepts of what seems to be right or wrong are different from the standards of others and must be respected , no matter in deep space or on Earth . In Brazil we have a saying that could be translated as follows : " the hell is full of people with good intentions " . Trip seems to have learned the lesson through the most difficult way when he sees the consequences of his action . Title ( Brazil ) : " Cogenitor "
A Overwhelming and Wonderful Tale of the Old Ways	An old Merlin ( Sam Neill ) tells his saga , since his conception through the magic of the evil Queen Mab ( the outstanding Miranda Richardson ) . His love for Nimue ( Isabella Rossellini ) , the discovery of his power , the lessons of Frik ( Martin Short ) , his fight against Mab , his association with Lord Vortigen ( Rutger Hauer ) and King Uther Pendragon ( Mark Jax ) , the birth of Arthur ( Paul Curran ) , the romance with his sister Morgan Le Fey ( Helena Bonham Carter ) and the birth and creation of Mordred ( Jason Done ) , the marriage with Guinevere ( Lena Headley ) , Excalibur , the betrayal of Lancelot ( Jeremy Sheffield ) , the fall of Camelot , all of this presented in an environment of magic , action , romance , drama betrayal . For me , one of the best movies ever made . I have watched this magnificent film at least three times on VHS and yesterday on DVD . This overwhelming and wonderful tale of the old ways is unforgettable . My vote of course is ten .
Fantasies of a Sick Mind	The paraplegic Boris ( Paulo Gracindo ) stays at home with the beautiful young woman Cacau ( Luciana Vendramini ) , while his wife Ivette ( Fernanda Montenegro ) goes to the movie theater . When Cadú ( Marcos Palmeira ) , the boyfriend of Cacau , unexpectedly arrives in the apartment , a night of sex , sadism and violence happens . When Ivette returns , the fantasies of a sick mind are disclosed in a surprising end . " Trancado ( Por Dentro ) " is an amazing story , awarded with best photography ( cinematography ) in Gramado Festival . There are many plot points , the direction is very sharp , and the cast has stunning performances . I hope foreigner IMDb readers have the chance to know this outstanding short film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Trancado Por Dentro " ( " Locked From Inside " )
One of the Funniest Comedies of Brazilian Cinema Ever	During a stormy night in the countryside , Cleci ( Zezé Macedo ) wakes her redneck husband Anastácio Fortuna ( Oscarito ) up to close the window of their room . He sees that something has fallen on their chicken house and killed two chickens , and he brings the circular object home . On the next morning , Cleci reads on the news that a Sputnik is missing and might have fallen on Earth . Based on the picture of the satellite , they conclude that the object is the sputnik . Anastácio sneaks out of the house with the object and goes to the bank Caixa Econômica Federal to pledge the object and raise some money to repair the chicken house . However , the attendant Dorinha ( Neide Aparecida ) calls her boy-friend Nelson ( Cyl Farney ) that works in the newspaper Tribuna da Cidade under the pseudonym Jacinto Boucha , covering the social column , and he sees the chance of a scoop that could raise his career . However , the snoopy and unethical reporter Alberto ( Alberto Perez ) hears the conversation in an phone extension and releases the news on the front page . Anastácio becomes famous and has an immediate social ascension to the high society , moving to the fancy Copacabana Palace Hotel , while the Russian , North American and French governments send their agents to Brazil to get the sputnik at any cost . This is the fourth time that I have watched " O Homem do Sputnik " , one of the funniest comedies of Brazilian cinema ever . In 1959 , with the Cold War , sputnik and Brigitte Bardot , this movie is a hilarious collection of stereotypes . The sexy and witty Norma Bengell performing BeBe is na amazingly perfect parody of the French actress ; Hamilton Ferreira in the role of a Russian agent and the presently famous Jô Soares ( Joe Soares in 1959 ) performing an American agent chewing gums and swinging while walking are comical . The lines of Oscarito and Zezé Macedo are amusing , and Cyl Farney and Neide Aparecida play the usual good guy and his girl . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem do Sputnik " ( " The Man of the Sputnik " )
Images of a Great Brazilian Director	In 1917 , director Major Luiz Thomaz Reis travels with his associate , Marshall Cândido Mariano Rondon through the Center-West and North of Brazil , being the official cinematographer of the expedition . " Ao Redor do Brasil " is a footage with the fragments of three films of Major Reis . In the beginning of the Twentieth Century , the concept of national integration was unknown in Brazil . With the formation of the Rondon Commission , Major Reis became the official cinematographer of the commission , and through his images , he searched for the knowledge of the Brazilian lands and people ( the Indians ) . His shootings are amazing , considering the limitations of the equipment in that time . Major Reis became director , photographer and editor , being 100 % responsible for his productions . He learned how to make cinema in Paris , but developed and adapted his own equipment for his needs , having a great concern with technology , technique , adaptation and aesthetic . He developed his own strategy of filming , which was based on the respect for the object , trying to understand the Indian culture , shooting the common Indian , and not the tribal chief . The jungle was the landscape , the scenario only , not the subject , and Major Reis is considered by the expertise , the first great interpreter of the Brazilian reality . Only this movie , indeed a compilation of three others , and " Rituais e Festas Borôro ( 1917 ) " survived to time , and these rare films are only available in the Cinematec of MAM ( Modern Art Museum of Rio de Janeiro ) . He died in 1940 , when a wall felt on him during a shooting . As a final remark , Hector Babenco's " At Play in the Fields of the Lord ( 1991 ) " has a scene identical to Major Reis " Ao Redor do Brasil " , with the canoe on the river . Was it homage to Major Reis ? Title ( Brazil ) : " Ao Redor do Brazil " ( " Around Brazil " )
All's Well That Ends Well	Please read only after watching the episode . Gretchen and T-Bag are armed with MP-5 waiting for Michael and his group in the Gate's office . Meanwhile General Krantz arrives in the Scylla room with two bodyguards but Sucre , Lincoln and Mahone revert the situation . Michael tells Krantz that there was a missing piece in the puzzle and he has just brought for him . Michael activates Scylla with Krantz's card and uses the other five to get Scylla and the surprised Krantz questions how Michael got the other five cards . Self and Trishanne also revert the situation and they kill Feng and his men . Mr . White comes to T-Bag's office and sees the weapons below the desk ; however Gretchen notes his reaction and confines the staffs and clerks in Mr . White's office . Michael asks Krantz to activate the elevator and they pass through The Company and bring the general to his office . He calls Sara while the building is locked down and Krantz's office is under siege of the armed Company's agents . Meanwhile Trishanne sees the situation in the Gate's office while Self meets with Herb that asks him to call Senator Dallow . Krantz tries to bride the group , but Michael replies that all he wants is to burn The Company to ground and see Krantz in prison . When Lisa is having lunch in the Eagles and Angels , the waiter accidentally drops grease on her skirt . She goes to the toilet where Sara abducts her with a pistol and forces Lisa to call her father , General Krantz , and she becomes the leverage of Michael and his group . Michael lists everybody that was killed for General Krantz to convince him that Sara could kill his daughter . Trishanne releases the employees but the coward Mr . White runs and Gretchen shoots and kills him . There is a shootout in the office , but Gretchen and T-Bag escape . She asks him to dump the MP-5s in the garbage container and then she draws a pistol to kill T-Bag ; however Trishanne arrives and saves T-Bag . When she arrests T-Bag , she identifies herself as FBI Agent Miriam Holtz . General Krantz threatens Michael and the group and he tells that the Michael and Lincoln's father was not a data analyst but an executioner of The Company . They leave The Company in an armored truck , Michael calls Self and they head to the meeting point , chased by many cars . When they arrive in the airport , they are followed by The Company's agents but Michael lures the agents that are arrested by the security of the airport . Meanwhile the bodyguards break in the toilet and find Liza tied on a flush toilet ; she is released and calls Krantz . Sucre and Mahone keep the Scylla and they deliver the aimed object to Self . The agent gives an envelope to Michael with the documents necessary to clear their records and he asks the group to wait for Agent Schmidt that would be coming with vans and an ambulance . After one hour , Michael calls Self and get no answer . When Michael opens the envelope , there are only blank sheets . Meanwhile Self shoots Miriam on the chest and T-Bag witnesses the crime . " Selfless " is the best episode of the Fourth Season of " Prison Break " so far . The engaging story has many twists and revelations and a surprising betrayal . My guess in the last episode was right , with Michael bringing General Krantz to the Scylla room to get the sixth card . The relationship between Krantz and Liza was a great surprise for me . But the betrayal of Self was totally unexpected for me . I regret the fate of Trishanne , a . k . a . Miriam Holtz , since I liked her character . General Krantz losing his arrogance and self-confidence is another great moment of this show . The book Michael left in his backpack ( " All's Well That Ends Well " ) is a play by William Shakespeare that comes from the proverb " All's well that ends well " , which means that problems do not matter so long as the outcome is good . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Come and Get It	Please read only after watching the episode Self calls Herb and tells that Lincoln has killed Miriam and simulates that he was also shot by Lincoln . The disturbed General Krantz recalls Michael's words ; during a meeting with the board of The Company , he is questioned by Howard Scuderi and he unexpectedly kills him and asks if there were any further questions from the other participants . Lisa is shocked with the attitude of her father . Herb calls Michael believing that Lincoln has killed two federal agents . Self brings T-Bag seeking out Gretchen . Michael faints in the toilet , Lincoln helps him and Sara injects a drug and tells that he can not have any physical stress for eight hours . Lincoln calls Gretchen and tells that Self has double-crossed them and stolen Scylla . They schedule a meeting at the Grand Hope Park in one hour ; however Gretchen's sister Rita calls her with Self pointing his gun to her head . Meanwhile , Special Agent Richard Sooter comes for investigating the case . Gretchen arrives at her sister's house and Self forces her to call the National Security and tell where Michael and his group are . Lincoln is arrested in the park , but the rest of the group escapes . Self forces Gretchen to contact a buyer ( actually a conduit ) called Viking , since there are only five potential buyers in the world . T-Bag stays with Rita and Emily , while Gretchen and Self go to a meeting with Viking . Meanwhile the truth about Self is disclosed through a deleted file in the name of Robert Walker , and Senator Conrad Dallow apologizes to Lincoln . He calls Michael and the group and the senator promises full immunity if they agree to testify against Self . Michael asks Mahone , Sara and Sucre to travel out of Los Angeles and he goes to a meeting with Herb and the senator . However , Herb and Senator Dallow discusses about the consequences of the unauthorized operation , meaning at least fifteen years in prison , and they decide to eliminate all the evidences of the operation . However , Michael and Lincoln are saved by Agent Sooter that kills Herb but discloses that he works for The Company , and brings the brothers to " an appointment with the General " . However , Sucre appears out of the blue and saves Michael and Lincoln that kills Sooter , but let Senator Dallow go . The Senator leaves all the documents and tells that the operation has never happened . Meanwhile Self and Gretchen meets with Viking , but he tells that there is one piece missing in Scylla that Michael has secretly withdrawn . Self calls Michael that invites him to come and get it . When I saw " Selfless " , I believed " Prison Break " had reached its climax . However , this sequel is spectacular , with many almost impossible twists and surprising situations . It is impressive how people are double-crossed in this series . Mahone mentions that he has a friend in FBI ( I believe he is referring to Agent Lang ) and he disappears . In my opinion , he traveled to meet Agent Lang , who also helped him when he was addicted with the picture of his son . The alternatives of any deal with Michael and his friends to clear their names are narrowing with the death of Herb , the negative of Senator Dallow and the betrayal of Self . I guess that the fates of T-Bag and Self are in the hands of the evil Gretchen . Let's anxiously wait for the next Monday to see if Self will come to get the missing piece with Michael ! Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Delightful Classic Romance	In Madrid , on the New Year's Eve of 1900 , the violet street vendor Soledad ( Sara Montiel ) meets the rich noble Fernando ( Raf Vallone ) and they immediately fall in love for each other . Their difference of classes and the prejudice of the high society of Madrid cause a tragedy in the family of Fernando , forcing their separation . When I was a boy , I recall how my mother loved this movie . Today I have had the chance to watch it on DVD and it is a delightful classic love story . The romance is very beautiful , showing a tough fight of classes and prejudice in the beginning of the Twentieth Century in Spain . Sarita Montiel is amazingly gorgeous , and have a wonderful chemistry with Raf Vallone . The music score is dated in the present days , but it is still very beautiful , highlighting the title song with the magnificent interpretation of Sarita Montiel . The rare DVD released in Brazil by New Line has many problems mainly with the image , but the distributor issued a warning on the cover advising the consumers about these defects on the available matrix of the film . Title ( Brazil ) : " La Violetera "
A Peaceful Message in One of the Brightest Science-Fiction Movies	A flying saucer lands in Washington , and a man , Klaatu ( Michael Rennie ) , brings the preoccupation of other planets with the use of atomic energy and development of spacecraft by people on Earth planet . Further , he brings a message and also a threaten against the danger Earth could cause to other planets : the planet could be destroyed if the people does not live in peace . Any menace to other planets would cause the destruction of the entire planet . This classic is one of the best science-fiction movies I have ever seen . The story is very simple , but the message is wonderful . When this film was made , World War II had finished six years ago only , there was the Cold War and the paranoia of the Americans at that time was against the communists . The special effects are excellent for a 1951 movie . In Brazil , this classic movie was not released on VHS or DVD . It is a shame ! I have a VHS , having a version dubbed in Portuguese , full of commercial and with a terrible quality of image that I recorded from TV many years ago . Yesterday I watched this video again , and it is really an outstanding movie . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Dia Em Que a Terra Parou ' ( ' The Day Which the Earth Stopped ' ) Obs : 01 March 2006 - Fox do Brasil finally released this DVD in 2005 . After so many years , I was able to see one of my favorite sci-fi in the original language and restored image .
Another Spectacular Film Noir of Humphrey Bogart	Dist . Atty . Martin Ferguson ( Humphrey Bogart ) has the chance of sending the criminal Albert Mendoza ( Everett Sloane ) to the electric chair . He depends on the testimony of Mendoza's right arm Joseph Rico ( Ted De Corsia ) . Rico is so scared that commits a mistake and dies . Ferguson passes all the case again and again trying to find a new evidence or witness . Through flashbacks , the viewer sees what has happened until the death of Rico . Today I have just watched this movie on cable television , since it has not been released on VHS or DVD in Brazil . I can not understand how the Brazilian distributors have not paid attention on this spectacular film noir . It is almost a masterpiece , and unfortunately my friends , who are also fans of movies , do not know this magnificent film . The story is very tight , and all the cast has an excellent performance , with another great direction of Raoul Walsh . The black & white photography is fantastic , with the use of shadows specially in the exterior scenes . It is funny how the title of this movie is changed , depending on the country ( ' Murder , Inc . ' , in UK , and ' A Price For Each Crime ' in my country ) . The fans of film noir and police story will certainly love this unknown jewel . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Um Preço Para Cada Crime ' ( ' A Price For Each Crime ' )
An Unforgettable Very Sensitive and Moving Low Budget Movie	In the streets of Casablanca , the homeless boys Kwita , Omar and Boubker , leaded by Ali Zaoua , the son of a prostitute , leave the gang of Dib . The dream of Ali is to become a sailor and navigate with his mother to an isolated island with two suns . However , the four friends are attacked by Dib's gang and Ali dies , hit by a stone on the head . Kwita , Omar and Boubker hide the body in a hole , while trying to get money for a special funeral for the ' prince ' Ali . This movie is one the most sensitive and moving stories I have ever seen , comparable to the 1950 Luis Buñuel's masterpiece ' Los Olvidados ' and 1981 Hector Babenco's ' Pixote : A Lei do Mais Fraco ' . Indeed , it is a low budget movie , supported by outstanding director and infantile cast and a wonderful and never corny story . It is impossible not having the emotions affected or even cry with such a beautiful conclusion of a marvelous drama . Title ( Brazil ) : ' As Ruas de Casablanca ' ( ' The Streets of Casablanca ' )
Excellent Dramatic Thriller : Alan Parker's Trademark	The journalist Bitsey Bloom ( Kate Winslet ) is invited by the former professor and director of the philosophy section at Austin University convicted to death David Gale ( Kevin Spacey ) to have a private and exclusive interview with him for her newspaper for the fees of US$ 500 , 000 . 00 . David Gale was accused of rape and murder of his colleague and friend Constance Harraway ( Laura Linney ) . They both were activists of the movement against death penalty in Texas called the Deathwatch . Bitsey goes to Texas with the intern Zack Stemmons ( Gabriel Mann ) and along the three days of close contact with David , she finds the truth behind the whole accusation . This movie is another excellent dramatic thriller of Alan Parker . Having a great screenplay full of plot points and having Kate Winslet , Kevin Spacey and Laura Linney leading a wonderful cast , it is a must-see film . The surprising end is stunning . Title ( Brazil ) : ' A Vida de David Gale ' ( ' The Life of David Gale ' )
One of the Best-Unknown Ghost Stories Ever	In 1905 , in Sussex , England , the young boy David loses his twin sister while playing with her nearby a lake . The girl falls and drowns in the lake , and David feels guilty for her death . The grieving family returns to USA , and twenty-three years later , David Ash ( Aidan Quinn ) comes back to England , to be the professor of psychology in the University of Camberley . The skeptical David is specialized in psychic phenomena and exposition of false mediums and frauds , and wrote a successful book about this subject . After a countless number of calls from an elder lady called Miss Webb ( Anna Massey ) claiming to be haunted by ghosts , David is informed that the lady lives in Edbrook , and he decides to accept her invitation to visit her . When he arrives in Edbrook's train station , the beautiful young woman Christina Mariell ( Kate Beckinsale ) is waiting for him . She drives him to her remote mansion , where she lives with her two brothers and their former nanny , Miss Webb . After being introduced to the family , David finds the behavior of Miss Webb very weird and disturbed , but decides to investigate the existence of any psychic phenomena in the place . Meanwhile , Christina and him fall in love for each other . Their romance and his investigation come to surprising revelations . I do not understand why " Haunted " has not become a successful movie . This awesome story slightly recalls " The Innocents " , and is better than " The Others " , " The Sixth Sense " or " El Espinazo del Diablo " , having romance , sexual situation , drama and horror in right doses . The soundtrack is one of the most beautiful of the cinema , and may be compared to " Somewhere in Time " . Kate Beckinsale , with twenty-two years old , is astonishing and the scenes with her naked body would be enough to make this movie worthwhile . But the chemistry between Aidan Quinn and her is marvelous ; the mysterious story is magnificently well tight , and in the end nothing is like it seems to be . Yesterday I saw this movie for the third time on VHS , since the DVD has not been released in Brazil , and I found it again one of the best ghost stories I have ever seen . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ilusões Perigosas " ( " Dangerous Ilusions " ) Obs : On 12 Oct 2007 , I saw this awesome movie again , now on DVD .
One of the Best ( or Maybe The Best ) Movies of the Year	In 2002 , in a small town in Mexico , Father Amaro ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) , a young and promising priest , is assigned for that parochial . He is going to substitute Father Benito Diaz ( Sancho Gracia ) , an old and corrupt priest of that community . Father Amaro is the protégé of the Bishop ( Ernesto Gómez Cruz ) . Father Amaro meets Amelita ( the gorgeous and sexy actress Ana Claudia Talancón ) , the very devoted catholic girlfriend of Rubén ( Andrés Montiel ) , an atheist young journalist . Father Amaro also meets other priests of the neighbor towns in their periodical meeting in the church . In an environment of corruption and hypocrisy , Amelita and Father Amaro fall in love to each other . This relationship , full of lust and sin , leads them to a tragic and hypocrite end . Yesterday I watched this movie , which it is in my opinion , one of the best ( or maybe the best ) I have watched in 2003 . I agree that the story is controversial and probably some ( or most ) of Catholics will not like it . It touches many wounds in this religion . The classic story of Eça de Queiroz , written in 1871 , is greatly adapted for the present days . I have never had the chance of visiting Mexico , but in Brazil , in the Twenty-First Century , we have many country towns like the one showed in this wonderful film . The celibate was created in the Middle Ages by the Catholic Church to increase their wealth . How a normal man can keep the celibate is something that has never been clear for me . Lust , desire , is normal in a young man like the character of Father Amaro . In this movie , we have a young priest having a sinful relation with a very sensual girl . An older priest has a hypocrite relationship with an old widow ( the mother of Amelita ) . This movie is indeed a great adaptation of a beautiful romance , with great performances and direction . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Crime do Padre Amaro " ( " The Crime of Father Amaro " )
Another Hitchcock's Masterpiece	In a business lunch in a hotel in New York , the advertising executive Roger O . Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) is wrongly identified as being the American spy George Kaplan by the foreigners agents Phillip Vandamm ( James Mason ) and his right arm Leonard ( Martin Landau ) . Roger is kidnapped and Vandamm's men try to simulate an accident for killing him . Roger escapes , but sooner is accused of murdering a diplomat in the UN building . With the police and the foreigners spies chasing him , Roger meets and has a crush with Eve Kendall ( Eva Marie Saint ) . Later , he will be advised that George Kaplan indeed does not exist , and he agrees to act like a bait to rescue Eve from Phillip and his men . This movie is another masterpiece of Alfred Hitchcock . The story , full of comedy , action , thriller and romance , is delightful . Cary Grant is amazing in the role of Roger Thornhill and Eva Marie Saint is extremely beautiful and sexy . The actions scenes are breathless and outstanding , highlighting the one with the plane and the pursuit in the rock mountains . A wonderful movie recommended for the whole family . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Intriga International ' ( ' International Intrigue ' )
Wonderful Message	In the Twentieth-Eighth Century , Earth is completely depleted and with the ecological system destroyed . The powerful corporation Buy N Large builds a huge spacecraft called Axiom and sends the entire civilization for a five-year cruise while trash collector robots called WALL-E ( Waste Allocator Load Lifter ? Earth ) would clean the planet . However , the equipment fail and seven-hundred year later , only a single robot WALL-E is performing his duty . His only companion is a cockroach and his great entertainment is watching an old " Hello Dolly " videotape . When a spaceship lands on Earth out of the blue and leaves the probe Eve , WALL-E follows her and falls in love for Eve . After a hostile initial contact , the dangerous Eve gets close to WALL-E and he gives a small plant to her . Eve gets the plant and automatically sends a signal to the spaceship that returns and takes Eve back . However , the desperate WALL-E grabs on the hull and travels through the space chasing Eve until they reach Axiom and find a full automated facility crowded by lazy and fat human beings unable even of walking with their legs . The expectation of life on Earth brings hope to the Captain against the will and prime direction of the auto-pilot that organizes a mutiny on board . " WALL-E " is one of the best animations I have ever seen , with adorable characters and a deep story , showing a possible scenario of the depletion of our planet caused by the lack of concern from the big corporations with the environment . In addition , there is the beautiful love story of WALL-E , the importance of small and forgotten things ; a great nostalgia of the old times among many other message . The story is very well developed in spite of having very few dialogs . Title ( Brazil ) : " WALL-E "
A Moment of Decision	Jack , Sawyer and Sayid swim to the boat and find a completely wasted Desmond . His traumatic past experience before sailing to the island is disclosed through flashbacks . Sayid plots a plan with Jack to surprise " The Others " in case Michael is double-crossing the group . John Locke convinces Desmond to invade the hatch , which is protected by Mr . Eko , and not press the button of the computer to see what will happen . This episode is one of the best of the Second Season . Unfortunately , we lovers of " Lost " can see the lack of respect the producers of this stunning series have with the fans . In the USA , the air date of this episode was 24 May 2006 . Therefore , along this period , fans have to wait for the Third Season in a very suspenseful situation , with Jack and his group surrounded by " The Others " and finding the truth about Michael and the death of Ana Lucia and Libby ; John locked inside the hatch without the intention of pushing the button and Mr . Eko in despair outside the hatch . I hope the fate of " Lost " be better than " Angel " and its very disappointing conclusion ( or lack of conclusion ) after five seasons . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
A Tiger Never Looses Its Stripes	Locke shares with Jack the combination of the locker of the weapons . While Jack and Ana Lucia are trying to gather people to form a defense army , the survivors believe that they are safe and have no interest to join them . When Sun is attacked apparently by The Others , Jack decides to get the guns for protection of the group . However , Locke is informed by Sawyer of Jack's intention , and moves the armament to a hidden place with serious and surprising consequences . Meanwhile Sawyer recalls his former long con against Cassidy ( Kim Dickens ) . " The Long Con " is a very tense episode of " Lost " , with severe frictions and revenges among Jack , Locke , Ana Lucia , Kate , Sawyer and Charlie . The group of survivors is not united and lost the leadership with the mistrust in their leaders after so many bad decisions , with a complete lack of confidence among them . Sawyer shows how nasty and despicable he is , a tortured man that can not love anybody ; and the naive Kate is really in love with him . The final remark of Sawyer telling her that she does not hate him without reply evidences this situation . Title ( Brazil ) : " Not Available "
A Bitter and Tragic Masterpiece	In Hollywood of the 50's , the obscure screenplay writer Joe Gillis ( William Holden ) is not able to sell his work to the studios , is full of debts and is thinking in returning to his hometown to work in an office . While trying to escape from his creditors , he has a flat tire and parks his car in a decadent mansion in Sunset Boulevard . He meets the owner and former silent-movie star Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) , who lives alone wit her butler and driver Max von Mayerling ( Erich von Stroheim ) . Norma is demented and believes she will return to the cinema industry , and is protected and isolated from the world by Max , who was his director and husband in the past and still loves her . Norma proposes Joe to move to the mansion and help her in writing a screenplay for her comeback to the cinema , and the small-time writer becomes her lover and gigolo . When Joe falls in love for the young aspirant writer Betty Schaefer ( Nancy Olson ) , Norma becomes jealous and completely insane and her madness leads to a tragic end . " Sunset Boulevard " is a bitter and tragic masterpiece of the genius Billy Wilder that exposes how Hollywood uses people and forgets them when they get old and are considered decadent by the industry . Further , it also shows the consequences of the lack of adaptation of a former star to the end of a successful career , being forgotten by fans and the industry , and the price that some persons accept to pay to join this business . The last time I saw this film was on 22 September 2002 and even having watched " Sunset Boulevard " for maybe five or six times , I still get excited with most of the scenes and I dare to say that it is in my Top 10 movies ever . The DVD has an interesting documentary called " Sunset Blvd . : A Look Back " ( a . k . a . " The Making of Sunset Boulevard " with the presence of a still impressively beautiful Nancy Olson telling peculiarities about this awesome feature . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crepúsculo dos Deuses " ( " Dusk of the Gods " )
An Unconventional Story , About Relationship , Moral , Hypocrisy , Behavior , Love and Hate , In Another Masterpiece of Roman Polanski	The British Nigel ( Hugh Grant ) and his wife Fiona ( Kristin Scott Thomas ) are celebrating the seventh anniversary of their marriage in a cruise to Istanbul and Bombay . While in the trip , the American cripple and frustrated writer Oscar ( Peter Coyote ) gets close to Nigel , and invites him to listen to his unconventional love and hate story with his French wife Mimi ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) . Oscar tells how he met Mimi in Paris and all their relationship , including details of their sexual life , along the past years . Meanwhile , Nigel feels a great attraction for the sexy and gorgeous Mimi , in a story with tragic consequences . ' Bitter Moon ' has been released in Brazil on DVD this week , and yesterday I watched it for the fifth or sixth time , since it is one of my favorites movies ever . This story , about relationship , moral , hypocrisy , behavior , love and hate , fascinates me and shakes my emotions . I really believe that ' Bitter Moon ' , Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner have been not nominated to the Oscar because of the problems of Roman Polanski with the American Justice . Emmanuelle Seigner has her best role and performance in his career playing Mimi , an adorable French woman , very much in love with Oscar , who poisons and destroys her . Their love increases , reaches the top and crosses all the boundaries of a sexual relationship , including those ' accepted by a moralist and hypocrite society ' ( represented by Nigel ) , questioning how long a love can last , making Oscar bored of Mimi . The problem is that their relationship was supported by sex only , without friendship and respect , basic parameters for a long-term everyday life of a married couple . Hugh Grant is perfect in the role of a typical British man and symbol of a hypocrite society . And Kristin Scott Thomas has a minor , but very important part in the plot , playing a sexually repressed woman due to the behavior of her husband , who released the chains of her repression . The wonderful music of Vangelis and a soundtrack of nice songs , which includes a Brazilian pop song , conclude this masterpiece . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Lua de Fel ' ( ' Bitter Moon ' )
One of the Best Episodes of the Fourth Season	On the eve of Smallville High Prom , the bitch candidate to Prom Queen Dawn Stiles ( Beatrice Rosen ) crashes her car and falls off a cliff near to a pile of kryptonite . Her soul leaves her body and incorporates Martha Kent's , and sooner she realizes that she can switch bodies by any contact . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor finds the corpse of Bridgette Crosby in his property and Jason Teagues decides to call Sheriff Nancy Adams . " Spirit " recalled Denzel Washington's " Fallen " , with a spirit able to switch bodies by contact , and it is one of the best episodes of the Fourth Season of " Smallville " . The relationship of Jason with his mother becomes clearer , and Lana Lang ends this episode closer to Clark . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Espírito " ( " The Spirit " )
Destructive Being	While being visited by coach Jason Teague in Kent Farm , Clark Kent hears a painful noise . Following the signal , he goes to Smallville prison , where Lex visits his father Lionel Luthor . Clark sees a Kryptonian stone hidden in Lionel's hand , and he pushes Lex from his father . However , Lionel touches Clark , and they swap bodies . Lionel finds the abilities of Clark , while destroying his friendships and relationships , and Clark lives in hell in a sick body . " Transference " is definitely the best episode of the Fourth Season , and one of the best in the whole series . In this key episode , we see how affected is the life of Clark with his friends and his passion for football . By the other hand , we can also see how destructive Lionel Luthor is , sickening even his own body . Title ( Brazil ) : " Transferência " ( " Transference " )
The Best and Last Episode of the First Season ? To Be Continued	Lionel Luthor fires all the employees from the Luthor's Plant to force Lex Luthor to move to Metropolis . Clark Kent invites Chloe Sullivan to the spring prom , and Whitney Fordman joins the Marines . The snoopy and despicable reporter Roger Nixon ( Tom O'Brien ) from The Inquisitor steels the piece of Clark Kent's spacecraft from Lex's mansion and finds the truth about the Kents . Meanwhile , three tornadoes threaten Lana Lang and Smallville . A beam collapses over Lionel Luthor putting his life in danger . " Tempest " is definitely the best episode of the First Season of Smallville ; unfortunately , this is an episode to be continued . There are many action along this story , and as a curiosity , Remy Zero performs the theme song " Save Me " at Smallville High's spring prom . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tempestade " ( " Storm " )
Definitely the Best Episode of Smallville	When Clark Kent buys a ruby ring , the stone is indeed red kryptonite . His personality is affected , and the former sweet and friendly teenager becomes dark , selfish and ambitious , hurting his stepparents and his closest friends . He dates Lana Lang , but the rebel Clark dumps her to be with the hot new-arrival in town Jessie Brooks ( Sara Downing ) in a night-club . But Jonathan Kent does not give up on him and tries to save Clark from the effects of the red stone . " Red " is definitely the best episode of Smallville up to this moment . The modification of the character and personality of Clark Kent leaves wounds in Lana Lang and Jonathan Kent , and I want to see the consequences of his acts in the next episodes . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rebeldia " ( " Rebellion " )
Lex Homeless and Other Surprises	Lex Luthor rescues his brother Lucas ( Paul Wesley ) from a dangerous situation and brings him to Smallville to help him in a commercial dispute against his father . However , Lucas stays side by side with Lionel getting all the wealthy of Lex . The homeless Lex Luthor is lodged by Jonathan and his family , while Clark Kent tries to fix the situation . " Prodigal " is one of the best episodes of " Smallville " . The story has many revelations , twists and surprises , and unfortunately I can not comment without spoilers . Therefore , do not miss this great episode to check my opinion . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Filho Pródigo " ( " The Prodigal Son " )
A Heart Beats Only So Many Times In a Life	Clark discloses the Fortress of Solitude , his origin and abilities to Lana and proposes her . Clark tells Chloe that he has revealed his secret to Lana and Jonathan Kent wins the election to the Senate . The happiest day of Clark ends when Lana dies in a car accident , and he summons Jor-El and forces him to revert time . The unexpected price he pays for Lana's life is a complete tragedy for his family . The dramatic " Reckoning " is certainly one of the best episodes of " Smallville " , with an engaging and very well written and directed screenplay and great performances of the cast , showing emotion and feelings . The tragedy in the end of the story is very sad , and I liked the line of Martha referring to Jonathan : " A heart beats only so many times in a life . " In a world without ethics , we fans of this great series will miss the wise advices and moral behavior of Jonathan Kent . Title ( Brazil ) : Title ( Brazil ) : " Ajuste de Contas " ( " Setting of Accounts " )
A Beautiful Tale of Friendship and Loyalty	Clark Kent receives a desperate call from Ryan James ( Ryan Kelley , from the episode " Stray " ) telling him that he is the subject of an experiment in a hospital . Clark rescues him , but is accused of abduction of a child by Ryan's tutor , Dr . Garner ( Martin Cummins ) , being saved by Lex Luthor's attorneys . Ryan has a brain tumor and Clark uses his best efforts trying to save Ryan . Meanwhile , Lana Lang is informed by Nell that they will move to Metropolis with Dean . The corrupt Major Tate ( William B . Davis ) of Smallville asks for bribe to approve the expansion of Luthor's plant . I liked a lot this episode , which is a beautiful tale of friendship and loyalty . The touching conclusion is very honest and never corny . It is sad to see how the behavior of politics is very similar , no matter in a First or Third World country , being most of them very dirty and corrupt . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Retorno de Ryan " ( " The Return of Ryan " )
Poor Childhood	Lana Lang witness Lex Luthor having a nightmare with his baby brother Julian in the edge of the balcony of his castle and saves him from falling . She tells Clark Kent , who finds that Lex is submitting to an experimental treatment with Dr . Garner ( Martin Cummins ) in the Summerholt Institute trying to retrieve his seven weeks of lost memory . Clark looks for Lionel Luthor trying to save his friend , but he is betrayed by Lionel and delivered to Dr . Garner to reveal his secret in a kryptonite memory tank . " Memoria " is certainly the best episode of the Third Season of Smallville . The dramatic story discloses the traumatic childhood of Lex , what happened with Julian and the reason with Lionel hates him so much . Clark also recollects his mother Lara in Krypton , and her concern with him . In the end , we see two opposite origins , one full of love and the other full of hate . Consequently , a hero and a villain are born . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lembranças " ( " Remembrances " )
A Masterpiece of the Obsession for the Truth	In the London of the 60's , Thomas ( Note : I have seen this movie many times and I never found the name of the character played by David Hemmings . I am calling him Thomas in accordance with the information of IMDb ) is a successful , dedicated and arrogant photographer . He has just left a homeless shelter , since he is preparing photos about violence , and drives his Rolls-Royce to his studio , where he is taking pictures of top-models . He goes to a park and starts randomly shooting pictures . He takes some pictures of a young woman ( Vanessa Redgrave ) and an old man together , and the woman tries to retrieve the negative . The woman follows him to his studio , trying to get the negative and offering even sex with him for the negative , but he gives another one to her . He becomes obsessed , trying to understand the interest of the woman in the pictures . Then he reveals the negative and blows-up some details , discovering what might be a dead body in the park . This movie is a masterpiece of Michaelangelo Antonioni . A very slow thriller , with a magnificent interpretation of David Hemmings in the role of a powerful and nasty photographer who decides to investigate a mystery seeking for the truth . The process of his investigation is slow , using state-of-art equipment to blow-up the pictures and find the truth like in a puzzle . The environment is London in the 60's in a period of changes , showing ' The Yardbirds ' ( with Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck ) , the use of drugs , Vanessa Redgrave in the beginning of her successful career and the gorgeous Jane Birkin . Only last week ( 28 Sep 2004 ) this DVD was released in Brazil . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Blow-Up ? Depois Daquele Beijo ' ( ' Blow-Up ? After That Kiss ' )
The Books Are Alive	In a future totalitarian and oppressive society , where books are forbidden , Guy Montag ( Oskar Werner ) is a fireman . The mission of firemen in this society with fireproof houses is to burn books at 451o F , the temperature of combustion of paper . Montag is married with Linda ( Julie Christie ) , a futile woman that joins " The Family " through the interactive television . When Montag meets Clarisse ( Julie Christie , in a double role ) , she questions him if he has never read a book , and Montag become curious . He decides to steal and read a book , twisting his view of life . François Truffault is one of my favorite directors , and his unique English-spoken film " Fahrenheit 451 " is a masterpiece and one of my favorite movies ever . The first time I saw this movie , I was a teenager and I was very impressed with such clever story about this fascinating oppressive society . The visionary Ray Bradbury frightens the viewers with this dramatic sci-fi , not far from the reality in many parts of the world almost forty years later . The awesome Julie Christie , as usual , and Oskar Werner from " Jules et Jim " , have magnificent performances . The optimistic conclusion closes this adaptation with golden-key . Title ( Brazil ) : It is a shame , but this movie has not been released on video or DVD in Brazil . Many years ago , a cable and a broadcast television presented " Fahrenheit 451 " , but this masterpiece was forgotten by the Brazilian distributors . The unique alternative for Brazilian movie lovers that speak English is to buy the American DVD .
One of My Favorite Classic Movies of the 50's	In Montreal , the industrial François Delambre ( Vincent Price ) is called late night by his sister-in-law Helene Delambre ( Patricia Owens ) . She tells him that she has just killed her beloved husband Andre Delambre ( Al Hedison ) , using the press of their plant to press his head and left hand . François calls his acquaintance , Inspector Charas ( Herbert Marshall ) , and later the reluctant Helene is convinced to tell them what happened . She explains that François had invented a matter transportation apparatus , and while experimenting with himself , a fly entered the chamber , exchanging one hand and the head with him after the transference . " The Fly " is one of my favorite classic movies of the 50's . The story is great , blending romance , sci-fi and horror , and the narrative , through flashback , keeps the mystery alive until the last scene , when the fly with white head is finally found in a spider web screaming for help . I like very much the dialog when Inspector Charas smashes the spider and the fly with a stone , and François tells him that he is as killer as Helene is , since he killed a man-fly and Helene a fly-man . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Mosca da Cabeça Branca " ( " The Fly of the White Head " )
My Number One Cult-Movie	The antiwar musical " Hair " is my number one cult-movie . I do not know how many time I have seen this film in the movie-theaters and on VHS , or how many times I have listened the CD with the stunning soundtrack , and now , this masterpiece has been finally released on DVD in Brazil . The pacifist and touching story is still amazing , a hymn of freedom , friendship and liberty of choices , and pictures the resistance of a generation against the stupidity of war . I do not know what happened to this wonderful generation of the counterculture of the 70's and their dreams , since the present world is probably worse than in the 70's . I do not recall who won the Oscar in 1979 , but Treat Williams and John Savage deserved at least a nomination for their awesome performances . Beverly D'Angelo is extremely gorgeous in the role of a hypocrite spoiled upper-class teenager . I have seen " Hair " probably more than twelve times , and my eyes always get wet while Berger walks to the airplane singing " That's me , that's me , that's me " , and I start crying with his gravestone in the cemetery . I believe this is one of the most beautiful , sad and touching conclusions of the cinema history . My wife , my daughter and my son also love this film ; therefore I can guarantee that " Hair " is timeless and recommended for any audience . Title ( Brazil ) : " Hair "
The Life of Mozart Wonderfully Present to Viewers Who Loves High Quality Movies	Antonio Salieri ( F . Murray Abraham , in an outstanding performance ) , the Vienna court's composer , is in the end of his life in an asylum . He receives the visit of a priest and tell him how he destroyed Mozart ( the actor who has disappeared from the screens Tom Hulce , also in a marvelous performance ) . Then , the story of Mozart , through the jealousy and admiration of Salieri , is told to the viewers in a spectacular movie . The performances of the cast , the direction , soundtrack , costumes and photography are wonderful . A curiosity : Cynthia Nixon ( Miranda , from Sex and the City ) has a small , but relevant participation in this movie as the servant Lorl . A movie to be watched many times . The viewers who appreciate excellent movies and classic music will certainly love it .
The Collision of the Third World With First World , In a Wonderful Low Budget Movie	M ( Markku Peltola ) is victim of aggression of three thieves in Helsinki , being considered dead in a public hospital . However , he wakes-up and leaves the hospital with amnesia . A gentle poor family finds him nearby the sea and heals him . M recovers his health , but not his memory . Without knowing his name , every trial for getting a job is useless . However , the Salvation Army provides clothes , a job and some dignity to M . There , he meets in his colleague Irma ( Kati Outinem ) , love and a reason to live . They fall in love for each other , but the past of M appears , haunting his new life . This wonderful low budget movie is the prove that an excellent film does not depend on money , but on a screenplay , director and cast . Yesterday I watched a crap , called ' Full Frontal ' , which has a great director and a constellation of stars in the cast , but its screenplay is horrible . ' Mies Vailla Menneisyyttä ' works perfectly : first , the screenplay about the persons excluded of the society , homeless , those who need a helping hand not offered by most of the society , would not be pleasant , since most of the people just support reading about them in the newspapers or watching on TV news . However , the story shows a beautiful fable with comedy , love , violence , negligence , sympathy , exploitation , selfish , corruption , incompetent police , lawyers , showing the Third World that does exist in Finland , an European country . Then , the perfect direction of the unknown Aki Kaurismäki , which presents the plot in a simple way , but developing very well the characters . This is the first movie that I saw from this director , and I am not sure whether any other has been released in Brazil . Last but not the least , the outstanding performance of the also unknown cast , highlighting the roles and presence of Kati Outinem and Markku Peltola . This film is a little gem , which deserves to be discovered by the lovers of cinema . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Homem Sem Passado ' ( ' The Man Without Past ' )
One of the Best Movies of Trial	When the efficient lawyer Sir Wilfrid Robarts ( Charles Laughton ) has just returned to his office , recovering from a heart attack , he is invited to defend Leonard Stephen Vole ( Tyrone Power ) in a case of murder . Leonard is a former soldier who fought in World War II , married with his beloved German wife Christine Helm Vole ( Marlene Dietrich ) , unemployed and accused of murdering the rich middle-aged woman Emily French ( Norma Varden ) to inherit 80 , 000 pounds . His unique alibi would be the testimony of Christine , which would not be accepted by the court , since she is his wife . Along the trial , Christine is surprisingly called to testify , but by the prosecution , when secrets about their lives are disclosed . " Witness For the Prosecution " is a perfect movie and one of the best about trial . The story is perfectly tied-up , without any flaw in the screenplay , which has many plot points and a perfect combination of " British humor " , drama and mystery . The cast is very inspired , highlighting the performances of Charles Laughton and Marlene Dietrich . Billy Wilder is one of my favorite directors and his direction is once again outstanding . Yesterday I had the chance of buying this VHS in a rental , I have just watched it for the fourth or fifth time and I do not know why this movie has not been released on DVD in Brazil . Title ( Brazil ) : " Testemunha de Acusação " ( " Witness For the Prosecution " )
Wonderful Fable of Love and Illusion	In the turn of the Twentieth Century , in Vienna , the teenager Eduard Abramovich is the son of a cabinetmaker that becomes fascinated with magic . While practicing some tricks on the streets , he meets the upper-class Sophie , they become friends and later they fall in love for each other . When they are separated by Sophie's family , the broken-hearted Eduard travels to the Far East and fifteen years later he returns to Vienna as a famous illusionist with a different name , Eisenheim ( Edward Norton ) . While performing a show in the presence of the ambitious and ruthless Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus Sewell ) and the corrupt Inspector Uhl ( Paul Giamatti ) , Sophie ( Jessica Biel ) volunteers for a trick on the stage and they immediately recognize each other . The flame of their passion bursts , but Sophie is engaged of Leopold , as part of his political game to be crowned king with the support of Hungary in a coup d'état against his father . Sophie and Eisenheim plan to runaway together , but when the drunken Leopold discloses their intention , he apparently kills Sophie . The grieving Eisenheim brings his Chinese acquaintances and performs an amazing show , where nothing is what it seems . " The Illusionist " is a wonderful fable of love and illusion , one of the best movies I have recently seen . The original and excellent story is disclosed in an intelligent screenplay , magnificent cinematography and beautiful music score . The direction is stunning and the performances are fantastic , highlighting Edward Norton and Paul Giamatti in an upper level , immediately followed by Rufus Sewell and Jessica Biel , who shows a great chemistry with Edward Norton . The twist is spectacular , and after watching this great movie , I realized how dirty the political game in the Oscar is , where nothing is what it seems , selecting " The Departed " as Best Movie just because of the name of Martin " obsessed for Oscar " Scosese . Honestly , there is no comparison between the boring , unrealistic and overrated " The Departed " and this overwhelming and mesmerizing " The Illusionist " . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Ilusionista " ( The Illusionist " )
Another Masterpiece of the German Expressionism	Mephisto ( Satan ) bets with God that he can get the soul of Faust , a bright and studious man . If Mephisto corrupts Faust , all mankind would belong to him . The first part of this film is related to this pact . Then , with Faust young and handsome , he seduces Gretchen , and the second part of this movie is related to the tragedy of Gretchen . The last scene , with the redemption of Faust , is also wonderful . Yesterday I watched Faust on DVD for the first time . This is another a masterpiece of the history of the cinematographic industry and of the German Expressionism . The lighting , shadows , effects and photography are amazing for a 1926 movie . I read in the biography of the outstanding Morneau that he fought as a pilot in the World War I and died in 1931 , with 43 years old , in a car accident . What a loss for the culture of the world ! Emil Jannings as Mephistoles is fantastic , alternating evil and wickedness with funny situations . Faust with his regret has a great performance and the despair of Gretchen ( a very beautiful woman ) is touching . I only regret that the DVD released in Brazil has not restored the images .
We Are Next	Eko is completely disturbed , haunted by his past , in Nigeria and leaves the tent looking for his brother Yemi in the woods . Locke organizes an expedition with Sayid , Desmond , Paulo and Nikki to chase Eko and to go the Pearl hatch , expecting also to find a computer and locate Jack , Kate and Sawyer . Meanwhile , Jack discloses that Ben Linus has a tumor in his spine , finding the real intention of his abduction . Juliet plots and proposes a plan to Jack to eliminate Ben . Eko is attacked and killed by a dark fog . " The Cost of Living " is another great episode of the third season of " Lost " . I regret the death of Eko , one of my favorite characters of this show . I am also curious about the honesty of Juliet with her plan : does she really intend to kill Ben , or is she only testing Jack ? Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
A Testimony of the History of Latin America in the 70's	In the early 70's , in Uruguay , the revolutionary group Tupamaro kidnaps an American trainer of torture and the Brazilian consul , and through the interrogation of the abducted American , the big picture of Uruguay ( and other Latin America countries ) is reported . " État de Siege " is a testimony of the history of Latin America in the 70's , during my childhood and adolescence . All the democratic governments elected by people were discharged through coup d'état by military dictatorships supported by the American government , the police and military forces trained in tortures by American advisors , student and union leaderships destroyed and revolutionary groups unsuccessfully fighting against the dictatorial regime . The fantastic director Costa Gravas exposes this serious wound in Latin America and this denunciation shall never be forgotten by the next generations . This movie remains amazingly real and important , sometimes recalling a documentary . Only this month this film was released on DVD in Brazil , and it is a worthwhile investment . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Estado de Sítio " ( " State of Siege " )
The Walk of a Dead Man	In 1938 , the experienced salesman of the Pacific All Risk Insurance Co . Walter Neff ( Fred MacMurray ) meets the seductive wife of one of his client , Phyllis Dietrichson ( Barbara Stanwick ) , and they have an affair . Phyllis proposes to kill her husband Dietrichson ( Tom Powers ) to receive the prize of an accident insurance policy and Walter plots a scheme to receive twice the amount based on a double indemnity clause . When Mr . Dietrichson is found dead on the trails of a train , the police accepts the evidence of accidental death . However , the insurance analyst and Walter's best friend Barton Keyes ( Edward G . Robinson ) does not buy the version and suspects that Phyllis has murdered her husband with the help of another man . In my opinion , Billy Wilder was the greatest director of Hollywood ever , directing many masterpieces including " Double Indemnity " among them . This is the second time that I see this magnificent film-noir , now on DVD recently released in Brazil ( the first time was in the cable television , since this masterpiece has never been released on VHS in my country ) . The story and screenplay are stunning , disclosing a sordid story of lust , love , greed and betrayal . Fred MacMurray , Barbara Stanwick and Edward G . Robinson have magnificent performances . The cinematography is simply spectacular , with an awesome use of lights and shadows and the music score completes one of the best movies Hollywood has ever produced . Title ( Brazil ) : " Pacto de Sangue " ( " Pact of Blood " )
Heart is the Mediator Between Brains and Muscles ? A Futuristic View of the Fight of Classes	In the future , the society of Metropolis is divided in two social classes : the workers , who live in the underground below the machines level , and the dominant classes that lives in the surface . The workers are controlled by their leader Maria ( Brigitte Helm ) , who wants to find a mediator between the upper class lords and the workers , since she believes that a heart would be necessary between brains and muscles . Maria meets Freder Fredersen ( Gustav Fröhlich ) , the son of the Lord of Metropolis Johhan Fredersen ( Alfred Abel ) , in a meeting of the workers , and they fall in love for each other . Meanwhile , Johhan decides that the workers are no longer necessary for Metropolis , and uses a robot pretending to be Maria to promote a revolution of the working class and eliminate them . " Metropolis " is a fantastic futuristic view of the fight of classes . When " Metropolis " was shot , it was a romantic revolutionary period of mankind history , with socialist movements around the world . Fritz Lang directed and wrote the screenplay of this masterpiece certainly inspired in this historical moment and defending a position of agreement and understanding between both sides , showing that they need each other . I wonder how this great director was able to produce such special effects in 1927 , with very primitive cameras and equipment . The city of Metropolis is visibly inspired in New York . The performance of Brigitte Helm is stunning in her double role , and this movie is mandatory for any person that says that like cinema as an art . Title ( Brazil ) : " Metropolis "
One of the Best Concerts Ever Made	Today I have watched this concert maybe for the twentieth time . It is one of the best concerts ever made . Roger Waters and all the participants are perfect . Mandatory for those who appreciate excellent musicians .
One of the Best Musical DVD Ever Made	This is one of the best musical DVD ever made . It is perfect ! You must see it . Sarah Brightman is outstanding , marvelous , stunning . The DTS is wonderful , the lighting , colors , costume , orchestra , choral , everything is fantastic .
Life Is Full of Surprises	Lionel Luthor is chased by a man with mask and forced to play hangman to save his life . Later , he is abducted by the same stranger and has to play lethal games to survive . Martha is also kidnapped and in his last test , the life of Martha is also put at stake and Lionel has to fight to save her life . Meanwhile , Chloe , Clark and Luthor join forces trying to find Martha and Lionel . In this excellent episode , actually a rip-off of " Saw " , the greatest question certainty is : " - Did Lionel notice that the weapon had no bullets or was he really sacrificing his life to save Martha ? " . With regard to Clark's secret , now there is no doubt about the awareness of Lionel . Fortunately he will not share this secret with his own son . Title ( Brazil ) : " Clemência " ( " Clemency " )
Another Masterpiece of Master Akira Kurosawa	In the Sixteenth Century , in Japan , Tahei ( Minoru Chiaki ) and Matakishi ( Kamatari Fujiwara ) , two rascals and greedy peasants , are trying to return to the city of Akizuki through Hayakawa , after an unsuccessful attempt of making money with the war between the clans of Yamana and Akizuki . While warming themselves in a fire , they find gold with the symbol MT . Suribachi of the Akizuki hidden in the firewood , and they decide to search for other branches . Tahei and Matakishi meet General Rokurota Makabe ( Toshirô Mifune ) , who is secretly protecting Princess Yukihime ( Misa Uehara ) , and without knowing their identities , they accept to escort and help them in the transportation of the gold through the enemy lines to Akizuki . " Kakushi toride no san akunin " is a delightful movie , indeed another masterpiece of master Akira Kurosawa . The screenplay is amazingly wonderful , having action , comedy and code of honor . Toshirô Mifune is perfect in the role of the samurai that is assigned to protect his princess no matter the cost of the life of his young sister ; Minoru Chiaki and Kamatari Fujiwara are hilarious in the role of two greedy rascals , ready to betrayal , cheat and risk their miserable lives for gold , and responsible for the funniest moments along the story ; the very gorgeous Misa Uehara is stunning in the role of a princess , showing personality and a very noble behavior . Summarizing , it is a perfect movie , with fantastic locations and costumes and magnificent choreography of fights . I intended to use the saying " Hide stones among stones , men among men " said by Makabe to the peasants as the title of my review , but I noted that another IMDb user had the same idea . I read on the cover of the DVD that George Lucas inspired his franchising " Star Wars " in this movie . This was the first time that I watched " Kakushi toride no san akunin " , which was unknown for me , and I really recommend it to any audience . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Fortaleza Escondida " ( " The Hidden Fortress " )
A Sequel That Is Another Masterpiece	In 1564 , Ivan , The Terrible ( Nicolai Cherkasov ) , is feeling alone : his wife , friend and great companion was poisoned and his best friend , Prince Andreu Kurbsky ( Mikhail Nazvanov ) has betrayed him and delivered some Russian cities to Poland . Trying to have somebody to believe , he promotes Archbishop Philip ( Andrei Abrikosov ) to the highest authority of the church in the city of Moscow . Then , the story presents lot of treason in his court and a great revenge . This movie is so remarkable as ' Part I ' is . The photography , lights and shadows in black and white are again a piece of art . There are at least twenty minutes in color , and in my opinion t would be better off being only in black and white . The sumptuous scenarios are amazing , plenty of details and very luxury , and the story is a sequel of an epic . The direction and the performance of the cast are outstanding , making this movie another unforgettable masterpiece and highly recommended . However , it is necessary to watch the ' Part I ' first , otherwise the viewer will not understand the story .
Smallville , Bull Eye of Meteor Shower	On the Smallville High graduation day , Lana Lang is attacked by Genevieve Teague in her apartment , and she mortally stabs Genevieve with the Kryptonian stone , killing her . The blood in the element triggers a meteor shower toward Smallville . Clark Kent goes to the Kawatche caves and after inserting the disc in a stone , he talks to Jor-El , who orders him to join the three stones to save Earth of destruction . Lana Lang surprisingly gives one of the stones to Clark , and the other one , which is in possess of Lionel , " calls " him . A deranged and wounded Jason goes to the Kent farm and threatens Martha and Jonathan trying to find the stones . And Chloe saves Clark in the Luthor mansion . " Commencement " is certainly the best episode of the Fourth Season of " Smallville " , with many new situations : the death of Genevieve Teague ; the declaration of Lana to Clark ; another meteor shower in Smallville ; Chloe secretly saving Clark ; Lana apparently seeing a spacecraft ; Clark sent to the Artic . Unfortunately I have to wait for the release of the Fifth Season on DVD to watch the sequel of this excellent episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Formatura " ( " Graduation " )
