I Am Legend . It is Awful	Simply outlandish film . What was Will Smith doing in making such junk ? The whole plot is absolutely idiotic to witness . A virus hits New York and everyone is dead . Seems that everyone has turned into monsters . Smith plays the doctor desperately trying to save humanity from this horror . Someone needed to spare Smith from this film . You don't get an Oscar nomination for previous superior work and then subject yourself to such trash like this . Along comes a woman with her son Ethan . They're bound for Vermont where they will find safety from all this horror . Smith saves them but sacrifices himself . Why didn't the writers sacrifice themselves ? Again , this film is absolutely ridiculous , asinine and other negative adjectives that I can think of . Ed G
Happiness is Anything But . . .	This is a real clinker of a movie . It is certainly not for the squeamish among us . This story of a dysfunctional family puts the word dysfunctional over the top in most dictionaries . We don't have to be reminded that a psychiatrist could be a child molester and that Camryn Manheim , who really throws her weight around on screen , could have killed a doorman and chopped his body into pieces . There is one solid performance and that belongs to Jane Adams as the youngest sister who appears to be the biggest loser of them all . Unlucky in forming solid relationships , she falls for a Russian cab driver who is out to get her money . As she did in her Oscar nominated supporting performance in " Junebug , " Miss Adams pulls out all the emotional stops here as well . She will be the next Joanne Woodward as she matures in films . She evokes plenty of frustration and emotional turbulence in her roles . It's just the poor quality of this film that does her in .
Intermission-Make it A Permanent One	A terrible film which is supposed to be an independent one . It needed some dependence on something . This totally miserable film deals with the interactions among Irish people . Were they trying to imitate the wonderful film " Crash ? " If so , this film crashed entirely . There is just too much going on here culminated by a little brat running around and throwing rocks into buses and cars which obviously cause mayhem . The film is just too choppy to work . One woman loses her husband after 14 years to another while her younger sister is ripped off by a suitor . This causes the former sister to become a bitter vetch and walk around in clothes not worth believing . The older sister also becomes embittered but soon finds romance . Then , we have 3 losers who purchase masks to rob a bank . Obviously , the robbery goes awry but there doesn't seem to be any punishment for the crooks . Perhaps , the punishment should have been on the writers for failure to create a cohesive film .
For One More Day-Not for One More Moment	Depressing and utterly revolting film about an alcoholic former baseball player who is allowed to spend one more day with his mother . She has been dead for 9 years and he has put a gun to his head to end it all . The problem is the writing is very bad and someone should have put an end to that quickly . Ellen Burstyn is great particularly when she has a nasty , meaty role . Unfortunately , in this film , she is too matter by the fact , going by the book mom . It just doesn't work for her . Imperioli delivers a suitable performance and his appearance as an alcoholic best describes the mess in the film . People come and go in this film like water . One black woman appears as a ghost . Another will die that evening . To add insult to injury , Imperioli's father was thrown out years before by Burstyn when she discovered that he had committed bigamy ! That's all that's missing in this clinker . This is a story of missed opportunities and incredibly bad luck . Oprah Winfrey should have her head examined for producing such a depressing , uneven story . Even the flashback techniques in film making doesn't work here . It's too much and even confusing at times . A major disappointment . I anticipated so much better .
Guest in the House-Kick Her Out Along With Film	This 1944 film is too awful as it's just incredible . Anne Baxter does get a warming up for her marvelous Eve Harrington in " All About Eve " as well as showing frustration and the same sympathy that she showed as her Oscar winning Sophie in " The Razor's Edge . " The problem with this film is the writing . Who would believe that a doctor would take his patient to his brother's house ? The patient ( Evelyn-Baxter ) falls for the doctor's brother , an engaging Ralph Bellamy . He is supposedly a family man but what's he really doing in the attic with that model ? No wonder Evelyn is able to plant the seeds of suspicion turning that house upside down . Evelyn shows a fear of birds and it's just that that does her in at the end . The whole film is for the birds . Can you imagine the doctor believing this woman over his family despite her very diary ? The whole thing is inane and odd at the very least .
War of the Worlds : Too Bad to Be True	H . G . Welles must be turning over in the grave to know that such an awful film was made based on his best seller . Tom Cruise is in the lead role of a father forced to flee with his 2 children when monsters invade the planet . The latter look like replicas from the various 1950 monster films . The major difference is that they're filled with modern technology . Oscar winner Tim Robbins steals this poor film in a brief appearance as a demented person ready to fight these monsters at any cost . The ending is contrived as the family reunites . It was shown earlier that the older son was killed but miraculously he returns in an imitation ending film scene depicted in " Ben-Hur . " Add the to the special effects . Dakota Fanning is engaging as the young child . Her frightened look tells the whole story . Unfortunately , I'd also be frightened to be in such a mess .
House of Numbers Just Doesn't Add Up	Poor film dealing with a brother's scheme to get out of jail . He changes places with his brother who looks like him . Jack Palance as always is intriguing . However , the problem here is that he has such poor written material to work with . Harold J . Stone comes off as a heavy as a prison guard who has larceny in his heart but has the tables turned on him . We see Palance as a sympathetic brother who helped the latter through college . The acting here is so stilted . Even the guy who is hijacked in his car comes off as totally unrealistic . How many times could he say : " Don't hurt me , I have a wife and kids . " The ending where the brother turns on the other is not surprising but by this time you're so annoyed with the whole thing that you just don't care much anymore .
Take the Express and Get Away Fast	A complete lack of continuity best describes " The Station Agent . " When his friend suddenly dies , a dwarf inherits his home by a train depot . He moves there to be alone only to meet up with 2 fellow losers-a hot dog vendor whose watching the place for his ailing father and a woman ( Patricia Clarkson in a thankless role ) separated from her husband , who lost a son 2 years ago . Pete Dinklage ( the dwarf ) wants to play Greta Garbo as he wants to be left alone . The vendor is desperately seeking friendship . Clarkson eventually takes pills to end it all which is really not that bad an idea considering how bad this movie really is . Finbar , ( the dwarf ) meets a pregnant young girl who is subject to abuse by child's father . Having had it and you can't really blame him , Fin gets drunk at a bar and lays down by a railroad track as the train passes by . Suddenly our hero is talking about trains in front of a class only to be humiliated by a student who asks about his height . Our 3 losers appear at a house talking about getting information about the blimps from a library as the film mercifully ends . This is definitely an amateurish production . It seems as though it's a high school project made by a novice film crew .
This " Invasion " Needs to Be Conquered	Who wrote this junk ? Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig star in this mysterious trash dealing with a virus that comes to earth and causes people to be almost monster-like . They become like zombies and then resort to violence to get others to join them . At first there is a nuclear disaster which brings about the epidemic . You come down with the disease by falling asleep and it manifests itself during the rem dreaming period . I would suggest that you risk the virus and fall asleep on this miserable film . The writing is a complete joke . New York is quarantined and Kidman's son and ex-husband run to Baltimore to stay with his mother . The latter looks just like the type you would meet in Borough Park , Brooklyn . Of course , Kidman is in pursuit and she naturally gets into a pharmacy and has a serum from keeping her from sleeping . What hogwash .
Things to Come-If this Be True , Stop the World I Want to Get Off	Dreadful film of things to come . I still have nightmares after viewing this master mess of a film . True , the story tells us of the devastation of war and its aftermath . True , the sets are good and appropriate for what the film is trying to show . However , the writing is very bad and the acting even worse . As the boss , Sir Ralph Richardson gives one of the worst performances on record . It is almost laughable when in reality it is so tragic . As the hero , Raymond Massey is impressive but he is given such poor material to work with . The acting by others is extremely stilted . Cedric Hardwicke as the man against progress is another joke . I thought he was trying to act like a pharaoh-like character as he did 20 years later in " The Ten Commandments . " That's a movie , not this piece of trash . While the set decorations were good , is that what Welles thought the world would look like in the 1970s ? Who was that woman who played Richardson's wife ? She came off as an Amazon , reminding me of Phaedre . Her performance was truly wretched , but so is the rest of the film .
The Big Mouth Proves that Empty Barrels Make A Lot of Noise	Positively ridiculous Jerry Lewis 1967 vehicle where he becomes involved with diamond smugglers after encountering a dying person on the beach while fishing . The big joke is that the guy he encounters belongs to a smuggling ring and resembles Lewis . There are two groups after the diamonds and Lewis acts as he did in parts as the Nutty Professor . It's quite awful to say the least . Then , there is romance along the way . No surprise that the actress who played his love interest in the film was never heard from again . After making a movie as miserable as this , one would want to hide out . Harold J . Stone appears as a gang leader . He is boisterous but is given poor material to work with .
In Brutal Bruges - Enjoy Belgian Waffles But Not this Stinker	After they make a hit in England , 2 killers flee to Bruges , Belgium where the violence really begins . This picture really makes absolutely no sense and eventually becomes nothing more than a blood bath . When Colin Farrell is ordered to kill a priest a young innocent also takes a bullet and for the rest of the film Collin Farrell begs for redemption for what he has done . An hour into this horrific film , Ralph Fiennes shows up as their boss and orders Ken to kill the Farrell character . We also have a Zeljo Ivanek taking a blank bullet to the eye and revenge and all other sorts of mayhem . Ken takes a plunge off a building and that's really disgusting at best . More shooting , more mayhem and we dare to call this black comedy ?
Ice Harvest It's Not Even for the ( Snow ) Birds !	Ridiculous nonsense involving an attorney ( John Cusack ) and his pal ( Billy Bob Thornton ) who steal $2 . 1 million from the mob in Kansas City . Robert Benton , the screenwriter for this nonsense , never bothers to explain to us how they were able to pull this caper off . Perhaps , that might have made for better entertainment . Instead , this misery of a film becomes a shooting and stabbing film . The scene at the river is just gruesome enough . Cusack thinks that Billy Bob is dead . He isn't but the latter's wife is thanks to Thornton putting a bullet in back of her head . Thornton tells Cusack that the mobster did it but as the latter is felled by a bullet , he blurts out that Billy Bob killed his own wife . Then there is a girlfriend who helps Cusack kill the other mobster , a disgusting looking Randy Quaid . If this is called black comedy , please bring in the light of day . Simply awful .
Sing Me A Murder Puts Me to Sleep	Wow , was this ever a very dull film . The gentleman who portrayed Philby is the definition of boring . He needed some kind of chemical to wake him up . The red-headed singer goes through almost anything here-admitting to murder , then denying it and that story of having a child with another guy is too much to bear . The performances have no zest whatsoever . The guessing game seems to go nowhere as well . At least , the 3 performers should have done some singing so as to liven up this very unimaginative movie .
End of the Affair-Boring Time for All	Imagine me saying that a Van Johnson , Deborah Kerr film was awful . It's true folks . This was one miserable film . In war ravaged England the two of them begin an affair only for Ms . Kerr to end it in thanks to the Lord when Maurice ( Johnson ) survives a bombing . The two of them engage in absolute endless talk . The film falls into a discussion regarding the lord and all other kinds of philosophy . Kerr gives an emotionally restrained performance in her usual sing-song diction . As Sarah in this film , there is no great chemical reaction between her and Maurice . As her suffering husband , an English civil servant , Peter Cushing is adequate but the dialogue is ridiculous . John Mills is real dead pan as an investigator . When a husband hires a detective to investigate a cheating wife , that can be believed . When a former lover does this , you have to wonder . Am wondering if Van Johnson was using this film as a pre-test to the much better " Miracle in the Rain " which occurred the following year . Two deaths coming during rainstorms is more than quite incidental .
Put out the Fire , Please	Terrible film with Angelina Jolie starting off her career . She comes into a school and goes around unchallenged by a security guard . Walking into a biology class , she sees that the teacher is harassing a student for refusing to cut up a frog . It turns out that the teacher has been doing more than just that to his female students . Jolie , known as Legs , finally jumps the teacher with 4 other girls . They are suspended by Principal Parks . ( Richard Beymer ) Sad to see that Beymer's career has come to this playing a non-understanding principal . The part is gratefully brief . The girls are suspended and come back to the school with Legs since one of them has to retrieve papers . A lit match ignites a fire and the sprinkler system goes on . Even with the arrival of the police , the girls manage to flee to a hidden abandoned house where they dance and act like the brats they are . Of course , there is a stolen car episode and a gun going off and hitting one of the parents . Seems his daughter , Goldie , is on drugs . There is entirely too much going on here . Legs thankfully leaves and Matty is suddenly no longer afraid of heights . The writing is contrived . The ideas are out of inner sanctum . A very poor movie with no way out other than turning it off .
Sky High Hits Record Low	You wonder why Kurt Russell would accept anything like this . Playing a Superman-like character , Goldie Hawn's long-time lover , must be super fool . Sky High refers to a high school over the rainbow . The kids go there and there is anything but academics . You prove how cool you are by showing your strength . Our hero has strong parents but he is a nerd who will have to find his way . A girl , who was really quite evil in another life , tries to turn the tables on all at the annual homecoming . When the plot is resolved , the main character has nerve enough to say that the rest of the school year was boring . What did he call this film-enjoyable ?
I'm Not There-Wish I Weren't for This One	Positively dreadful film . Probably must be ranked as one of the all-time worst viewed by yours truly . The film depicts the life of Bob Dylan at various stages of his life . The film is terribly uneven with different characters just made to bounce around makes for a totally uninteresting affect . Yes , Cate Blanchett does give a solid performance but you just keep wondering and wondering what this is all about . The backdrops of the struggle for civil rights is lost in the absolute nonsense generated by the characters in this ensemble cast . Problem is that the writing is so atrocious , the uneven plot is never permitted to gel . A simply awful production of the worst character imaginable .
Last of Sheila - No Wonder They Did Her In	A monumental misery of a film . It is so awful that you really don't care who did anything . You have to wonder who wrote this colossal mess . Norma Desmond thought that she was playing the scene when she blew William Holden away . What are these characters thinking in this constantly confusing piece of garbage ? The technique of flashbacks can't work here due to the film's stupidity and being so muddled . Richard Benjamin is so out of line here . James Mason proves that he can epitomize evil but he is given such a terrible script to pursue it . Joan Hackett , as Lee , tries her best , but this excellent actress is also a victim of the script . What in heaven's name was going on in that confession booth ? How did people gain access to it , just going in as they pleased . Awful is the best description for this film .
Keeping Mum - Keep it Quiet But Good	Whether this is considered black comedy or dark comedy , the film is absolutely awful and an insult to anyone's intelligence . When Maggie Smith leaves prison after 40 years for the murder of her husband and his lover , she goes to work for a vicar and his wife that are having problems . The vicar is an absolute bore , dull jerk . That's the easy way to put it . His wife , Kristin Scott Thomas , is having an affair with an American pro-golfer , Patrick Swayze is a stupid role . There are the vicar and his wife's children , both of whom act not like the children of religious parents . When Smith sees what's going on between Thomas and Swayze , she wacks him over the head and then confesses to Thomas and the daughter , that she is there mother / grandmother . The end is as ridiculous as the rest of this . Why people with the talent of Maggie Smith , Kristin Scott Thomas and Patrick Swayze would play in this junk is hard to imagine . Years ago , the brilliant Ms . Smith , claimed that she'd make movies for jam money . She must be really broke to put her great acting talent into this misery of a film .
How I Got into College-Beyond Stupidity	Utterly ridiculous movie which makes fun of the college admission process . While it is true that the SAT's is not everything in evaluating a student for admission to college , what the movie talks about is utterly ridiculous and not worth repeating nor viewing . College admissions officials are made to look like stupid people who have an extremely narrow view of the entire process . The film is an insult to hard-working high school students who work hard and then have to suffer through a long process until they receive that letter of acceptance or rejection from the schools they have applied for . This movie certainly deserves rejection on all levels .
This Matador is Full of Bull	Absolutely terrible film dealing with a burned out assassin ( Julian ) , played by a hard drinking , heavy smoking Pierce Brosnan and his chance meeting with a conventional business person Danny ( Greg Kinnear ) The two become friends as Julian tells Danny that he is burned out . He can get out of this deal by doing one more job-the job we find out is killing his boss ! The gags are ridiculous . This is a very amateurish , inane comedy . Kinnear tells Julian that his son was killed in a school bus accident . Julian changes the subject and that ticks off Danny . The viewers should be ticked off with the rest of this foolishness as well .
For Your Consideration-How Dumb Can You Get ?	A truly awful film depicting what goes on during the making of a film as well as Oscar time . We've seen ideas like this before with Maggie Smith in " California Suite " and Stephen Boyd in 1966's " The Oscar . " However , these films were far superior to this nonsense . That stupid film " Home for Purim " is so obnoxious because the Jewish players are anything but Jewish . We could have sung when Irish eyes are smiling . Note that due to political correctness , the name of the film was changed to " Home for Thanksgiving . " The good part of the film was showing what happens when the supposed stars don't get the Oscar nominations and literally fade into oblivion . Until that point is made , the film is useless .
The Great Sinner - Sin To Make This Awful Film	A top cast in a top flop movie . Gregory Peck in a totally miserable film dealing with a man who wants to write about gambling and becomes a compulsive gambler himself . We had the same idea in the fabulous " Gentleman's Agreement , " best picture Oscar winner of 2 years ago . That film had substance and heart . This is a complete mess . The black and white film takes place in 1860's Wiesbaden , Germany . They should have said auf wiedersehn to this film to begin with . Ava Gardner is absolutely awful in the role of Peck's love interest . Her father is played by compulsive gambler Walter Huston . He looks absolutely ridiculous in a white wig . Frank Morgan is in this junk as a math professor who commits suicide after losing a bundle . Later on , he revisits Peck in a nightmare dream and hands him a gun . Agnes Moorehead is the pawn shop lady where everyone goes to after they have lost their shirt . She is ugly and nasty . The biggest joke is Ethel Barrymore , a hag who is the mother of Huston and grandma of Gardner . She is supposedly dying throughout this mess but suddenly shows up and gambles away until she dies at the table-after dropping millions ! It's amazing that acting talent like this could find themselves in such a mess . Peck smokes cigarettes bigger than his face . Melvyn Douglas owns the casino and loves Gardner . After Peck wins over $200 , 000 Douglas tricks him as he knows that he will come back for more . This is a colossal bomb . How this ever got made is beyond me . The film should forever be in the green circular file . The last scene is too much where Peck finds redemption after visiting a church . You need more than a Bing Crosby-Father O'Malley for this garbage . If this had been the fabulous " Kings of the Kingdom , " I would have suggested that the keys should be thrown away . Who wrote this stuff ? The 3 Stooges ?
Take to the Junk Yard-Prairie Home Companion	Noted director , Robert Altman , went out with a sour bang in this miserable 2006 production . Meryl Streep singing country music ? You have to be kidding . Miss Streep and a very old looking Lili Tomlin are just too old for the Johnson sisters . The songs are ridiculous and the story line isn't much better as the theater where they stage their boring shows is slated for demolition . Virginia Madsen plays the woman in white who represents death . Wherever she is , there are problems . Just ask Tommy Lee Jones , in a brief role , who takes a ride with Madsen and is never seen again . That country singer who dies in another room after performing is another mystery that the film does not come to grips with . Did he die a natural death or was there foul play ? The viewer is so annoyed with this that at this point you wouldn't care . Woody Harrelson and John C . Reilly are along for the ride as fellow country singers performing on the show . Their songs , like the rest of this mess , are inane as well .
Kiss Kiss Bang Bang-Kiss this One Good Bye	Absolutely dreadful film . At the end of the film , you will definitely ask yourself what this film is all about . You will not be able to answer this as well . I realize that Robert Downey Jr . has had a tough life doing drugs . Must he submit to scripts such as this one ? It's enough for him to revert back to his old habits . In it , a guy running from the police comes into an audition like situation for a part . He reads the part brilliantly and is immediately confused for a Marlon Brando-method-like acting person . After that , it's off to Hollywood parties with plenty of shooting , chase sequences and other nonsense galore . What's going on here ? Corbin Bernsen appears as a father who took some drastic measures to prevent his own daughter from suing him . Someone should sue the director or the movie chains subjecting patrons to see this miserable mess .
No Country for Old Men-No Picture for Anyone	I was terribly disappointed after seeing this Oscar winning film for 2007 . Why did this picture win the best picture Oscar ? It is absolutely horrendous . The Coen brothers seem to have a very warped view of life as we saw in FARGO and O BROTHER , WHERE ART THOU ? If I were Javier Bardem , I would have been embarrassed to accept the award for best supporting actor for playing a totally depraved killer . His voice sounded as if he were on record and was placed on slow speed . While he portrays an absolute maniac , it was just horrible to see how he goes around with his gun blasting away at his victims . The film would have been much better had it been more about the drug deal going wrong . Instead , we see 2 guys after money and we know that the latter is the root of all evil . Tommy Lee Jones becomes a philosopher in the last scene of the film . Did anyone realize that the movie ended abruptly ? This is a totally awful film , way too violent for my taste and others .
Had to Be You - Shouldn't Be Yours to See	Total stinker involving Ginger Rogers who says no to 3 guys during her wedding ceremonies . She finally meets up with Cornel Wilde , dressed as an Indian , at a station . Wilde is supposed to be some guardian angel . The film is an absolutely stupid series of events where Wilde emerges as a fireman , the only true love for Rogers . Seems that the two of them knew each other years before when she was 6 . He also has left 3 women at the altar . The film might have been better had it try to develop further the relationship between a wealthy society girl and a fireman . Wilde looks like he is having a good time here . The audience certainly was not .
State of the Disunion	Not even great special effects can save this film . It's simply awful . A special elite force is brought into Washington . Ice Cube has got such anger in him . His bitterness usurps his part . Yes , he was unjustly put in jail , but get a life already . Willem DaFoe is up to his old tricks in the role of the villain . The fine acting talents of Peter Strauss are wasted in a role of a good looking president who is looking for world peace in a world of violence . DaFoe , as his adviser , plots his demise . We know what invariably happens , but to give the DaFoe character a military burial in praise of him ? For what ? The mild mannered Strauss using the 4 letter word was also quite inappropriate at the moment it was uttered . Samuel L . Jackson has the thankless role of Cube's mentor . Don't these guys bother to read scripts anymore ?
One Hell of A Guy-Far from Down to Earth	What a loser this 1998 film is . It's a shame that Signe Hasso , a great actress so many years ago , allowed herself to get into this productive mess . I want to remember Signe Hasso for " The House on 92nd Street , " not this mess of a film . For Rob Lowe , the film is perfect . He lacks talent and this picture allows him to display it . One of the previous comments says that Michael York is similar to the late James Mason . Is that true and I congratulate the writer for stating this . Cassie was just too sweet of a girl to be left alone here . Go know that she led a previous life which is true of the Lowe and Hasso characters . Ms . La Rue is no Lola . That's what was needed for her part as well as far better writing . The film appears amateurish at times .
This Film is Awful Big Time Don't Confuse With Oscar Winner	One of the worst films I have seen in recent memory . The automobile association and others should be up-in-arms with this trash . We are seeing the glorification of automobile accidents . This is outrageous . A group of people are aiming for Jayne Mansfield and James Dean like fatal accidents . What an awful plot ! With today's violence , who needs junk like this for our teens to see ? To state that smashing up a car is conducive to sexual freedom is the sickest message one can give . This film should be banned from the universe .
Below For This Awful Movie	If this is what movie making has come to , count me out . This is one of the worst pictures ever made . It's even worse that 200l : A Space Odyssey , 5 Card Stud , etc . What a stupid plot ! Women are no longer pregnant . What would the church say about this ? This isn't even about abortion . The very talented Clive Owen is in this mess and I extend his greatest sympathy to him . What's going on in 2027 ? The world has certainly lost its way in this monumental mess . Who is the father of this girl ? What's going on here ? How fortunate that Julianne Moore and veteran Michael Caine take bullets to finish them off . What is the message that the author is trying to convey here ? The streets are beyond bombed out . Who is the enemy here ? Who are the terrorists ? I was hoping that Woody Allen would pop out and restore some sense into this nonsense .
Don't Appear for this	He claims that it was road rage and then they stabbed him . They claim something else . The fact remains that this is one big muddled mess of a movie . The stabbed guy comes into a diner and recounts his story . The worker is actually the owner . At night , she runs to a broken down motel that her father left her . She is ready to run from all this . She should have . If this isn't enough to take , it seems that the sheriff molested her and nobody believes her . His screaming wife comes to condemn her . Later on , she comes with their child to apologize-the guy was fooling around with someone else . The woman gets the guy to a doctor to clean out the stab wound . In the interim , the doctor is deadly shortly afterwards . Both the guys and the stab victim blame each other . The dialogue is as inane as the whole movie . We have such brilliant lines as one of the gang saying to the girl : " Go smoke cigarettes . By the time I return , you'll have finished a half a pack . " The American Cancer Society should also condemn the whole thing . Anyway , we have an explosion at a gasoline station and the electrocution of the original stab victim . Stay away from strangers .
The Woman in White-Fade to Black Quickly	Miserable film showcasing 2 excellent acting performances . John Emery , as Percival , a nervous wreck is simply marvelous here . He can't take any noise and I wonder how he could have taken any of this miserably crafted and written film . Sydney Greenstreet is so good here because the part of being so sinister was made to order for him . Eleanor Parker has the pleasure of have a dual role here , as one woman , victimized by a fortune hunter and another , dressed in white , who is absolutely off her mind . Speaking of off , Agnes Moorehead looks like a mannequin here . She is totally off the wall and is a perfect foil for " husband " Greenstreet . The writing is simply awful and dull . The film is a period piece taking place in Victorian England of 1851 . The dark , somber mood is befitting here .
Stranger than Fiction-Beyond Comprehension	Absolutely dreadful film of a character in a book who is really a person . Since the character at the end of the book dies , the writer ( a totally screwed up Emma Thompson ) wants that the person also depart . Our hero here is Will Ferrell and the problem with this stinker is that the plot makes no sense . When Ferrell hears voices , psychiatrist Linda Hunt refers him to a literature teacher . That turns out to be Dustin Hoffman who is teaching 5 classes and monitoring 2 Ph . D candidates but still has enough time to be a lifeguard . Hoffman tells Ferrell to stay home so that the plot can't continue . Ferrell does this only to have a wrecking crew demolish his home by mistake . What are we being told here ? Thompson chain smokes cigarettes like they're going out of style . When a tape in Hoffman's office reveals her as the voice , Ferrell pursues her . In the midst of all this , there is a growing romance between Ferrell an IRS agent and Maggie Gylenhaal who refuses to pay part of her taxes to go to the military . The ending where Ferrell is supposed to die for saving a boy from being hit by a bus is the whole story . We could have had this 10 minutes into this film .
Plenty of Skeletons in this Closet-Keep the Door Shut .	Dreadful film . Kate Burton and Gena Rowlands deserved far better than this . A woman takes a job caring for a dying stroke victim . Much more than this is involved in this dreadful film . Seems that the wife , Rowlands , would like to get rid of the old boy . How could a supposed stroke victim survive a fall out the attic window ? Was it really voo doo or what ? Hudson goes from a dedicated hospice worker to a tyrant at the film's very end . This happened awfully fast with no explanation . The story line had some possibilities as it deals with a lynching of black servants in the house along the Bayou years before . Curses and looking through mirrors was so much more pleasurable with Alice in Wonderland . No wonderland here , just misery .
Get Rid of that Fever , Please	Robert Montgomery-Myrna Loy farce about Loy ( Irene ) and her fiancé , played by Reginald Owen , stranded in Labrador when their plane crashes . ( That's really what should have happened to this highly predictable film . ) Montgomery lives there while he is waiting for his fiancé . Surprise ! Montgomery and Loy are soon attracted to each other . The scene with the bear is so contrived . We knew it was a tamed bear all along . Complications ensue when Clara shows up . Loy wants Montgomery to tell Clara that they should part ways , when he refuses , she wants to leave at once . You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out how this will end . Out with all that snow , it's just too cold for anyone !
" Devil Commands " 11th Commandment : Avoid This	Miserable Boris Karloff horror movie . He is the head of the science department doing experiments on brain waves . When his wife dies in a tragic auto accident , this leads our scientist to his usual madness and mayhem proceeds . He is doing experiments with all sorts of bodies aided by an Igor type who introduces him to see Anne Revere . Anne Revere ! Imagine that great actress involved in this nonsense . She is a brute here who encourages Karloff during his madness . When the maid of the lab finds out what is going on , she dies off and chaos ensues when the good professor will not tell the truth regarding her demise . It's just a horrible plot with miserable writing .
Smokin ' Aces Should Burn Up .	Positively an awful movie dealing with a plot that is revealed with about 10 minutes or less to go in this terrible , miserable , outrageous film . You know that a picture is in trouble when Ben Affleck is shot to death in the first half hour of the film . At that point , the studio should have shut this entire mess down . Jeremy Piven is given the thankless role of a comedian type mobster who is soon wanted by the mob . The film is outrageously violent and the shoot up scene in the hotel smacks of nothing else but pure disgust . How dare the makers of this garbage call this a form of entertainment . What kind of nonsense are we led to believe in at the film's end ? The FBI allowed this massacre to take place so that the Piven character could participate in a heart surgery to save his father , the latter being someone who was out to get him throughout the film . The film never explains the various groups caught up in that hotel shootout . The bodies pile up and I was disgusted by this way too violent film . Some sort of code is needed to get this junk off the screen .
xx / xy =	Mark Ruffalo has proved himself to be a fine actor . What an engrossing mess this miserable film is . The story could have been told in about a half hour or so . Hippie guy meets girl , they split and meet some years later . He is in another relationship and she is also involved . Naturally , sparks fly between them and his girlfriend catches them and is angry . The girl goes off and marries the guy she had been with since ditching Ruffalo . What is the point here ? Bad relationships ? Immaturity continues ? What is the writing trying to convey ? An absolute stinker in the sense of the word . You will cheer when The End lights up the screen .
The Lord's of Flatbush - Where's the Beef ?	Absolutely inane film dealing with a bunch of street hooligans who show their immaturity and lack of respect . The only good thing about this farce is that there is no violence . Perry King , who has gone on to become the king of television movies , plays Chico , riding around on his motorcycle and going nowhere quickly as is the case with this film . Talk of stereotyping . The film is demeaning to Italian-Americans . Annie and Frannie are the 2 prototypes for LaVerne and Shirley . Sylvester Stallone is gifted at playing hunks with IQ's around 2 . The plot here is thin and the writing is even worse . The sound sounds like it is coming out of your local luncheonette . Topics such as teen pregnancy , fighting , unruly behavior in school , and the coming of age are poorly dealt with . Frannie wants to marry the Stallone character so they can watch American Bandstand together . The film suffers from a complete lack of maturity and should define itself as the coming of ignorance .
Importance of Being Earnest is Much Ado About Nothing	Simply awful version of the Oscar Wilde tale . Only Dame Judi Bench's performance gives a drop of light to this hopeless story . It's a story of conventional manners and goings on in England . Rupert Everett and Colin Firth are given writing material and a story which isn't worth much . It centers around 2 guys searching for their identity while they have found the loves of their lives . Dench's question period to see if Firth is suitable for her daughter is memorable . Everything goes all right until there is a hint of illegitimacy attached to Firth's birth history . O my , that was a no-no in British society so many years ago . As a pastor , Tom Wilkinson is a nerd at best . As far as finding romance with the elderly looking Anna Massey , forget it . He could have gotten more excitement from a spinster-like high school school marm than from the frigid-looking Massey . A totally boring film with forgettable characters .
Kinsey : Let's Return to Decent Moral Standards in Film Making	I'm not a prude but " Kinsey " goes way beyond the top . It was utterly disgusting to see a grown man showing how many times he could ejaculate in a given time . Is it any wonder that our wayward youth of today goes awry when they seen such things depicted on the screen ? A case could be made that Prof . Kinsey was some kind of a nut . The man was simply infatuated with talking about sexual activity-all kinds . John Lithgow was believable as his preacher father who condemned everything immoral to him but at the same time showered his family with mental abuse . A story about the father himself would have made for interesting entertainment . Even the father talks about his sexual problem following his wife's death . Not only should we return to decency in making motion pictures , it is time to return to good old fashion common sense as well .
A Rage in Hell is More Like this	What was Robert Montgomery thinking about ? Was it Night Must Fall ? In a Rage in Heaven , he is diabolical again but this time the film a colossal mess . When he returns home , he finds his usual Hollywood mother , Lucille Watson , who like Anne Revere , was so busy in the 1940s portraying everyone's mom , ill and having a companion , Ingrid Bergman . While in England , Montgomery had masqueraded as his friend , played by George Sanders . Montgomery flees from an insane asylum and that's when the true mayhem begins . If Bergman is supposedly Watson's secretary and companion , why doesn't the former accompany the latter to Africa where Watson is told to go to recuperate from her illness ? Africa wasn't far enough to run away from this very poor movie . Of course , with Montgomery and Bergman alone , romance ensues at a rate faster than the speed of lightning . Presto ! The 2 are married . The writer of this inane plot had no idea whatsoever of segues . Montgomery is absolutely nuts in this flick . He kills Bergman's cat , writes a diary predicting doom for all , and is insanely jealous of Sanders , who for a change of pace , played a nice guy in this madness . When an accident occurs at the plant , Montgomery insists that Sanders take him to the spot where the worker fell to his death . Sanders turned around just in time as Montgomery was about to push him . Wasn't it time to lock Montgomery up as well as this film ? Without harping further , Montgomery frames Sanders for murder when he commits suicide , and it is up to Bergman to save Sanders from a death sentence . Will she ? Even if she does , nothing can stop this mess of a film . Poor !
Please Believe Me-Believe Me It's A Real Stinker	Just goes to show you when people are under contract . A stellar cast of Deborah Kerr , Robert Walker , Peter Lawford , and Mark Stevens are put into this absolute classic stinker . Seems that during World War 11 , Kerr met an old U . S . soldier who leaves her farmland that's an absolute piece of junk-just like this movie . Walker is a con-artist who thinks that Kerr has landed a lot of money and tries to woo her . On board the board , there's Lawford with his 14 million and his lawyer Stevens . Walker has his crony , James Whitmore , who is the only funny person in this . Scenes include a tie scene which is utterly ridiculous . Naturally , Walker is being financed to fleece Kerr by hoodlum J . Carrol Naish . The film becomes even more ridiculous when it's discovered that Kerr's land is worthless . Having run up debt , she tries to sell the hotel rug and of course winds up with one of our gallant 3 . A weak plot is further done in by poor writing . Norman Taurog , a great director , who won the Oscar for directing " Skippy " years before is straddled with his mess . He probably needed that dog to help out with this clinker .
Give COLD MOUNTAIN the Cold Shoulder	What a lousy , boring picture . Jude Law was horribly miscast in this civil war yarn . Nicole Kidman pulls out all the stops to emulate Scarlett O'Hara but does not and Renee Zellwegger gives a performance that I quite did not understand . The best supporting actress winner spoke like she had marbles in her mouth . That combined with her southern drawl made her impossible to understand . Can't fathom that Kathy Baker recovered so quickly following the horrible massacre of her husband and sons . They ought to use Miss Baker as a grieving counselor in a public high school . Nice job of getting back to yourself quickly , Miss Baker , but it was inappropriate . Jude Law appeared to be able to survive anything in this grim civil war tale . I couldn't wait for him to get back to Ms . Kidman so that this darn movie could end . The civil war battle scenes can't match Atlanta in " Gone With the Wind . " A real stinker .
Negatives at the End Highlight this Stinker	Very poor Amanda Peet-Ashton Kutcher film regarding love over a 7 year period . What was the author of this mess trying to convey ? The movie quickly deteriorates to our two people spitting at each other in a Japanese restaurant and taking off their clothing at a national monument . It is never clear what Oliver ( Kutcher ) was trying to achieve with his baby product and why it failed miserably at the end of a year . That failure just about sizes up this picture . It made no sense whatsoever . Sad to say that Oliver's deaf mute brother has the best lines in the film . Yes , no one can hear him and I suggest that the rest of the film follow this pattern .
Demote Promotion : Dumb and Dumber at their Dumbest	Ludicrous . Outrageously stupid film with 2 basic losers vying for a store manager's position that is opening in a new branch store being opened . How any member of personnel could even think of choosing these 2 jerks is beyond me . The jokes are corny but there is plenty of racism here and it's real stupidity depicted at its best . How did John C . Reilly allow himself to make such an awful film ? The man has such a promising career following his Oscar nomination several years back in " Chicago " and his appearance in " Gangs of New York . " If he keeps appearing in garbage like this , he can forget it .
That Uncertain Feeling is A Certain Stinker	A really good film to doze off by . This is far better than taking sleeping tablets . When her friends persuade her to go to a psychoanalyst for her hiccups , Merle Oberon complies and finds analyst Alan Mowbray blaming her marriage to Melvyn Douglas as the culprit . It's also there that she meets off-the-wall patient Burgess Meredith . The two pursue an affair and she soon separates from Douglas . The film is just too much to believe . On the rebound , Douglas starts an affair with his attorney's ditsy secretary , a very young Eve Arden . The film is totally unappealing and unassuming to say the least . If this is comedy , forget it ! ! ! ! !
Blades of Glory is Idiotic	Horrendous film about 2 skaters who are suspended for life for fighting while on stage . They get around the law by skating in pairs . They run up against a vicious brother and sister team who use another system like Cinderella . The skating leaps are fun but the story line is inane . The brother-sister team will do anything to derail Will Ferrell and his partner from winning . Ferrell looks absolutely ridiculous for this film . His eyebrows are very dark along with his air . The tattoos all over him best describe what this nonsense is all about .
Horse Feathers-Manure Bound	Utterly , stupid , inane , outrageous Marx Brothers film . It made no sense . No comparison to Marx hits such as " The Department Store , Night at the Opera or Day at the Races . " The boys here are in college or at least they give a foolish attempt to be in one . Groucho becomes the head of the school . Brother Zeppo portrays his son in love with the college widow-Thelma Todd . Miss Todd's performance falls absolutely flat here . A great film for those who believe in the ridiculous . Continuity of scenes made absolutely no sense here . The ending with the 3 guys getting married to the same girl is not even a joke . Ever here about alimony ? Slapstick humor with the boys running in and out of Todd's room was silly and annoying at best .
History / World Part 1 - History Was Never Worse than this	You would think that after Mel Brooks made " The Producers " with its offensive " Springtime for Hitler , " that he would have had enough . Unfortunately , not so . He continues his nonsense with this 1981 offensive film . I didn't enjoy his song of The Inquisition . This was utterly stupid and insulting to all people . Equally offensive is Gregory Hines acting Jewish to avoid persecution as a Christian . The writing is absolutely inane . We here lines such as sic transit Gloria and the response to that is : " I didn't know that Gloria was sick . " The film tries to poke fun of the various aspects of history . Madeleine Kahn puts on her Brooklyn accent in force to play a French Queen . Cloris Leachman is totally ridiculous as Mme . De Farge . Imagine the writing - De Farge - Serving the Scum of Paris for Over 20 Years . Blanche Yurka must be turning over in her grave . Brooks should put his history anthologies to rest . They're becoming overly obnoxious .
Don't Take A Walk in the Sun	Outrageously disappointing film dealing with American soldiers attempting to liberate a barn in World War 11 war-torn Italy . The film is simply miserable as there is entirely too much talking and very little action . The first half-hour or so is unbelievably boring . Even the great acting cast can't pull this one out . Sterling Hayden in a dramatic role is just ridiculous here . He insists upon wanting to see where the action is at . When he is shot dead by German air-craft , Dana Andrews remarks : " I am scared . " What else is new ? 1945-46 was a remarkable time in Andrews ' career . He was horribly miscast in 1945's " State Fair " and the following year , he gave a superb performance in the Oscar-winning " The Best Years of Our Lives . " Richard Conte lacks his usual devilish behavior . As a guy from Brooklyn , he aspires to join the mob after the war ends . The great director Lewis Milestone created a first class stinker in " A Walk in the Sun . " Milestone's head must have been in the clouds when he made this poor imitation of a motion film .
The Stalk Should Have Come Down With the Writing for this One	Absolutely inane film starring Abbott and Costello . Even our young children would become increasingly annoyed with this complete mess of a film . Abbott as Dinklepuss . What a look he had on his face . Sure , he had to be part of this dreadful film . Did anyone notice that Costello's mother in the film sounded and looked like Fay Bainter ? Luckily , for Ms . Bainter , that she wasn't in the film . There is really no excitement hear for children . The jokes , if any , are quite stale . Some of the singing is nicely done but the lyrics are ridiculous .
Michael Miserable Clayton	The plot in this very hard film to follow or comprehend is just beyond belief . The only redeeming quality here is a genuine terrific performance by Tom Wilkinson in a supporting role as a lawyer with a mental problem . Otherwise , you can totally forget this awful production . Clooney and Sydney Pollack have never been worse in a film . Pollack just repeats his lines as if he is reading them . There is very little emotion on his part . What did the hit and run driver at the beginning of the film have to do with the rest of the story ? The story-line is so muddled . We all know that we have to watch out for crooked lawyers but this is beyond belief . Clooney's life in this film is one big mess and the film emulates that . Tilda Swinton comes to life only in the last scene . An extremely boring and most disappointing film .
Louisiana Purchase - And I Thought it Was About Napoleon	Dreadful , stupidly inane film dealing with corruption at the Louisiana Purchase Lumber Company . Everyone in the state of Louisiana seems to be corrupt and inept . A member of the college's English Department can only sign his name with an X . When it appears that a straight laced Senator ( Victor Moore ) is coming to the state to investigate , everyone there tries to blame the innocent but foolish Bob Hope character . Is it any wonder that Vera Zorina did not get the part of Maria in 1943's " For Whom the Bell Tolls ? " Naturally , the corrupt officials along with Hope try to show pictures of Zorina with Moore so as to ruin him politically . Moore marries the head of the restaurant who he had insulted when he asked for a ham sandwich . He thought the reason that she was upset was because it was a kosher restaurant . This is the extent of humor is this absolute mess of a film . When Hope tries to defend himself in Congress , he does a take-off of James Stewart in " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington . " By then the film is too far gone for any good response . The music and lyrics are both absolutely terrible . That song praising Louisiana , sung in various ways , is absolutely terrible . Irving Berlin had something to do with the music of this utterly terrible film ?
Borat : Bring Back Censorship	After viewing this very poor imitation of a movie , I really believe that censorship needs to be enforced more so than ever in the motion picture industry . This film is a disgusting , vulgar attempt at comedy . It fails miserably . This picture is highly insulting to Jewish people . Other groups are made to look like fools as well . As someone of the Jewish faith , Sacha Cohen should be ashamed of himself in participating in such nonsense . The scene with the feces is vile . I had to run out of the room when this is shown . From the first scene , I expected a far better movie . Once he comes to America , the film goes downhill rapidly . A monumental mess .
" Kim " A Real Stinkeroo " 0 Stars	By 1950 Hollywood gave Dean Stockwell a lead role in a Rudyard Kipling story . Stockwell was a young teenager and after such films as " Gentleman's Agreement , " and " Keys of the Kingdom , " he deserved far better . The picture was a slow pacing film about a boy spying for the English , who anticipate a Russian invasion of India in the late 1800s . Stockwell is really Caucasian but pretends to be Indian so that he can avoid school . Orphaned , he is soon captured and made to go to school but during summer recess , it's time for espionage . Errol Flynn plays a horse trader in this nonsense who also works for British intelligence . Paul Lukas is a religious leader who walks away at the end . He must have thought that he was Moses . The Indian women in this mess talk like they're reading the script for the first time . An exciting part is when Thomas Gomez is thrown off a cliff . This is what should have been done to the writing . This film is living proof that pictures with star quality will fail when the writing is bad .
If this is New , Give Me the Old World	Very boring film which is conducive for sleeping . You will not need the sleeping pills after seeing this one . The story could have been told in about 20 minutes about colonization in Jamestown in 1607 . The stereotyping is there as the natives are with painted faces , aggressive behavior and the women are practically in the nude . Colin Farrell is a renegade who escapes death from leader Christopher Plummer . The latter soon returns to England to get supplies . How lucky he is to get away from this dull picture . It is told in narrator like setting . Even the battle scenes seem contrived . Enter Christian Bale . The head of the tribe has fallen for Farrell , but thinking he is no longer here , goes with Bale , a widower . Then we see the " My Fair Lady " come into view where the woman , who learns to speak English rapidly goes back with Bale to England married with a son . Re-enter Farrell as the film ends . The plot here is absolutely meaningless .
On the Downlow is Really Low-Down	A drop better than awful describes this film . Enough already with the gay lovers in motion pictures . You have more than made your point . Even Jake Gyllenhaal and the late Heath Ledger would shake their heads with this one . Two members of a gang are committed to their gang membership but are engaging in a homosexual relationship . One is really intelligent as he knows the difference between a felony and misdemeanor . Am surprised that they didn't rename this film " Gang Members in Love " or " A Different Kind of Gang . " Enough already . I am tolerant of all people . They don't bother me , I don't bother them . That has always been my philosophy . What are they really trying to show here , gang members have compassion ? So , gang members can be gay . So what ? Who cares ?
Prince of Foxes Horribly Out-Foxed	This is historically beautiful ? This is melodrama at its miserable-best . Tyrone Power stars in this awful picture about a man sent out to do the work for the evil Cesare Borgia , only to find love and turn on him . The script is quite weak here and some of the acting , particularly by Wanda Hendrix , as his true love , is churlish and almost laughable . Hendrix was horribly cast in this treacherous soap-opera like atmosphere . Everett Sloane goes from bad to evil and repeats the cycle in record time . He is the embodiment of evil with that look of his . Nevertheless , it is not exactly a memorable performance such as that of Bernstein in Welles ' " Citizen Kane . " Katina Paxinou , who had been supporting Oscared 6 years before for the memorable " For Whom the Bell Tolls , " comes along for the ride as Power's hysterical ultra-religious mother . She definitely had a tendency to over-act which she displays here . Welles is his usual terrific self as the evil Borgia , but the script does him in . Also , the black and white cinematography creates a dull period atmosphere-like film . Color would have been somewhat of an enhancement with better writing coming along .
Lady in Cement Needs or Should Have Been Plastered	Terrible film with Frank Sinatra as Tony Rome . Here , he gets involved with a dead woman below the sea . Rome is soon hired to find out what happened to a woman . Naturally , it's the woman below the sea . Her room mate , Lainie Kazan , soon winds up dead on the floor . An aging Richard Conte plays a police officer and friend of Rome . When a local club owner gets killed , the blame falls on Rome and there becomes an interesting chase scene . That's how bad this picture is if you have to depend on a chase scene to supply the action . Raquel Welch plays the beauty up to her neck in intrigue . Her acting leads a lot to be desired . Martin Gabel is a retired hoodlum whose son is trying to outdo him . By the film's end , you don't know why the girl was murdered . Don't even bother to ask .
Mr . Imperium-Imperial Nonsense	Simply miserable Lana Turner-Ezio Pinza vehicle . Pinza had a beautiful voice but he rarely uses it in a film that reminded me of " The Student Prince " with adults . Pinza is no leading man either . He looks like an elderly man ready to collect social security and go fishing . The plot is extremely thin and the supporting cast of Barry Sullivan , Marjorie Maine and Debbie Reynolds are given so little to do . Sir Cedric Hardwicke comes in at the end to announce that our King Ezio had better return to his people . As far as I'm concerned , the faster the better . Is that Lana Turner really singing with Pinza ? Not bad if it is her . The picture would also remind me in a way of the 1960 movie " The Prince and the Showgirl " with Marilyn Monroe and Laurence Olivier .
Heaven & Hell A Major Disappointment	After the outstanding North and South Books 1 and 2 , we got a terrible sequel . What happened John Jakes ? Did you have a senile moment ? Stanley and Isabel were supposed to go to prison for selling bad ammunition to the north during the war . By book 3 , Stanley is suddenly head of the Freedman's Bureau . What happened ? Terri Garber , brilliant as the scheming , devilish Ashton , looks like she is in pain when she made the third part . Some statement that Jakes makes regarding her : Crime really does pay . After all she has done , she walks away with her wealthy second husband . Whatever happened to the murder she committed and the other mayhem she caused ? The woman was a devil and deserved so much worse . Philip Casnoff , stupendous as Bent , got what he justly deserved , but wasn't it too fast ? No mention in books 1 or 2 was ever made of a brother named Cooper Maine . Suddenly , he showed up in book 3 , played by Robert Wagner . He seemed confused and conflicted in the role . You really couldn't make him out until the very end . Falling in love with dear Madeleine was too fast and convenient for James , after Constance's untimely murder . Jim Metzler did a fine job portraying Cousin Charles in books 1 and 2 . Metzler was replaced by Kyle Chandler for the 3rd installment . It's already the 1870s and Chandler looks far younger than Metzler did . This saga should have ended at book 2 .
Heaven's Prisoners - Don't Take Any Hostages Here	Disappointing film where an ex-alcoholic police officer leaves the force and begins life anew with his wife . Unfortunately , they witness a plane crash and rescue a small Spanish girl , the lone survivor . Go know that the pilot , along with flying in illegals , is also in the drug business . We don't know really why the drug people go after our hero . ( Alec Baldwin ) In the process , his wife is killed and the film becomes one of revenge and to determine who is behind all this mayhem . Eric Roberts plays Baldwin's friend , a gangster , who claims that he is innocent . Roberts has some wife who it is later revealed is behind much of what is going on . In the beginning of the film , Baldwin goes to confession to confess to the priest that he needs to start drinking again . That's before the story unfolds . Needless to say , the movie making this weak film may have needed a few drinks as well .
Accepted Should Be Rejected	Inane , awful farce basically about a young man who refuses to conform or better uses non-conformity to attain his objectives-fool his parents into thinking that he is attending a college . Truth is that this jerk has been rejected by every school he has applied to . After viewing this junk , you will see why . What a ridiculous name - South Hampton Institute of Technology . You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out the initials of this school of nonsense . Problem with these type of films is that in the end , the non-conformist becomes the accepted mode . Let's step back to the world of reality and call this film what it really is - excessive manipulative junk !
Hustle Your Way Out of this Filth	While Terrence Howard as Dee Jay , gives a strong Oscar nominated performance in this film , his riveting depiction of a ghetto youth's attempt to make it into rap music is hurt by the continuous vile language in the film . In short , you can't go a minute without the f word being used . It's utterly disgusting . The premise that this ghetto hustler wants a career in rap music is interesting but the film soon deteriorates into a cliché molden atmosphere of the deprivation of his people . Howard's unfortunate meeting with a rap mogul leads to tragedy , but are we really expected to think that this must be the way of ghetto life ? This is not the life of Van Gogh . The latter achieved stardom after he killed himself . Dee Jay makes the grade but is in prison for murder . Perhaps , the writing should have been smoked out as well .
Great ? Gives You A Lousy Feeling-It's A Great Feeling	Dreadful 1949 film . I guess that even Doris Day had to be in a stinker once in a while so as to come down to earth . Fortunately , her career took a much more of a positive turn after this loony film . With Doris as a waitress in Hollywood looking to break into pictures , the film becomes very silly , especially with Bill Goodwin as a bewildered producer . Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan are along for the ride as the 2 guys who feel that they need Day in order for them to succeed as well . There is a hole host of cameo appearances from some directors . The funniest one is Joan Crawford blaring out a Mildred Pierce-like speech when Carson , who co-starred with her in that great film , is next to her . Usually , the girl breaks into films , is a hit and the film ends . Day goes nowhere but home to Wisconsin to wed an old boyfriend - none other than Errol Flynn . Carson and Morgan are left just standing there holding the bag to a ridiculous film that should never have been made .
Say Never to Never Say Never Again	Sean Connery looked like he was ready to collect social security in this flick . 007 , forget it . He was extremely too old for the part . His lady friends in the movies looked like they could easily be his daughters . In this one Scepter , has taken over 2 missiles and threatening to use them - unless they get plenty of money from the world . There are some usual chase scenes . We have a new brunette , a scepter witch , who bombs what she doesn't like . Kim Bassinger looks so inexperienced in this film . Maybe , in her scenes with Connery , she regarded him as her father . Villain Klaus Maria Brandauer is young . Perhaps , he should have played Bond in this flick . He is evil but the zest for the part is missing . Looks like he was thinking about " Out of Africa " and his supporting nomination for it , which came two years later . 007 Connery , after this one , it was time to file your papers at the local Social Security office .
The Perfect Man is Far From It	Really ridiculous film where a mother , constantly being dumped by men , moves with her daughters . I thought I would be in for another " The Goodbye Girl , " but unfortunately it was not to be . The highlight of this inane nonsense is at an orientation for parents when our mom stands up and asks if there is time devoted for single parents , since the latter have a different perspective than those of married parents . The daughter cringed when she heard this . So did I . Chris Noth co-stars in this nonsense . The girl's older daughter wants to make a match with him and his mother . We know how this will turn out by why the foolishness . We get assorted emails , a young guy playing the role of an older man to fool the mom , who then turns the tables on him as well . Ridiculous . Hilary Duff-get yourself better pictures than this !
Thank You for Smoking : Don't Start With this Picture	The only good thing about this glum film is that there is no smoking done by the characters in it . That is an automatic plus . Otherwise , this picture is ridiculous as Aaron Eckhart looks like a dumb Robert Redford type caught up as a tobacco lobbyist . You want him to break out of this part but he really never does . He is as glib as they come . In addition , his son looks as though he is totally annoyed with the entire situation from beginning to end . This film would have worked far better as a serious documentary in the style of Michael Moore's " Sicko . " Mr . Eckhart won a Golden Globe nomination as best actor in a comedy or musical . For the life of me , nothing was funny here . The tragedy being that the tobacco industry has hooked countless numbers of people on a product that they will eventually succumb to .
The Forbidden Street . - Brittania Mews-Avoid ; Needs Urban Renewal	Dreadful film . Dana Andrews takes a double role here . In his first part , he tries to do an imitation of Ronald Colman . Where did he ever dream up that accent ? It was awful . This was Dana's biggest bomb in pictures . Even in 1945's " State Fair , " he was far superior here . The best performance by far here is by Dame Sybil Thorndike as a nasty woman who blackmails Maureen O'Hara , when hubby Andrews takes a fatal flop down the staircase . Had the picture kept up with the blackmailing , it would have been far superior . Instead , it jumps to 3 years later when from out of the blue , Andrews reappears as a look alike to the fallen husband . He quickly chases the old bat Thorndike away ; takes up with O'Hara but sleeps separately from her because he is already married . Nice morals are displayed here . Having found the dead husband's puppets , Dana # 2 and Maureen soon go into the puppetry business and because of it , Brittania Mews , a slum for all seasons , soon becomes a different environment . Isn't this just ducky ? In showing the slum area , the set decorations are even worse than you expect . This misery lasts for 1 : 37 . Too much to handle .
Eastern Promises - Goes South Rapidly	Remember David Cronenberg's NAKED LUNCH ? I should have known what I'd be in for after viewing this mess of a film . I must hand it to Viggo Mortensen , a fine actor , who comes up with a marvelous Russian accent . Otherwise , the story line is boring . A prostitute dies while emergency surgery is performed to deliver her baby . Turns out that the baby's father and family are Russian mafia living in England . By the way , what are these characters doing in England ? This is never adequately explained . While the end is satisfying , the film is gruesome and highly predictable .
Say Sayonara to This	Extremely disappointing film based on the James Michener novel . What was even worse was Marlon Brando's performance . His southern drawl was ridiculous . I found myself laughing when he spoke as he sounded like an elderly southern lady coming home to roost . Brando , so great in previous films , was reduced here to a laughing stock . Tyrone Power , in " Witness for the Prosecution , " should have been nominated for best actor instead of Brando here . The film , dealing with racism , dealt with the U . S . government's attempt to avoid marriages between U . S . soldiers and Japanese women . Brando was stone-faced throughout the movie . His moving from anti-these relationships to a pro one occurs when he finds love with an Asian woman . His emotions and talk made it difficult to see how he could espouse such new views . Only the lord knows why Red Buttons and Miyoshi Umeki received supporting Oscars for their performances . Nothing about either performance was equally impressive . Umeki's appearance on the screen was short and without much of anything being depicted on her part . A better performance in this film was done by Miiko Taka , who did nicely as Brando's love interest . She showed great emotion as the anti-American who found love with the Brando character . Her face was etched with the unhappiness she had for losing her father and brother in World War 11 . She realized that her dancing was not her way out of this existence that she was living . Martha Scott went from the Hebrew mother Yochobel in " The Ten Commandments " to the bigoted mother of Brando's love interest at first . Her performance together with the one of Ricardo Montalban was wasted . Patricia Owens , as Brando's first love , showed depth and conviction in her performance .
Adventures of Polo . . . . Mr . Deeds Goes to Chinatown ?	The above statement is what one critic referred to when the film came out in 1938 . It is simply an awful amateurish-like production by Samuel Goldwyn . Mr . Goldwyn produced an absolute bomb here in his depiction of Polo ( Gary Cooper ) going to China . By the way , with the exception of a map stating Cathay , ancient Cathay is referred to as China in this film . Who did the research for Mr . Goldwyn here , the 3 stooges ? The acting is just awful . Gary Cooper comes across like a western star and Sigrid Gurie , his leading lady , must have thought she was doing a poor imitation of Luise Rainer in " The Good Earth . " You know you're in for it when Ernest Truex , the bookkeeper , goes singing " Marco Polo " on a gondola at the beginning of the film . Alan Hale and Binnie Barnes play leaders in western China where the Kublai Khan sends them to . The Khan , played by a fellow by the last name of Barbier , sounds like a Brooklyn or Bronx truck man . Barnes and Hale are completely unfaithful to each other . Basil Rathbone , as evil as ever as the horrible Ahmed , minister to the khan , even looks disgusted and rightfully so by all this . H . B . Warner provides the firecrackers , spaghetti and gun powder for all this . Goldwyn lost a bundle on this mess and rightfully so . Since Technicolor was sparingly used in 1937 , the film did not have it . It would not have helped .
Trapped in Paradise Should Stay that Way	Absolutely moronic film starring Nicolas Cage , with 2 absolutely stupid brothers who are constantly in trouble with the law and have just been released from prison . By some fluke of the imagination , Cage becomes involved with the brothers ( Jon Lovitz and Dana Carvey ) in a bank robbery . The brothers , realizing they have done wrong , try to return the money to the local church . Some laughs are provided by their mother , played by the late Florence Stanley . The jokes , for the most part , are as obnoxious as the film itself . The best part is the snowstorm that the town of Paradise , Pa . undergoes during this film . There are the usual chase scenes with the bad guys and the police , unfortunately , are made to look very foolish here . Actually , this film is really from Hades . Should be avoided at all cost .
Scary Wax	Remember the 3D glasses needed for this picture and others of the early 1950s ? The glasses gave me a headache as did the picture . As for being scary , I taught in the New York City school system for 32 years . Believe me , that's a much more scary experience . Vincent Price was his usual diabolical self . Otherwise , this was routine nonsense . 1953 was a good year for movies . Why this awful film was made is beyond me . Who cares about a madman running around in a museum to extract revenge for the fire that scarred his face ? Didn't we have enough of this nonsense with Claude Rains starring in " Phantom of the Opera ? " Child psychologists must have had a field day with this stinker . They had plenty of business from terrorized children . At age 7 , I had nightmares after seeing this flick .
Paris When it Fizzles - This Sizzler A Dud	Other than having Bill Holden and Audrey Hepburn in this film , the only good thing about it is the last 10-15 minutes when reality sets in . If I remember correctly , Holden lost Hepburn to " brother " Humphrey Bogart in the 1954 marvelous film " Sabrina . " Was this supposed to be a consolation for Bill getting Audrey 10 years later ? Audrey as a typist goes to work for screenwriter Holden . The latter comes up with one of the stupidest ideas for a movie entitled " The Girl Who Stole the Eiffel Tower . " The stupidity becomes even worse when Holden and Hepburn act out the inane silliness associated with this nonsense . Cameos by Noel Coward and Tony Curtis , the latter constantly told that he is less than a supporting player here , can't even help this film . There is even a one scene walk-on by Marlene Dietrich .
No Pitch for Stitch	You know the old story . So and so can help anyone except himself . We find it again in Hitch , a silly movie about basically silly characters . The best scene of this poor film is probably at Ellis Island . Will Smith is certainly no Dear Abby . His help almost backfires on him . The character Allegra , to me , was deadpan . With that name , she would be more needed to clear up my allergic reaction to this film . I love the way that characters , who supposedly can't dance , can dance up a storm , especially when they're playing fat nerdy type individuals . Even the psychiatrist character in the film needs help . I still can't figure out her brief over-the-top hysterical outburst . Maybe , the film would have better been served with a Barbra Streisand like rendition of " People needing people . " This film , for sure , needs a complete makeover . .
The Actress Just Isn't	Spencer Tracy , Jean Simmons and Teresa Wright starred in this colossal 1953 bomb-stinker . That's about the best I can call it . In 1913 , Boston , Simmons wants to be an actress . Her father , Tracy , wants her to finish school before taking the plunge to New York . He briefly talks of his background and is worried that a retirement of a fellow worker may be forced . When he asks for a $2 . 00 raise instead of the $100 . 00 annual bonus , he is refused and quits . Wright is terribly miscast as the mother . She looks like an older version of Eleanor Gehrig without the tears . Anthony Perkins is a suitor that Simmons rejects to fulfill her dream . I thought that Tracy would go on with a long discourse about the value of education and not dropping out as he had done . Instead , he agrees and the 3 characters march off to see Simmons off on the train . Simmons is ridiculous here at best . She talks like an 8 or 9 year old . The acting she shows her parents is positively awful but so is the picture . Some comic relief is at the YMCU where Tracy shows off some athletic ability . In the scene , Mary Wickes appears as well . Ruth Gordon wrote this junk but wisely was not in the film . Coincidentally , Simmons's name in the picture is Ruth Gordon . Another corny joke in a completely lackluster film . Strong recommendation to be avoided .
Night and the City - Dark Side Out	Even the acting talents of Richard Widmark can't help this 1950 stinker . Widmark , as always , is terrific . This time he is a conniving character whose plans go awry quite quickly . He plays an American hustler in London who is trying to get a foothold onto the wrestling industry . Trouble is that he goes about it in the wrong way and alienates too many people in the interim . Gene Tierney and Hugh Marlowe are absolutely wasted here . There is a pretty good performance by Francis L . Sullivan as someone willing to bank Widmark until he finds out that Widmark's love interest is his wife , played by Googie Withers . Googie ? What kind of name is that ? Nowadays , she'd be compared to Google . There is an authentic wrestling scene with Mike Mazurki and some other character really both delivering some blows . Look for a very young and suave Herbert Lom .
Man Alive in Dead End Film	I knew that something was amiss . Pat O'Brien , in a leading role ? No gangsters ? Not a police officer . Really ! Here he stars in this pure stinker as a husband who loves his wife but forgets her birthday . The wife , played by Ellen Drew , looked so much like Eve Arden in many scenes . How coincidental that as he forgot her birthday , her divorced friend from college , enters the movie . Played by Rudy Valee , the guy wants Drew . O'Brien storms out of the house and to the local bar . There he meets a poor drunkard chap , both get plastered , exchange clothes and papers and go on a drunken ride , ending in death for the other guy and total confusion for the rest of the film . The film basically becomes slapstick . O'Brien lands on a riverboat and meets Adolph Menjou , who convinces him to act like a ghost . The two return to the house just as the will is being read . When O'Brien told Drew to continue her life , Valee immediately proposes marriage . O'Brien acts as the ghost to " terrorize " Drew and mayhem and general wackiness ensues . Rate this and be off .
That Night in Rio-Chica Boom Bomb !	I wholeheartedly disagree with the other viewers of this wretched film . The only reason why I didn't rate it 1 for awful was due to the great talent of Carmen Miranda . The beginning and end are the best parents due to her gifted singing and dancing . The problem is with the rest of the picture . Alice Faye comes off quite hollow . Don Ameche has a great singing voice but with the wretched writing material , he comes off so terribly corny . The plot is a real stiff here with Ameche assuming two parts as a song and dance man and a baron not happily married to Faye . It seems that by playing the song and dance man , Ameche's marriage gets a second change to reignite . Some silly nonsense about the baron having to clear up business and being away allows him to play both parts . S . Z . Sakal is given little to do here and so his comedic gifts are not given the opportunity to shine . Ditto for J . Carrol Naish who actually appears uncomfortable in his role . This is a chica chica boom bomb of a film .
The Chairman is More Like the Chump	You have to ask yourself , what was Gregory Peck thinking when he signed on in this absolutely miserable film . Something is planted in Peck's head as he goes to China to retrieve some enzyme that the Chinese have that can alter food production . If Peck fails , the object will explode . The Americans have never bothered to tell him this . What was in Peck's head to make this mess of a 1hr . and 37 minutes of miserable boredom ? Even Peck's escape from China is awfully staged . At the end , he will have to justify the story as the army seems to refuse to reveal what has really gone on . After viewing this film , you can't blame them .
Big Hangover Sleep this One Off	It's hard to believe that just 4 years after this ridiculous film , Johnson and Taylor costarred in the memorable " The Last Time I Saw Paris . " That was a picture . The problem with this film is that the sub-plot would have made the ideal plot . A Chinese doctor is refused admission into his apartment due to racism and bigotry . This would have made for a fascinating problem especially in an era when the movies was searching for relevant social problems of the period . Instead , we are given an inane film where every time Johnson even sips a drink , he goes absolutely bonkers . Come to think of it , this is insulting to people who have drinking problems . Taylor talks in a voice that was appropriate for " National Velvet " but certainly not 6 years later when she was older . Any decent acting here is done by veteran pro Leon Ames , as a city official . His one scene stealer towards the end is memorable .
This Pink Panther is Beyond Stupidity	Awful Steve Martin remake of the classic Peter Sellers series . The slapstick comedy is so predictable . Kevin Kline , in the part of Herbert Lom , can't cut it . Lom had that certain facial expression as he was duped by the famous Inspector Clouseau . Sadly , it's totally lacking in Kline's performance . Who killed the soccer coach ? Who cares by midway into this film . Steve Martin attempts to be hilarious but his material is already so well known . After bumbling repeatedly , Clouseau suddenly shows intelligence to solve the murder at film's end . Part of the solution is a woman , resembling an Oriental Thelma Ritter , that's how ridiculous this becomes .
Run from this Taking Money	Another Woody Allen farce . This time it details the life of a born loser who begins to lead a life of crime but can't seem to do anything right . His parents , while interviewed , wear masks since they're ashamed of his son . Allen and the entire cast should have taken their advice and worn them as well . This film is Woody at his stupidest . Scenes include bank personnel discussing among themselves the note that Allen ( Virgil ) has handed a teller in order to rob another bank . Even the scene with the chain gang is ridiculous at best . Here is where the movie could have taken off but fails to do so . Robbing a bank only to meet up with several other robbers at the same time is handled poorly . No one really knows what's going on and maybe they're the better for it . Janet Margolin , an attractive beauty , plays Virgil's wife . She wants to know what color shirt he is wearing to the bank robbery . Louise Lasser comes in at the very end and acts like she is still Mary Hartman .
No Need to Jump Over this Flash	Poorly scripted film where heroine Whoopi Goldberg works diligently on her computer at a bank only to get involved with spies when her computer connects with them . Carol Kane is totally wasted in a small role as an office worker . Miss Kane , who has the ability to be hilarious with that foolish Brooklyn accent , would have been far better had she been allowed to appear in the caper scenes . As for Stephen Collins , he appears in so many important scenes that it's just a simple matter to figure out if he is with the good guys or bad guys . The scenes where Goldberg's dress is caught in a shredding machine and where she is locked inside a moving telephone booth could have been hilarious but end too quickly . Another scene at the British embassy is also wasted . This apparent spoof of spy movies just doesn't cut it .
Go Golf Young Man !	A Martin-Lewis silly farce about two losers who are great at golf . Trouble is that one ( Lewis ) can't shoot well in front of crowds so he becomes Martin's caddy and suffers many indignities along the way . Jerry Lewis does his usual shtick with great competence . His scene of destroying a department store is so similar to that of a Marx Brothers film . Donna Reed , an Oscar winner the same year for " From Here to Eternity , " is along for the ride as Martin's newly-found girl friend . She was far better off in dramatic performances . Martin's sister is played by Barbara Bates . You remember her as that girl from Erasmus Hall High School who hides out in Anne Baxter's apartment at the end of " All About Eve . " After being in this silly nonsense , Bates should have taken the closest plane back to Flatbush and Church Ave . and resume Erasmus attendance . Martin nicely sings " That's Amore , " which was nominated as best song . Argentina Brunetti , who died in Dec . 2005 at 98 , plays his mother . Fred Clark , who always tried to be serious but would come off funny , is victimized in this flick as the Department Store head knocked for a loop by Lewis . No hole in one for this flick . Maybe , a hole in the head for making it .
Get Back to the Thin Man - Love You Again A Clinker	William Powell and Myrna Loy , a great movie team starred in this 1940 farce about a man who gets clobbered by accident at sea and reverts back to a former life . William Powell gets clunked and so do we as we have to watch this nonsense . Frank McHugh is in this too and he is great in his drunkard scene , but once Powell tries to save him and gets hit , McHugh becomes his partner in crime as they together with another person shall try to bilk the town of a lot of money . There is also Powell marching with a group of boy scouts in the woods . I thought he'd get clunked again there and go back to his previous ways . This didn't happen there but he gets hit by the partner when love conquers all and he decides to quit the scheme when he falls back in love with Loy . Bring back those Thin Man mysteries . Asta , too .
The Omen 2006-Enough With the Brat Already	The 1976 film was enough for me . " The Omen " has had several sequels . Why did they bother to make this film over again ? At least , the original had Gregory Peck and Lee Remick who brought some radiance to their doomed roles . In this version , Liev Schrieber and Julia Stiles are terribly miscast . Their chemistry is non-existent even before that little monster shows up to ruin their lives . Mia Farrow , as that evil nanny , has some good moments but even she is no match to Billie Whitelaw who starred in the original . Whatever became of Whitelaw ? She was the embodiment of evil with those large eyes . Farrow , on the other hand , acts like she is in " Rosemary's Baby " and is trying to emulate co-star , the Oscar winner , Ruth Gordon . Ms . Farrow , a Minnie Castevet , you're not !
The Undefeated - A Big Loser	Rock Hudson goes way overboard with his southern accent in this confusing 1969 film . Rather , it is John Wayne who carries the film because he allows himself to be John Wayne . The film is muddled as the Reb and Yankee join forces to eventually get guns to those opposing Emperor Maximilian . The violent scenes that you would normally expect really don't occur in this rather awkward production . We really only get a glimpse of the Wayne character prior to the war . Did Hudson really have to set fire to his home before he would allow others to get it at bargain prices ? There are far too many unanswered questions in this film . A more appropriate title would have been " The Unanswered . " A very disappointing film .
Brunettes Have More Fun in Favorite Blonde	78 minutes of comic waste best highlights this silly 1942 tale . Bob Hope again is caught up with Nazi spies as he is brought into this by British agent Madeleine Carroll . The jokes and punchlines are ridiculous at best . The scene with the boy who spits at him was absolutely ridiculous . Gale Sondergaard is along for the ride . She says little in this one , but is her usual sinister self . Just those facial expressions alone make you know that she is up to no good . The funeral parlor scene by film's end leaves you very much unsatisfied . Even the airfield ending makes you feel that you have missed something .
Rent-Break the Lease on this One	In a musical , the music is supposed to lead the story on . That is the major handicap with " Rent . " The plot is supposedly given to us in the first scene . So as to avoid an eviction , a group should discourage a demonstration . The story of renting in New York City with all its problems would have made for an interesting film . Instead , we go away from that and instead we have a musical folly full of catchy tunes such as the tango sequence-where one person lived this dance from an ambassador and the other from a Jewish Community Center ! The Aids epidemic is done in song which wasn't that thrilling . To me , the film became more of a collage of musical numbers . The choreography is appealing but lets make sense of the story line .
Strangers When We Meet-Keep it that Way	Kim Novak again proved what a miserable actress she could be . Other than " Jeanne Eagles " and " The Eddy Duchin Story , " Miss Novak just couldn't act . Kirk Douglas looked tired in this film . Is it any wonder , " Spartacus " was the same year ! The story is typical suburbia infidelity among the rich . The real surprise here is Walter Matthau , who finds out about the Douglas-Novak affair and attempts to illicit sex from the latter . Matthau was excellent here as a cad . Other acting kudos should go to Ernie Kovacs as a chain-smoking novelist who understands about the philosophy of life . Barbara Rush has her moments as the neglected wife of Douglas . We don't know where this film is going . As an architect in the film , Douglas's character needed to build more .
Seventh Veil-Close it Up !	Moody , rather dull piece dealing with a concert pianist's breakdown . After viewing this film , a breakdown was certainly in order . This dull period piece traces pianist Ann Todd , as a young child , who goes to live with a nasty cousin , played by James Mason . Mason appears frustrated with life as well as this film . In flashback sequences , the film shows why Todd wound up in a mental ward . After viewing it , I'm not surprised at all . The film suddenly finds Todd approached by 3 suitors and her choice is amazing and almost laughable by the end of the film . Though I shall not reveal her choice , I shall say that psychology conquers love .
Blue Bird - An Oz Ripoff	A simply awful version of the wonderful " The Wizard of Oz . " How Gale Sondergaard , an Oscar winner , who turned down the golden role of the witch in " Wizard " allowed herself to be in this film is beyond me . She is catty here , please excuse the pun , and walks around like a " yenta " from Brighton Beach , Brooklyn , N . Y . She simply prances around and that makeup job was awful on her . The film badly attempts to personify vice and virtue . Yes , it's true that a life of luxury isn't the best necessarily but the film does a poor job of describing that . Spring Byington is miscast as the mother . She is more of an aunt type . The only thing that this film has going for it is possibly the special effects and other scenic views . The children in the future segment was ridiculous . They're waiting to go to earth to be born but in the meantime they're teenagers where they are . Shirley Temple is a little too cute for my tastes here . The picture attempts to state that you really can't go back to the past . How true .
Penelope-Even Miss Piggy Could Do Better than This 12	The Ugly Duckling syndrome is brought back to the screen in this 2006 stinker . Amazing to me that former Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon would appear in this stinker in a supporting role . Christina Ricci is born with the face of a pig as a result of a curse put on the family from generations back . The one bright shiny part in the film is Catherine O'Hara as the intolerable mother who tries to shield her daughter from the outside world . James McAvoy from the recent Ann Hathaway film on " Becoming Jane " co-stars in this wretched production . How many times must we hear that by being yourself and accepting your lot in life , you can rid yourself of the miserable curse ? I wish we could have rid ourselves of this tasteless film as well .
Comrade X - Mysteriously Miserable	Clark Gable and Hedy La Marr starred in this awful mess . This is certainly no Ninotchka , even with its anti-Communist theme . The film is just awful . It would have been funnier had they managed to make more fun of the Nazis in it . I realize that the film came out in 1940 and since we weren't at war with the beasts as yet , the film board probably wanted to cool things down . The ending becomes a ridiculous tank chase and becomes very silly after a while . The Commies come and go and knock each other off as if it's nothing . Even though it was so true , it was done film wise in such a boring way . The idea that the poet philosopher was a true phony who went on to kill his supporters was not adequately explained . A year after " Gone With the Wind " and Clark Gable had a bomb with this film !
Anniversary Party - You Don't Have to Save the Date on this One	Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming both wrote and directed this mess . An anniversary party is supposed to be one of joy but this is anything but that . A whole host of people come to celebrate-that is with their frustrations as well . Cumming is an up and coming Hollywood director who has just casted Gwyneth Paltrow to appear in his next film . She will essentially , as Sky Davidson , play Miss Leigh , his wife in the film . We are also supposed to believe that Paltrow , a blonde beauty , has just completed the film Babi-Yar , a holocaust film , where she plays a milk-maiden who takes a bullet to the head . She is named Gitel but this far from Fiddler on the Roof . When the dog Otis got lost , I thought we were going to go back to A Come Back Little Sheba atmosphere . In fact , I was right . While searching for the dog , Leigh finds Cumming in the arms of another and reveals that she has an abortion . Leigh looks simply awful in the movie . She really appears to be on drugs-the latter kills Cumming's sister , Lucy , at the end of the film . With all this going on , we have Kevin Kline , who portrays an actor who has just won the Oscar and John C . Reilly , who survives a drowning . Against the music of charades , that game is played . What is the purpose of all this ? How do you invite your neighbors to such a party when you have been feuding with them regarding their constantly barking dog ? The film is absolutely ridiculous at best .
My Favorite Martian is Not My Favorite	Silly , often ridiculous romp involving the landing of a space ship and the resulting havoc this causes on Tim ( Jeff Daniels ) and the people in his orbit . Am always amazed by Daniels . He showed such depth and promise in 1983's " Terms of Endearment " as Shirley MacLaine's philandering son-in-law . As the years have passed , Daniels has been unable to get his hands on a good , meaty role . Instead , he is in inane comedies such as " Dumb and Dumber . " As for this picture , it fails because of the subject matter . At least , the television show brought about a variety of situations . In the film , we have constant slapstick and people turning into monsters as the government is thwarted into capturing the martian-Martin . The part of Mrs . Brown is a perfect example of the non-success of the film . On television , Pamela Britton portrayed a ditsy individual caught up in situations with the martian leaving her perplexed . In the film version , a blond bomb-shell as Brown , tries romantic entanglement . Television star Ray Walston has a small role as a government agent , or is he really that ? A very big disappointment for those who enjoyed the television show so much .
Male War Bride A Fiasco	This is a very foolish picture . Cary Grant and Ann Sheridan are assigned to go on a mission to locate a black market gentleman . You'd think there would be some intrigue there . Instead , they locate an Edmund Gwenn look alike who is off to France . From two people who can't stand each other , they soon fall in love and wed . To say that they encounter bureaucratic red tape is to put it mildly . The only way that Grant can come to the U . S . ( He is a Frenchman in this film despite the fact that he exhibits no accent ) is to travel with Sheridan as a bride . Isn't this just plain ridiculous ? Where is the hilarity here ? When the two finally are allowed to board the boat , we could have had much fun had Grant been allowed to pursue his way as a female . Instead , all is forgiven and the film ends .
Count 3 And Pray-Oy Vey ! ! ! ! ! !	Awful , miserable film probably remembered as it was Joanne Woodward's first motion picture . This colossal bomb deals with a post-Civil war gentleman returning home to the south . He finds utter contempt from the people living there as he fought on the side of the north . What else should he expect - a ticker-tape parade ? Van Heflin is our turncoat and along the way , having survived Vicksburg , he has gotten religion and plans to be a preacher . The heavy in the film is none other than Raymond Burr who does everything in his power to thwart the goals of Luke Fargo ( Heflin ) even if it means burning down the church or spreading horrendous gossip about Heflin and his sudden 18 year old charge , Lissy , played nicely by Woodward . Throughout the film , she appeared to be a tom-boy like character , who Heflin tries to tame . The problem with the film is that every time Burr strikes at Heflin , there is really no excitement . Even at the end , Burr just drives his horse and buggy away . A Gunfight At The OK Corral like ending was needed here .
The Mother-Mildred Pierce in the Reverse Just Doesn't Work	" The Mother " is basically Mildred Pierce in the reverse without the shooting . When mama and papa go to visit their children and grandchildren , grandfather drops dead and grandmother decides to stay with her daughter . To make a long story short , the old woman has an affair with a carpenter who is also sleeping with her daughter . This is disgusting at best . The old girl ( Ann Reid ) has been quite a naughty lady . She admits that she has done this before her husband's untimely death . While I realize that the message of the film is not to put our old seniors right out to pasture , we don't have to go to this extreme . All men , young and old in this film , are depicted as either being too busy or that they readily jump in bed as soon as there is one available . Grandfather was lucky to get away from all this . This is certainly no way to treat an elderly lady . When the daughter finds out that mother has been unfaithful , she socks the old girl . Sock the director and writer of this trash as well .
Meet the Robinsons-Take A Rain Check on this One	Other than the special effects , there is really nothing to " Meet the Robinsons . " The film is so cliché ridden . It is better to forget the past and pursue the future . How about people who are trying to find their real parents ? They will not exactly like what this film is trying to convey . I felt that this film is a rip-off to the incredible " Back to the Future " films . That was class . After a while , this picture became confusing . The toddlers will be shaking their heads with this one .
Big Combo is Combustible 1 /	Despite a sterling cast , this 1955 film noir is absolutely dreadful . The film is done in by weak writing an extremely poor character development . As always , Richard Conte gave a gem of a performance . This time he is an evil man caught up in being a gangster for all seasons . Unfortunately , we don't know what kind of rackets he is in and after viewing this film , we really wouldn't care to know . Conte is good here because he captures his usual vicious self on screen . Seeing him here , you are reminded of his great performance as Tony Barden in " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " The latter was the same year as " Big Combo . " Cornel Wilde is terribly miscast as the police detective trying to get the goods on Conte through the women in the latter's life . An equally bad performance is done by Jean Wallace , who talks like Melanie Griffith . The film goes down in quality rapidly as the bodies begin to pile up . Earl Holliman appears as one of Conte's hoods . He is as dumb as a stump . Did he ever show any creative intelligence in his films ? Even veteran actor Ted de Corsia is weak in a one scene act where he divulges information on Mr . Brown . ( Conte )
Wonder Boys is Wonderfully Awful	Disintegrating film and real fast despite an excellent fast . The story starts out well as Michael Douglas , a tenured English professor , is teaching his creative writing class . The film soon falls apart due to the miserable writing . Tobey McGuire portrays one of his students who is sullen , an excellent writer , with constant morbid thoughts . Who really cares about the number of Hollywood stars who committed suicide ? Ridiculous . Never get too cozy with your students . McGuire and others are invited to the home of the Chancellor ( Francees McDormand ) and her mousy-like husband , English Chairman Richard Thomas . Go know that Douglas and McDormand are lovers and she is pregnant by him . All mayhem breaks lose when McGuire steals a coat worn by Marilyn Monroe and kills the Chancellor's dog who has attacked the Douglas character . What follows is a weekend of revealing philosophies and torture for the rest of the audience . The ending is somewhat unexpected . Rip Torn shows up as a guest speaker at some sort of weekend symposium . Robert Downey Jr . portrays the editor for Douglas . Ironically , it's Douglas who is hooked on coke and what not . Wouldn't the part have been more appropriate for Downey ? Of course , nothing really would help this film .
" Mourning Becomes Electra " A Colossal Dud	Eugene O'Neil or not , this 1947 film is pure junk . Rosalind Russell was favored to win the Oscar for playing the horrid Lavinia . The picture was so lousy , that's what did her in . A story of love and continuous death , people literally die off like flies in this one , is depressing . The cinematography may also be described this way . Former Oscar winner , Katina Paxinou overacts . She literally screams her part . Michael Redgrave , who was also Oscar nominated here , is really vacuous here . Rosalind Russell was a superior actress who was given an inferior script . Had I been her , I would have headed to the exits right after this film was made . A pure a-one stinker .
Not Worth Winning A Loser	Mark Harmon in a ridiculous comedy about a swinging TV weather guy who bets with 3 friends that he can get engaged to 3 girls within a 3 month period . The lucky people in this inane foolishness are 2 of the 3 friends . After the wager is made , they are rarely if ever seen for the rest of this dismal flick . You don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that the three girls will eventually find out and plot revenge . Madeleine Stowe is a concert pianist . Moody , she appears the most difficult for Harmon to conquer . There's also a female sports player and a bored housewife married to a millionaire . The latter played by the reliable Lesley Ann Warren . The basic problem with this film is really who cares ? There is of course the wedding scene where the intended lady says no at the last minute and you can readily guess who her bridesmaids are . Then , Harmon will have to win her back in a raffle ! Predictable nonsense . One of the bettors was a psychiatrist . He should have ordered therapy for all involved in this flick .
Nightmare Alley - Belongs With the Alley Garbage	After seeing Tyrone Power masterpieces of " The Long Gray Line , " and " Witness for the Prosecution , " this " Nightmare Alley " is just that-one big nightmare . Power was 33 years old when he made this misery of a film . Joan Blondell , his first love interest in the film , looked old enough to be his mother . In fact , the picture goes downhill rapidly after Blondell's part is practically removed from most of the film . Power has some moments as the carnival barker especially at the beginning of the film as well as at the end when he has been relegated to a drunkard . However , the body of the film suffers greatly from absolute boredom . Helen Walker , as the analyst-turned thief abetting Power with his scheme , to fleece a wealthy family , is an interesting character in a rather hopeless film .
Living It Up But You Can Just Die from This One	Absolutely inane Martin and Lewis film where Dino is the doctor and Lewis , a railroad employee , supposedly comes into contact with a radioactive car . Dean , at first , feels that Lewis is terminal but soon reverses himself . That reversal doesn't come before N . Y . newspaper lady , Janet Leigh , arrives and gets the two to come to N . Y . for a sympathetic last trip with the hopes of increasing the newspapers ' circulation . Fred Clark , as the editor , is his usual cynical self . What makes this film so ridiculous is that it could be obvious to anyone that there is nothing wrong with Homer Flagg ( Lewis . ) His antics are as silly as ever . The attempt at slap-stick comedy with the three doctors is nonsensical at best . Even some of the dance sequences are out of line here especially the one with Sheree North playing herself .
I Am David . . . So What ?	Thanks to the brief performance by Joan Plowright , her entering the film near the end brings some semblance of understanding . A boy in a Bulgarian labor camp , at age 13 , is helped to escaped by a guard who is about to be transferred . The boy is told how to try and reach Denmark . While I realize that the escape scenes occur at night , it is so utterly dark that you can't see anything . The film deals with the boy's escapades in trying to reach Denmark where his mother is . In accidentally meeting Plowright , who passes him off as her grandson to border guards , she realizes miraculously who he really is and helps him to get to his promised land . This young lad , played by Ben Tibber , reminded me of the main character in 1968's " Oliver ! " Had he broken out singing , we would have had a far better film . What was the guard's relationship to the mother ? Who was the father ? What part is Jim Caviezel trying to realize in this picture ? How the movie is trying to answer them is often quite muddled .
Bad Seed , Bad Movie	You need a score card to figure out what's going on with " Bad Seed . " A woman confesses to her husband that she has been having an affair . Just then the other guy calls . Her husband storms out of the house and returns to find her dead . After the funeral , he finds a letter with the guy's address . He goes there and he thinks he has killed the guy only to find out that he murdered his retarded brother instead . Speaking of retarded ! The movie dissolves into a one big chase thing . Our " hero " finds detective played by Denis Farina . Wait , if that's not enough the retarded guy who was killed actually killed the girl after all . We've got a fire by suicide to deal with . Complex ! More mishuga to me .
Hide & Seek - Hide & Don't Seek This Out-Should Never Be Made	This is supposed to be a psychotic thriller . With all the problems we have with today's children , we didn't need such a stinker of a movie like this . Amy Irving was really fortunate that she dies quickly and didn't have to appear that much in this horror where a child psychologist takes his daughter to the country following the supposed suicide of her mother . It is there that all hell breaks loose . They live next door to a couple who just lost their daughter . How much more miserable do you want to make the viewers ? Elisabeth Shue does nicely in flying out the window to her demise . Famke Janssen is another psychologist dealing with the daughter , a pretty good Dakota Fanning , who is probably disgusted with all this as Daddy DeNiro begins to show his true colors and the bodies begin piling up . Fanning has an imaginary friend Charley ? Where's Charley to get me away from all this mayhem ?
Madness At this Museum	Ben Stiller plays a loser with a former wife who is engaged to a bond-holder . Stiller has drifted from job to job but still manages to have the love and respect for this son . All this could possibly change when he takes a job as a night watchman at a local Museum of Natural History . There he meets veteran watchmen Mickey Rooney and Dick Van Dyke . The latter two are just too old to play rues . While it is interesting that the exhibits and all come to life in the evening , it becomes inane to watch history intermingle within itself . How ludicrous to see the Wild West cowboys trying to act with Roman centurions . A little common sense , please ! Robin Williams provides his usual laughter in portraying Teddy Roosevelt . There is a young lady whose character could have been made more interesting . She is researching Sacajawea of the famous Lewis and Clark expedition . She just can't seem to find her way . This speaks for the movie itself .
Wendell Baker Story - A Nothing Biography	The Wilson Brothers - Owen and Luke star in this film which is basically nothing with nothing . Luke , as the corrupt individual bilking Medicare patients , is totally unconvincing here as well as out-of-character . He still appears that he can be taken to the cleaners at any time . Who cares if Eva Mendes wants Owen or not . She is totally unappealing in her role . Owen starts out as a smuggler of illegal Mexican immigrants and after he is jailed and pardoned , he is assigned to work at a senior citizens ' residents where he sees much corruption . Harry Dean Stanton is also dead-pan in his role as one of the seniors . Isn't he always ? It's nice seeing Seymour Cassel in a film ? He was so appealing years ago in his supporting Oscar nominated performance in " Faces . " Even the ending here is unappealing . Big surprise that good will eventually triumph over evil . Who was Kris Kristoferson supposed to be in this film ? Howard Hughes ?
Confidential Agent-Let's Keep it that Way	Lauren Bacall and Charles Boyer do not provide the right chemistry here in this 1945 film . There is a good story here about the Axis trying to obtain coal to use for the upcoming war . Unfortunately , this part of the story is not emphasized . Instead , we deal with a supposedly bungling Boyer . By the way , Bacall is as British as Vladimir Putin . The real acting kudos goes to veteran Oscar winner Katina Paxinou . As was the case with her memorable Pilar in the 1943 Oscar winner , " For Whom the Bell Tolls , " Paxinou again plays a Spanish revolutionary but this time she is a double-crossing counter-spy for the pro-Franco group . She is quite a vicious character here ; especially , when she throws a 14 year old child out the window . She believed that Boyer had given the child important material to hide .
How Deep is the Ocean ? Not far Enough for Squid And Whale ?	for " The Squid and the Whale . " This picture has been filmed in Brooklyn , N . Y . and that's how exciting it gets ! Jeff Daniels and Laura Linney , two excellent thespians , are liberal Ph . D husband and wife . Their doctorates are in literature . They were apparent failures in their marriage and as the film begins , they announce their separation . You would think that the film would then be about how the divorce affects their two precocious sons . That's only part of it . The film shows that people who are highly educated really don't know much about parenting . In fact , it's called using some common sense and decency . This includes not cursing in front of your children and not allowing your older son access to dad's " bachelor " pad when he has taken in a female grad student to live with . The latter played by Anna Paquin is suggestive to say the least . Yes , I'll admit that it's nearly 15 years since her undeserved Oscar supporting win for " The Piano . " She has come a long way . As a tennis teacher , Billy Baldwin comes off as an idiot . Calling him a Philistine skirts the issue . Referring to everyone as my brother became downright annoying . Of course , he takes up with Linney to make this film even more unbearable . Daniels has to have symptoms of a coronary before the picture shows some interest but by then the credits start to roll as the elder son rushes from the hospital to the beautiful Brooklyn museum . Linney has a brief moment in the sun as she recounts an affair in Ohio before her marriage . I'm just pointing out that these are inappropriate topics to teenagers , especially those with their own sexual hangups . When the elder son is suggested to go into therapy , Daniels wonders out loud what degrees the " shrink " , as he calls him , has . Children are treated almost like adults and that's a basic flaw with this film . Children are still children and must be dealt with appropriately during a separation and subsequent divorce by parent . The subject matter is interesting but is handled incorrectly .
Liberace : Behind the Music-Casts A Sour Note	Too much is attempted to be told in 1 hour and 36 minutes . Victor Garber does turn in a convincing performance as the flamboyant Lee . Maureen Stapleton is his doting mother who appeared on the way to another wonderful performance when the writing for her part did her in . As is the case with all those who orbited around his life , she was there to take full advantage even if it meant attempting to sabotage his one brief stab at a female romance . That being said , even the female took advantage of Lee as well . The music is nicely staged . There is an all too brief scene with his father , the latter having abandoned the family years before . Years later , the father , an apparent Alzheimer's victim , doesn't even remember his son . The film tries to convey that Liberace was virtually trapped by his homosexual tendencies . The film begins to fail as the men in his life begin to come and go . The most tragic of his guys was the 18 year old that he took in to make his chauffeur , only to see him become a cocaine addicted victim who is thrown out by Liberace . He retaliates by filing a palimony suit for millions .
Miserable Maladjusted Marnie	What a miserable 1964 Hitchcock film this was . It starts off well with Marnie absconding with a lot of money from the firm she worked for . Instead of continuing with this story , the film begins to relate why Marnie is so maladjusted . In fact , they should have named this mess " Maladjusted Marnie . " Sean Connery is the guy that she meets when she goes to work for his firm with the idea of stealing from his business as well . Turns out that Connery loves her and will do anything for her . Since he knows her life story , he forces her to marry him while he wants to investigate why she is so off the wall . Turns out that her mother was some tramp and Marnie did what Lana Turner's daughter did to some mobster some years ago . Sean Connery , at the beginning , acts like his 007 . In reality , he was in 000 .
Littleman - Is Worth Very Little	Inane farce about a young black couple . He wants to have a child and she is so happy to get a promotion at work . In the meantime , a dwarf leaves prison and plots with another dimwit to steal a large diamond . They're both working for Chazz Palminteri who comes off as a real stiff here . When the diamond gets into the possession of our young couple , Wayans makes believe he has been abandoned at their door . Here is where the real foolishness starts . Wayans acts as a baby and we're subjected to foolish situations such as the use of a rectal thermometer , touch football and of course the mob going after everyone for that precious diamond . The diamond might be precious but the movie is far from that . Dispose of it , please .
Leatherheads is For Knuckleheads	Poor material makes even the decent chemistry between George Clooney and Renee Zellwegger really nothing . The story is about 1925 college football , or is it beyond college ? That point is really not established and at times becomes confusing . While you do get a feel for the roaring twenties period , the writing is ridiculous as Renee Zellwegger , a reporter , tries to get the goods on a football hero who is also a war hero . Some of the scenes , especially running away from a speak-easy raid and jumping off a building into a net are ridiculous . The picture is nothing more than a cheap ripoff of a bygone era filled with clichés which eventually run themselves into the ground .
To Catch A Thief - Don't Bother	This is probably one of Alfred Hitchcock's worst films . He would certainly redeem himself the following year with the classic " North by Northwest . " Other than breathtaking cinematography of the French Riviera , this film really has little to offer . It is said that Cary Grant came out of retirement to make this . Thank the lord that he didn't resume retirement after it . It's basically the story of someone copying the cat burglar techniques of former cat burglar John Robie ( Grant . ) There are chase scenes throughout the Riviera but the film is dull . We really reach the point where we don't care who the guilty party is . As in the fabulous " North by Northwest , " there is an exciting climatic scene but even that fails to realize the emotions needed . Grant gives a fairly good performance but is hampered by the written material . Grace Kelly was still probably with a swell-head for her undeserved Oscar win , the year before , for " The Country Girl . " The part of a rich , snobby , girl in the fast lane was good for her but she fails to capitalize on it . Her mother , Jesse Royce Landis , has some scene stealing scenes . Note that Landis appeared the following year in " North by Northwest " as Grant's mom .
The Honeymooners - Skip It And Come Home	Chauncey Street , where the Kramdens and Nortons lived , never looked so good as depicted by the famous series with Jackie Gleason . Even though the movie is in color , Ralph and Alice don't exactly look like their apartment is lacking . The original apartment told the story in a nutshell . Alice , in this movie , is far too sophisticated for the role . When she talks , it sounds like she could be a psychologist or social worker , despite lacking the educational requirements . Cedric is adequate but of course is never in the same league as the great Gleason . Ditto for Michael Epps , his interpretation of the Ed Norton character doesn't hold a candle to Art Carney . The writing here is silly ; although , the Kramdens of the 2000s still have high aspirations , and Ed and Ralph will still come up with any scheme possible to fulfill those dreams . Of course , their vulnerability still exists .
Happy-Go-Lucky is Anything But	Disappointing Mike Leigh venture with Golden Globe winner Sally Hawkins as a British schoolteacher full of life . The problem with this film is that Hawkins comes off as a silly goose in many scenes with the most obnoxious laugh imaginable . This inane quality affects what could have been a reasonably good performance . After her bicycle is stolen , our heroine takes driving lessons from an instructor , Ed Marstan , who is just the opposite of her . A bitter vetch , angry with life , and as obnoxious as ever , Marstan does deliver an unusually good performance in a poorly written film . The final scene where his jealousy comes out is most memorable . What's with the Spanish dance instructor who injects her private life during lessons ? This could have been quite funny had it been allowed to play out . Speaking of playing out , what about the young boy in Ms . Hawkins ' class who is being physically abused by his mother's boyfriend ? This topic is just glossed over and we only see this as an opportunity for Hawkins to become romantically involved with the school social worker .
Wake Up and Dream is A Real Sleeper	Rather routine fanfare of a young girl in pursuit of her missing navy brother during World War 11 . John Payne and June Haver top the cast of this rather benign film . Where exactly is this young girl and group pursuing Payne ? This is never fully explained and is ridiculous at best . Charlotte Greenwood , a wonderful dancer and performer in general , is given so little to do as the wife of the old timer who makes the boat . Of all people , John Ireland appears in a supporting role as a dentist without a degree who joins in the search . Naturally , he has romantic designs on Haver , who loves Payne . The film mercifully ends without this being dealt with . How fortunate for all concerned .
Keep Your Reservations With this One - Without Reservations	John Wayne once said that Mervyn LeRoy was not adept at directing comedy . What made the Duke feel that he was adept at comedy ? In fact , what made Wayne think he was adequate as an actor . To me , John Wayne seemed to be annoyed with the whole film . While I disagreed with him politically , he appeared justified in his feelings about the film . Writer Claudette Colbert has written a book called " Here Comes Tomorrow . " When Cary Grant is unable to do the part in the film about her book , Colbert miraculously finds soldier Wayne on the train and sees him as the perfect leading man for the part in the movie . What follows is a madcap adventure of the two along with Don DeFore . What goes on is rather silly at best . Perhaps , Colbert's book should have been called " Tomorrow Will Be A Better Day . " That's what this movie should have been .
Ship Ahoy-Don't Go Overboard on this One	The film was made in 1942 and with World War 11 around , the movie industry decided to capitalize on the fact that spies were around . The film is fun to watch due to the fabulous dancing of Eleanor Powell . The late Miss Powell was certainly a great hoofer in every sense of the word . She is again paired with a very young looking Red Skelton here . The two of them also starred in " I Dood It . " Moroni Olsen , who 3 years later , was superb as the interrogating police officer in " Mildred Pierce " again appears as an officer asking Powell to deliver an item . Trouble is that Olsen and his rogues are really the Japanese spies . Bert Lahr is his usual brilliant self here and he gets ample support from Virginia O'Brien .
Just Say No to Not Exactly Hail to the Chief	Routine submarine warfare film engaged in the old story of how one reacts when one is in command . Obviously , when the shoe is on the other foot , we act accordingly . Nancy Davis did a poor job here . She was certainly no Jane Wyman . Thank the lord that she just said no to a further movie career and went on her way with her Ronnie and the rest is history ! Reagan is a real commander here . Am surprised he didn't want to cut men in his never ending assault on cuts . O yes , this was the military and he was strong on defense . No wonder , after seeing this tedious film , that it is said that Jack Warner told Reagan that his career was over . Look what Jack didn't know what was in store for us . The film itself has some strengths , particularly where the bombs go off . It ably showed that team effort will pay off , especially when the code of discipline is enforced . The film might have worked better if it were in color and Ann Sheridan was the nurse . That would have made a 15 year reunion between the future president and Ann , after the marvelous King's Row . That was President Reagan at his best in his movie career .
Elizabeth : What's So Golden About this Royal Clinker ?	Thoroughly boring , tedious and choppy film dealing with Queen Elizabeth . While Cate Blanchett is suited for the part , see the television version with Helen Mirren . The latter displays outstanding acting . The writing here is the major problem . History is really chopped up as Mary Queen of Scots is implicated in an assassination attempt of Elizabeth , and off goes her head as a result . Geoffrey Rush , as the queen's adviser , has the perfect role but it is squandered by a completely lack-luster performance by him . Clive Owen is appealing as Sir Walter Raleigh , but an Errol Flynn he is not . The battle scenes dealing with the Spanish Armada are brief and confusing . In addition , when Blanchett dresses up in battle gear to cheer on the troops , she is a cross between Joan of Arc and Lady Godiva . Off with their heads ! I'm talking about the writers of this rather boring film . At least , the costumes were exquisite .
Vera Cruz - Don't Drink the Water ( or see this picture )	Not even the star power of Gary Cooper and Burt Lancaster can save this not very good movie . The plot sounds great . A Mexican senorita is used to move money to Europe so that guns and men can be used by Emperor Maximilian to fight off Benito Juarez and his supporters . The trouble is that the senorita and practically everyone else in the movie is really pro-Juarez . Cooper and Lancaster play two post-Confederate soldiers who get caught up in all this mayhem . The picture flops because the turn-around of everyone from pro-Maximilian to that of pro-Juarez is done too quickly without much creative thought . In addition , from the beginning it's interesting to see that Lancaster's greediness will lead to his rebellion . Gary Cooper already looked old in 1954 and it was showing here . Come to think of it , he looked this way 2 years before in his Oscar-winning performance in " High Noon . " Henry Brandon appears in this film . He also went under a different name . Movie buffs will remember him as Barnaby in the memorable 1934 " Babes in Toyland . " Imagine , Brandon was only 22 when he played Barnaby . Amazing what make-up can do . He alternately used the name of Henry Kleinbach in films .
Not Likely to Like " The Girl Most Likely "	Disappointing 1957 musical where within an 1 hour and 40 minutes , Jane Powell gets engaged to 3 guys at the same time . The Gauer Champion choreography is its usual greatness . Dancing sequence of " Keeping up with the Joneses " is memorable as well as the scene with all the dancing in Mexico . Powell does nicely in the part but is not convincing in the comedy scenes where she has had one too many . Tommy Noonan is good as her original guy who is an ambitious salesman . Cliff Robertson , who she meets by jumping over-board is young and simple . Keith Andes , as the wealthy guy , looks old for 1957 . Una Merkel , who seemed to fit in nicely in the 1950s in mother roles , is along for the ride . The ending is somewhat of a surprise and proves that wealth isn't everything .
Jane Doe-Keep Her Anonymous	Muddled story with stolen art , American Nazis , and an entire host of things included . Despite a stellar cast , the film suffers from constant confusion . Why was that art dealer killed ? Would we actually think that an elderly Holocaust survivor was trying to fool people with the Veneer portrait ? Do we have to be told that villain Philip Casnoff is thrown off the helicopter he flees to ? Since when does a blonde dish have the name of Agnes ? What an art investigator she is ! Lea Thompson directed and starred in this mess as a housewife who goes on student field trips and also doubles as a secret agent . The mixing of the two is hard to believe as well as realize here . Thompson always has that bit of anger on her face when she is acting . I can't blame her here given the material that she has to work with . Joe Penny , as the cop Frank , is taken in by Agnes , Elaine Hendrix , and he looks entirely confused by all this . Nice seeing William R . Moses in the part of Thompson's husband . Remember him in Perry Mason ? I always wondered what became of him . He is given so little to do in this film .
Hot Millions-Give Me Cold Cash Anytime	Maggie Smith and Peter Ustinov as a very unlikely couple in a very not likable film at all . The film shows promise for Ustinov is released from prison for embezzling . He convinces Robert Morley to go away so that he can assume his identity and begin hacking away at computers at a very fancy firm run by Karl Malden and Bob Newhart , another unusual duo for films . Morley sounds just as he did in 1938's " Marie Antoinette . " Perhaps , he needed to return to that genre . This film is ridiculous at best . Hard to believe that the following year , Maggie Smith totally changed her ways and gave a shattering Oscar performance in " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie . " Ms . Smith is made out here to be an apparent dumb-red head , but by film's end , she is the brains of the outfit . Too bad the writing didn't go the way with her .
The Set-Up : A Routine Boxing Film	What's all the fuss regarding this 1949 routine film noir dealing with the corruption of the boxing industry . Robert Ryan and Audrey Totter do deliver knock-out performances in this film , but the story is so played out . He is the washed up boxer attempting a comeback . She is his girl who is against his latest fight . She stays away to show her contempt for everything . Ryan is supposed to take a dive . He plays the mob for suckers by knocking out challenger Darryl Hickman . The mob finds him in the back alley after the fight . Come on everyone , you know the rest even with Totter running to him in the street as he collapses to the floor dying . The scenes in the ring , which make up most of this 1 hour and 12 minute film , are quite authentic . They are staged extremely well . The answer to this film : You can't fight the mob . What else is new ?
Look out for The Lookout	Our protagonist Chris has a big problem . Since he drove without headlights one evening , he was involved in a major accident that crippled a beautiful girl in the passenger's seat and killed two innocent victims sitting in the rear . That was 4 years ago . Amazingly , Christopher was not imprisoned for this one . There should have been a movie regarding why for that reason alone . Now , that it's 4 years later , Chris has met up with a motley crew who is plotting a bank robbery . He works for a bank and has ambitions to go further . He joins the thieves and then turns on them . The picture may be described as being dull . Chris takes notes and his writings are like those of a 2nd grader . The one good thing about this film is the performance by his blind friend , well played by Jeff Daniels . I have always thought of Daniels as a superior actor since I saw him as Shirley MacLaine's son-in-law in the memorable " Terms of Endearment . " Since then , Mr . Daniels has been in a variety of bad pictures and this one is on par with " Dumb and Dumber . " Let's call it " Dumbest . " This guy is talented but is not getting the proper material to work with .
You Could Go Nuts Over Berserk	The circus . Bodies are beginning to pile up and Joan Crawford owns the joint ! Crawford must have thought that it's about 20 years earlier and she is back on " Flamingo Road . " Unfortunately , for her she wasn't . Crawford leads a very much unknown cast with the exception of Judy Geeson , who became popular thanks to To Sir , With Love vehicle around the same time . The film does start off intriguing enough with horrendous deaths at the circus . These accidents are an absolute horror . Perhaps , it would have been better if the British police had thrown their hands up and called in Jessica Fletcher to solve the mystery . The ending is abrupt and very quickly done . It did not tie all loose ends together . How could the murderer have been in two places at one time ?
Don't Be Deceived by this Deception	Bradford Dillman in a dilly of a movie with the late Suzy Parker . The story concerns itself with British intelligence choosing someone they know will crack under Nazi torture and divulge secrets that will be false in nature pertaining to the D-Day invasion . Naturally , the female ( Parker ) falls for our hero . ( Dillman ) Of course , Dillman surprises all by surviving the brutal torture . The picture was torture by itself , watching the torturing sequences was even worse . The worst part was that the suicide pill wasn't supposed to work so Dillman had to endure more . Poor Dillman . Poor audience . This film at best is slow moving and tedious in many ways .
Slums of Beverly Hills-People Make Neighborhoods & Films	This is a story of a Jewish dysfunctional family . The parents have divorced and mom remains back east in the house . The father , Murray Abromowitz , moves with his children to California , and moves around Beverly Hills so that his children can get the best education possible . Things really become funny when Marisa Tomei , Murray's niece , comes to lives with the group . The film deals with the various adventures of the family complicated by the drug scene of the affluent neighborhood . Jessica Walter costars as a woman who wants Murray to move in with her since she wants a companion . Carl Reiner and Rita Moreno come in towards the end . They play Murray's brother and sister-in-law respectively ; they're also the parents of Tomei . In front of the children , Reiner lets loose reminding Murray that he has been paying the bills for them all along . The film ends on a sour note as the embarrassed family moves out of their fancy digs and take to riding around Beverly Hills in their car . I guess the film is promoting independence and some good old self-esteem .
My Love Came Back - Maybe It shouldn't have !	The best part of this film was the musical interlude where a serious band plays swing . Other than that sequence , you can forget this film . It's 1940 and everyone is so young here . Fresh from her Oscar nomination as Melanie Hamilton in " Gone With the Wind , " Olivia de Havilland plays a promising violin student who needs to make money for her indigent family . She will be forced to leave where she is studying since she is on a scholarship and the latter forbids her from giving violin lessons . Enter the lovable Charlie Winninger as a music impresario who secretly gives additional scholarship money to her so that she can remain . When the money is funneled by way of Jeffrey Lynn , sparks fly . When the adult children of Winninger find out , they think that their father is having an affair with deHavilland . Then , they turn their attention to Lynn . A very youthful Eddie Albert and Jane Wyman have supporting parts as players in the band who really want to swing with the swing music . Lynn is rather droll as de Havilland's love interest . The chemistry between them never really ignites . With the writing going somewhat awry , you'd think that the able Winninger and others could pull it through . Sweet , ever pleasant Spring Byington plays his wife but she really plays her role as having to do it under contract .
What's So Mad About Miss Manton ?	Some people say that this Stanwyck-Fonda vehicle was a perfect warm up for their " The Lady Eve " film in 1941 . To me , both were equally bad to the core . This film is so uninteresting that you couldn't care less who committed the murder . Miss Manton finds a dead body in a deserted house and the police department does not believe her . Believe me , who cares ? The film is somewhat redeemed thanks to the performance of Sam Levene as the head of the force . His one liners are memorable as is those of Hattie McDaniel , as Hilda , Miss Manton's maid . Those facial expressions of McDaniel are memorable . She too provides some comic relief in an otherwise droll production . Did anyone notice that in the screen credits , Hilda is listed as Hattie McDaniels ? Fonda appears entirely too stoic in the part of the newspaper reporter who finds himself involved in the case and increasingly romantic with Manton . He appears quite stiff and with the exception of the hospital scene , he isn't funny at all .
Intruder in the Dust Doesn't Hit Pay Dirt	Miserable film . Not even to be compared in one breath with " To Kill a Mockingbird , " or " In the Heat of the Night . " Yes , there is racial prejudice but the film is at most ridiculous . Come now . Would you really have Elizabeth Patterson , of all people , guarding a jail so as to avoid a lynching ? Patterson , in her day , played everyone's mother and was the landlady in " I Love Lucy " before Fred and Ethel Mertz bought the building . Imagine exhuming the body so that it will not come out that the black man's gun killed a white man ? Claude Jarman Jr . , who was so fabulous in 1946's " The Yearling " appears in this mess . He still had those sad eyes . My eyes would be sad too if I appeared in this awful film . To me , this was nothing more than a Faulkner flop all the way .
Here Come the Girls - Thank Heaven for Them	Inane Bob Hope farce where the Great Bob portrays Snodgrass , a jerk who has only succeeded at failure in his life . He gets the show business bug and of course he is completely inept . He is about to get the heave ho in 1900 New York , until a serial N . Y . killer is bitterly jealous of co-star Arlene Dahl and her lover Tony Martin . Unknowingly , Hope is put in as a decoy for Martin and there are some hilarious moments . Rosemary Clooney is the girl who really loves him . Unfortunately , both Clooney and Martin have little to do here except sing some ditties , none of which ever became memorable .
The Angel Levine Unsettling and Morally Tragic	I was very disappointed in this 1970 film based on a Bernard Malamud story . This is basically a story of possible redemption , racial bias and the unfulfillment of life based on mistrust . A black Jewish angel is sent to help a struggling tailor and his critically ill wife . If Morris Mishkin ( Zero Mostel ) will only believe in the angel ( Belafonte ) , his wife Fanny ( Ida Kaminska ) will recover . The problem is that Morris has basically given up on life and just refuses to believe that Belafonte is an angel . When he believes it , Fanny improves but in the end he has doubts and Fanny suffers accordingly . It would have been very nice if there had been an English translation in the last scene when a dying Fanny speaks to Morris . Jan Kadar , who successfully directed Miss Kaminska in her Oscar nominated brilliant performance in 1966's " The Shop on Main Street " directs this film as well . Kaminska is reduced in the film to mostly bed scenes and her kindness in her speech really doesn't convey the desperate situation that she faces . She keeps calling for Ruthie , their daughter , who disobeyed them by marrying out of the Jewish religion . For most of the film , she does not realize the Angel's appearance in her apartment . The scene in the pharmacy is muddled and the scene where the Angel's girl friend confronts Belafonte in their apartment , is memorable but all too brief . We don't know why Belafonte is in danger and why he has died . Those viewing this film must have left the theater in a state of depression and desperation .
The Last Detail Needs More Specifics	While viewing this inane film , did anyone else besides myself think that how could two guys like Nicholson and his partner be assigned to bring a naval prisoner to jail ? If anything , these 2 guys were the embodiment of no good . You just know that they are going to go on some adventure with this jerk , played admirably by Randy Quaid , who is off to jail for lifting $40 . 00 in church . The big riot is when the gruesome threesome come to the house of ill repute . There Quaid chooses Carol Kane , a prostitute , to be his lady of the hour . Carol Kane a prostitute ? Even Sister Aloysius in Doubt could have done a better job here . Quaid is quiet , soft spoken and yet you know he is ready to break loose . The ending is absolutely no surprise . Bring me some more details , please .
Paradise Alley is Really from ? ? ? ? ?	An after World War 11 film set in Manhattan where Sylvester Stallone further hurts the image of Italian-Americans with his Rocky like talk . This is most disparaging . At least , the award winning " Rocky " had a good story . In " Paradise Alley " Stallone plays a low-life hustler named Cosmo Carboni . He looks to take advantage of his younger brother's physique by making him a big-time wrestler . An interesting performance here is by Armand Assante as the middle brother . Maimed and bitter by his injuries during the war , he becomes a promoter for his wrestling brother and really doesn't mind when the latter is getting hurt . It's all for the money for him . Assante , in his first film , gives a convincing performance nicely showing the changes that take place with him . This film offers no violence which is one of its few assets . Other than the character development part of Lenny Carboni , ( Assante ) the film offers little else .
Front Page Woman-Don't Run to Read or See All About It	Routine Bette Davis and George Brent film devoted to two reporters , who love each other but work for rival papers , trying to scoop each other on a murder story . Davis becomes very good at searching for clues but Brent is in it to bag the story while getting the news before Garfield . ( Davis ) As the film goes on , Davis acts as if she is one of her usual no nonsense broad . Rosalind Russell would have been far better for the role ; although , Davis does an adequate job as well as Brent . Roscoe Karns provides some funny comic relief as the photographer caught up in mayhem as well . J . Carrol Naish is wasted as the brother of the eventual murderer . This picture probably formed the basis for films such as " His Girl Friday " and reminds me of " The Front Page . "
The Thin Man Goes Home - Should Have Stayed Away	Nick and Nora Charles go home to see his parents . Myrna Loy and William Powell were usually wonderful as the detective and his lovable wife . The script does them in in this film . Supported by the usually elderly looking Harry Davenport and his wife , veteran actress Lucile Watson add really nothing to the plot . Naturally , they have no vacation as they're soon thrown into investigating a murder that occurred at their parents ' doorstep . We soon find an array of suspects to deal with . We have Crazy Mary who loves to knock people over the head with any object in her reach . The wonderful Anne Revere plays the part and says so little . She is dressed up as if she is Apple Annie from " Pocketful of Miracles " fame . Donald Meek , Edward Brophy , Leon Ames and a very young Gloria De Haven round out the fine cast . By the way , what was behind those paintings being sold ? This is never fully explained and that might just be what's wrong with this picture . You'll laugh at the beginning when Nick and Nora are trying to move about in a very crowded corridor of the train . You will be reminded of the Marx Brothers in " Room Service . " When a very fat man comes the opposite way , you will laugh heartily . Other than this , there is very little to smile to .
The Woodsman : Lead Us Away from Temptation	Memo to Kevin Bacon : Making the film " The Mark , " in 1960 , also about a child molester , brought Stewart Whitman an Oscar nomination but may have very well ruined his career . Pay attention Mr . Bacon . Out on parole as a molester , Bacon encounters a condescending cop ( nicely played by up and coming actor Mos Def ) a woman who finally accepts him after professing shock at what he has done ( a chain smoking Kyra Sedgwick-the real Mrs . Kevin Bacon ) and a girl who would allow herself to sit on his lap at a park bench . Mercifully , this film is only 1 hr . and 22 minutes . It is very slow moving and his usual ride on the bus from work becomes tedious to watch . Of course , Bacon finds hostility among fellow workers . The secretary of the office prints out what the computer says about the paroled child molester . This is obviously an extremely difficult subject . Bacon is perplexed . He has to contend with a psychiatrist who seems to provoke him . At the same time , he assaults a man who has taken a child for a ride . for some fine acting by Bacon and Def , but otherwise , forget it .
Crossfire-Cross Over to Gentleman's Agreement	" Crossfire " will always be remembered by movie trivia experts as the 1947 film that was also nominated for best picture and like " Gentleman's Agreement , " the winner , dealt with anti-semitism . Robert Ryan won a supporting nomination as an ex-soldier filled with hate . He represents the epitome of bigotry when he kills Sam Levene , whose only crime was to be a Jew . As a wayward woman , Gloria Grahame received a supporting actress nomination . Grahame showed potential here but would give many fine performances , especially with Humphrey Bogart and others . Robert Young and Robert Mitchum are soon on the tail of Ryan . It doesn't take long to figure out that Ryan is the killer . He had a history of anti-semitism in the service . Why did the army ever bother to keep a nut like him in ? The ending where Young tricks Ryan is about the only worthwhile thing here . To complete my first sentence , stick with " Gentleman's Agreement . " The latter depicts bigotry at its best at all levels .
A Girl's Conviction-Sentence This One Out	Routine who did it film where a young lady comes home just in time to have her mother arrested for shooting her 4th husband . Naturally , the daughter feels that everyone else is a suspect . Each time she meets someone , she envisions that person pressing the trigger . The film becomes obvious because the one person she doesn't envision turns out to be the killer . You can guess this after a while . Kate Jackson turns in a fine supporting performance as the accused mother . Seems as though husband # 4 was something else . A well known gambler who had affairs and was going through Jackson's money . Everyone seems to have a motive for the killing . Yet , the chief of police is adamant that Kate did it . Why ? His brother , a cop as well , went off to prison in a scandal that was uncovered by husband # 4 . After the crime is solved , it's back to graduate school for our heroine . The writers needed an elementary college course as well .
I Want to Marry Ryan You Can Have Him and the Film Too	Ridiculous film where two swinging college graduates move out to California and one becomes a movie star and the other his manager . As 10 years pass , the star's popularity is decreasing so it is determined that there will be a television show where women will compete for his affection . The film is obnoxious and ridiculous . The girls who vie for lover boy are made to look foolish . Only one girl seems to be the choice of the producer of the show . She is really an amateur up against some of the other women , but she is wholesome and brings good ratings to the show as well . By the third scene you realize that the manager is falling for her . We know that Ryan really was meant to be a bachelor . While the ending is somewhat cute , you really know where this was going .
The Late George Apley - Film Should Have Departed As Well	In the same year that he won the Academy Award for the great " A Double Life , " Ronald Colman starred in this colossal stuffy bomb about an idealistic Boston family of 1912 . They're a wealthy bunch although the film never tells us where they got their money from . Colman was an outstanding actor and he is able to rise above the boring film and give a splendid performance as a man devoted to his social mores of the time . The problem is that he is about to wreck the lives of his son and daughter by his obstinate ways . In reality , he is nothing more than a snob who quotes Ralph Waldo Emerson to justify his ways . You know that he will eventually come to his senses but you don't care as this film just moves along at a dull pace . As his sister , Mildred Natwick ( Amelia ) has some funny lines but that's about it . You would think that being born in Boston to wealth meant that you remained there for good and acted in an outlandish way . It is only when The Bird Society denies him the presidency , Apley begins to come to his senses . This film is certainly for the birds . This might have worked in 19th century Europe but forget it here .
Bee Season-Bewitched , Bothered and Bewildered Am I	Madonna and mysticism . Madonna and the Kabbalah . . . . And now Richard Gere . What's next ? Believe it or not , Gere is Jewish in this film and he marries Juliette Binoche , a Catholic turned Jewess . They have two bright children . Gere teaches about kabbalah with Jewish mysticism at a college . He is immersed in religious thought and with the idea of his daughter winning a spelling bee . He uses kabbalah to train his daughter with regards to letter and word relationships . Sorry to say that the film is weird . Feeling left out by his father , his son turns to religious experimentation . This leads to difficult scene with his son where Gere actually uses the 4 letter word . To make matters worse , the wife has been stealing objects through the years and is hospitalized in a mental ward . The ending is a surprise but it's needed to show Gere that the world is far from perfect . Those who wrote the screenplay for this film should have realized this as well .
Lured - Don't Be Enticed	Pretty bad film with George Sanders and Lucille Ball starring . Their chemistry is about non-existent . This is supposed to be a murder thriller and for a change there is absolutely no violence shown as 7 women fall victim to a mysterious killer . Charles Coburn is the inspector of Scotland Yard yet he has no British accent . Lucille Ball plays a dancer doing odd jobs who works as a decoy for the Yard when one of her friends mysteriously disappears and eventually shown to fallen victim to this maniacal killer . Ball is essentially Lucy without the laughs . Despite what others say , she shows absolutely no dramatic flare here at all . I expected Ethel and Fred Mertz to intervene at any time to save the day . It becomes so obvious who the killer is . Sir Cedric Hardwicke , who was so good in " The Ten Commandments " and memorable as Henry Cabot Lodge in " Wilson , " looks like a real odd-ball here . The ending is predictable even with Sanders , the lover of Ball , in the film confessing guilt to draw the real killer out .
Sunday's Mess	To me , a very disappointing and complex film . Glenda Jackson and Peter Finch share the same lover , for Jackson he is a much younger man and for Finch , he is a British Jewish doctor carrying on with this guy , nicely played by Murray Head . We have no idea why Jackson and Head are in the countryside caring for several children while their parents go away for the weekend . Head takes time off to jump into bed with Dr . Max Hirsh , played by Finch . Having won the Oscar the year before , for her lesbian performance in " Women in Love , " Miss Jackson must have been getting some reputation in making socially significant films for her times . The film is rather dull while it depicts repressed love . Jackson also goes bed-hopping with an older man from her office . The nicest two scenes in the film are the Synagogue Sabbath scene where Finch attends the Bar Mitzvah of his nephew . It's nice seeing how an Orthodox British Synagogue conducts sabbath services . The second stand-out scene was the Bar Mitzvah celebrating with the rabbi blessing the food . Other than that the film really is disgusting . Dr . Hirsh doubles as a medical and psychological doctor . The scene where he is discussing marital hangups with a middle-aged woman patient is a joke when you think of the life he was leading . These pictures were representative of a time when Hollywood and the rest of the America were coming out of the closet . Sometimes it's better to keep your secrets in the closet as this film shows .
Naked Jungle-Strangers in the Day and Night	Routine film of the jungle with Eleanor Parker , for a change was not over-acting and a dashing Charlton Heston who seems to have lost his mind in this 1954 film . Marrying Heston by Proxy in Louisiana , Parker seems to get much more than what she bargained for when she meets her new husband - Christopher Leiningen . Heston plays this nut-case as an emotionally unbalanced , bitter man who evidently wanted a house maid rather than a wife . He is nasty and his constant reference to her as " Madame " becomes irritating as the film goes on . Naturally , it has to take a crisis for Chris to calm down and appreciate this woman of his . Parker proves her mettle by her courageousness as the killer ants approach . The film is quite obvious . We know they will persevere and find true love in the end . Wasn't this movie based on the book Leiningen and the Ants ?
Little Miss Sunshine Is A Little Hit-Miss Stupidity	The tale of a dysfunctional family who leave New Mexico in order to enter their homely teenage daughter into a California beauty contest . The family to put it mildly is absolutely ridiculous . The girl has no chance whatsoever of succeeding in such a contest . Her older brother has taken a vow of silence . While on the trip to the pageant , it is determined that he is colorblind and therefore will not be allowed to fly . He goes ballistic before being calmed down by his sister . Greg Kinnear and Toni Collette play the couple in this hopeless film . Kinnear is terribly miscast . The part , if the picture had to be done , should have gone to Steve Martin . Collette's brother , a college professor , has attempted suicide over a failed homosexual relationship with another student . He has left the hospital to join the family . In addition to all this , Kinnear's foul-mouthed father has left a senior citizen group to live with the family . He has taken up heroin addiction in his dotage . While on the trip , grandpa ( Alan Arkin ) has the temerity to die in his sleep due to an apparent overdose but the family carts the body out of the hospital to get to California on time . To add to this pitiful nonsense , they are stopped by a state trooper who finds racy magazines but not the body . Finally arriving at the pageant , the young girl does a dance routine that shall we say is not appropriate . The family goes on stage to support her . The police are called and the family is set free on the promise that they never enter their daughter into another beauty contest in the state of California . Can you believe all this nonsense ? Along the way , Kinnear learns that a big selling opportunity has fallen through . Arkin is the lucky one . By dying , he gets away from all this . A very bad movie in extremely poor taste .
Four Mothers Need More Maturity	Very disappointing film after the wonderful " Four Daughters " made in 1938 . Claude Rains and May Robson do well in their parts as brother and sister . They are given little help but some weak written material . Everyone seems to be investing in Florida land and when a hurricane ravages the land , everyone is wiped out . Rains is forced to sell the family house of 40 + years and move with Robson to a small apartment . The sisters sulk , three of them have become mothers and two have been somewhat unfaithful with the other sister's husband . Everything seems to get conveniently tied in as Rains is called upon to conduct an orchestra playing Beethoven . It's just a little too neat of a package , especially when they find their house intact in another part of the neighborhood . The builder who bought it from them just needed the land . Robson delivers the best lines here .
Peacemaker a Colossal Bomb	After seeing this film , we will all agree that war and the movie industry can be hell . Nicole Kidman plays a Ph . D scientist who meets up with a Casanova army like guy , George Clooney , who is on the hot-seat being interrogated by a Madeline Albright-look alike condemning his behavior . A Yugoslavian is assassinated in front of a church . The latter was a diplomat and the one who did him in will replace him . Seems though that the guy is bitter for the murder of his daughter . He claims he is Muslim , Serb , etc . and blames the west for the troubles of his land . Together with a Russian general , a nuclear warhead is stolen and eventually brought into N . Y . to create mayhem . The film is action-packed . We have our usual chase scenes throughout Europe , around Azerbijan and finally in New York . Clooney is his usual casual-confident self . Scientist Kidman never saw anyone die before . The first hour or so lacks little interest as we know little that's going on . The bomb actually goes off in a N . Y . church . How much destruction ? We survive but not thanks to this film .
Don't Bother With Her Husband's Affairs	Lucille Ball tries to be funny but she really can't be given the written material that she is given to work with . In fact , it's really pathetic . Franchot Tone co-stars and proves that he certainly was not adept at comedy . As a husband and wife advertising team , they are always bound for Bermuda until something comes along to thwart the long delayed honeymoon . In this case , the thwarting may be attributed to the writing here . The inane subject dealing with a hair removal , hair add-on for bald individuals and a glass-like flower are just a little too much to contend with . Then , there is the plot where the scientist making these inventions is supposedly killed and Tone is blamed for the murder . I guess that Larry Parks had to do this film contractually . Fortunately , his appearance his brief . Not a great encore for the Jolson star .
Say Anything Says Basically Nothing	A very beautiful Ione Skye and a teenage-like John Cusack try to bring life to this rather lackluster 1989 film . Cusack is really a step above the rebel without a cause here . He falls hook , line and sinker for the outstanding graduate Ione Skye . Love does happen between these 2 unlikely candidates . Jack Mahoney is credible as the father who seems to be ever doting on his daughter , so proud of her when she wins a fellowship to study in England and dedicated in serving the people of the nursing home he runs . The man appears to be a saint . Go know that he has been embezzling from those under his care . When this is discovered , the movie takes a turn and I'm afraid it's not for the better . That scene with Mahoney in red suit in jail smoking a cigarette nervously while visited by both teens does not evoke any sentiment whatsoever .
This is a Heartbreak When Compared to 1972 Gem	Very disappointing remake of the 1972 hit film . To say , give me that old time religion is to put it mildly . Remember in the 1972 film when the distinct differences are shown between the Jewish and Christian girl ? That important element is totally missing here and the film suffers for that and other problems as well . Gone is the stern WASP Eddie Albert character as the father-in-law . Jeannie Berlin's antics are not here and the plot becomes one of not being in the right place at the right time when it comes to meeting girls . How many times will Eddie and Miranda miss before they're finally available for each other ? In short , the film becomes an absolute farce . Ben Stiller is no Charles Grodin and that's showing here .
The Crucible is Much Ado About Nothing	Miserable , off-the-wall film dealing with Arthur Miller's supposed masterpiece . Let's get something straight . This idea that the idea of the film is to emulate the witch hunt of the 1950s is absolutely ridiculous . It's a totally different genre , people , places and misery . Are we to believe that Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen are the equivalents of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg ? Are we to believe that Allen is not to be put to death for practicing witchcraft right away because she is with child and we know the church's position on abortion ? With it all , there is a very good performance by Paul Scofield as the chief magistrate . Hypocrisy is shown by most of the characters here , especially Bruce Davison . He portrays a priest who is as phony as they come . I love the way the town people turn on one another . Perhaps , Elia Kazan should have directed this film . Among other things , this film is boring , Winona Ryder screams like the holy lunatic she is supposed to be . What's so magnificent about Daniel Day-Lewis here ?
Murder 101 : College Can Be Murder-Drop this Course	Disappointing film with Dick Van Dyke as a criminology professor caught up in a murder at his college . We have the usual list of suspects with some excellent motivation for wanting to kill the chairman of the English Department . Who is accused ? A professor who was on the verge of being denied tenure by the vote of this department chair . As always , there is no understanding of what tenure means and it's brought out well by the characters here . Before you discuss tenure , you should have researched it thoroughly . Dick Van Dyke looks very old here . He has a funny color around his eyes and appears that this is the result of heavy drinking throughout the years . Even the reason for the robbery of his bicycle on campus was nonsensical here . At least , it should have had something to do with the plot . By the middle of the film , it appears that the mob may have had something to do with the killing . They would have been better off pursuing that thought in this film . While the killer is revealed at the end to be a member of the English Department , it's not that clear why this person did the professor in . About the best performance here is the one by the dead professor's wife who knew that her husband had cheated on her repeatedly . She really acts as the victim here .
What's the Matter With this Film ?	The film is almost laughable with Debbie Reynolds and Shelley Winters teaming up as the mothers of convicted murderers . With the horrible notoriety after the trial , the two women team up and leave N . Y . for California in order to open and song and dance studio for Shirley Temple-like girls . From the beginning , it becomes apparent that Reynolds has made a mistake in taking Winters with her to California . Winters plays a deeply religious woman who increasingly seems to be going off her rocker . To make matters worse , the women who live together , are receiving menacing phone calls . Reynolds , who puts on a blond wig , is soon romanced by the wealthy father of one of her students , nicely played by Dennis Weaver . Agnes Moorehead , in one of her last films , briefly is seen as Sister Alma , who Winters is a faithful listener of . The film really belongs to Shelley Winters . She is heavy here and heaviness seemed to make her acting even better . Winters always did well in roles testing her nerves . The ending is of the macabre and who can forget Winters at the piano banging away with that totally insane look ?
Fallen Angel - Not Exactly a Devilish Plot	Disappointing film noir despite the stellar cast . Anne Revere and Charles Bickford must have been thinking back to two years before when both received supporting nominations for " The Song of Bernadette . " While an example of film noir , a student of Jessica Fletcher ( Murder , She Wrote ) could unravel the mystery very quickly . Andrews does an admirable job as the drifter who comes into town and romances both Linda Darnell and an older-looking Alice Faye . Faye has one very good emotional scene in the film . For a change , Anne Revere looks younger in this film . She was always so matronly as she played the mother roles in so many memorable films . She is wasted here . She has that religious fervor that she displayed in " The Keys of the Kingdom " the year before . To me , the great performance here was by Percy Kilbride , as the owner of Pops . He lusts for the younger Stella ( Darnell ) and is devastated when she is murdered . He is terrific here . This was a much different type of role for the usual Pa Kettle with the high pitched voice .
Only Angels Have Wings - A Devil of A Film	Cary Grant is terribly miscast as Jeff Carter , who heads a mail flying outfit out in an area filled with bad weather . Jean Arthur comes off the boat and falls for Grant . What else is new ? Grant looks ridiculous in a sombrero like hat and is always asking for a light . Even a bigger joke is his sidekick Thomas Mitchell . The latter is called The Kid . Some kid . This is the same year that Mitchell starred as Gerald O'Hara in the true classic " Gone With the Wind . " He also copped a supporting Oscar that year for " Stagecoach . " After Noah Beery Jr . is killed in bad weather , the group goes around a piano and Grant and Miss Arthur lead them in an absolutely awful rendition of " Some of these Days . " Where was Sophie Tucker when she was badly needed ? Arthur loves Grant so much that she points a gun at him and when she places it down on the table , the gun offs off popping Cary in the arm . The writer of this nonsense needed some popping as well . Of course , the characters become resolute at the end . Cary flies off and Jean will be waiting for him . The other thing they needed to wait for was much better projects than this which thankfully they got in the years ahead .
39 Steps-Not Good for Your Heart	Surprisingly , an absolute stinker by Alfred Hitchcock . Debonair Robert Donat is so thoroughly stiff here as a man encountering a foreign woman who knows about espionage and suddenly has a knife put in her back in his apartment . This leads to a very wily chase with the supplies in hot pursuit of the Donat character along with Madeleine Carroll , a woman he encounters on the train and is forced to flee with when they are both handcuffed to each other . It isn't until the very end that the meaning of the 39 steps is revealed and at that point , we really don't care . As always , some of the good guys are really bad guys in this so called " boring " thriller .
Vacancy-Just Don't Move In	This well-paced thriller fails since we may certainly ask : What's going on here ? A young couple , about to divorce , lose their way and wind up at a place on par with the Bates Motel of " Psycho " fame . Imagine , they are able to view what has happened to previous people who stayed at this chamber of horrors previously via the vcr . It's absolutely frightening to behold . The couple run screaming through the place , climb through tunnels filled with rats in an attempt to escape and get a call out to the police only to have the latter killed by these lunatics running the place . The whole point of this mess is what's going on here . It is briefly revealed that the couple recently lost their son in an accident . When the guy gets stabbed by the culprits , his wife played by Kate Beckinsale , goes into a Rambo like mode with a car . The end is satisfying but is an absolute horror to watch .
Two Mrs . Carrolls - And Alexis Smith Nearly Makes 3	You've got Humphrey Bogart , Barbara Stanwyck and Alexis Smith in a film and yet it stinks . Where did this film go wrong ? Bogart stars as a crazed killer who has already murdered his first unseen wife and is well on his way to do in wife # 2 played by Barbara Stanwyck . In a way , I thought Miss Stanwyck was using this film as a dress rehearsal for her Oscar nominated performance in the following year for " Sorry , Wrong Number . " Ann Carter stars as Bea , Bogart's daughter from his first marriage . The child is precocious . She sounds like a 40 year old rather than a child of 8 or 9 which she is supposed to be . Nigel Bruce is somewhat effective as the doctor to Stanwyck who loves his " occasional " drink and obsessive talking about the burglar-strangler on the loose . The heavy rain and dark atmosphere adds to eeriness of the production . Problem is that the plot can be figured out in about 10 minutes .
This Film Does Not Become Jane	Stop with tales of Jane Austen already . They are constantly boring with everyone spewing forth his own philosophy . Obviously , this definite period piece tries to overdo the mannerisms and tenets of a long bygone era . As the players say , they live in a period where it is believed that a wife who has a brain is dangerous . James McAvoy , the lover of Austen , played well by Ann Hathaway , is too young for the part . He has that boyish look which seems inappropriate . It is only at the end of the film , when the years have passed , that he seems to come into his own . As the erudite , manipulative and crusty old aunt , Maggie Smith gives a gem of a performance as this fine character actress always does . Jane Austen never married . Let's keep it that way and not do anymore movies on a spinster who lived in a different era .
Border Incident Borders on Disaster	How could a film dealing with illegal Mexican immigrants being robbed and beaten over the border be dull ? Well , " Border Incident " is . No wonder that song and dance man George Murphy's career ended not long after this terrible film came out . Politics was certainly a way out for this future senator who dies a horrible death in this slowly paced film . The film stereotypes the typical Mexican migrant farmer worker as dimwitted and awfully dull . The film only picks up in intensity once the identities of Murphy and Ricardo Montalban have been discovered as federal agents for the U . S . and Mexico respectively . Disappointing at best , we see similar problems in our very own society today .
Righteous Kill-Nothing Sacred About this One	Al Pacino and Robert De Niro star as two overworked police officers who begin to investigate a serial murder who seems to be doing society a favor by bumping off undesirables . Of course , this last statement might become tacky when a priest takes 2 bullets in the confession booth . What was that priest up to ? Both men are great actors but Pacino just seems to enjoy chewing up scenes as he proves time and time again that he is an actor's actor . Our murderer leaves poetry with the bodies of his victims . 39 minutes into the film , the police force realizes that it's one of their own who is doing these people in . The bodies begin to pile up as the De Niro character seems to be confessing in off-scenes . Of course , we're in for a major surprise in the film but there seems to be something lacking here-the writing .
Come Live With Me-Move Away from this One	To paraphrase : " When you wed , you don't have to know that much about your partner , but when you're getting a divorce , you should learn about them . " This is basically what this film is about and it is as foolish as my first sentence . The plot sounds good . A woman who escapes Nazi controlled Austria must marry an American or face deportation . This is the problem facing Hedy Lamarr but she can't make the most of it due to the inept writing . They certainly could have made her romance James Stewart more during the week she had before facing being removed . Instead , she merely weds Stewart quickly . After they're wed , her lover then decides to divorce his wife so that he can be free to marry her . Why in heaven's name didn't he do this before her marriage to Stewart . Going up to grandma's house at the end of this film does nothing either . Grandma's house is full of proverbs . One of them should have read " Much Ado About Nothing ! "
Shampoo-Wash That Man Right Out of Your Hair	Disappointing film as Warren Beatty plays a non-homosexual hairdresser who rides around in a motorcycle as if he is part of " Easy Rider . " Obviously , George does more than hair with his clients . The film is Robert Altman-like with its jumping around as it follows Beatty's sex escapades . Julie Christie and Goldie Hawn steal the acting here in their portrayals as two of Beatty's clients . The supporting Oscar went to the usually fabulous Lee Grant . I can't imagine why even though her category was full of weak contenders in 1975 . Beatty's life unravels at a party on election night 1968 . President-elect Richard Nixon promises an open administration , the next day , which is probably the film's greatest laugh . Guys should take heart since Beatty probably gets what he deserves at the film's end . ( No , it's not the " Bonnie & Clyde " shooting . ) Jack Warden received a supporting Oscar nomination for his portrayal of a man who Beatty asks to loan him money so he can open his own beauty salon . Warden is carrying on with Julie Christie , who is also the lover of Beatty but at the same time Beatty is carrying on with Lee Grant , who is wed to Warden . When all this is discovered , it really is not handled that well . This hysterical-like situation could have been dealt with a lot better .
This ' Toast ' Burns On All Corners	Dreadful 1937 film where three con men played by Cary Grant , Jack Oakie and Edward Arnold con their way to success . For them , the worst thing could have been was that the civil war ended . They wind up with a fortune ; that is , a fortune in confederate bonds . While they are worth nothing , the trio manages to parlay this nothing into a fortune . Here is a major flaw in the film . It is never adequately explained how they could get away with this . Sounds more like the junk-bond trade of the 1980s and so . Frances Farmer , as a maid to a chanteuse , is elegantly dressed but does very little else here . Too bad that Miss Farmer spent much of her life combating mental disorders . Starring in this film was a disorder in itself . Arnold has some moments especially when he allows greed to lead to his downfall . However , you didn't have to be a rocket-scientist to see this coming . A very poor script certainly did not help this . Jack Oakie was traditionally a comedian of A-1 quality . How many times was he going to refer to Arnold as Yes Boss , Yes Boss . Slavery ended with the civil war .
Wedding Night is Dated and Pathetic	When people talk of a film being dated , " The Wedding Night " is a perfect example of this . Anna Sten looks at you from the screen with those sad eyes . You know you're in for a tear-jerker . By the title , I thought I was in for a comedy . Comedy ? That's a laugh in itself . Instead , the viewer is subjected to a tragic film on par with Anna Karenina . The only thing is that we only have to be subjected to an hour and twenty four minutes of this soap opera junk . There are two good performances here . Sten , since she so vulnerable and Sig Ruman , who portrays her strict by the book father . Yes , this is old fashioned about a girl spending a night with a man , a married man , but after all , the film was made in 1935 . Gary Cooper plays an author in this film who is obviously suffering from writer's block . That all changes when he meets , by chance , a young Polish girl , Miss Sten , who inspires him to write a novel . The problem is that Cooper is married and that Sten is engaged to a blustering Ralph Bellamy . The tragedy at the end of this film will make you shed a tear for about a minute . Why ? You'll be so glad that this film is over .
Blood and Wine Uneven Drama	Again , a stellar cast cannot help this miserable film . Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine are on a caper to steal a necklace . Nicholson seems to be in a very bad marriage with Judy Davis . Davis is the bright moment in this otherwise uneven drama . She is explosive and pulls out all the stops in her violent scenes with " husband " Nicholson . Caine coughs up a storm here as the dying thief . At least , he got his wish by not dying in prison . Jennifer Lopez appears as the love interest of Nicholson and his stepson-the son of Davis . The films tends to become overly violent . There are frequent uses of sticks to do the beating . Someone should have taken a stick to this film .
Kiss Me Stupid is Just That	Imagine a Billy Wilder flop and you have 1964's " Kiss Me Stupid . " Why this picture wasn't in color was beyond me . I see where Wilder was trying to somewhat imitate his 1960 Oscar winner " The Apartment , " but that attempt falls flat . Dean Martin , as Dino , plays himself . While driving to California , he has to take a detour to a remote Nevada town and that's where our story begins . Ray Walston , a piano teacher , and organist in a church is insanely jealous of wife Felicia Farr . He also writes songs with his sidekick Barney . Martin drives up to the house and the two have the idea to get Dino to purchase their songs . To get the swinger Dino in the mood , they substitute Walston's wife for Kim Novak , at her worst , in this film as the original dumb blonde . The story is silly and the title most appropriate .
Park Row Takes A Skid Row Course	What could have potentially been a wonderful movie , instead turns into an amateurish like production . I heard that this film could have been made with Gregory Peck and Ava Gardner in Technicolor . It would have been a musical with Peck singing . How delightful that would have been . Instead , we are subjected to an overly simplified production of trying to explain the importance of newspapers . Angered when a newspaper caused the hanging of an innocent man , Gene Evans forms his own paper called the Globe . The Star , the rival paper , is owned by a woman . Soon , a war develops between the papers . An odd sort of people work for the Globe . A typesetter who can't read , a young boy who has his legs sliced off by the competitor's carriage . As the story evolves , there might be a hint of romance between the lady and Evans . This is not pursued as the film ends . When the Globe is bombed , the lady , who has had a change of heart , prints the paper itself . . . . And we have mom and apple pie too . Don't bring up the trial of John Peter Zenger . That was a story . This story of the importance of newspapers would have been better served in an old fashioned western .
Vera , Not Nice Dearie ,	Just caught Vera Drake on television as it was shown at 4 o'clock in the morning on Starz . To me , the standout performance is that of Vera's daughter , Ethel , who is either severely retarded or dumbfounded by what is going on in this film . Vera is made to come off as a victim . Her stupidity is unmatched . She knew very well what she was doing . She refused to label it abortion , but would say that she is " helping " girls . Too kind to accept remuneration , did she really believe what she was doing , or is she just plain stupid ? Could our heroine , Vera , rival James Dean as the rebel with a cause ? The real victims here are the family who will have to live through all this . The first hour of this film is tiresome . We can really learn to become performing abortion experts . Suddenly , when caught , British actress Imelda Staunton pulls out crying , wining and a sense of innocence not seen since the crocodile tears of a not-so-innocent Katharine Hepburn , in a plethora of films . The judge will not give Vera the least severe sentence for her misdeeds . An example must be set . At least , he admitted that .
Put this Story on Back Page	The acting is great here except for Mildred Dunnock who is cast with that sympathetic voice as a vicious mother trying to be in full control of her grown son-Gig Young . Dunnock's voice is similar to that character of Elsie Thornton , the beloved teacher in 1957's " Peyton Place . " The story is too unbelievable here . Rita Hayworth and lover Young are put on trial for killing Hayworth's husband . Hayworth's lawyer is Anthony Franciosa , who gives quite a performance as attorney . The killing was really justifiable as the husband , a cop , pulled a gun when he catches the 2 lovers together . Why she told a story of a burglary taking place was beyond me . As Jack Webb would have said , " Stick to the facts , miss . " Hugh Griffith is out of line here as the judge . He talks to those on the witness stand as if he were in medieval times . You know how this is going to end and then you wonder why you've sat through all of this . this .
Nothing Congenial Here	Stop with the sequel to this nonsense . This beauty pageant queen is kidnapped along with William Shatner . It might just be the time for Shatner to consider retirement after this film . This is not Star Trek . True , it can't be an award winning role as in TV's Boston Public , but this is real bad . As for the queen , you wonder how she ever garnered that title . Her winning is a definite insult to all pageant contestants . Sandra Bullock can't thwart the bad guys anymore since she is easily recognized by an adoring public . Use this as reality to get away from this picture . This is not showcasing your talent-don't get into the dumb brunette syndrome , Miss Bullock . The film's one saving grace is a nice performance by Regina King as an attitude-problem officer who is assigned to be with Bullock as winds up doing an imitation of Tina Turner in a Las Vegas nightclub . She knows how to be mean but as the film goes on , she shows a nice tendency to be a friend and good partner to Bullock's character . . Treat Williams , as the head of the FBI in Las Vegas , has certainly had better parts . Again , he is nasty as he has been carrying on with an agent's girlfriend , another agent and would like to get rid of Bullock . He still has that cynical charm . Rescuing the kidnap victims means contending with their 2 very dumb kidnappers . An aide to Bullock seems to exert homosexual tendencies so inane that you'd just want to laugh in his face . The chase scenes are predictable , too predictable and the outcome of visiting a school , once the case has been solved , in nothing more than a worn-out cliché .
These Inlaws Need Total Separation and Divorce	Inane farce with Peter Falk involving future in-law Alan Arkin is a CIA romp . The chase scenes and shootings become actually annoying in this film which lacks real humor . When our two heroes meet a dictator of Honduras , he tells them that his army people once worked as security guards for J . C . Penney ? This is supposed to be funny . Methinks not . For the straight dentist Arkin portrays , after a while , he seems to be enjoying himself and does pretty well in dodging bullets along the way . The only funny scene here is that woman left with the cement in her mouth as the two fools make their escapade . Maybe , she succeeds because she is quiet . This is what the rest of the film should have been like .
Prisoner of Zenda Sure Takes No Hostages	Major disappointing swashbuckling romantic film with the great Ronald Colman playing 2 parts - a cousin who goes to Zenda to attend his cousin's coronation only to be involved when the monarch is kidnapped . Douglas Fairbanks plays the villain here who hatches the kidnap plot to help the evil half-brother , a sinister Raymond Massey usurp the throne . When Michael ( Massey ) finds Henzlau ( Fairbanks ) with his beloved Mary Astor , Masse is stabbed to death by Douglas . There are some good romantic scenes between the " Cousin " and Madeleine Carroll . Aubrey Smith , as a confidant to the king , provides an excellent supporting role . The film itself is quite drab at best . How Astor could truly love the sinister Michael is beyond belief .
Mrs . Pollifax-Spy A Yenta in Espionage	Nosy body Emily Pollifax wants to work for the CIA after she is widowed . A typical New Jersey widow , she is given some case . She is supposed to get a book in Mexico that has important microfilm but the plan naturally goes awry and she is held in Albania with Darren McGavin as a fellow spy . The film goes downhill rapidly once the two are captive in the land of dictator Enver Hoxha . They plot to escape and manage to do so despite the Albanian terrain . As the film progressed , Russell really started to look elderly . She wears hats that could have easily qualified for Easter . Any hint of romantic ways between Russell and McGavin is ridiculous . The great Rosalind Russell should have been able to end her fabulous career on a much better production than this .
Four Feathers-Pluck the Plumes from this One	This 1939 piece has 3 good things going for it . What does it in is a relatively flat story . We have a fine musical score from Miklos Rosza . He would top anything else he had ever done , 20 years later , when he scored " Ben-Hur . " We have beautiful technicolor done by Natalie Kalmus , who certain was queen of coloring pictures in the ' 30s and ' 40s . In addition , Ralph Richardson gave a fabulous supporting performance . Yes , he was brave but how does he go about a battlefield when blinded ? He would pose a danger to himself and others . This was ludicrous . The story of a coward from a military family is interesting to note . What I objected to was the reason give for war in Khartoum . What was going on there ? Why wasn't this developed ? Natives are shown as war-like savages . Stereotyping is terrible here . A much better " Four Feathers " film was made in the 1950s with David Hedison in the lead role . Catch that one and miss this .
See No Force of Evil	John Garfield in another film noir . Problem with this film is in terms of explanation . Why after so many years of estrangement does Garfield want to bring his older brother , Thomas Gomez , a small time gambler into the big time ? Beatrice Pearson makes her first appearance in a brief career . She sounds like and tries to emulate Grace Kelly . Sorry , it doesn't work . As a poor working girl for Gomez , she always seems to be in the wrong place . The big mobster here is Roy Roberts , who was so memorable in 1947's " Gentleman's Agreement , " as the bigoted innkeeper . 20 years later he would take on a similar role in " Hotel . " Garfield is a Wall Street attorney who works for the crooked Roberts . There's also the bookkeeper who can't keep his mouth shut and takes a bullet for it . The ending music where Garfield searches for his dead brother below the bridge is totally inappropriate .
I Dood It - Grammar and Picture Both Bad	Only the musical number by the fabulous Dorsey band as well as the playing of Ms . Scott and wonderful singing by Lena Horne are about the only 2 saving graces of this rather silly film . The trouble here is the far too many sub-plots . We have Red Skelton pursuing entertainer Eleanor Powell . She marries him when she discovers infidelity on the part of her boyfriend . A dancer with a pants presser ? Sounds silly enough but they don't take the plot far enough . Instead , we have John Hodiak as a player in a show who is really a Nazi saboteur ready to blow up the theater area which is next to some important valuables . Some of the Skelton-Powell skits are way overdone . While we may have needed films like this in war-time , some of this is just too silly to imagine .
Cliché Ending Spoils the Runs in this Family	A wealthy family is torn apart by being dysfunctional . Yes , it happens in the best of families . Kirk and Michael Douglas are the Brombergs-father and son , who are constantly bickering . As in real life , Kirk is the stroke victim and his wife is on dialysis . His oldest grandson is using drugs and talks like he belongs with characters who constantly use the term dude . At certain points , this actually became annoying . Mike is married to Bernadette Peters , who makes the most of her part , that of an angry wife , who confronts her husband when she finds panty hose in his coat pocket . Unfortunately , Grandma dies after one last dance with Grandpa . We've seen this cliché before . Even a demented Uncle Steve passes on . Morbid ! The last half hour is where the film falls apart . Uncle Steve , a navy vet , is burned up on a boat by the Brombergs . Kirk recites Kaddish over the burning body which is offensive in the Jewish faith . Speaking of religion , a nice Seder is marred by family spats . While the burning is taking place , the teen Bromberg is busted for drugs but will beat the rap since no warrant was issued . Since when are police not aware of that ? The younger son runs away with a girl from a 6th grade dance . She had been hanging around an older group of boys who confront them . Miraculously , our 6th grade boy beats the older boy as the 2 flee . The ending is ridiculous . Everyone almost kisses and makes up and goes to sleep saying goodnight to all . What's this , the Waltons ? Retirement is for some people . I want to remember Kirk Douglas for " Champion , " " Lust for Life , " " The Bad and the Beautiful . " I don't want to remember a poor script and a story that goes awry . One star for the effort and the second in honor of Douglas ' long career .
Lemony Snicket's Stupidity in Session	I'll give credit for the special effects but that's about it . This farce deals with 3 children orphaned when their parents die in a mysterious fire . This catapults them into an inane adventure where their distant relative , Count Olaf ( Jim Carrey ) takes charge of them . Of course , with that name , Olaf is evil . He wants to get rid of the children so that he can gain their inheritance . His disguises like the rest of the film are ridiculous at best . Of all people , Meryl Streep is along for the ride as Aunt Josephine , also victimized by the Count . Is she a victim or does she love the guy ? The film is really inane and the baby having her words translated on screen becomes annoying .
The Big Sleep-Yawning All the Way	Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacalle teamed to make 4 films together in their illustrious careers . Guess what ? Other than 1948's " Key Largo , " the other 3 were first class stinkers and " The Big Sleep " is absolutely no exception . To say that the plot is muddled and confusing is to put it mildly . The guys drop like flies as the bullet flies . The film should have ended when it appeared that the first two murders had been solved . Instead , it goes on and on with more shooting and much more confusion . By the end , you don't know really who did what and it was a relief to hear those police sirens as Bogie and Lauren embraced-you knew it was the end . This film noir faded to black all right ! You really have to blame Raymond Chandler's writing for this colossal bomb .
The Writers took Revenge on Us	Believe my title . Good gone bad , real bad is the crux of this film . Better to have left the previous Star War episodes stand in final tribute to those films . Luke Skywalker goes evil ! Mercy me . With that sweet face turning disturbed , what were the writers really thinking of ? Natalie Portman's performance here is quite weak . She talks like an immature teenager . I don't see the necessary emotion that it takes . The talented Jimmy Smits and Samuel L . Jackson are given little to do . Jackson was fortunate enough to get bumped off quickly in this film . Spare us any further Star Wars films . This is a classic stinker .
Diplomatic Siege - Needs More than Diplomacy	The film goes awry towards the middle of it . It starts off quite well when the U . S . embassy in Bucharest , Romania is taken hostage by Serbian terrorists . We have the usual threats and intimidation . We have the usual demands but things go way out of control when the person the terrorists are negotiating for is killed by a Croatian and the Americans must come up with a substitute to fool the Serbs . Darryl Hannah's role is quite perplexing . When she turns out to be a villain , she is still adored by film's end . Her role in this was somewhat of an enigma , even though it is explained by the film's end . Naturally , the theme of money being the root of all evil is examined here as well . A very muddled ending does not help the film at all . The special effects are quite good , and there is plenty of screaming by the hostages . Tom Berrenger comes across like a military know-it-all .
Cadillac Records Doesn't Exactly Ride the High Country	The music is fascinating but it's still the same old story in movie land . A group of guys make it big in the record industry in the 1950s and mayhem results . Yes , it's the old story of what success can lead to . Adrien Brody has the lead role of Len Chess , a Jewish guy whose parents came from Poland . The last time we heard Poland mentioned in a movie , Brody won the Oscar for " The Pianist . " Brody certainly needs to have gone to a smoking cessation clinic after this film . This guy can really put those cigarettes away . While I imagine that Len Chess was a heavy smoker , it becomes very disgusting and poignant as Chess died of a massive heart attack at age 37 . There is the usual screaming , violence and killing in this picture as you can imagine . Beyonce Knowles is wonderful as the drug-addicted Etta James . She belts out AT LAST in a phenomenal way .
To Me , this Batman Ends	I did not like this film as there is no comical relationship as we saw in the television shows . Tom Wilkinson gives a wonderful performance as a mobster . His Brooklyn accent is memorable . The beginning of the film was rather boring as we get into the story . Nonetheless , the tragic death of our hero's parents was vividly told . As the film progresses , there are some nicely done action sequences but the story is rather uneven . Bring back the old television show . Christian Bale does an adequate job as our crime crusader . While he did have this terrible tragedy in his life , the human element in his performance is missing .
Bandits-Crime Does Pay But Never So Nicely	Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton teamed up as bank robbers in this 2001 farce . Thornton plays an intellectual hypochondriac who nonetheless would kill if he had to . Willis is a care-free guy . After escaping from an Oregon prison , the two go on quite a spree , where they invade the homes of bank officials and stay overnight and then take them the following morning to rob the place . Their escapades are absolutely real . The police and bank officials are made to look foolish in the eyes of those viewing this film . Bored and upset with her husband , Cate Blanchett meets up with this dynamic duo and becomes a member of the gang in the way that Patty Hearst did as well as Estelle Parsons in " Bonnie & Clyde . " Unlike Parsons , Blanchett becomes attracted to both of these guys . Their final caper is one for the books and would leave us all saying that crime does pay . Not really as it's really not worth paying to see these fools create themselves as legendary heroes . A good point is that the film lacks violence and in some ways becomes a comical tribute to film bank robbers .
Sante Fe - Westward Slow	Wonderful premise where 4 brothers , after the civil war , go different directions with the elder brother , Randolph Scott , working for the railroad and the other 3 wind up as bank robbers . The film becomes muddled as you really don't understand the conflict between the various factions within the railroad . You also don't know how to feel about the brothers . Are they victims of circumstances ? What was the fate of the surviving brothers by film's end ? Roy Roberts plays the villain here . I remember him as a hotel innkeeper who refused admission to Gregory Peck for being Jewish in " Gentleman's Agreement , " and 20 years later to a black couple in " Hotel . " This is a great part for Randolph Scott . He is a real good guy here , and yet still loyal to the concept of family .
DaVinci Code Hard to Decipher This One	Even though I did not read the book , I am not at all surprised why Catholic groups are outraged by this film . Fiction or not , it is really insulting to Catholic tenet . Tom Hanks is really miscast in the lead here . A better choice would have been Ralph Fiennes . The acting in this film is stolen by Ian McCellan , who turns in a fabulous performance as a rogue providing further mystery to a very old church secret . Alfred Molina , as the renegade priest , brings sustained energy to the role . The picture is too long and should have ended with the McCellan arrest . The murderous monk is portrayed by someone who looks like a very young Malcolm McDowall of " A Clockwork Orange " fame . It would have been interesting how Mel Gibson would have handled this film . I wonder who he would have blamed for this one .
Kissels Fizzles - The Two Mr . Kissels	The film rapidly goes down in quality despite the interesting subject matter and some very good acting here . The story again relates to the time old adage that money is the root of all evil . The Kissel Brothers seemed to have had in made with their propensity for making money . Their lives took a turbulent path because of their financial success . Robert was the better of the two ; of course , being a work-a-holic , it cost him his marriage and ultimately his life . His wife Nancy is brilliantly played by an up and coming actress . How she thought that she could get away with killing him is beyond belief . Andrew , on the other hand , who is played quite well by John Stamos , was hell-bent on a path of self-destruction . Embezzling from his own co-op building and others , he was destined to meet his end in the way he did . The individual flashbacks by those within the brothers orbit doesn't work well here . In fact , it makes the film uneven and disjointed at times . Nonetheless , this is an interesting film to view again due to the subject matter .
Duchess Needs More Duking Out	Keira Knightley and Ralph Fiennes star in this period peace depicting the superiority of the male , who it is shown can immerse himself with other women openly but yet find it revolting when his wife basically does the same thing . No doubt about it . Ralph Fiennes is getting older . This is more of a supporting role for him , as evidenced by his supporting nomination for a Golden Globe award in the drama category . In the scenes that he is in , Fiennes is engaging . He still has that mean stare after all these years . Cold , calculated , brooding are the best words to describe his performance here . The picture is uneven at points where Knightley's mother rallies to the support of the Duke of Devonshire ( Fiennes ) . I guess that's just the subordinate instinct that women felt in the 18th century that the writer was trying to depict . Another total about face is by the Duke's own lover in support of the Duchess when she has her illegitimate son by a rising politician who promises change . Sounds familiar , doesn't it ?
Assault on An Audience	Overly violent thriller about a situation where the police are the villains in the midst of a Detroit snowstorm . Ethan Hawke and Laurence Fishburne star in this mess , as the former is a gangster involved with too many on the force on the take . Problem is that Brendan O'Byrne wants even more and Fishburne kills one of the collectors inside a church . Fishburne is soon captured but the snowstorm is so severe that driver Dorian Harewood , in a brief appearance , is forced to bring his police van to the precinct and stay there . Trouble is that the cops follow them and a shoot ' em up besieging of the precinct follows . Naturally , the other villains are armed by Hawke . We also have a police doctor and a secretary at the precinct all about to spend New Year's Eve there . The film begins 6 months before when Hawke's bad decision , during a drug-bust , leads to two fellow officers shot dead . Veteran cop , Dennehy , announces his retirement at the eve " gala . " You really don't know if he is a good or corrupt cop . The film unfortunately is diminished by too much violence . Too many of those inside the precinct wind up being shot to death . It's one by one . In the midst of all this , we have John Leguizano , as a philosophy-like hood with a grand vocabulary to match . A totally unrealistic person for John L . " Assault on Precinct 13 " had a good idea gone bad by a bad script with some old clichés depicted .
Moontide Reaches A Rip Tide	Rather routine story of a dock worker who finds love with a hash slinger . The dull , somber mood is reflective of the period shown here . Ida Lupino is excellent , as usual , because she plays the role that she was so well suited to play in films - the unhappy , vulnerable woman , who finds love and then tragedy . As the heavy , Thomas Mitchell shows some fine acting but he is not acting exactly like his drunken doctor in " Stagecoach " or Gerald O'Hara in " Gone With the Wind . " As the man of the docks , Jean Gabin is appealing in the romantic lead . Problem with this film is that it's so obvious . Jerome Cowan is the unfaithful doctor who realizes his shortcomings and helps Lupino survive .
Tokyo Joe - Not the Same Old Story	This certainly was not one of Humphrey Bogart's best films ? Why ? There is very little action in it . When the action does occur , it is so quickly resolved . The end is predictable because after all , Florence Marly ( Trina ) can't have two husbands . What did the Baron really want to smuggle in ? Just some Communists to stir things up , or was there even more to this ? Alexander Knox is terribly miscast as Bob Landis , Tina's second husband . He is drab and needed to exert much more if he wanted his wife back all together . Surprising that after such a brilliant performance in 1944's " Wilson " that Knox got stuck with this part . The part called for a much more suave type . Knox totally lacked appeal here and it's showing . The ending really ends with a question mark . However , we know how it had to end . A " Casablanca " this certainly is not .
Witness to Murder - Bringing in Gaslight Anyone ?	Barbara Stanwyck witnesses a murder and the culprit , played by the usually sinister George Sanders , is trying to drive her insane after this event . Gary Merrill is the detective who tries to sort this all out while he is falling for Cheryl ( Barbara ) . The flaw here is in the writing . Sanders , as Mr . Richter , should have immediately been under much more suspicion as he was a former Nazi who came into this country legally . Who can believe that one ? In addition , he is an author whose books justify the deaths of certain people . Sounds horribly familiar to me . Stanwyck gives her usually good performance as a tormented woman who is driven mad by Richter . The roof scene finale is exciting but comes too late following big errors in the movie writing .
The Imperfection of Perfect Stranger	Something goes terribly awry in this film . Bruce Willis seems to have really aged in this film . He could have played the father of Halle Berry . He's ruthless , cunning and a real stinker , but what's really going on with him , if anything . There is a surprising excellent supporting performance by Giovanni Ribisi . The latter is an up and coming thespian who will be walking down the aisle one day with an Oscar in his hand . Trouble is that his acting talents are wasted here due to the end of this unconvincing plot . The film starts off well . A reporter has the goods on a gay senator but everything gets dropped due to politics . Angry and embittered , the reporter played by a devilish Halle Berry , resigns but soon finds herself caught up in the murder of a childhood friend . The latter was carrying on an affair with advertising executive Bruce Willis . You really don't expect Berry to turn out as the culprit . Nothing really led up to this . Berry really comes off as a monster here . Was she emulating " Monster's Ball ? " If so , it sure doesn't work .
The Stranger-Nazi in the Neighborhood is Tedious At Best	Edward G . Robinson , as the suspicious inspector , turns in a solid performance in an otherwise mediocre film . Orson Welles , who directed this , showed himself to be a master of evil . The problem here was that the plot was too obvious . Even a sweet , vulnerable Loretta Young can't do very much here . That ending scene with the clock was memorable but certainly not exactly a joy to watch . A far better 1946 Welles film is " Tomorrow Is Forever . " In that one , also dealing with the Nazis , you had some sympathy for the Welles character .
Sophia Coppola Bombs Again-Marie Antoinette-A Bore	Kirsten Dunst is so stilted in the title role . She totally lacks the finesse of the 1938 Norma Shearer masterpiece . Jason Schwartzman seems awkward for the part of King Louis , which was so memorably created by Robert Morley in the ' 38 film . If you snapped your finger , the revolution would have passed you by . You do see the lavish living of Queen Marie and her cohorts . There is a new twist added here . Part of the reason that the people rebelled was because France was aiding the U . S . in its struggle against England . Interesting proposition . The excellent actress , Judy Davis , is wasted here as the Contesse , the head woman in charge of the manners of etiquette at Versailles . How many times do we have to view the morning curtains opening to see the royal couple in bed ? Nothing has been accomplished during bedtime . Nice to see modern music intertwined in our story . In many scenes , prior to the revolution , Dunst appears that she is ready to cry . I'd join her if I had been in this sad imitation of a classic .
Code 11-14 Needs Zip Code for Faster Action	7 women have been murdered by a serial killer and when it appears that the killer is in Australia , the FBI agent goes with his family down under to see what is going on . It is on their way back from Australia that the mayhem really begins . It seems that the killer is on board . He has placed one passenger in a secluded area below the plane and has killed another woman in the bathroom . Our detective is jumping up and down . Now , they believe their child who saw something in their hotel room and screamed out . Now , our picture seems to center on who the killer is on board . We probably need Hercule Poirot or Jessica Fletcher to be called in to salvage this . Naturally , in this film , the plane is put out of control and the passengers scream and scream . Miraculously , all ends well . Anyone could have predicted this .
Brother Rat & A Baby - The Prequel Was Better	The original 1938 version dealt with the escapades of the Virginia military cadets . Now , they have graduated in this 1940 version and they're still up to their necks in all sorts of chicanery . With the exception of Henry O'Neill , all the main players of the original version repeated their roles 2 years later . Perhaps , since we got used to what they carried on at the military academy , we have become immune to their antics in the sequel . Jane Wyman , with those thick glasses , showed she had some comic ability , especially in her drunk scene . This picture again belongs to Wayne Morris , as the scheming guy who involves Ronald Reagan and Eddie Albert into a variety of messy situations . Moroni Olsen , who replaced Henry O'Neill , in this version , is good but O'Neill displayed more of an authoritative figure in the prequel .
Rumor Has It How this Film Deteriorates	This picture begins with a funny premise . A woman , attending her sister's wedding , discovers that her mother was Mrs . Robinson from " The Graduate . " Kevin Costner is the guy who had the affair with the mother who is now deceased as well as the grandma Shirley MacLaine . MacLaine seems to be in a new career mold as a lively senior citizen . She is a pleasure to watch on the screen . The problem with " Rumor Has It " is that the film goes down once we see differences between it and the original " The Graduate . " As the let-down boyfriend , Mark Ruffalo is charming on screen . Kathy Bates appears in one scene as the friend of the late woman . She really has put on weight . Jennifer Aniston is appealing in the role of the daughter who very well realizes that the man she is falling for could very well be her dad . Though we see that this is not the case , we are still annoyed by a possible incestuous relationship .
Slum Dog Millionaire - May Earn A Place in the Trash Dump	What's all the excitement generated by this 2008 film ? In the old days of the 1950s , this picture would be nothing more than a grade B film and everyone knows that . Will this film join AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS , AN American IN Paris and UNFORGIVEN as well as Shakespeare IN LOVE and go on to win a much undeserved best picture Oscar ? If academy voters voted such stinkers as the above films in , SLUMDOG will probably follow as a winner . The first 20 minutes of the film was absolutely disgusting and nauseating to watch . We know that we're not dealing with Park Avenue , New York City here but the scenes were a little too much to take . We do have somewhat of a good plot here - how a young man relates the questions asked of him to his earlier brutal life . We've also seen films how 2 brothers with a miserable background can go either way in life . We're also reminded of the corruption facing the quiz shows of the 1950s .
None But the Lonely Heart - A Desperate Bore	Am one of the very few who found this to be a dull , moody piece . The somber tone reflected here is just overbearing . Ethel Barrymore gave finer performances than this Oscar-winning performance . How did a woman dying of cancer get involved with pick-pockets to begin with ? Is it because of Mrs . Mott's illness that son , Ernie , played by Cary Grant , is forced to stay home and resort to crime ? Grant's acting is good here . There is no question about that . He could never have won the Oscar with Alexander Knox in the same category in " Wilson . " Knox's loss to Bing Crosby in the best actor category was a disgrace of monumental proportions . What exactly is Clifford Odets trying to show here ? The downtrodden . Perhaps , if Ernie Mott had broken into a song , we would have had a better film . The dark dreary scenes were often very difficult to view . What was the purpose of Jane Wyatt's appearance in the film ? She loved Ernie deeply but it appeared that she could never capture his heart . Barrymore enters the film in a brutish way . She slaps her son's ( Ernie's ) face and claimed she was too busy to love his father . What a ludicrous line that was . As far as this film being one of Communist propaganda , what a joke that is . Even the Communists would be thoroughly bored and annoyed with this . They would view the Mott's as extreme capitalists and the jail-hospital , where Mrs . Mott resided , as a bourgeois place by comparison .
There is Music in My Heart But Not Much Else	Rita Hayworth stars in a film that would have been better served by having Ginger Rogers in it . Rita misses the boat and therefore an opportunity to wed wealthy boyfriend Alan Mowbray who has a contentious butler , played by the usual witty Eric Blore . In a taxi-cab mishap , she meets up with Tony Martin , who is about to be deported . The rest of the film is devoted to hiding Tony out from immigration authorities . George Tobias plays a Russian chef whose major claim to fame was that he was honored by the tsar for his blintzes ! The gags are predictable and we can all guess what the plot shall bring . We needed Tony to be singing more . The film ends with him singing the title song . Hayworth has a one scene fling at dancing which is great but more of this was needed .
Please Cross the Street to Avoid " Walk on Wild Side "	Barbara Stanwyck showed her age as the tormented head of a Baton Rouge brothel in this 1962 film . Laurence Harvey portrays Dov Linkhorn , a man looking for his love , Capucine , who really gives the film's only good performance . Anne Baxter is wasted as a Mexican owner of a restaurant . Her accent is as phony as this film is . The biggest joke here is Jane Fonda , who acts churlish in far too many scenes . The dismal black and white photography here tries to emulate 1951's " Streetcar Named Desire . " That had a story , this has basically nothing . The only male Dov who was memorable on the screen was Sal Mineo's Oscar nominated Dov Landau in 1960's " Exodus . " The film was ahead of its time in trying to depict the apparent lesbian relationship between Stanwyck and Capucine . The former will just not let go and tragedy results . However , it is the body of this picture that suffers . What exactly is going on in this brothel ? It's just not all sex , please ! A major disappointment , even with a star-studded cast .
Don't Mess With this Mishugana	This potentially hilarious film goes down rapidly in quality . The ironic thing here is that when the message of toleration between Arabs and Israelis is presented , the film comes apart . As the Israeli counter-terrorist expert , an Israeli superman , Adam Sandler , with an authentic Israeli accent , is hilarious . Accompanied by Hebrew rap music , we laugh at the various exploits that Sandler ( Zohan ) deals in . Coming to America to fulfill his life's ambition of becoming a hairdresser , Sandler falls for a Palestinian hairdresser and his working on elderly women at the salon is hilarious at best . There are small parts by Henry Winkler , Chris Rock and Charlotte Rae in this madcap comedy . Lainie Kazan plays her usual Jewish mother to the core . Some very not nice things are said here about landlords trying to get tenants out so that they can really improve their investments . Wickedness here is pitting Israeli against Arab .
Our Very Own Has Too Many Plots and Sub-Plots	A story taking place in Shelbyville , Tennessee , this is the film " Our Very Own . " It's the usual coming of age film with teenagers growing up and doing some silly things along the way . The two bright stars in the film are Keith Carradine and Alison Janney , both of whom give splendid performances as dysfunctional parents . Carradine is emulating his dead alcoholic brother . His drinking has cost him his job and further threatens the stability of his disintegrating marriage . As the suffering wife , Janney turns in a powerhouse performance . Her mood swings convey the desperation she faces . The " kids " performing in a high school show is amateurish at best . Carradine and Janney should have been used more . Their on screen chemistry is just great to see on the screen .
Down Argentina Way - Horse Forioso But Film So-So	The singing and dancing are great . The plot is weak here with Argentinian , Don Ameche , with an authentic Spanish accent , romances Bette Grable . For some foolish reason , Ameche's father , an engaging Henry Stephenson , has it in for the Crawford family for an incident that took place long ago between him and Grable's father . Charlotte Greenwood portrays Grable's aunt to perfection . The only thing she will admit to is being 31 . She really kicks up her heels as does the rest of the cast . Carmen Miranda portrays herself briefly in two dancing scenes . We can really say that she is wasted here . There is another gem of a performance by J . Carrol Naish , as a Spanish worker for Stephenson .
Too Late the Hero - Cliff Robertson's Journey to Demise	As one who could speak Japanese , Cliff Robertson thought that he could ride out World War 11 sunning himself on a beach . His sunning ends when he is called to go on a dangerous mission to the New Hebrides . There he will encounter danger that he never imagined along with a British crew at each other's throat . The goal was to knock out a Japanese transmitter . This is done but the rest of the film becomes a cat and mouse game as Robertson and Michael Caine try to make it back to their base . The cat and mouse game is played with a Japanese official who speaks to them via a loudspeaker urging them to give up . The exciting ending is one that is rather routine though very difficult . The real acting kudos go to Denholm Elliot in a supporting role as one of the British lead soldiers . Interesting but rather routine warfare .
Crime of Passion - Too Convenient for Words	One day Barbara Stanwyck is a hot San Francisco columnist who marries Sterling Hayden after an extremely brief romance . How the two click to begin with still remains a mystery to me . Living with Hayden , her policeman husband in L . A . , Barbara soon realizes that her new husband lacks ambition . All he is interested in doing is playing cards with the guys and discussing pension issues in the Police Department . This isn't for Barbara , who seems to be confined with the other cops ' wives . Within a few moments , she becomes a scheming , vicious woman who will stop at nothing to get her husband to the top . It's sort of Joan Crawford's performance in " Harriet Craig " without the murder . What scheming Miss Stanwyck comes up with it . She could rival I Love Lucy at any time . Raymond Burr enters the film as head of the police who falls for Stanwyck . How she angled her way into his life is still beyond belief . Naturally , he shall take a bullet for his efforts . Too fast too soon for me .
Made of Honor is Made Up of the Usual	Fair film with Patrick Dempsey becoming an ever-more screen Lothario , this time with Michelle Monaghan as his co-star . Dempsey plays a bed-hopping Manhattan guy who misses a chance to wed his true love when she meets a perfect Scotish gentleman while in Scotland . The film deals how Dempsey plans to get her back . He is made the maid of honor for her wedding which of course by itself is absolutely ridiculous . He really has no clear cut plan to woo her back , so the action , as is with the case with a lot of these movies , shall always take place at the wedding scene , when changes are made . This is courtesy of the 1967 hit " The Graduate . " This is really routine fanfare with the undercurrent that Dempsey is gay despite his escapades .
Boeing , Boeing Gone	How long can you allow Tony Curtis , to play a swinging bachelor in Paris attempting to juggle his charade of having 3 airline stewardesses as his fiances at one time ? You know from the very beginning that the fireworks will have to start once a takeoff will have to be canceled and the stewardesses will all converge on the apartment they share with Curtis . Jerry Lewis plays it straight to Curtis . Jerry needs those funny lines which he is so capable of delivering . Unfortunately , the writing for him is totally inadequate here . Of course , as always , Thelma Ritter , steals the show as Curtis's maid who has to juggle all these women in her schedule without revealing what is going on . Ritter looked very bad in this film and it's no surprise that she died 4 years later .
Fool's Gold - Fools March In	Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson provide perfect chemistry in this film . Recently divorced , these divers are pursuing a treasure from old Spain which is supposedly a new queen's dowry . Quite far-fetched to say the least . Donald Sutherland plays an odd bit character . His British accent is a bit too thick for his taste . He has quite an odd ball daughter from a marriage to a 24 year old Nebraskan who dealt cards in Las Vegas . She isn't as stupid as supposedly she is made out to be . McConaughey and Hudson should never have divorced as they're made for each other . Naturally , the film includes those crooks who want the treasures for themselves . The finale with the airplane is action-packed but the entire film leaves a lot to be desired .
Failure to Launch Does Just That	This inane film gives us the idea that Tripp , played by a 35 year old guy named Matthew McConaughey still lives home with his parents . The guy is a swinging bachelor , not necessarily in the Frank Sinatra mode , but his life is far from bad . Each time the girl gets too serious , Tripp brings them home to see his parents-and end the relationship . In desperation , his parents hire Sarah Jessica Parker to woo him so as to get him out of the house . The natural complication is that they fall for each other . Surprise ! Surprise ! It turns out that Tripp was supposed to wed 6 years before but his fiancée died leaving a young child that calls him Uncle . The race angle is used well as the late girlfriend and child are black . Naturally , there are fireworks when Tripp finds out what his parents have been up to . I didn't expect him to tell Parker to get the f - - - out of my car . It was inappropriate . Of course , love conquers all , but is this film believable ? I think not .
The Whole Truth - George Sanders at It Again !	This film is quite similar to the George Sanders flick of 1954 , " Witness to Murder . " Again , Sanders is a murderer who is trying to drive everyone batty . This time , his victim is Stewart Granger , who he nicely frames for the killing of his Italian actress wife . The beginning scenes show this wife as a screaming , hot tempered woman in the same vain as the late Anna Magnani . Donna Reed plays Granger's wife . It appears that she is willing to at first believe that Granger had committed the murder . He was romantically involved with Sanders ' wife . Reed is much more subdued in this film . Was she preparing for her kindly the Donna Reed television show on television ? She lacks the fire that won her the supporting Oscar as Montgomery Clift's girl friend in the magnificent " From Here to Eternity . "
Bernard and Doris-They're Not Exactly Bonnie and Clyde	A tale of two losers , one who happens to be the billionaire Doris Duke . With all her money , it is shown that the latter can't bring happiness . Duke lives in a closed-existent world and is soon attracted to her butler played by Ralph Fiennes . The scene with the two celebrating her birthday is ridiculous . Fiennes suddenly dresses up with earrings , makeup , etc . To say that he looks ridiculous is to put it mildly . This butler was there just for the money . That he gave Duke some happiness was just a matter of coincidence . Sarandon is too young for the part . What Bette Davis could have done for this part ! The film is uneven since it starts with Duke ignoring Lafferty ( Fiennes ) and suddenly he is the head of the house . It didn't show how he got into her good graces .
They Made Her A Spy is Routine Espionage	You didn't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that the Allan Hale part is one of being a counter spy , just like the lead role of Sally Eilers . The film is basically a routine one where Eilers , following the tragic death of her military brother due to espionage , decides to join and fight spying by herself . There she meets up with all kinds of characters , one which is led by the terrible Dr . Krull , a wonderful Fritz Leiber here . Leiber's very demeanor is the embodiment of evil . The scene where Eilers and Hale pass themselves off as married people to prudish people is absolutely hilarious . You know that the film will end in the way that it does when the 2 return , now married , to the very same boarding house and say they're here on their honeymoon . The expression on the prudish couple is worth the price of admission . Naturally , the film served as a reminder that spies were everywhere , even within the government itself .
RV - It's Still the Same Old Story	Robin Williams is in true form in this 2006 comedy . The problem with this film is that we have seen it so many times before as Chevy Chase vehicles for his vacation pictures . It's basically a story of a family not close , who go on a Colorado trip and during the trip , evolve into a family that realizes the value of strong relationships . This is so hackneyed . Of course , there is plenty of comical twists as Williams comes off as a jerk for plotting such a trip so that he can be close to a very big business deal . There are a few laughs in some really silly situations . Jeff Daniels plays a guy with a family who the Family Williams meet on the road . He and his kids are much smarter than they appear . The film takes off but only briefly when Williams and his family turn the tables on his nasty boss at the very end . We must credit the beautiful cinematography in Utah and Colorado .
Fraser's Got the Action . . . But the Writing ?	Action packed thriller with Arnold S . , James Caan and Vanessa Williams . That CIA is always into something . Go know that an assistant secretary of state is working with some crooked CIA agents to sell ammunition to terrorists . What are they trying to create here ? As is the case with most of these films , it's the action and constant violence that makes things interesting . Naturally , for a good deal of the film , rogue agent Caan , has everyone believing that good guy Arnold is really the enemy here . Good to see when you're depressed . The acting certainly doesn't win kudos here .
King Kong is Jurassic Park Revisited	Critics say that Adrien Brody was miscast in the lead . No , he wasn't . He was one lucky guy to have gotten the part in " The Pianist " and his Oscar just came along . What did the critics want him to do-play Johnny W . in a remake of " Tarzan . " By the way , if Brody's nose gets any longer , he will look like Pinnochio . He really should consider a nose job . A leading man he isn't . If he keeps this up , he'll be another Jimmy Durante . Jack Black is just ideal as the director who will do anything to make a movie . Kyle Chandler depicts the perfect movie actor who may be brave on film but that's about it . Kudos to Naomi Watts for a convincing portrayal of the old Fay Wray role . How anyone could fall for that beast is beyond me . Folks , this isn't " Beauty and the Beast . " Kong does not change into Prince Charming . The film is woefully too long . Those scenes in the jungle were familiar in " Jurassic Park . " When will our youth of today learn that there are better themes in films than showing the jungles ? The real star of this film is Kong himself . For displaying true emotions , he should have been considered for best supporting ape . For the first hour of the film , I needed the chloroform .
DuBarry Was A Lady - When the 2 Redheads Collide	Mild fanfare with Red Skelton , Lucille Ball and Gene Kelly in this farce about what's going on at a local nightclub . Lucy is Lucy and Red does his usual nonsense . Kelly tries to play it straight but isn't given the substantial material needed . Zero Mostel , young and chubby looking , is along for the ride as a seer . You may not recognize him here but after all , it's 1943 ! The film begins to take off during Skelton's dream sequence of being transported back to revolutionary France as Louis XV . The costumes of that period along with the singing and dancing of modern music are a joy to watch . While Red , as Louis , has been over-taxing his subjects , he's in for a rude awakening when he gets up . Tax man Donald Meek is there to take away most of the money that he won in the sweepstakes . Much more of Cole Porter's fine music is missing in the film version .
Ends Before We Really Want to See What Comes Next	High packed action film where the CIA wishes to thwart a terrorist plot by using a magician , Nicholas Cage , who has the power to see what is going to happen in the future . The problem with the film is that it goes down in quality rather rapidly once the chase scenes start . We see cars crashing and all sorts of wood flying away causing havoc . Julianne Moore , a fine actress , does an excellent job as a tough enforcement agent . Surprised to see that Russia is involved in the terrorist plot rather than the conventional middle eastern countries . The film is fast-paced and there is a romantic side to it once Cage involves a lady , who in turn is recruited by the CIA to capture Cage . Once Cage is taken by the CIA , we want to see more of how the agency will further go after the terrorists . Instead , the film ends .
Tarnished Angels A Disappointement After Written On Wind	Douglas Sirk , a master director , again teamed that fabulous trio from " Written on the Wind , " Dorothy Malone , Robert Stack and Rock Hudson . The film was " The Tarnished Angels , " which deals with a barnstorming airplane-acrobatic team of the depression era . The film is shot in black and white to convey the mood of the period . That is one of the many flaws in this film . Hudson portrays a newspaper reporter who meets the married couple of Malone and Stack . Along the way , there is an affair between the two . It is Hudson who defines the film . Stack's character is not fully developed . Malone tries hard but the script is basically against her and all others in this film . Hudson's performance is good though very preachy towards the end . Stack and Malone were forced to marry when she becomes pregnant . They have a child who eats constantly but is nice and thin . I'd like to know personally how he accomplishes this . While the ending is tragic , it is cliché ridden . Sirk should have taken this film and put it out on the wind . After the wonderful " Written on the Wind , " this film is a major disappointment . It takes place during the depression so while the coloring is of a depression-like atmosphere , the supporting characters need to convey that feeling as well . Hudson's clothing needs to be criticized as well . That hat he wore was ridiculous . It wasn't for him .
The Chase - A Comical Patti Hearst Flick ?	Cliché filled film where a real loser taking a wealthy girl hostage and the two of them in a memorable chase with the police in hot pursuit . Martin Sheen is in top form as the innocent convicted felon on the lamb . The story follows the usual tradition of the girl becoming hysterical and gradually finding love with her captor during her apparent ordeal . Naturally , her father is a Donald Trump type with political aspirations . He will attempt to use the kidnapping to his political advantage . The film does succeed in that it shows class distinctions and how our criminal justice system can go awry at times . While it is fun-packed , it is so predictable .
The Professionals-The Film is Anything But	Your typical western where tycoon Ralph Bellamy offers lots of money to Lee Marvin , Robert Ryan and eventually Burt Lancaster to go into Mexico and retrieve his wife ( Claudia Cardinale ) who supposedly has been kidnapped . The film encounters our three ex-Mexican revolutionary fighters on their way back to Mexico . They're after the outlaw revolutionary Raza , Jack Palance , who has done the kidnapping . Palance says little but his fierce looks and killing at ease tells it all . It doesn't take much to guess that Cardinale was not a kidnapping victim but ran to her long time lover . Cardinale speaks with a very heavy Italian accent . As a munitions expert in the film , Lancaster adds to the excitement as he blasts his way . The ending is what you would expect but you have a great idea that this will occur long before it is reached .
Girl-Guy-Gob -	Lucille Ball was much more restrained in this 1941 comedy with Edmond O'Brien and George Murphy . O'Brien appears so young and dashing in this film . He plays an upper class businessman who meets and finds love with secretary Ball . Murphy plays her sailor boyfriend . To me , the biggest question in the film was who would Murphy wind up with ? The comedy here is tedious . O'Brien has a snobbish girlfriend with a high society mother to the bargain . Ball comes from a real common family where the brother finds opera tickets that belong to O'Brien . By the next scene , Ball is going to apply for a job where O'Brien is the owner . How coincidental can we get ?
Something of Value Really Isn't	This Rock Hudson , Dana Wynter film deals with the Mau-Mau uprising in Kenya in 1952 . At least , it attempts to . As the wife , Wynter is completely wasted her . She has few lines to convey . Yes , a racist bigot slapped Sidney Poitier several years before the uprising . During the rebellion , the man's wife is killed . Poitier's father was imprisoned prior to the uprising because he killed a baby that came out feet first . He would have to be defended by a sociologist to get off from this . Poitier turns smoker and militant . Even more ridiculous than the sub-plot is the fact that Wendy Hiller , who really looked her age in 1957 , becomes pregnant in this film and gives birth ! Along the way , her family is wiped out by the Mau Mau's in a massacre . Mau Maus march along like Margaret Hamilton's army in " The Wizard of Oz . " Their supposedly strong leader , who never took the oath , for a ridiculous reason , melts when captured . Some leadership , but some picture ! The Mau Maus were a militant band who protested the English colonial policy of exploitation . The movie-goer is certainly exploited when viewing this utterly cliché-worn film .
Americans Stay Home , Please	When " An American in Paris " won the coveted Oscar in 1951 as best picture , much controversy was generated . The dissatisfaction centered around the fact that the film had a very thin plot and I'm being kind at that . Yes , there was entertainment there , but in a year of " A Streetcar Named Desire " and " A Place in the Sun , " the Motion Picture Academy had much better material to work with . The basic story is a GI Kelly who stays in France after World War 11 ends . There he meets a young , captivating Leslie Caron . The two fall in love and their love is depicted by dancing all over gay Paris . They dance in the streets , they dance on tables-they are all over the place . Enough is enough already . Georges Guetary and Nina Foch are along for the ride as well as the usual zany Oscar Levant .
File on Thelma Jordon - Put File Away	Barbara Stanwyck continues her portrayal of ruthless women getting men orbited around her and invariably in her schemes to commit murder . Naturally , she is always falling in love with the guy or vice versa . There are so many similarities here to the 1944 Stanwyck classic " Double Indemnity . " This was a far better picture . This picture even starts off with comic overtones as Assistant D . A . Wendell Corey falls for Stanwyck and is actually funny in his early drunken scenes . The movie shifts to classic film noir as Stanwyck bumps off her elderly aunt and then tries to pin it on someone else . Naturally , Corey is called upon to defend her . It also seems odd that the old lady , awakened from her sleep by a supposed intruder , is able to run around the house with a gun she has in the drawer . The old bird gets blasted by Stanwyck when she enters the room with the safe . The ending where love comes too late has been realized so often in films that this is really cliché .
Crossroads - No Eye for an Eye Here	This film would be considered outstanding by the liberals out there . After losing his wife and daughter in a tragic car accident brought on by drag racing , a man demands justice through our judicial system . As it appears that he will get justice , he changes his tune when the culprit shows remorse . What then occurs is that the man and the teenager go on to high schools to discuss what has happened . We all are supposed to live happily ever after . Hogwash . While this teen may have shown remorse , others usually don't . What message are we really sending our youth ? Put on Oscar calibrated performances and you may be able to fool the system ? Films such as these may help to send the wrong message . This is why our school system and society have these problems to begin with . What would the early Babylonians ( now modern day Iraq ) think of this film ? Probably not very much as they advocated the idea of an eye for an eye a tooth for a tooth .
Wicked Minds-Whose Wicked Mind thought this One Up ?	Too many plot twists in this 2002 thriller . The All American Guy returns home after touring Europe . He has graduated from Harvard but sure does not act like a Harvard graduate . His verbally and mentally abusive father has remarried . The son is bitter by the fact that the father showed no attention to his ex-wife during her final illness . In addition , dad has married quite a beauty who is much younger . This beauty has quite an abusive past herself . You know what that leads to so why bother to explain the point further . Dad's is murdered and you begin to wonder , who did the 50 year old in ? The plot goes through too many turns and it turns out that everyone is suspect with two people in cahoots together . You'd never expect them to do dad in . Anyway , since everyone should have a plan , your plan should be to avoid this confusing mess . I will say-Did the police ever fall in !
This Conversation is Endless	Aaron Eckhardt and Helena Bonham-Carter provide the right chemistry as people who meet at the wedding of his sister and begin a night of passion . True is that they had met years before . As the evening goes on , we find out about their previous relationship and marriages . The problem here is that the film is way too talkative . The conversations are endless and drawn out . The hotel room scene seems like it shall never end . Filming the scene is double-scene sequence is a good idea and would have worked even better if the surroundings had changed more . Even when the two part at the end of the film , we don't know for sure if the relationship has ended for good . This could certainly be a " Same Time Next Year " event and the sequel would probably be even better than this .
Dawn Patrol-It's Honor and Duty Above All	Flying aces go out on World War 1 missions , while they know that many of them shall not return , especially the younger inexperienced pilots . Basil Rathbone is the squadron leader who appears to be sadistic in handing out the assignments . David Niven and Errol Flynn are at his throat regarding this . To get even with them , when Rathbone is promoted , he recommends Flynn as his replacement . Who comes along ? Niven's younger brother , inexperienced and ready to fly . Obviously , Niven doesn't want him up in the air but there is nothing that Flynn can do . We have to follow orders , and it's duty above all . You don't have to be a wizard to next guess what occurs and who is blamed for this . Flynn takes to the skies to since he is upset with what happened to Niven's brother . This patriotic movie is a good one but is quite obvious from beginning to end . Interesting that this 1938 film starred Flynn , Rathbone and Melville Cooper . They all were in the Robin Hood film that same year .
I've Loved You for So Long Packs No Emotional Wallop	Disappointing film dealing with a woman trying to readjust to society after being released from prison after 15 years . Her crime : She killed her son . Christin Scott Thomas is obviously playing an extremely depressed part in this film . The film is in French with English subtitles . A problem here is that it isn't until the very end that we discover why Scott Thomas did what she did . Up until then , we are subjected to an emotional roller coaster . Go know that her parole officer , who she must see every 2 weeks , is equally depressed and ends it all by putting a bullet through his mouth . There is a romantic opportunity with her sister's teacher colleague in school . The sister is married to a man who obviously mistrusts his sister-in-law for apparently what seems to be a good reason . Their elder daughter is an adopted Vietnamese child who could have added to this depressing story .
Great White Hope-Disappointing Racist Film	James Earl Jones's acting was superb and he certainly deserved his Oscar nomination for best actor . Jane Alexander provided a moody portrait of the white Australian woman who loved him deeply but could not cope with him with eventual tragedy occurring for her . Her Oscar nomination for best actress should have been in the supporting category . Other than Jones , the other characters here aren't able to develop . Rather , we have a film here when everything happens too quickly . Beah Richards , as his beloved mother Tiny , is effective but she only appears in one scene in the film . Ditto with the black woman who portrayed his common law wife . It appeared that racism was alive and functioning in England as well when Jones and Alexander went there for his fighting opportunity and to get away from the racist charges that plagued him . The dilemma confronting Jefferson ( Jones ) regarding whether to throw the fight so that he can get his sentence reduced is never fully worked on in this film which really has some weak writing .
The Fugitive Kind - 4 Oscar Winners Can't Help Tennessee Williams	" The Fugitive Kind " stars 4 Oscar winners . By the time the moved came out , Joanne Woodward , Marlon Brando and Anna Magnani had already won . Maureen Stapleton would win in the supporting actress category 22 years later . Nonetheless , with these great thespians plus an added excellent performance by Victor Jory , the film is done in due to the relentless writing of Tennessee Williams . As soon as we see a Williams production , we know it's about Louisiana , drifters coming into a town and a plethora of emotional instability compounded by the neurotics on the part of the characters . " Fugitive Kind " falls right into this . Joanne Woodward looks like her eyes were punched out here . She appears too young for the part here and she amazingly disappears through most of the middle of the picture . I must say that Anna Magnani's English is far better here than in her award winning " Rose Tattoo , " as well as the wonderful " Wild is the Wind . " As far as Brando is concerned , he is again another Stanly Kowalski , but this time far saner , though quite vulnerable to the tragedy that befalls him . Magnani has never been more earthy and Maureen Stapleton's performance as a sympathetic character is understated and quite brief .
Seance on A Wet Afternoon-Soak it Up	Kim Stanley and Richard Attenborough gave fine performances in this eerie film about a dysfunctional couple , she is a seer , who meticulously plan a kidnapping . Miss Stanley is the epitome of evil . She evokes eerie images each time she is on the screen . Soft spoken and sinister , Kim Stanley gave a masterful performance as Mrs . Savage . Though she lost the Oscar , she did capture the N . Y . C . Film Critics Award . Evenly matched by Richard Attenborough's excellent portrayal of her milque-toast husband , who is reluctant to do this , both thespians gave unforgettable performances . The problem though is the film itself . Shot in black and white , Ms . Stanley's character does come off as a complete nut job . When he reads the ransom note to her , it's almost comical in nature .
On Your Toes is Off the Mark and is Slaughtered	Once again Zorina proved that she was not the person for being Maria in " For Whom the Bell Tolls . " Nice to have seen what the late Donald O'Connor looked like as a boy . I knew it was him and was just waiting for cast confirmation at the end of the film . The film would have been better had James Gleason and Queenie Smith , the parents of the boy , been given larger parts . The film deals with a vaudeville couple and their son in an act . The boy eventually decides to write music instead and has grown up in the person of Eddie Albert . Albert is pretty good on his feet . The problem with this film is the writing . Albert soon gets involved with a Russian troupe and writes The Slaughter on 10th Avenue Ballet . The head of the ballet is a comic Alan Hale who wants some Russian killed . There are Russian mobsters to do the job . When Hale becomes jealous of Albert , he tells the mobsters that he is the Russian to be killed . There are some hilarious ballet sequences and Zorina does show that she was meant to be a ballet star .
On Borrowed Time Needs Life Support	Not even the elements of a future " Death Takes A Holiday " and " Harvey " can save this piece . Why ? The film is pretty morbid when you think about it . Lionel Barrymore , that usual irascible character , does display a heart here but the ending where Death shows that it still has the upper hand is not very pleasant . This film is certainly not suitable for children . The film would have been far better if it had been all about that wicked aunt , so similar to Margaret Hamilton , in " The Wizard of Oz , " attempting to get the nephew after the tragic death of his parents . Instead , the film takes on new meanings with Cedric Hardwicke , who portrays death in its usual way . Everyone literally starts going and you have to wonder why this was their fate ! Despite what the writer wanted to convey , you certainly can't have that feel good feeling at the film's end .
Annie's Point Comes to a Fork Road	Annie ( Bette White ) wants to disperse her husband's ashes at a locale in California that they had named Annie's Point . Annie needs a bypass immediately and she wants to send out the ashes on her 50th wedding anniversary . The plot is seemingly ridiculous and White recruits her song-loving granddaughter to accompany her on this cross country trip . The film has shades of Geraldine Page's " The Trip to Bountiful . " Problem is that it isn't half as good . With the kerchief tied around her head , White looks like an elderly Russian babushka ( grandmother . ) If you need a bypass , you don't go running around the country . Take it from me . Richard Thomas plays Annie's son . He has inherited the business and tries to be a work , work , work sort of guy . He is also a widower . The film centers on the adventures of Annie and granddaughter . She affectionately calls her Ella-bear . There is a scene when the two land in jail for trespassing and a nostalgic meeting with Annie's brother . The latter , 20 years younger than Annie , has not seen his sister in nearly 30 years . We've seen so much of this material before handled a lot better .
Nice Film Spoiled By Weak Ending	" You Were Meant for Me " has all the elements of a very nice film . We have a dance band and Jeanne Craine falling for and marrying band leader Dan Dailey over night . All goes well until the stock market crashes in 1929 and the band is forced to disband . Dailey and Jeanne move back with her parents , Percy Kilbride , who , for a change is not funny here and the dependable Selena Royle who really never was known for comedic gifts . Their lack of it is showing here . Kilbride , in particular , wastes chances to enhance his part . Known for deadpan humor , it is missing here . Invariably , when Dailey refuses a job offer that he considers beneath him , the two argue and Dailey runs off to N . Y . It is at this point that the film goes awry . Dailey , at the bus depot , looks out at Bloomington , Indiana . He runs back to Craine where he finds long-time pal Oscar ( Oscar Levant ) at the house . Kilbride comes home from his job . By the next scene , Dailey is leading a band and Levant is working selling bricks at Kilbride's place . Craine and Dailey dance and the film ends . There was no proper segue leading up to this end . In addition , the few dance numbers are too stilted . Craine , tries but gives little pep to this film . Song and dance man Dailey is wasted here .
Pride and Prejudice-Pardon My Bias	Jane Austen's novel continues to be a bore when it's transferred to the screen . Despite the great 1940 cast of Greer Garson and Edna Mae Oliver , the film didn't exactly catch fire and the same is true for this 2005 remake . Elizabeth is a highly intelligent girl . Her parents are played well by Donald Sutherland and Brenda Blethyn . The latter should be used if ever they make the life-story of Sara Allgood . She is in fine form as the doting mother who wants to see her daughters married off into wealth and happiness . Allgood ? She ought to be the Irish answer to the Jewish mother . Keira Knightley is beautiful and gives a restrained Oscar nominated performance as the eldest daughter . She meets up with Mr . Darcy , a brooding character , who is both angry and frustrated with life in general . His nature is to almost cause misery for the family until things are straightened out by explanation and he emerges as not such a bad Joe after all . In her brief role as Darcy'd aunt , Dame Judi Dench nearly steals the picture with her vicious performance as a wealthy dowager , who looks down on the family and tries to prevent Elizabeth marrying Darcy . Dench has made quite a success in brief screen performances as she did in her supporting Oscar win for " Shakespeare in Love . " The cinematography and set decorations are elegant and quite in order for the period of history they represent . The problem here is with the writing . We can't see all at once why Darcy is such a brooding character . His emergence as a person is also not adequately explained .
Cliché Character and Plot Mar Walkout - Practice the Title	Chicanos have it bad in the Los Angeles school system . Sorry to hear that . How about working and studying hard ? Is that such a novelty ? After all , one of the leaders is a Chicano teacher . He is militant although he should be reminded that he went through the system to become a teacher . The police are portrayed with their clubs beating students who have walked out . Naturally , the beatings are not reported by the media . This seems to be the year of the racist cop , with Matt Dillon in a memorable performance in the Oscar winning " Crash , " as that kind of officer . At least , Dillon acted . Ed James Olmos has gone from movie math teacher to directing this often cliché-worn out theme . Furthermore , with all the trouble facing our urban schools , this type of film was not needed . Stereotyping is beyond belief . With bathrooms closed to them , Chicanos urinate on the grass . The bathrooms were closed to all students . All teachers exhibiting prejudice must be transferred becomes one of the many demands of protesting students . Excuse me , any teacher who exhibits prejudice should not be teaching anywhere . Period . How about bigoted or disruptive pupils ? I guess they can stay to create further mayhem . Naturally , this is 1968 , so the FBI is watching and groups are charged with Communist infiltration . I thought I'd see Blanche Yurka ( Madame De Farge ) from " A Tale of 2 Cities " screaming about the oppressed people . The High School administrations and school boards are made out to appear as uncaring individuals who are giving the Chicanos an inferior education and will do anything to keep them out of college . Punishments for infractions include doing janitorial work . Wait a minute , what's so bad about that ? If you act out , cleaning up might just get you to clean up your act all together . In addition , who pays for the glass being broken when the fire alarm box was smashed during the rampage ? The good old American taxpayer . I pity the poor teachers who were in school and had to put up with this mayhem . In the meantime , I saw these high school kids riding around in cars . I didn't have a car at that age since the family couldn't afford one . As far as the language problem , you have to speak as much English as possible . You're in America now . I have been reading that to this day , the dropout rate among Chicano students remains high . A lot good these so called protests did . Many of these students saw the walkout as an attempt to miss a day of school or not to hand in a required project , etc . You're not going to achieve anything until you accept responsibility for your actions . Chicanos who don't get an education wash the floors and Chicano moms are afraid that their daughters will become pregnant . Miraculously , no one does in this picture . The girls are shown as little spit-fires with the dispositions similar to that of Rita Moreno in " West Side Story . " I was waiting for the scene from that Oscar winner where the people sing : " I Want to Be in America . " Due to the protests , everyone who participated , or who was arrested is now a wonderful person , caring , and highly skilled . You want to succeed in school ? Great . Read , study , ask questions , do your homework and behave yourself . Try it . It will work ! Learn to work within the system and not by destroying it .
Expecting A Miracle-Mom , Apple Pie , and You Too Can Become Pregnant , Just Believe 12	Everyone is so nice . The town's people of a small Mexican town are so kind and friendly . No one argues . Everyone lives so happily in poverty . The boss is so nice . When a couple's marriage is strained due to the inability to conceive a child , the husband's boss lets him get off from work for a week to use his time-share . Our childless couple wander into a small town caught up in a festival to honor some saint . There's a crippled child there who has been selected to fly around the saint so that a miracle can happen . The child flies , his bad leg is cured . Our childless couple witness this , go home and presto , she is pregnant ! Yes , the story is inspirational as it deals with human relationship and how people can cooperate . Years ago , Frank Sinatra summed it up best when he sang : Fairy tales can come true , they can happen to you , if you're young at heart . This Mary Poppins like fairy-tale can't really work . It's too sugar-coated for anyone's taste .
Roller-coaster-Get Ready for A See-Saw Ride	Disaster strikes at one amusement park followed by another . It's not mechanical failure but an off-the-wall young fellow ( Timothy Bottoms ) who creates the mayhem in an attempt to extort money from the various amusement park chain owners . Where will he strike next becomes the theme of the film . George Segal plays the guy who had recently inspected the first roller-coaster before its disastrous ride . Having recently stopped smoking , Segal is always on the verge of resuming the habit before fate intervenes . As always , Richard Widmark takes full command as a federal investigator called in to resolve the problem . Look for a very young Helen Hunt as Segal's daughter . After all the excitement in the rides and disasters , the ending is really anti-climatic .
Buck Privates in A Country Headed to War	Predictable cute farce about life in the army . To avoid capture by the police , Abbott and Costello unintentionally join the army . Lee Bowman plays a play-boy who is too busy with the women to be part of this man's army . The Andrews Sisters belt out their familiar 1940 songs . The boys are zany and generally a good time is had by all . Bowman shows himself to be good at the rifle range . When he ducks out of a shootout , in order to be with a female , the guys rightfully turn on him . Naturally , Bowman has a change of heart . When he turns down Officers Candidate School to remain in the outfit , he shows himself to be a true American . It's all mom and apple pie after that .
Assassination of Richard Nixon - Jack Bick is Nixon ?	The film is related to the fact that a loser , well played by Sean Penn , equates himself with Richard Nixon . The only problem here is that Nixon gets all the breaks and seems to get away with everything . Naturally , the tragedy ensues before Nixon's resignation . Granted that Penn delivers a terrific performance as the loser salesman . He is brooding , moody and self-destructive . All the ingredients are there for tragedy to occur ? Being fired from a job , unsuccessful in applying for another one , lack of common sense , divorced husband with 2 children , stealing money from your own brother ! Does this mean that people who are in these categories will resort to the ultimate violence at the end of the film . The film shows Don Cheadle , a prospective partner for Jack Bick ( Penn ) as a quiet , reflective person who has provided an excellent home structure for his wife and son . Bick blames the fact that since Cheadle is black , he can't get government contracts . By the way , what boss would put up with Bick that long ? It finally takes for Bick to say that he is leaving before he is fired . Questions : Bick's brother gives a wonderful performance in a one scene role . Was the brother supposed to be an orthodox Jew ? He looked that way from the camera's angle . This film is a very sad commentary on American life and social structure . It is worth seeing for Penn's performance .
Man Trouble - More than Male Trouble Here	Bob Rafelson , who directed Jack Nicholson in " 5 Easy Pieces , " has the honors of directing him in this comedy , which unfortunately falls flat . Nicholson co-stars with Ellen Barkin . Beverly D'Angelo co-stars as well , but Miss D'Angelo can't get a good role since " Coal Miner's Daughter . " Nicholson is Harry Bliss in this one . He is a dog-trainer with a past . Barkin and D'Angelo are sisters going through hard times . Barkin , an opera singer , is in the process of divorcing her husband and sister , D'Angelo , has a manuscript that the mob wants . When Barkin's home is robbed , she takes refuge in D'Angelo's house when the latter goes away . When threatened there , she meets Nicholson who sells her a trained dog . The film deals with how the 2 fall in love but then really goes down hill when they attempt to rescue D'Angelo , who the mob has set up in a mental hospital . In addition to this , the mob attorney , Saul Rubinek , had asked Nicholson to work for them in an attempt to get the manuscript back . The humor is thin here . Nicholson has a Japanese wife referred to as Iwo Jima . How gross !
Man of the House Closes the Door	Another routine film where Texas cheerleaders witness a murder and are then protected by Marshal Tommy Lee Jones . Jones shows a thick Texan accent and is aging . The guy looks like he has not had a good night sleep in a while . Naturally , while they are confined , the girls learn a lot from Jones and he in return learns from them . Nice seeing Anne Archer back in films after a hiatus for her . As English literature professor , Molly McCarthy , her part is small but she shows real professor-like teaching in her class . She is good at giving out the assignments . The last scenes are exciting when the killer catches the daughter of Jones and the cheerleaders are able to get her off the bus . While the girls are not exactly brilliant , they know do some degree what life is all about . The former also best describes this film which has a few funny moments . Cedric the Entertainer appears in the first and last scene as a preacher with a jaded past .
Something Wild and Fiercely Crazy	The very talented Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith star in this 1986 comedy which takes a sharp turn to drama past the middle of the film . On a lark , a brunette Griffith hijacks Daniels into her car for a weekend of mayhem . There is a visit to her mother and her high school reunion , where she passes off Daniels , ( Charlie ) as her husband . Trouble is that Charlie meets someone from his company there and that guy informs Griffith that Charlie's wife walked out on him as well . On the way to the reunion , Griffith knocks over a store by cleaning out the register . The film gets better when it hits dramatic heights . At the reunion , Griffith meets her ex-husband , played by Ray Liotta . Liotta eventually kicks Charlie out but the latter returns and turns the tables on the ex-con . Is this really worth all of this ? Some pretty fierce fighting ensues and Liotta , the bully , gets it in the chest . A basic story of 2 losers coming together . Fun in some sequences but way too serious by the end .
Road to Rio - They Speak Portuguese in Brazil !	Perhaps , that's what this film needed , more Portuguese being spoken . As is , it left a lot to be desired . Bob Hope and Bing Crosby are caught up in their all too familiar antics , this time fleeing to Brazil , after they've been accused of starting an accidental fire in a circus . Meeting up with Dorothy Lamour is the worst thing that could happen to the guys since she is being victimized by her guardian to wed the latter's brother so as to swindle her fortune . Gale Sondergaard is up to her usual sinister ways in this one . Even the Andrews Sisters show up on board the boat in this one to sing a song with Bing .
Thou Shall Atone For Your Sins , How About this Picture ?	A young girl's lie forever alters the destiny of her sister and the latter's boy friend . This is what we are told in the advertising for the best picture nominee of 2007 - " Atonement . " The director should atone for giving us this kind of picture . We are dealing with nothing more than a little brat who accused her sister's boy friend of molesting a younger cousin of theirs . The story would have been far more exciting if the class angle issue would have been emphasized instead . The lad accused of the molestation was the son of a cook in the house . Despite his education and ambition to become a doctor , no one believed him , probably because of class distinction , and as a result he suffered imprisonment . The picture alternately fast forwards and goes back to make its point . The ending is most shocking , when some 40 + years later , the girl is now an elderly woman , portrayed by the venerable hag Vanessa Redgrave . As a child , Briony loved to write and it was probably her precocious attitude that stirred her imagination . Redgrave admits to the fact that the book that she has written was a take off on the lives of the young man and her sister , both of whom , really had died during World War 11 . She is atoning for her sin in writing the book of how their lives should have been . Of all people to play a person atoning for her sins , Vanessa Redgrave ! That witch should be atoning for her 1978 presence at the Oscars , when after winning for best supporting actress in " Julia , " she delivered her diatribe against Zionism . Practice what you preach Vanessa and atone for first things first . As for the movie , it is an utterly boring and is so slow paced , that it could have been told in half an hour .
On A Clear Day - Cloud this up to Me	An Irish couple have secrets after years of marriage . She is aspiring to pass a test to drive a bus and he wants to swim the English Channel . It takes nearly the entire movie to explain that the family had a swimming tragedy years before . Brenda Blethyn , so wonderful in " Secrets and Lies , " and " Little Voice " is the mother here . Sorry , Miss Blethyn this is not the former film here . The father has an assortment of friends who are basically insecure . Of course , his successful conquest of the channel will change all that . They also have a married son who is unemployed with twin boys . With thick Irish accents , it is often difficult to understand what the characters are trying to say . As an example , Miss Blethyn states and I say it phonetically - " I joost faeled mi buz tezt . " Jump for joy when the major swim and the film are over and the credits begin to roll .
Broken Arrow is Broken-Spirited	John Travolta smokes it up as a psycho-army man with nuclear weapons within his cache in this 1996 routine nonsense . Didn't Travolta swear off cigarettes after his phenomenal performance in 1977's " Saturday Night Fever ? " Christian Slater co-stars as his fellow aviator taken in by Travolta's fiendish plot to steal nuclear warheads and then sell them to someone representing terrorist organizations . While the premise is a good one , the film soon dissolves into a shoot-up fest between the good guys and the bad guys . Along the way , Slater finds a romantic interest in the girl he finds when he is ejected from the plane . Broken arrow refers to the idea when nuclear reactors are missing . There is a lot of things broken in this picture .
Definition of Depressing Fits this Picture	Be prepared to bring a box of tissues to this heartbreaking film . A soldier returns home from World War 11 to his North Carolina home . His 17 year old brother is in prison for a crime which is not described . When our soldier , played by Chris Klein , named Noah , asks for leniency , he is denied this . On top of all this , his parents have died during the war years . The farm was sold off so Noah has to become a wanderer . He goes to a small town and meets an angel who directed him to go there . He hears the tale of a big fish in a lake . There he meets a young child who lives with his grandparents . The boy's mother is dead and the father is not there . Noah develops a strong bond with the boy who doesn't talk . Noah lives in a shed provided by widow Gretchen Mol , whose husband came home from the war and promptly put a bullet in his head . She lives with his grandmother who has a fetish for chocolate . The widow gets Noah a shed and shows him the chair where the owner of the latter died . If this isn't enough , tragedy ensues when the silent child pursues the fish . The town mourns by singing a hymn that was sung in the 1953 film version of " Titanic " with Barbara Stanwyck and Clifton Webb . Yes , Noah will leave but will find himself back in the town . The story needed to have much more of a character development . This is sadly lacking here . The viewer must have come away very depressed as I did . The film is a heartbreak . Is Noah doing the same search that Tyrone Power was looking for the meaning of life in 1946's " The Razor's Edge . " Life , as we know it , can be very depressing . We don't need to be reminded of it by this production . 1945 was never depicted more bleak than this . Maybe , they woke up 3 years later when Dewey was upset by Truman .
Capote : Boring Clunker	Philip Seymour Hoffman , ordinarily a tremendous actor , is downright dull in this film regarding Truman Capote's research for " In Cold Blood . " In several ways the film reminded me of the 1951 classic " A Place in the Sun . " While violence and death are occurring , we sing interactions among the wealthy in high society . Also , that farewell scene between Capote and the condemned killers was similar in nature to that of Elizabeth Taylor visiting a condemned Montgomery Clift . The differences were that the characters in " Place " were more alive . The killers in " Capote " were sadistic sickos who definitely got what they deserved . No question whatsoever here in the use of capital punishment . I was wondering if Capote used the title " In Cold Blood " to describe what was actually done to the killers of the Clutter Family . He lies to one of the condemned murderers when they question him about the title of his book . Naturally , Capote had formed a homosexual bond with one of the killers . This conflicted him for he fully realized what this guy had done and the guy's own sister condemned him as well . Katherine Keener , who received a best supporting actress Oscar nomination , for Harper Lee is wasted in this film . Shown as a chain smoking writer , she is given little to do in the movie . Surely , the writer of " To Kill A Mockingbird " deserved better than this . Then again , we deserved a better film as well .
The Age of Innocence is Anything But	Very disappointing film depicting upper class society in 1875 New York . The performances are incredibly bad . Michelle Pfeiffer is woefully miscast as the Princess Olenska . Princess ? She sounds like she comes from a Brooklyn tenement . She is churlish at best and reminds me of Marilyn Monroe in " Some Like it Hot . " Equally bad is Winona Ryder in her supporting Oscar nominated performance . She pretends to be as naive as Melanie Hamilton in " Gone With the Wind , " when in reality she wasn't . Daniel Day Lewis rises above the mess and gives a fairly decent performance as the lawyer who falls for the cousin of the woman he is engaged to . British actress Miriam Margolyes is appealing as the stroke stricken grandmother to May . ( Ryder ) The film discusses the disdain for divorce among the upper crust . In reality , these people are nothing more than a bunch of snobs who attend operas and haven't exactly done a hard day's work . Lewis and Pfeiffer puff away on cigarettes . 1875 N . Y . , smoking among women ? If a woman smoked then , it was done very privately . The first part of the film is utterly boring . The second part is slightly better as the affair can't come to a head . The film really goes down when a period of 25-30 years is glossed over quickly to get the desired effect . The problem is that we get no desire from watching this . In essence , the film is a royal stinker .
The Ultimate Outrage	Richard Grieco gives a convincing performance as quite a sick character in this television movie . With quite a record , Grieco marries an unsuspecting girl and when she wants a baby so badly , he concocts quite a plot to steal one , and get plenty of loot for himself in the process . This leads to an unbelievable tragedy with a family friend's wife losing her life as Grieco commits the ultimate crime-murder . Gradually , the wife finds out that her husband isn't the sweet loving guy that he has pretended to be . There is the house that wasn't bought but is being rented . The job that doesn't exist , the lawyer that doesn't exist as well . I could go on and on . Where was the wife to immediately confront him as his lies unravel ?
Reteaming of Boyer and Bergman Doesn't Really Work-Arch of Triumph	Even the re-teaming of Ingrid Bergman and Charles Boyer in this 1948 film doesn't help it very much . At least , unlike the 1985 version , Paris is not that lugubrious . While war is about to break out in September , 1939 , Paris is still very much a city of lights , and much is happening in the outdoor cafés . The story is one of an ill-fated affair between a chanteuse and doctor , both refugees from Nazism . Boyer and Bergman are lovers but events and extremely bad timing make for the inevitable tragedy . As always , Charles Laughton is the personification of evil , this time as a Nazi official who loves to visit gay Paris for a variety of reasons , one being to keep check on German citizens who have fled Nazi Germany . The chemistry between Bergman and Boyer is fine , but the story needs to be jazzed up somewhat . It's extremely slow-moving . An interesting performance is given by Louis Calher , as Boris , a friend of Boyer . I loved his line that history doesn't make accommodations . This movie's writing didn't make the necessary accommodations either .
The Pilot's Wife Up Up and Too Far Away	Interesting story of a plane crash with terrorist foundation . Unfortunately , too much else is put into the script . John Heard portrays the airline pilot who apparently led quite a secret life . Christine Lahti does quite well as the wife who finds out plenty when her husband and 104 others are killed in a plane crash . Lahti sounds like a serious Carol Burnett when she speaks . What was the point of Heard never revealing that his mother was still living . Why did he say that she died when he was 9 ? With the government investigating the tragedy , is this really the time for the teenage daughter to admit to Lahti that last year , at age 14 , she had intercourse . Come on . A scene before , she is hysterical with grief over her father's death . The interesting part of the story is merely glossed over . I am talking about Heard's involvement with the IRA in Northern Ireland . His newly discovered second wife and family is a shocker adequately dealt with . No wonder Lahti throws away her wedding ring at the spot where the plane went down . Anyone would do the same thing .
Love's Long Journey - It's Still the Same Old Story	Cliché ridden film with a young couple setting out to settle in the west . They're religious and Missy hasn't told her husband that she is with child . He hires ranch hands who run the gamut from different groups . Of course , there is a menacing trio who keep putting on scarfs by their faces as they go along robbing along the countryside . There are Indians next to our couple and it looks like our husband is about to be bias towards them until his loving lord fearing wife sets him straight on that matter . Missy teaches the Indian children and when winter comes , school is let out . What would our current education secretary say about that ? One of the young robbers has a younger brother who idolizes him . The gang eventually threatens our lovely couple along with their hired hands . Sonny , the older brother , takes a bullet when he realizes that he is doing wrong . There is a brief dying scene by him as the preacher tells him about where he is going . Naturally , with his death , the young couple raise the younger brother as their own . Along comes the baby and there is a season for everything . It's such a sweet Hallmark film . The theme has been repeated over and over again . Great for those in love with the settling of the frontier .
The Southerner - I Wish I Weren't in the Land of Cotton	A depressing film detailing a family's struggle against the elements of nature . The film marked a change of pace for the usual suave , devious Zachary Scott . The same year as this picture , he was absolutely memorable as Monty Berrigan , Joan Crawford's n'eer-do-well second husband in the fabulous " Mildred Pierce . " I kept waiting for Scott to have a break out scene in this film but that never quite happened . A bar room brawl as shown in the film was silly at best . Betty Field does her best as his suffering wife , but is hampered by the unusually weak screenplay . Nonetheless , there is a standout performance by Beulah Bondi as Granny . I think that Irene Ryan tried to imitate her in a comic way years later in " The Beverly Hillbillies . " Whoever did the makeup on Bondi deserved some sort of accolade . The young son is plagued with the " spring sickness " in the film . That's what seems to plague the entire film . That fabulous Blanche Yurka , so magnificent as Madame De Farge in 1935's " A Tale of Two Cities " briefly appears at Scott's mother . It's a shame to have seen this great American actress reduced to the part that she had . Obviously , under contract , she had to do it . Her brief appearance totally lacked the luster that she was so capable of . Imagine , her marrying Percy Kilbride ( the old Pa Kettle in the film . ) If the author wanted to write about a farmer's battle with nature , he should have read " Giants in the Earth . " What a great book that was . J . Carrol Naish's part had the potential to be quite good but again it was under-written . This picture could have been far more exciting with better writing .
Internation Has Many Local Problems	This could have been a taut thriller , especially with the subject matter of a bank involved in the selling of missiles to Iran . Instead , it takes us a while to get to know this and it's like plodding through the film to get the necessary information . Clive Owen , a wonderful actor , is effective as the interpol agent but he is given a script to work with that is somewhat confusing . Armand Mueller-Stahl as the elderly gentleman who informs Owen of the international repercussions is excellent . That shooting at the Guggenheim Museum was a little too violent for one's basic taste . We got the message , the chandelier didn't have to exactly cave in . Naomi Watts brings vulnerability to her role . I expected a more excitable performance from her but that never materialized .
Don't Fall for A Tender Trap	Disappointing inane farce with an all-star cast . Frank Sinatra plays his usual swinging self . As a theatrical agent , he has a supply of women around including Lola Albright and Carolyn Jones . Both are completely wasted here . Jones was much better , when she starred 4 years later with Sinatra , in 1959's A Hole in the Head . Debbie Reynolds tries to play the prim and proper Julie , who has her life planned out for her . She falls for Sinatra . Celeste Holm tries to show comic flair by playing a musician-another love interest of Sinatra . Frankie becomes engaged to both Holm and Reynolds at the same time-you would think this would make for an hilarious situation . It doesn't and is quickly resolved . David Wayne , a wonderful under-rated actor , plays Sinatra's married and want-to-be swinging pal who has left his wife of 11 years along with his 3 children . He falls for Holm as well . Naturally , this story resolves itself at the end . Was it really worth the effort ? Sinatra-Reynolds-Holm and Wayne come out on the screen at the end to sing the title song . Holm and Wayne hold hands despite the fact that Wayne returns to his wife and Holm conveniently marries a British resident who resides in the same building as Sinatra . How coincidental .
I Have Reservations About No Reservations	We've seen this one before . A precocious child becomes withdrawn and sullen when her mother is killed in an auto accident . She goes to live with a relative , in this case her aunt and causes the life of the latter to chase drastically with romance ensuing . Abigail Breslin is that precocious child . Catherine Zeta Jones is miscast her . She doesn't seem to be an aunt . You needed a Marsha Mason like quality to her and that she doesn't have . There is good acting by Aaron Eckhart , the chef who comes into Zea Jones's life . Patricia Clarkson is the owner of the resident who appears to be sympathetic , but is she really ? Highly predictable , but food for thought . Try it as some of the food shown must be delicious . Unfortunately , this film is not .
" Chasing Sleep " A Real Pill	Too bad that Jeff Daniels , an excellent actor , can't get better parts . He showed so much promise as Shirley MacLaine's son-in-law in " Terms of Endearment . " Come on , Hollywood . You can do better than this for Mr . Daniels . Daniels is a college professor here who finds that his wife , a music teacher , is missing . He alternately hallucinates due to a lack of sleep . He even dreams that his wife has been found dead . Maybe , this is wishful thinking on his part . We discover that the Mrs . has been having an affair with a gym teacher in her school and is pregnant . To add to the mayhem , a student , named Sadie Crumb , comes over to find out why the college professor hasn't been showing up to class . When Daniels doesn't show up for 2 days , his response to the college secretary , calling to tell him that the dean wants to see him , is memorable . What should the police believe when they find Sadie's bloody clothing on the scene ? Incidentally , she had a nosebleed while at the professor's house . Daniels spends most of the time in this movie in the toilet wiping away blood and possible body parts . This is mainly where the script should have placed as well .
88 Minutes Might Really Be A Class Act	It isn't as bas as some people are saying . It's not an Oscar winner but Slumdog Millionaire wasn't either . Al Pacino , as always , delivers a good performance , this time as a forensic psychiatrist caught up in murder and forced to relive the brutal slaying of his younger sister years before . The title has something to do with that . Nice seeing William Forsythe playing a nice guy for a change , that is , on the right side of the law . You have to see the film to understand why I bring in class act into the mix . The premise is not that outrageous . After all , what some of these lawyers wouldn't do ! As is the usual case with this type of film , the bodies begin to pile up and we have lots of turns and twists where even Pacino is suspected of causing all the mayhem . Takes place in a rainy Seattle . What else is new ?
Two For the Road-One Heck of a Seesaw Battle Going Nowhere	Wonderful memories of a young and virile Albert Finney and the late Audrey Hepburn as well . This is one film where the use of flashbacks does not work . If anything , it makes for one confusing film about a couple constantly on the road , the happy times and unhappy ones of their marriage . The best part of the film is when they're with that obnoxious couple , played deliciously by William Daniels and Eleanor Le Bron . They have a daughter , Ruthie , who is the most annoying , spoiled brat in the history of film . If there were to be a sequel of this film , Ruthie , by this time would be more like a Veda of " Mildred Pierce " fame . Without the flashbacks , this could have been a very good film . Hepburn falls in and out of live with husband Finney . They're a highly frustrated couple , both of whom could have a wonderful life by his success as an architect . Finney needs Hepburn by his constant misplacement of his passport . The life of a frustrated , bored couple is depicted in the film . Perhaps , when you're too rich , unhappiness follows .
The Other Boleyn Girl is Sex and the Married King	History was quite never like this . The rapid writing and sequence of events basically spoils the picture . Women come and go , get pregnant , get convicted and some pay the ultimate price too ! The acting is quite good , especially by Ana Torrent as Catherine of Aragon . O William , you should have stuck by this Spanish " broad " with her Catholicism and inability to give you a male heir , what a fixation you had about the latter ! Scarlett J . and Natalie Portman are really riveting as the two Boleyn sisters , both of whom basically put out for an obnoxious sovereign . We even have an attempted incest to add to the bargain of this movie where time seems to mean nothing . The story of an ambitious family willing to sacrifice all is wasted by the writing of the film .
This Menace to Society is Real but Cliché Ridden	The film is a very good one but is filled with clichés . We are dealing with extremely violent people , many of whom regard life with a depraved indifference . If ever there were an argument related to genetics vs . environment to determine how we act , the latter would win overwhelmingly after seeing such a brutal film . With its brutality and realization , the film is so clichéd . We see the fact of drug-addicted , crime prone parents off to an early grave , the caring religious grandparents who can't control their wayward grandson , the out-of control hooligans terrorizing innocent , hard working people , schools that don't care and merely pass on the troublemakers , and white police officers as racist as they come . What are the solutions to all this violence ? Is there any hope left for society ? Must we all go into hiding ? This is an utterly frightening story portraying the lives of young hoodlums who care so little about life . I was tempted to laugh when I saw the scene where the grandparents are watching " It's A Wonderful Life . " The latter film is so out of the realm of what is going on in today's communities . You have magnificent acting performances here that go by the waste side due to the constant violence and use of profanity .
Music & Lyrics - It's Not The Sound of Music	Hugh Grant does a wonderful take off as a rock singer attempting to make a comeback . The problem is that there isn't much to go by here . As for Drew Barrymore's portrayal of Sophie Fisher , the part really requires a quirky young girl . That's another problem here as Drew's interpretation of Sophie is anything but quirky . Naturally , the two meet when it's determined that Sophie can write lyrics . The problem they encounter is that they have to write a song for a Brittany Spear look-alike who sounds really just awful . Sophie doesn't like what they have written but of course love shall conquer all . It usually does in these silly pictures . Nevertheless , this was a fairly nice change of pace for the usual foolish Grant . At least , in this film , he is a washed-up rock singer who needs a hit record . Alas , this picture is no hit .
There Will Be Blood - The Blood Sure Clots in the Last 20 Minutes	I have never seen a film to deteriorate in the last 20 minutes in the way that " There Will Be Blood " does . The film has a great plot - a man who becomes very wealthy from oil drilling , and the apparent abandoning of his son who is deafened by the blast of oil being discovered . I thought that this would be the basic story line , the relationship between father and son through the years . Instead , we see the horrible relationship between Lewis and the town pastor . This film is certainly an anti-religious one . At the end , we see the human frailties possessed by the pastor . The two had a fight by film's end in a manner that reminded me of Max Bialystock and Leo Blum fighting in 1967's " The Producers . " The ending is simply awful . Before the last 20 minutes , Lewis gives a restrained but powerful performance as the wealthy oil driller who is really insane . A the time of the horrible ending , Lewis announces to his valet that he is finished . He should have been so 20 minutes sooner .
Semi Pro Comes Through for Minor Leagues	Somewhat funny Will Ferrell effort . This time around , Will stars as the head of a basketball team who is some terrific promoter . He engages in all sorts of odd eccentricities to get the fans in . The fun starts when his ABA league is going to merge with the NBA , but the latter will only take the 4 best teams . Ferrell hires cast off Woody Harrelson to play but Harrelson soon takes over the coaching efforts of the team . What publicity Ferrell puts himself through to get the fans to come to games . Even while his Flint Michigan team is soaring in the standings , the Commissioner and others have decided that Flint is not a big drawing crowd city so the franchise will terminate at the end of the season . Naturally , this doesn't get the team down and the film ends with some wily maneuvers by the team to get that 4th spot . The film has fun moments but is highly predictable .
Every Girl Should Be Married Becomes Harried	Light comical farce with Betsy Drake desperate to wed and finds Cary Grant , a pediatrician , her perfect mate . The picture has become faded with the passage of time since Women's Lib would never go for this today in 2008 , 60 years after this film was made . Grant shows what a wonderful actor he was by moving freely from drama to comedy . Franchot Tone appears as a possible love interest and rival to Grant . This is definitely Drake's film as she really gets into a woman desperate for marriage . Diana Lynn appears as her comic foil and is only moderately successful here . The film tends to falter as it goes on and suddenly at the end , long time beau played Eddie Albert suddenly appears only to find that the Drake character has come a long way . Problem is that the film does not .
Dark Past - Needs Shining Light	By the first 10 minutes of the film , I thought I was going to see another creation to " The Desperate Hours . " A psychiatrist , his wife , son and guests are held hostage by a depraved killer - William Holden . The film became absolutely too preachy . In such a grave situation , a psychiatrist would not try to psychoanalyze his captor . He would just try to keep him calm so as to avoid the shooting from beginning . Nina Foch is terribly miscast as Holden's moll . When an icy Holden puts a bullet in the back of the warden after dropping him off , Foch calmly says , " Al , dear , did you really have to do that . " We needed more of a hard-boiled character . In a film with a story line calling for violence , there is practically nothing going on here . The only live captive person is Katherine Card , a veteran old-timer , who plays a maid challenging her captors and who eventually escapes . Ellen Corby is annoying as the other whining , hysterical maid . In the end , we're almost subjected to everyone is basically good , and all need appropriate guidance . Guidance was needed for the writers and director of this extremely liberal hogwash .
Don't Bother to Knock - Have Patience	As far as Marilyn Monroe being a gifted actress , forget it . In this dramatic film she sounds just like her in musical comedy films with that baby intonation voice . Please . Anne Bancroft , as Lyn , the lounge singer should have had the title role here . Did Bancroft actually do her own singing here ? The best performance in this film by far was by Verna Felton as a busy-body resident of the hotel , always complaining , and luckily she was on hand at the right time . Richard Widmark's character is interesting here . Starting out as a guy who wants a fast good time , he rises to the occasion when he sees how off the wall Nell ( Monroe ) is . Marilyn Monroe always dreamed of being a dramatic actress . The drama part was way out of her league . She excelled in musical comedies such as " Some Like it Hot , " and " There's No Business Like Show Business . " Those were her pictures . Her only reasonable dramatic performances came in " River of No Return " and " Niagara . " This film " Don't Bother to Knock " really showed us what the nut houses have always been about . Take them in and release them no matter what's currently going on .
Love Conquers Witchcraft but Not This Bell , Book and Candle	With the exception of " The Eddie Duchin Story , " and " Jeanne Eagles , " Kim Novak gave another miserable performance on screen . This time it's for a playing a witch in " Bell , Book and Candle " Miss Novak was suited for the part as her eyebrows were made up appropriately . Though she is a witch in love , she should have evoked some fear but does not . Her aunt , another witch , played with relish by Elsa Lancaster is at her comedic best . In some ways , her eccentricity that she showed the year before for " Witness for the Prosecution " is there . Equally matched by Hermione Gingold , another witch , the two don't appear together on screen . Together , they would have been absolute dynamite . James Stewart is good but was too old for the part . He could have been Novak's father and not love interest . The big surprise here is the lackluster performance of Jack Lemmon , in a supporting role , as a warlock , the brother of Novak . Ernie Kovacs appears as an author of a book on witchcraft and is stymied by his monotone voice .
Alias Jesse James-Nothing New for Bob Hope	Funny film as Bob Hope portrays insurance salesman Milford Farnsworth . As Wendell Corey , who portrays James asks , " What's a Milford Farnsworth ? " As far as I'm concerned , Mary Young as Ma James steals this picture as the soft spoken mother of the outlaw who only wants her Jesse to eat a good breakfast before he goes out to steal . With her sing-song voice , Ma comes across as a kindly old lady only to resort to the shotgun when Rhonda Fleming jumps ship in her wedding dress and flees with Hope . The plot is hilarious . The inept Farnsworth sells James an insurance policy and James in turn plans to have Hope dressed like him , and killed so that he can enjoy the $100 , 000 that the policy is worth . What's even funnier is that dance hall queen Cora Lee , Fleming , falls for Hope . The picture provides good laughs and was appropriate for the 1950s light comedies with Hope .
In Harm's Way : Weak Imitation of From Here to Eternity	Pearl Harbor . The sneak attack and the brave men and women who served during the attack as well as World War 11 . Sounds very familiar to the 1953 Oscar winner for best picture - " From Here to Eternity . " This is no such picture . The latter film was a deep study of the basic characters . That is sadly lacking here where we have veteran pros such as Henry Fonda and Dana Andrews in brief parts . Am stilling trying to figure out the conflict between Andrews and Rocky , played by John Wayne . The acting kudos in this film goes to Patricia Neal . She plays a rugged nurse who tells Wayne that her husband was less than a man and that caused her to leave him . Brandon de Wilde is the son that Wayne gave up 18 years ago and now finds his lad under his naval wing . Kirk Douglas plays quite a rogue . His wife , fooling around with a guy when the attack occurred , winds up dead along with the fellow . A devastated Douglas takes to drinking and fooling around with de Wilde's girlfriend causing the latter to commit suicide . To run away , Douglas flies out and uncovers Japanese naval ships on their way to launch an attack . A lot of this sounds like " Peyton Place " but again this film also worked due to the intense character study . This can't be found in this film . Nice to see that director Otto Preminger used Jill Haworth from his 1960 " Exodus " film 5 years later for this film as well .
Ridiculous Reckless Romeo	Nice to see Tracy Nelson and William R . Moses in this film . Apparently , they were married when this Perry Mason thriller was made and their marriage was probably on the rocks . Notice the pushing scenes and animosity at the beginning between the two . Of course , by the end , they're kissing , but don't be fooled by this . Unfortunately , this is not one of Perry Maon's best ; although , he shows love for Della by giving her a bracelet . Geraldo Rivera is really the enemy here as a sleazy talk show host whose tell all book about the women he has bedded down as enraged all and led to his untimely demise . Naturally , the actress on screen , who said that she would kill the Rivera character , Ted Mayne , is arrested when the knife is plunged into Mayne's stomach rupturing a major vessel . In his amazing way , Mason discovers the true identity of the killer by finding out more about that red dress .
Deja Vu - Seen Too Much of this Already	Someone should tell the writer of this film that if Denzel comes back from the dead at the end of the film , the lady who is alive is really dead because that's exactly what happened . When a ferry boat mysteriously blows up , killing over 500 people terror is rightly expected . With terrorism on our minds constantly , this seems to be a good picture . The film virtually collapses when it becomes highly technical about using technology to get back into time . It is also very conveniently used to prevent this tragedy from occurring . The acting here is good but the problem is that these time-machine films boil down to the unrealistic . The film was often muddled as well .
Falling in Love / Girl Next Door-Predictable in the Neighborhood	She returns home after breaking up with her boyfriend . He lives next door . The 2 mothers never got along . The two fall in love and after 7 months , he pops the question . The moms start talking so as to make an all-out wedding . The lovers are overwhelmed and postpone the wedding . This is so predictable . Anyone could have written the script . Any chances to make something out of this cliché ridden script is mired by the obvious . With Patty Duke and other very good supporting cast members , this film really fails to convey any excitement . O yes , the lovers really wanted a beach-front wedding . What else is new ?
" That Touch of Mink " Are Minks A Girl's Best Friend ?	Funny Cary Grant-Doris Day tale about a woman on the way for an interview who becomes the victim of a car splashing incident . Adviser Gig Young is given money to compensate Miss Timberlake ( Doris ) but she is so angry that she goes to tell him off but is instead swept off her feet by the extremely wealthy Grant . Audrey Meadows is in rare form as a wise-cracking matron at the local cafeteria . Thinking that it is Young who is the Casanova , she hits him several times . The movie though is quickly reduced to silly fanfare with both Day and Grant breaking out in blotches as they work their way through nerves to love . The antics are pretty predictable . Grant and Day have the right chemistry but the story line bogs down .
The Secret Life of Bees Needs More of A Zinger	Dakota Fanning and Queen Latifah give interesting performances in this film . Surprisingly , Jennifer Hudson shows promise as a caregiver beaten up when she tries to register to vote in 1964 down south . This is not played up and pretty soon Hudson's role is entirely relegated to very little here . This is a major disappointment . When a 4 year old girl tragically kills her abused mother in a terrible accident , the girl at such a tender age can never truly understand what had happened that led to such an awful thing . Raised by an abusive , drunken father who was the same to her mother , the child finally runs away with her caregiver ( Hudson ) and the two flee to the home of Queen Latifah in South Carolina . After a while , it turns out that Latifah had cared for the girl's mother and that the latter had fled to Latifah's home when she ran away . The mother had returned after several months to get her daughter when the tragedy occurred . Wasn't the father held responsible for having a gun in the house ? Latifah's home is painted in Pepto Bismol color . Can you imagine referring to house by that description ? Too much begins to go on . A sister , April is already dead and May , emotionally unbalanced , soon joins April . June is frustrated and turns down the proposal of a lovely man . Latifah nicknames Hudson July . What are we playing a name by months game ? Come on . The ending is riveting but by this time we're a little tired of all this . Bees on the farm love honey . This film is far from honey .
My Sister Eileen - Family Joke	Rosalind Russell received a best actress nomination for playing Ruth Sherwood , a writer from Columbus , Ohio , who comes to the big apple with her sister Eileen . ( Janet Blair ) . Up against the winner ( Greer Garson for Mrs . Miniver ) or Bette Davis ( Now , Voyager ) , Russell had little chance in winning and she didn't . The film deals with the lunatic situations brought about when the sisters arrive here . Settling in a basement apartment which should have been condemned , the two encounter all sorts of strange people coming in and out of the apartment . We have a crazy landlord , ( George Tobias ) a publisher ( Brian Aherne ) who lacked any comic talent here , the former tenant , a seer ( June Havoc ) in a brief performance , neighbors who want the husband to sleep in the kitchen as her mother is coming , a suspicious policeman and Portuguese merchant marines who cause havoc as well . Luckily , the film ends when The 3 Stooges drill a hole in the floor . By that time , I had it . Rosalind Russell proved that she had excellent comic timing and Janet Blair is good as well , but the written material they were given leaves a lot to be desired .
Live Free or Die Hard-Just the Same Old Explosions	We've seen this so many times before . Disgruntled employees turning into maniacs when they're rejected by the employer . Vicious girlfriends who do kung-fu and heroes such as Bruce Willis who come to the rescue despite the fact that their own child , alienated from them , is in danger . The special effects make this movie . Willis is as bald and vulgar as ever . His response to the villain is that he can find his wicked girlfriend at the bottom of the heap with a car up her . Naturally , there is a nerd in this film who is a computer hack and wanted for his services by both sides . Of course , the guy falls for Bruce's daughter . They're both kidnapped . Give me a break already . Children could write this constant script .
Beauty Shop Provides Thin Cut	Queen Latifah opens a beauty shop after her big argument with her boss . Latifah is kind , intelligent but just plain out of luck . Kevin Bacon steals the film in his role as the gay boss with a thick German accent . Wearing his blond wig , Bacon is hilarious in a performance that should have been considered for best supporting actor . The women and man hairstylist have a comment for everything and everyone but the film just seems to meander about . The writers should have remained focused on Latifah's relationship with the evil Bacon , who conspires with the State Board to ruin her after she takes business away from him . An aging Della Reese has a wasted one scene role as a high class woman entering the shop . Miss Reese was offered few lines and disappears rapidly . Alfre Woodard , as one of the stylists , is effective in her common talk but no nonsense approach .
My Favorite Spy is Not One of My Favorites	Bob Hope in a dual role here . Naturally , as a comedian , he is confused with a spy and is made to serve his country to act like the former to obtain information . We get the usual Hope shtick here . " I have no friends in Washington . I vote Republican . " You don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that the real spy escapes and soon is on Hope's trail as well . Hedy Lamarr tries to be funny but really can't . She is the thrown-over ex-girl friend of the spy Hope who soon realizes that the joker Hope can't really be her true flame . The ending is funny . We see the two on the lam riding on a fire truck . Some funny lines here , almost as funny as Hope fleeing with Jane Russell and saying to an animal , " Thanks for the ride . " " Thanks for the memories Bob , " you did a lot better than this .
Three Smart Girls Are Anything But . . .	Ridiculous fanfare with the usually reliable Charles Winninger in the lead role as a successful banker who has been divorced for 10 years and is now set to remarry a gold-digger played listlessly by Binnie Barnes . The real schemer here is Alice Brady , who plays Barnes's mother and is perfect for the part . The film though did serve its star Deanna Durbin with the golden opportunity to sing and sing she does quite well . As her made , Lucile Watson , who played outstanding supporting mother roles in the 1940s , is terribly miscast here . Of course , the 3 sisters come to America from Switzerland to sabotage dad from remarrying . The film never bothers to mention why Winninger had divorced his wife to begin with . Hoping to get Barnes to fall for a fake nobleman , Mischa Auer , the latter is soon confused with the dashing Ray Milland and some funny sketches ensue . In the end , everyone gets what's coming to them except the audience who paid to see this film .
Frost / Nixon is No Icing on the Cake	Disappointing film which chronicles the famous David Frost / Richard Nixon television interviews . The film is basically a dud since we already know how devious and vicious the late president was and Nixon was really suffered from a dull personality . Frank Langella , who portrays the 37th president , is very wooden in the part but I guess that is what you would expect . Pat Nixon's role was never able to evolve in this film and the way the interviews are conducted are unduly boring . By the time that Nixon admits that he let the country down , we may not even care about this . Gerald Ford was criticized and ultimately lost the 1976 election because of the pardon of Mr . Nixon . I can't really pardon Ron Howard for making this film . San Clemente never looked more beautiful , but that's about it .
Gone But Not Forgotten-Better to Forget	Diabolical , convoluted story dealing with the old adage that hell hath no fury as a woman scorned . It's hard to believe that because a killer gave the whereabouts of his survivors , he is allowed to walk away free from all the turmoil that he created . After all , he did kill several people including his wife and young daughter . How could a father just snap the neck of that adorable child ? This is entirely too contrived to believe . The acting is good but as the dead bodies begin to pile up , you have to wonder what's really going on here . I have to say that the ending is terrific . Scott Glenn got exactly what he deserved for what he did . The film essentially deals with a wealthy man who feels he can get away with anything , a woman , his victim , who has emotional problems but is literally pushed over the edge by Glenn and societal laws that just don't make much sense .
A Story Good for Its Time is Dated	Preston Sturges made the wacky comedy " Palm Beach Story " in 1942 . Claudette Colbert and Joel McCrea are married and truly love each other but their problem is money , which isn't something new . She decides that they are not good for each other so she takes off for Florida , after going money from an elderly wacko who comes to rent her retirement . McCrea gets the money to follow her from the same source . She obtains her ticket for Florida from wealthy drunkards whose debauchery becomes memorable in a drunken scene where they shoot up one car . Colbert meets Rudy Vallee on the train and he is endearing as ever . His sister , a wacky constant divorcée , played fabulously , in a totally comedic turn , by the usually dramatic Mary Astor . She falls for McCrea who is then past off as Colbert's sister . From the time of the train ride , the film descends into inane lunacy . Look for dialogue such as Astor saying that nothing is permanent except Roosevelt . After all , he was into his third term . Look for a brief part by veteran actor Robert Warwick . 5 years later , he would play Irving Weisman in " Gentleman's Agreement . " You remember Irving ? He didn't want the anti-semitic story run as he wanted the Jewish people to handle anti-semitism themselves .
Is this Tiger Worth Really Being Saved ?	Jack Lemmon gave an excellent Oscar winning performance in this film about a middle-aged man , Harry Stoner , facing a mid-life crisis . With his garment business going bad , Stoner ( Lemmon ) hires an arsonist to set the place on fire so that he can collect the insurance . Jack Gilford , as his business partner , provided excellent support and received a supporting Oscar nomination . He lost to " The Paper Chase's " John Houseman . This is a story of moral decay in the 1970s . Hookers with buying agents and Harry being seduced by a young hooker he picks up on the highway . The film is depressing and sets us up for mood swings and somewhat of a conflicting ending .
Last King of Scotland-Doctor Wasn't Needed in this House	Forest Whitaker's interpretation of the late lunatic Ugandan leader , Idi Amin , was good but not Oscar worthy . In some of the scenes Whitaker mouths the words as if he is being forced to . The person who made him up for this difficult part does deserve praise . A young Scottish man , just graduated from the University as a doctor , goes to Uganda and in a chance meeting , he comes across the new dictator Amin . The latter has just overthrown the unjust Obote , and in a general compassionate speech , he promises the citizens of Uganda the world . Everyone cheers but the ruthlessness of Amin soon begins to show . He takes his young doctor under his charge and at first the man is doing everything but doctoring . He even steps in for the Ugandan dictator at an important meeting . When our doctor sees what's going on , he tries to escape , but it's too late . He is severely brutalized and it is amazing that he survived . He is fixed up by a doctor who shall soon receive a bullet in his head for his efforts . Our young hero manages to get on a plane that has been reserved for the hostages take to Uganda by Amin's Palestinian friends . By the way , the film never showed the Israelis saving all but one of Israel's hostages . A lot of this film is almost reading like a soap opera . We could have entitled it " As Your Stomach Can Turn from Amin . "
Broken Flowers - It's Not Exactly " A Letter to 3 Wives "	Remember that great film of 1949 where 3 women receive letters informing them that one woman has run off with one of their husbands ? Well , it's letter writing time again . In this one , Bill Murray gets a letter stating that he is the father of a 19 year old son who has run off . The letter forces Murray to see 4 of these women . He last saw them about 20 years ago . The film briefly deals with each of the meetings . Believe me , these women have varied but frustrated lives . The premise of the film is good but Murray has taken to dead-pan acting in the Buster Keaton way of doing things . To summarize , he has become quite dull . The ending is a downer because the situation never resolves itself . Murray is left bewildered as would most anyone seeing this film . A sequel might well be in order to resolve this . That would make for interesting fanfare .
National Velvet . . . They Shoot Pictures Don't They ?	Rather routine film dealing with a young girl's love of a horse and of course , how coincidental , that Velvet Brown ( such a sweet Elizabeth Taylor ) wins the horse in a raffle . The film is just that , it's too sweet for my taste . Mickey Rooney , as the stranger who enters the life of the family , first appears that he is going to be a rascal but he soon blends in to the rather predictable fanfare . Anne Revere , who gave far better performances especially in 1947's " Gentleman's Agreement , " won the best supporting actress Oscar for 1945 for this film . Only heaven knows why . We had far better nominated performances that year-Ann Blyth in " Mildred Pierce , " and Joan Loring in " The Corn is Green " were simply marvelous . When Rooney cuts Taylor's hair to disguise her as a jockey , I thought I was starting to view an old Lucille Ball television show with Whirling Jet . The race and its aftermath were just so predictable . Donald Crisp did put in another very good performance as the endearing father who was willing to break his own rules . Miss Taylor is cute here and her remarkable career would be taking off in 1951 with " A Place in the Sun . " Angela Lansbury , who ironically was a supporting actress nominee along with Revere but for " The Picture of Dorian Gray , has little to do here . She appears awkward and gawky as Taylor's sister .
Paycheck : When the Price Wasn't Almost Right	Ben Affleck and Uma Thurman star in this thriller about a guy who agrees to give up 3 years of his life to participate in a study . Actually , he is working on a machine that can predict the future . When the 3 years is up , Affleck discovers that he has been taken in by an elaborate scheme of up and coming actor Aaron Eckhart ( " Thank You for Smoking . " ) Paul Giamatti costars as a faithful Affleck pal . There is plenty of action since Affleck at first doesn't know what's going on except for the fact that he is taken by the FBI and accused of treason . What results is plenty of action with car chases , fighting and all sorts of mayhem . The film then becomes a matter of destroying a machine which shows the future . Evidently , the future is not that great . Thurman has a Ph . D in biology in this film . You'd need that degree from the first part of the film to figure out what's going on . Miss Thurman looks like she is suffering from anorexia in some scenes . To survive , Affleck must go through precisely what he has done during the past 3 years . Thank the lord we don't have to wait that long .
Flirting With 40 - It's Still the Same Old Story	The older woman with a younger guy syndrome . Of course , when her husband falls for a younger girl , this is perfectly all right . This seems to be the norm in society . While on vacation , Jackie , ( Locklear ) falls for a younger guy , a surf instructor . Her friends back at home try to dissuade her from such a relationship . Even her former husband , who is living with a younger girl , has his criticisms as well . There are 2 children involved . When you think of it , this is really an updated version of 1955's " All that Heaven Allows , " with Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson . Of course , that was far superior because of the likes of Janie and Rock and the marvelous supporting cast of Jacqueline de Wit , the town's vicious gossip and Wyman friend , Agnes Moorehead . A lot of these films have the same common denominator . While there shall be an understanding at the end , the husband loses his new girlfriend .
Get Out the Roaches	" Junebug " is flawed by the relatively slow pace depicting southern living . While this is the norm down south , it is becoming quite cliché in motion pictures . Embeth Davitz marries a guy from rural North Carolina . They are both art dealers and proceed to go to his hometown looking to sign a local artist to a contract with their firm . There , Embeth meets her in-laws , brother and sister-in-law . Amy Adams , as the latter , steals the show with her simpleminded kindness and very pregnant look . She is inquisitive too much in fact . She turns in quite a dramatic performance in the hospital as tragedy strikes . Her husband apparently has it in for his brother . He is moody and not only ready to become a father , he is not at all ready to join the human race , or so it appears . We do observe close family relations while a simple minded father looks for a screwdriver during the entire 1 : 45 of this production . Get out the bugs from this film and work with basic material .
Gallant Journey - Jet Lag Sets In	What should have been an inspiring film , turns into a slow-moving film about an early aviator John Montgomery . To say that this guy was unlucky was to put it mildly . A very young Glenn Ford does an adequate job in portraying this man who dreamed of flying in the 1880s . Janet Blair is his co-star as the girl who loved and eventually married him . Montgomery is viewed as some sort of crackpot for his desiring to fly . Through the film , we see that he is victimized by vertigo , a suit on his patent , the tragic death of his partner , and his inability to move up within the social milieu despite his achievements . The film is slow paced . By the way , who was the old man who tells his story to the boys at the beginning of the film ? Who was he supposed to represent ? Am sure that the earthquake they we see was not the big 1906 one . If it were , the film suffered from the fact that Ford just didn't age . Was he another Dorian Gray ?
Frustration and Joanne Woodward Rachel , Rachel	Katharine Hepburn and Barbra Streisand tied for the best actress Oscar in 1968 . Let's remember that Patricia Neal and Joanne Woodward were also in the running . Miss Woodward is again totally frustrated . She seemed to make a career out of it . Here , she is a sexually repressed schoolteacher who finds romance one summer . Sounds a little like Hepburn's " Summertime " of years back . However , Woodward pulls out all the stops in conveying a repressed woman , on the road to a grim spinsterhood , in the tradition of Olivia DeHavilland's " The Heiress . " Paul Newman is great in his directing debut . Estelle Parsons , having won the supporting actress award the year before for " Bonnie and Clyde , " was nominated again in this category as another frustrated teacher , Calla , who knocks on Woodward's door to announce that she is good and pregnant . The film has special meaning for me . Bernard Barrow briefly appears as the principal of the school where Woodward teaches . I had Bernard Barrow for an introductory speech course at Brooklyn College in the 1960s . He was talented and would go on to win an emmy for a day-time soap opera . I got an A in the course but I rate this film a strong C . Frustrated love has always been a sore spot in films . This flick is no exception .
Merrily or Silly Live We	Very familiar plot to " My Man Godfrey " regarding butlers in upper class society . Oscar nominee Billie Burke is a complete ditz in this film . As an upper class matron , she can't remember much and cracks such lines as to the chauffeur : " Do you drive ? " To a U . S . senator : " The last time I visited Washington it was for a coronation . " Her eldest daughter played with a sexy sarcasm , by Constance Bennett appears much older than her 2 movie siblings-Bonita Granville and Tom Brown . In most scenes , she looks like their parents ! The plot really gets going when the butler , who is about to be fired ( Brian Aherne ) is mistaken for one of the dinner guests and becomes romantically entangled with the visiting senator's daughter . This gets Bennett jealous . Patsy Kelly's comedic gifts are not taken to full advantage here . Some funny moments but the plot and outcome are so predictable .
The Far Country Only Goes So Far	James Stewart in another classic western role about a man accused of murder . The fact was that the guys he killed has stolen his cattle . Set in the Pacific Northwest , the cinematography is beautiful . Ruth Roman plays a dance hall queen . Her part is conflicted . While she loves the Stewart character , she has blind allegiance to the evil John McIntyre , a faithfulness that will cause her a bullet at the film's end . Sweet Corinne Calvet plays another love interest . With her thick French accent , it is often difficult to understand her . Traveling across the Yukon , we see faithful players Connie Gilchrist and Kathleen Freeman , the latter from TV's Hogan's Heroes fame . Walter Brennan plays Stewart's faithful sidekick . Unfortunately , his revelation of something ultimately leads to him taking a bullet as well . Ironically , McIntyre plays a part similar to what Brennan had done in 1940 , when he won his 3rd Oscar for playing the corrupt Judge Roy Bean in The Westerner . After a while , all these westerns seem to blend in . The usual finale of the shoot ' em up occurs . Predictable but still enjoyable to a degree .
Comic Farce Offset By Insensitivity	The premise for " The Producers " is marvelous . Two guys get a bunch of elderly women to invest in a play and look for subject matter that will be a certain flop . As the investments have gone well over 100 % , there will be plenty of money for Max Bialystock ( a memorable Zero Mostel ) and his sidekick bookkeeper ( Leo Blum ) , played by Gene Wilder , to keep . Max hires a transvestite director known for his failures to direct this bomb-to-be . Can anyone imagine a musical " Springtime for Hitler , " including an opening number where June Taylor-like dancers make a swastika while singing and dancing Springtime for Hitler and Germany ? This is outrageous but it works as the play turns out to be an enormous success . What's there left to do ? Blow-up the theater and then face the music in court . What hurts this farce is the subject matter regarding Hitler which is definitely offensive . While I realize that the purpose was to create a sure flop , writer Mel Brooks has gone way over the top . Why not a musical on Julius Caesar ? How many people would have been offended by that ? I have faith in Brooks as he could have made the latter a riot as well . Kenneth Mars unfortunately is funny as " the kraut , " the guy who authored the Hitler musical . Have Max and Leo learned anything from their experience ? Not really . As jail-birds they get the inmates to invest in " Prisoners of Love . " Aren't we really imprisoned by this utter nonsense ?
On The Town Surges Forward	This film started off quite boring despite the marvelous talents of Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra . It got very funny with the coming of Betty Garrett and the memorable Alice Pearce as Lucy Schmeeler . Kelly was wise to take Pearce from the Broadway stage and transfer the part of Lucy that she performed there to the big screen . The people still ride in a hole in the ground . Yet , that's what N . Y . C . is basically about is this fun thrilled film dealing with 3 gobs on a 24 hour pass in Gotham . The ending tended to be more slap-stick with scenes of cops chasing our culprits throughout the city . Kelly , as always , shows his mettle in his dancing . He is ably backed up by Sinatra and Vera-Ellen . Ann Miller is along for the ride as one of the broads that the 3 guys pick up during their 24 hour adventure . Remember Miss Subways ? That was an integral part of this city . In this film , it's known as Miss Turnstiles . Jules Munshin , the able comic and dancer , joins Kelly and Sinatra here . A sad note is the early deaths of Jules Munshin , Vera-Ellen and Alice Pearce . All 3 died way before their time and Hollywood was a sadder place for this .
Superman Returns With Startling News	While I realize that it's 2006 , Superman was always supposed to have a clean image . The guy has apparently become quite a swinger . He returns from Krypton and realizes that Lois Lane's son is his indeed . Didn't know the two of them had time for this . What will the Republicans say about this with their high values ? Surely , this must come as a disappointment to Republican Superman followers . Speaking of disappointment , this is what the film turns into . Lex Luthor , played well by Kevin Spacey , does not really get what he deserves to get in the end . Left alone on that island with that foolish woman wasn't the worst punishment . Lois Lane has won a Pulitzer prize for writing why Superman isn't needed . A Pulitzer prize ? Come on now . The simple plot has Luthor flooding the world so that he can sell part of it back for a lot of money . Sounds like the typical New York City landlord at work . The special effects and heroics are fine here but the plot and casting of Kate Bosworth leave a lot to be desired . Our new superman looks very much like the late Chris Reeve . That's why he probably got the part . In the last half-hour of this film , doesn't anyone wonder what has become of Clark Kent ? Someone has got to put 1+1 together eventually .
Fighting Temptations Leads Us from Evil	This is one of Cuba Gooding's best performances in years . Mr . Gooding has been on a dry run since his Oscar win in the supporting category for Tom Cruise's famous line-Show me the money ! This is basically a fun film . Cuba Gooding , recently fired from his job , returns to Georgia for the funeral of his beloved Aunt Sally . That funeral scene in the church is just memorably realized . Gooding captures the part of the not so competent worker , with a kind and understanding heart . He can keep the inheritance providing that he does something is an old Hollywood line . This time , it's the taking up of the choir . LaTanya Richardson gives a stoic performance as the holier than thou choir leader who looks to trip the Gooding character up so that she can maintain her position . She is just great as one who preaches reverence but has strayed herself . Beyonce Knowles belts it out . Of course , her rendition of fever can't be compared to that of the great Peggy Lee .
No Wonder We Loved Lucy in this Preview of What Was to Come	Some funny antics are shown in this 1949 comedy with Lucille Ball and William Holden . Ball immediately showed her comedic gifts as a dimwitted secretary hired by a bookie ( Holden ) to watch over the office . Trouble is that she is the niece of a judge . Thinking that Holden is in real estate , she begins to bring prospective customers and builders to him . Frank McHugh and James Gleason co-star and do well as comic foils . Some of the scenes are hilarious where Ball shows her " stupidity " and other happenings . Holden is young , adept at comedy but was chain smoking throughout the film . This movie was a definite pre-test for Lucy Ricardo . Too bad Vivian Vance and Bill Frawley weren't in it as well .
Out of the Woods and Into Oblivion We Go	Does Larry Levenson of Hallmark just enjoy creating the same theme where people visit older folks and redeem themselves before the latter pass on ? We see this theme over and over in many of Levenson's productions and " Out of the Woods " is no different . When a grandson , an attorney , is sent to deliver legal papers to his grandfather , who has moved to the woods , the former gets much more than he ever bargained for . This is basically a story of getting away from the rat race and a return to nature . While a good movie , it is cliché . The movie goes downhill when Asner is revealed to be suffering from a terminal illness . He does go gently into that good night by going off into the forests . Of course , the film brings out the grandson's redeeming qualities and that he can do better than the girlfriend he has been seeing within the L . A . scene .
Bridged too Far	This Oscar winning film of 1957 , " The Bridge on the River Kwai , " is a little too heavy handed . One of the prisoners has it right , " won't building this bridge be seen as an act of treason ? " Captured by the Japanese , Col . Nicholson and his men agree to build such a bridge . They put a tremendous effort into it . At no time is there ever a discussion of trying to escape . What would John Wayne have done ? Nicholson's lame excuse is that in years to come people will thank the English for building the bridge . He anticipates a world at peace with respect and toleration for all cultures . Baloney . You're at war , Mr . Nicholson . At the end , Nicholson cries out in regret , " What have I done ! , " as he collapses and destroys the bridge . What was the writer really thinking . As always , William Holden is effective , this time as an ant-war hero caught up in this predicament . Jack Hawkins acts in his usual bombastic overbearing way . The cinematography is beautiful but the story itself is far from the realm of reality . War is war .
Long Night Needs More Day Light	Eerie film showcasing an excellent chain-smoking Henry Fonda as a distraught lover who kills the eerie mad-like magician , Vincent Price , who discovers his girl-friend , Barbara Bel Geddes and begins to stalk here . The acting here is good especially by Fonda , who wears the same hat and acts in a similar fashion as he did in " The Grapes of Wrath . " He is essentially a beaten down character , at war with society who vacillates between pessimism and optimism . Bel Geddes is outstanding especially in the latter part of the film . Her justification for living would ever serve as an inspiration to Bishop Fulton J . Sheen . Ann Dvorak , as the mysterious Charlene , is also quite good . The film is really uneven as it doesn't explain why the Fonda character becomes involved with Charlene , Price's assistant in his magic .
Double Dynamite Just Doesn't Add Up	Silly Sinatra , Jane Russell and Groucho Marx 1951 vehicle . Groucho's brothers were really missing here . Jane Russell talks in such a churlish way . She is really annoying to listen to . Her one drunken scene is funny . By the way , was it the bank owner's son who was the embezzler or was it just a wayward machine ? This is never really answered . Sinatra needed to do more singing in this film . It's just too coincidental that as he wins all the money , he and Russell will obviously come under suspicion when the money from the bank is stolen . Whatever happened to those bookies who gave him the favorable tip ? What happened to the mugs who tried to beat up the head mobster ? These questions really should have been answered .
Great Waltz Takes Some Disappointing Steps	Am one of the few critics who was disappointed by 1938's " The Great Waltz . " While it is true that the music is wonderful , it also must be noted that the first part of the film is rather dull . Luise Rainer came into this film after back to back Oscar wins in 1936 and 1937 . At the beginning of the film , her behavior is rather churlish . That laughter that she displays is outright annoying . It is only when she is married to Strauss that she shows maturity and her performance becomes better . Miliza Korjus , a wonderful opera singer , sings beautifully here but when she speaks , I thought I was viewing a comedy . Ms . Korjus reminded me of a Bette Midler talking like the late comedienne Martha Raye or as Katina Paxinou did in " Mourning Becomes Electra " in 1947 . The picture takes place during the backdrop of the various revolutions circa 1848 . As far as this film was concerned , I never saw a revolution go by so quickly . The film basically deals with the romance between Strauss ( an appealing Fernand Gravet ) and Carla Donner ( Ms . Korjus - who acts more like a Prima Dona here ) . It is ironic that the film did little to enhance the careers of Gravet , Rainer and Korjus . Korjus never made another American film despite her Oscar nomination as best supporting actress . After a series of flops , Rainer was washed up in films by 1942 and who ever heard of Gravet again ?
Woman in the Window Meets Dorothy at Oz - No Place Like Home 12	Interesting film is marred by the ending . While others find the ending to be an unusual twist , I found it to be a cop-out . Ed G . Robinson is a college professor who becomes directly involved in a murder after meeting the woman whose picture he becomes enamored with while staring at a window . The professor is an amateur at crime as we see by the mistakes he makes and we are amazed at the ability of the police , led by Raymond Massey , in picking up clues . You would think for sure that Robinson and Joan Bennett , the woman he kills for , would be found out at the end . There is a slick blackmailer who knows all the angles . It appears that Robinson and Bennett are done for and there is nothing left for Robinson to do but to commit suicide . Voila ! The dream sequence ends . See Robinson run down the street like a frightened kitten when a woman asks him for a light . Come on . This could have been a thriller of a murder film . It is simply done in by the cop out ending . Even Dorothy upon waking up in Oz would have been annoyed with this .
Vantage Point is Ground Hog Day With A Mystery Twist	Interesting film done with Roshomon-like style where for an hour of this film , we get the viewpoints of various people regarding the attempted assassination of an American president in Spain as well as other terrorist bombings which follow . There is never a dull moment . The action is filled with plot twists . The riding throughout Spain can be compared to the famous chase scene of " The French Connection . " After this one hour of repetition , everything is tied in to make quite a neat thriller . The cast is very good , especially Dennis Quaid as a returning Secret Service Agent and William Hurt as the assassinated president . Or , has he been assassinated ?
Mating Game Bogs Down on the Farm	The premise is funny where straight well-educated Tony Randall is sent to get Paul Douglas and family to pay up their taxers . Douglas is a nice rural type who has never bothered to file taxes in over 20 years ! Una Merkel is his farm wife and Debbie Reynolds plays the eldest of his children . Naturally , Randall falls for Reynolds . A vicious neighbor played by Philip Ober wants the Douglas homestead . He sends the IRS after the family . With Fred Clark and Charles Lane at the head of the IRS , you'd think the family is in for lots of trouble . Reynolds musical ability is put to task briefly . The film falls apart in a rather lengthy drunken sequence when Lorenzo Charlton ( Randall ) gets bombed out and parades around singing a Cole Porter tune . Other silly scenes is a brawl between Randall and a jealous suitor of Reynolds with his friends . The ending is contrived . Get out your civil war documents and watch the interest build up . Mainly for the silly at heart .
Libel-I'll Slander It . Identity Theft in 1959	Mediocre film where Dirk Bogarde takes two roles . He is accused of assuming the identity of someone that he has killed . Remember Bette Davis doing this in 1964's " Dead Ringer ? " That was so much better . The real acting here is done by Olivia DeHavilland who portrays Bogarde's wife . From all the testimony , it appears that the man she has married has duped her and everyone else . She denounces him but the surprise Alfred Hitchcock-like ending is about the only good thing this film has to offer . The film may be seen by others as somewhat confusing . After all these years , someone from the outfit sees Bogarde on television . This someone knew both gentlemen and observes the way Bogarde is holding his hand . Something seems to be wrong . The stranger confronts Bogarde who naturally denies everything . This shall ultimately lead to the court battle where identity theft is the name of the game .
Unclear is this Present Danger	Harrison Ford in this disappointing film about the affects of a Colombian cartel group dealing with drugs . Ford gets a top job at the CIA when the director ( James Earl Jones ) develops a terminal illness . It seems that the President and his assistant are involved in a covert war in Colombia when they are denying this . Ford , their dupe , appears before Congress and is questioned by the late Hope Lange , who portrays a U . S . senator in one brief scene . The action really starts when an adviser goes to Colombia to negotiate getting back U . S . money . He is murdered there and his assistant , possibly his lover , is found dead the same day as he is killed . The film falls into other Tom Clancy books made into films . There is plenty of action but a lack of cohesiveness .
Double Jeopardy-Good Until Those Plot Twists	Prosecuting attorney Alexandra Cooper is shot to death after coming off a plane from L . A . Turns out that the actress-friend who was staying with her got blown away instead from a high-powered rifle . The question is : Who was the intended victim , the actress or the prosecutor ? We've got other rape cases to deal with and a Cooper character filled with tragedy . Her husband-to-be was killed in a car wreck before their wedding ; she has a weird next-door neighbor who walks his dog with a robe on ; her new boyfriend was carrying on with the actress as well and the dead girl and the boyfriend were being stalked by others . What's going on here ? Naturally , she has a policeman guarding her until this mess can be straightened out . A very poor sort of imitation of the 1944 class film Laura . N . Y . prosecuting attorney , Linda Fairstein , wrote this . Stay with prosecuting dear .
Lonelyhearts - Something Even Beyond Dear Abbey	This film is based on the play " Miss Lonelyhearts . " Montgomery Clift , the brooding loner of many films , is at it again as a man who is hiding a terrible secret from his fiancée-his father killed his mother when he was age 3 and is prison for this crime . A chance meeting with Myrna Loy leads Clift to a job as a newspaper writer writing an advice column to people in difficulty . A much older looking Ryan portrays a cynical newspaper head who never forgave his wife , Myrna Loy , for an affair that she had 10 years ago . Loy's character is never fully realized in that it's not allowed to develop in the film . She gives a good performance but it seems as if she is cut off . Maureen Stapleton makes a wonderful impression in her first movie and received an Oscar nomination as best supporting actress for it . She is a mentally ill woman who meets up with Clift and her story telling leads to a near tragedy . She makes the most of the 3 scenes she is in . Her performance sets the stage for the career that was ahead of her-a troubled woman seeking understanding in a world beyond her . Delores Hart portrays Clift's understanding girlfriend . Miss Hart , who abandoned Hollywood in the early 1960s to become a nun , shows sympathy in the role of almost being in the wrong place at the wrong time as well . An interesting film showing that we can't necessarily laugh at the predicaments of all people .
Bells Not Ringing Clearly At Adano	1945 film dealing with American occupation of the Italian town of Adano . John Hodiak portrays a sympathetic officer who understands the need of the town . - food and water to survive . He shows kindness to the people of the town , many of whom are comical characters . William Bendix plays his assistant in his usual comic form . However , when Hodiak has to leave , Bendix is excellent when he has to tell him the news . He is so upset by this , he is terribly drunk . Gene Tierney is terribly miscast as a daughter of a fisherman , who seeks Hodiak out to find out information on her lover . Before he can act , Italian POW's return to the town , and one of them , Richard Conte , tells her what has happened to her beloved . If you were an anti-fascist who campaigned against the Mussolini regime , why would you be the first to go when Italy entered the war on Nazi Germany's side ? The lover died for patriotic reasons though he was bitterly anti-fascist . There is something wrong here . The film deals with military bureaucracy and bungling by Roy Roberts . Such bungling costs Hodiak to be transferred . This was when the film was getting better . Too bad it ended at this point . The town of Adano needed a bell to carry on its daily life . Hodiak was successfully able to get the bell . The bell tolls for him when he leaves the town . Irony , not at its best , but when is irony actually good ?
Long , Long Trailer-Not Necessarily Loving Lucy Here	Luci and Desi starred in this 1954 film . The major star in this beautifully colored film is the sumptuous trailer that newlyweds-to-be purchase . Naturally , there are complications . With Lucy , could there be anything else . There is the family visit where Desi backs into the house and the scene with Desi driving while Lucy is attempting to cook dinner . Mayhem results . Screen pros Moroni Olsen , Marjorie Main and Frances Bavier appear but their parts are essentially wasted . The view of Yosemite National Park is magnificent and the great Vincente Minnelli still directs a powerful punch here . Problem is that Lucy and Desi aren't able to break out as they did in their weekly television show . Perhaps , sidekicks Fred and Ethel Mertz were needed here .
The Cheaters-Cheat Movie Goers	Joseph Schildkraut in a Christmas film . I can't seem to think where his character as a washed-out actor belongs . In some scenes he looks totally out of his mind and in others he tries to instill good virtues in this hum-drum picture . The youngest daughter of Eugene Palette and Billie Burke is a real brat . She acts like a real princess and by the next scene , she is in the holiday spirit flapping pancakes . Then , we have that annoying voice of Billie Burke . That voice was great to say Toto too in " The Wizard of Oz , " or even as the wealthy dowager in " The Young Philadelphians , " where Burke gave the best performance of her career . Not in this film , as she portrays a woman as part of a family trying to deny a total stranger her inheritance . Her voice is annoying and she finally remembers when her sonny finally says mom to her after so many years . What nonsense . Ona Munson , Belle Wattling in the great " Gone With the Wind , " is the woman they're all trying to fool here . I must say that Munson , who committed suicide in 1951 , is good in this film as well . She is sympathetic and kind as the woman looking for holiday ties . Schildkraut , who appears as the embodiment of evil in the film , suddenly comes to his senses and tries to revert back to the Christmas Carol in attempting to get the wayward family to mend their ways . Any viewer who can compare this tripe with the memorable " It's A Wonderful Life , " must be on another planet .
Hocus Pocus is Silly But On Focus	The Sanderson Sisters of Salem become alive again and return to Salem to wreak absolute havoc in this inane Disney film of 1993 . Bette Midler is terrific as the oldest and ugliest sister . She is ably supported by fellow " sisters " Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy . They want to " gobble " up the children of Salem so that they can remain alive . The movie becomes slap-shot in nature as the 3 witches battle a young man and his sister , recent arrivals from California along with a beautiful young girl of the town . We have some very silly dialogue here . The thought of Najimy , so heavy and riding through the air with a vacuum cleaner is a little hard to take .
Choices of the Heart - Leaves You With An Empty Feeling	Melissa Gilbert , who is Jewish in real life , dons a cross in this film playing an ill-fated missionary . After her murder is confirmed , the story goes back to how she came to this type of life . The story is basically of a girl who was conflicted in life and while being an exchange student is Ireland , is persuaded to do missionary work in El Salvador . The problem is that Gilbert is not religious at all and argues with church officials . The story basically becomes : " How are you going to keep them down on the farm after they've seen Paris ? " Gilbert's choice is ultimately to stay in El Salvador to help the young caught up in all the violence . Naturally , her boyfriend from America , a physician , pleads with her to come home but she must stay as she has this commitment to fulfill . Unfortunately , this commitment leads to her death . The film deals with nothing about the political turmoil in the country . You'd never know that Communists were involved . Who is causing all this friction ? A priest is slain in church and young women and children are shot down in the streets . No attempt is made to explain why all of the violence is occurring . We're just told about rebels fighting the government . What do the rebels have against the innocent people ? Gilbert does not convey the idea of a missionary . There is a good performance by Martin Sheen , as the Irish priest who brought her to this life .
Vickie & Al Need to Turn Up The Tempo	While we're not dealing with " Bonnie and Clyde , " we do need more excitement here . True , there is an assassination attempt on Queen Victoria , but there is also a lot of talking and soul searching in this mediocre production . John Firth is in fine in the role of Prince Albert . The definite weakness here is the casting of Victoria Hamilton as Queen Victoria . Ms . Hamilton is often skittish and churlish . That laughter on her is most annoying . It was the event of ascending to the throne that was supposed to change her . Hamilton is not Queen material . The woman who portrayed Victoria's mother closely resembles the late Edna May Oliver . She does fine supporting work as does the usually reliable Diana Rigg , this time in the role of the baroness . Why did Mr . Peel's party win the election which catapulted him to the Prime Minister's position . This is not discussed in the film . What political party did Peel come from ? The film does adequately show that both Victoria and Albert were victims of politics . Of course , this is always the case .
Good German-Collective Guilt & Guilt for this Tedious Film	Bombed out Germany after World War 11 provides the action for this film dealing with deceit all around us . Toby McGuire , as the chauffeur for journalist Jacob Geismar , ( George Clooney ) is horribly miscast . He is far too young for the part and appears as though he should jump back into the spider man series . Now seen on film as a young smoker , he blows smoke like a chimney stack and it's depressing to see him and Clooney puffing away like there is no tomorrow . True , the film takes place in the 1940s when people really didn't know about the hazards of smoking , but something has to be done now about smoking in film . Even Humphrey Bogart and Bette Davis would have to admit that . The big surprise in the film is Cate Blanchett as some sort of mystery woman . She desperately tries to imitate Marlene Dietrich and in her farewell scene , she walks to the plane with the bag under her arm in the same exact way that Ingrid Bergman did so in the memorable " Casablanca . " Blanchett is up to her neck in duplicity but she speaks in an extremely low voice in a performance that's not one of her best . The film deals with the extremes that the U . S . government would go through to bring someone who committed atrocities to the U . S . due to his knowledge of atomic warfare . The film becomes muddled towards the end as we wonder what's really going on with the Blanchett character . The cinematography is excellent . The backdrop scenes dealing with the Potsdam Conference in July , 1945 are well done .
An Unmarried Woman - Needs Some Kind of Bliss	Jill Clayburgh gives an off-the-wall performance in this 1978 film dealing with a woman who must confront the fact that her husband has walked out on her . After seemingly having the perfectly married life with a precocious daughter , Clayburgh is forced to re-enter life in a time of sexual revolution in America . Michael Murphy is superb as her husband who walks out on her , and there is fine support from Cliff Gorman , the guy who knows the score and Alan Bates , who steals the film as Saul Kaplan , the rebel artist who got his inspiration for expressionism when his mother threw a pickled herring at his father ! The film , before the entrance of Bates , depicts men as overly obsessive sex fiends who will go to any length to make a conquest . While the Kaplan figure goes from that description , Clayburgh suddenly becomes an independent woman . Penelope Russianoff , who had a Ph . D in psychology in real life , portrays the therapist that Clayburgh goes to when Murphy walks out . For a non-actress , she is perfect for the part since she is in every sense of meaning , a true therapist . Finding fault with a basically good film that should have been better may be shown by the inconsistencird of the Clayburgh performance . Her Jewish-American attributes at the beginning get a rude awakening when Murphy walks out . Yet , she goes through a period of shock and desire to cling to something only to boldly claim her independence as a woman . The ending of the film is a definite disappointment . Erica ( Clayburgh ) again proves that as a scorned woman , she hesitates to re-enter life and will , if anything , be subordinate to it .
Last Kiss - Peyton Place in Wisconsin ?	. . . And I actually thought that the television series " Picket Fences " showed plenty of what was going on in Wisconsin . This film primarily deals with commitments or really the lack of . It is about immaturity and problems among older and younger couples . That's the problem here . Too much is trying to be shown . Nonetheless director Tony Goldwyn should be applauded here for an admirable job and getting top performances by veterans Blythe Danner and former Oscar nominee Tom Wilkinson ( In the Bedroom ) . As the frustrated 30 year wife , this is Danner's best part and performance in years . She pulls out every emotional stop as a woman whose married to a psychiatrist ( Wilkinson ) has been failing for years . Wilkinson is a brooding figure who finally speaks out when his pregnant daughter's fiancé has cheated on her . The story is also about friends of the young couple . One disenchanted guy whose affair has ended and has decided to leave on a whirlwind trip with a fellow pal , a 29 year old bartender . Casey Affleck and his wife can't stop arguing while they undergo the pains of trying to rear a baby . The film really centers around Zach Braff and his relationship with Barrett . Who are Barrett's parents to give advice after it is revealed that their marriage is on the rocks ? The film had the potential to be a good one but it tries to convey too much . Too much immaturity and lack of commitment here . The ending scenes of sitting out in the rain to get his girl back are sometimes laughable at best .
We're Not Married-Better to Elope After this One	Victor Moore , as a justice of the peace , who didn't realize that his authority to marry people didn't start until January 1 . Therefore , all people he had previously married prior to this date were determined not to be married legally and were notified accordingly . Here is where the fun begins . As would be the case in comedies , many of the couples don't have the best of marriages and some might use this as an excuse to exit from the scene . The most hilarious of the group is the marriage between Zsa Zsa Gabor and Louis Calhern . She tries to get him involved with a hooker so that she can divorce him and under California law qualify for millions due to that state's laws . Does he turn the tables on her when it's determined that they're not married ! Marilyn Monroe has a bring fling as a beauty contestant in a Mrs . contest . When she wins , she is naturally ineligible as she and David Wayne aren't legally wed . Wayne uses this to his advantage to get Marilyn to stay home and take care of their youngster instead . Thanks to the snafu , Eddie Bracken has married Mitzi Gaynor who finds herself pregnant as Bracken receives the news of their illegal marriage while being shipped off in the army . How the 2 manage to wed to provide the legitimacy cover for the baby is quite amusing . Paul Douglas dreams of what the single life could be when he finds out that he is not wed to Eve Arden . Surprisingly , Arden is much restrained here . Amazing that her comic gifts were not utilized . Fred Allen is awfully good along with his talk-show host wife Ginger Rogers , who battle off-air while fooling the public on their morning radio show . Isn't this a take-off of Dorothy Kilgallen and her husband Dick Kalmar ? A pleasant film . Before you wed , view the credentials of the person marrying you !
Bigamist Lays An Egg	You would think that given the nature of the plot-bigamy and deceit , a terrific cast headed by Edmond O'Brien , Joan Fontaine and Ida Luppino , the latter also directed , there would be a lot of fireworks . If anything the film fizzles out at the end . O'Brien is a businessman whose marriage has really become a business arrangement with wife Eve . ( Fontaine ) Along comes Luppino and love and another marriage with a baby ensues . Edmond Gwenn is his usual whimsical self . As an over zealous adoption agency person , he fully investigates O'Brien due to his suspicions . The majority of the film is where O'Brien relates to Gwenn how he got into this predicament . You actually gain sympathy for the O'Brien character . The picture needed more excitement . You have 3 players who were so capable of explosive scenes . There is none of that here and that is the fault with this film .
for When Our Cause is Just , or isn't it ?	" Just Cause " starts off well but after 45 minutes goes downhill rapidly . Ruby Dee runs to a veteran college professor , who hasn't practiced law in years . She begs him to intervene on the part of her college dropout grandson who is on death row for killing an eleven year old 8 years before . It looks like the old south with white officials beating confessions out of accused black people ? But wait a minute , Tany Brown , Laurence Fishburne , is the sheriff . He beats his own people ? Ed Harris steals the show as an insane religious zealot who is also on death row . Harris does a great imitation of Hannibal Lechter and is effective . His letter eventually frees Dee's grandson ( a very good Blair Underwood ) but the viewers are soon in for a predictable roller-coaster like ride in a fairly predictable film . Veterans Kevin McCarthy and Hope Lange are completely wasted as Connery's in-laws . The way the bodies begin to pile up , it might be just as well . Cate Capshaw plays Connery's wife who once played a key role in a previous Underwood trial . What's going on here ? Is everything so coincidental ?
A Blueprint for Murders " Peters " Out	Interesting film soon falls flat . Joseph Cotten , a reserved heavy smoking businessman , shows up just in time when his young niece dies suddenly in the hospital . Joe's brother and sister-in-law are already gone , and before his death , the brother had remarried the lovely Jean Peters . A young nephew survives . What seems to be a routine tragedy soon develops into murder by poisoning . When it becomes obvious that Peters has killed her step-daughter , Cotten and others must prove it and at the same time protect the young nephew from the conniving killer . The film falls flat once Cotten follows Peters and the young nephew on to a boat where she is taking the young lad to see Europe and probably come to his death . Cotten's scheme is to kill his sister-in-law before she kills the little boy . Far-fetched but not out of the realm of a world gone crazy is the plot to this film . The entire problem here is that it's almost impossible for anyone to pin the murder on Peters . It appears that after supposedly poisoning Miss Peters at the end , Cotten seems to have gone awry . The poison doesn't seem to be working proving that those aspirins with the w on them weren't poison after all . . . . But were they ?
Union Station - Caution : Subway Riding May Be Hazardous to Your Health	In the same year that William Holden and Nancy Olson earned Oscar nominations for " Sunset Boulevard , " they both appeared in this crime thriller . When Olson observes the forever villainous Lyle Bettger with a gun , the action begins . Olson and his gang have kidnapped a wealthy blind girl . A faux pas in the film is when the father shows pictures of the girl when she is between 12-13 years of age . At that time she had her sight but she looks more like she is 21 years old there . Jan Sterling shows that she had what it takes as Bettger's moll who takes a bullet during a shoot out with a police officer . Sterling's voice comes across as the typical dumb blonde . The Bettger character is a mean spirited thief driven to murder for $100 , 000 . The below the subway sequences are very good even though we know how this will all turn out . William Holden smokes his way as usual , this time as the cop assigned to the station . Barry Fitzgerald showed his mettle again playing a police officer . He seemed to get these parts after the memorable " Going My Way . " Fitzgerald's Irish brogue is so suitable for the part . Why is Nancy Olson still in harms way after she has informed the police about the dangerous Bettger and after they begin to eliminate the members of the ruthless gang ?
Action Picture Fizzles Upon Impact	Denzel Washington , a policeman in law-school is playing basketball with the neighborhood toughs . He achieves fame by bringing down a drug dealing character , played extremely well by John Lithgow , who by his acting of a psychopath , put a new dimension into his acting abilities . Washington has it made as the years pass . Lithgow plots revenge while incarcerated and breaks out violently at his parole hearing . He turns the tables on Washington in several ways including the killing of his friend and fellow officer , nice played by Kevin Pollak . Washington is blamed for the killing . He kidnaps Denzel and shoots drugs into his system and provides him with a prostitute . The two eventually tangle on top of a high area before the obvious ending occurs . A good story allowed to go awry by crazy staged events .
It Happened to Jane Runs Out of Steam	Disappointing Doris Day-Jack Lemmon 1958 vehicle . The plot is funny where a widow with 2 children fights a railroad magnate , played to the hilt by Ernie Kovacs . It becomes a back and forth battle . As the lawyer for Day , Lemmon never really breaks through in this part . The comedic gifts of Mary Wickes are wasted in a role as a switchboard operator turned newspaper reporter . Steve Forrest plays a N . Y . reporter who picks up on the feud as well as having romantic designs on Day . The laughs are purely predictable . Nice scenery depicted along with a patriotic Maine having their city council meetings with full participation by the citizenry . Day and Lemmon deserved better .
Act of Violence He Had Plenty of Film Time to Do Him In	A limping Robert Ryan is out to get Van Heflin since the latter betrayed his fellow men to the Nazis in a prisoner of war camp during World War 11 . My main problem with the film is that Ryan had plenty of opportunities to blow Heflin away but did not . Ryan plays his usual embittered self in this film noir production of 1948 . Janet Leigh co-stars as Heflin's wife . You can almost laugh when she goes to the hotel convention where Heflin is at to warn him that Ryan is after him with a gun . When she goes up the stairs , some revelers are playing happy days are here again . Quite inappropriate for what the scene calls for in my opinion . Phyllis Thaxter is the girlfriend to Ryan . She does her best to persuade him not to kill Heflin . As the woman Heflin meets who introduces him to even more trouble , the usually reliable Mary Astor is right on the mark in this one . With her hair combed down , Astor looks much younger then she usually did in films . The ending here is totally unrealistic , even with the theme that you will get what you deserve .
Cinderella Liberty - Fairy Tales Don't Really Come True	Depressing film dealing with the subject of human losers . We have Johnny ( James Caan ) as a sailor who is left behind due to a medical condition and in the process his records are lost placing him in navy limbo . He encounters a tramp , convincingly played by Marsha Mason . Mason reminds me of Susan Hayward in looks and that she often played troubled women . In this picture , it's no different . In another Oscar nominated losing performance , she plays a woman who has been knocked around a lot . In a way , the part was a forerunner for " The Goodbye Girl , " a far better picture and performance by her . She has a black child who is street wise and sensitive at the same time . The film depicts the relationship between Mason and Caan . Mason is not an Anna Magnani of " The Rose Tattoo " memory though she tries to be a loving companion one moment only to descend into hysterics at another time . Their one opportunity to find happiness leads to sadness when she gives birth to a child only to lose it a week later . John , desperately trying to show kindness and responsibility is also devastated . Though Mason abandons both Caan and the black child at the end , the film ends when Johnny is able to change places with Eli Wallach , who portrays a naval person who was thrown out of the navy . With the change in identity , John and the boy can pursue Mason to New Orleans where she has gone . The fairy tale of " Cinderella " ended happily . This non-fairy tale ends with some encouragement but we realize the plight of those down on their luck in this society .
" Piccadilly Jim A Real Dilly "	Supporting players Cora Witherspoon and Eric Blore steal the show in this funny 1936 film . A guy , ( Robert Montgomery ) who is a cartoonist and his father , a Shakespearian actor , who hasn't played Shakespeare in 20 years , ( a very funny Frank Morgan ) vie for the attention of two women . Morgan is after Billie Burke , from a wealthy family , who is a plain ordinary lady . The trouble is her sister , Nesta , played with an aristocratic humor by Witherspoon . She sees Morgan as a fortune hunter and tries to end the liaison . Montgomery starts a cartoon series based on the family which is soon a hit throughout England . Little does her know that the girl he is after is the niece of Witherspoon . There's a ship-board romance to America . Morgan dresses up as a European aristocrat to impress Witherspoon and her family . Further complications leads him to have the butler , Blore , play his father . The ending is predictable but it's funny to see how things entangle in this screwball comedy of 1936 .
Where the Heart is	Cliché ridden film dealing with a teenager who builds her life after being abandoned by her boyfriend at a local Wal-Mart . The boyfriend goes on to become a country singer superstar before drugs and drinking ruin his career as well as getting hit by a truck which leads to the amputation of both legs . This film also shows that there are still good people on this earth , as our teenager meets up with Stockard Channing , a reformed drunk who has found religion and takes the pregnant girl in . When Channing is killed during a tornado several years later , she lives a lot of money to our newly matured young lady . Naturally , our teenager finds love with a man who takes care of an ailing sister . How many times have we met these characters in other films ?
Consenting Adults-It's Not Bob , Carol , Ted & Alice	The first part of the film really drags where a musical performer , Kevin Kline , leads an average life with wife and daughter . Along comes the new neighbors . Kevin Spacey is in fine form as the neighbor . At once , he shows himself to be an oddball . He becomes a little too friendly with Kline and Mary Elizabeth , and when they say they're not that rich , he fakes an accident so that they can get money . All this comes at a price , he wants to swap partners . I thought I was dealing with a picture about swinging but how wrong I was . The film really takes off when Spacey's wife is found dead and Kline , who had supposedly gone to bed with her , is the prime suspect in her murder . While the movie becomes a murder mystery , this exciting part could have been handled a lot better . It is soon determined that Spacey had a large insurance policy out on his wife , and more shockingly , the dead woman is not his wife , and furthermore , Spacey is now carrying on with Kline's wife . All this as you can imagine is a little too hard to take . The ending has that riveting feeling but you feel that you've gone way out of the way to get to this point .
Bourne Ultimatum Ultimately is Fatiguing	Even with the great chase scenes and non-stop action , The Bourne Ultimatum ultimately does not satisfy as we have seen so much of this before . It doesn't take much to realize as the film goes on that the head of the group has his own agenda . David Strathairn , in the latter role , plays the part cool and collected , even when the ax is about to fall on him . Albert Finney , who comes in at the end of the film , is really marvelous in the role of the head who reminds Jason of what he has done and how the whole story came to be . Joan Allen is so young looking here and appealing as a worker who comes to realize that Bourne is a victim of circumstance . Naturally , Matt Damon steals the show in the lead role . His handling of every obstacle placed in his path in amazing .
The Rainmaker - When It Rains , It Pours But Cloudburst Doesn't Help	Even the great Katharine Hepburn and Burt Lancaster can't help this film dealing with a woman who has little prospect of ever finding a husband in a rural Texas town . Hepburn plays Lizzie Curry to the hilt but she can't arise over the writing and some utterly boring scenes . Hepburn may also have been too old for the part . She was 49 in 1956 . She is frustrated in her attempts to find love despite the fact that she has strong family support in her father and brothers played by Lloyd Bridges and Earl Holliman . Both gentlemen give ample support , especially Holliman , the more sympathetic to his sister's needs . Lizzie admits that she is no Lady Godiva or Cinderella at the ball . Bridges frankly tells her that she is plain and will remain a spinster . Remember the way that Ralph Richardson told Olivia De Havilland this in " The Heiress ? " Lancaster is Starbuck , a con man who comes to the town and brings Lizzie to realize that she is more the woman than she actually thought she was . His early scenes will remind you of his Oscar winning portrayal of Elmer Gantry 4 years later . There is also another wonderful supporting performance by Wendell Corey , the town sheriff , a divorced man who can't bring himself to love Lizzie . The story is told in the backdrop of a drought hitting the small Texas town . The ending in particular is more stage like than a motion picture .
Sum of All Fears - You'd Be Afraid Too	A rather muddled thriller with the U . S . and Russia on the verge of total conflagration . Ben Affleck , the doctoral scientist , knows that the Russians did not cause the nuclear explosion that destroyed the eastern part of the United States . He has to prove it before President Cromwell nukes Russia and they fight back . There is a rather confusing beginning with the 1973 Syria , Egypt surprise attack on Israel . It takes a while until we can relate this to current happenings . This could have made a good film for 007 . Wasn't that chaotic organization always trying to stir up trouble between the U . S . and Russia ?
The Fountain She Studied Science in Junior High School	Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz are well cast in this film . Their acting is quite good but in reality , what are they really trying to achieve here ? The film has its good moments when it is up-to-date with a dedicated doctor desperately trying to save his wife from a fatal brain tumor . The ancient scenes are absolutely ridiculous and are even laugh-worthy . Discussing tree of life , problems in Spain et al could have been avoided here . Veteran pro Ellen Burstyn as Dr . Lillian provides some good moments as an understanding doctor in a world of reality but her role is wasted here . Perhaps , it would have been more exciting to bring another exorcism in here . Jackman's line that death is a disease is a catchy one . Only in the end does he accept some form of reality . As for Ms . Weisz stating that she studied science in junior high school , my high school chemistry teacher would take umbrage at that . Life , as we know it , sure isn't a bowl of cherries as this film wisely depicts .
Charlie & Me - Needs A Doctor on Call	We've seen it so many times before . Grandpa is stricken with a severe coronary , but this time the precocious and often obnoxious little girl lies to protect him . She is invariably afraid of the surgery he may have to have to survive . Of course , it turns out that the girl was right and we're supposed to listen to her rather than the physician , the latter played by Barclay Hope , young , with a cold veneer but hungry for love . Grandpa Tom Bosley gives his all to the story , but the writing is so obvious . Despite a surprise ending , we've seen so much of this before . Of course , love doesn't bloom between Grandpa's widower son and the doctor's ex-girl friend .
Shaggy Dog - It's A Dog's Life	Fred MacMurray and Jean Hagen starred in this 1959 film . Miss Hagen was given very little to do here . Ironically , about 15 years after this film , both MacMurray and Hagen were diagnosed with throat cancer . He survived , dying from pneumonia years later . She succumbed 2 years later , in 1977 , at age 54 . This lighthearted film deals with MacMurray being afraid of dogs only to have his son fall victim to a Borgia curse and turn into a dog at times . Naturally , there is the new girl next door whose father leads a spy ring . Our son turned dog hears all about their plots and the rest of the film is devoted to MacMurray not being believed by police that his son has turned into a dog . There is the usual wily car chase but this time a dog is at the wheel . A typical Disney film without the usual fanfare . That's probably because the film is in black and white .
Stage Fright - Was Jane Intimidated by Marlene Here ?	After viewing this film , I was wondering if Jane Wyman was intimidated by the fact that she co-starred with Marlene Dietrich in this 1950 Hitcock film . It sure appeared that way to me in the scenes with these two ladies , despite the fact that Wyman had already copped an Oscar 2 years before for " Johnny Belinda . " The interesting performance in this film is that of Richard Todd . It's interesting to view his innocence at the beginning literally turn into a maniacal performance of being first rate . How convenient that the woman he loved , Wyman , would instead turn her attention to Michael Wilding , the investigator of the murder case . You know there is more to it than Dietrich turning the tables on Todd . In a way , it reminded me of the complicity of Dietrich with Tyrone Power , 8 years later in " Witness for the Prosecution . " Nonetheless , the film is an interesting one . We can say by film's end that the curtain literally comes down on Todd .
The Associate - You Could Associate With This	Women's lib would really go for this 1996 film about a woman who loses a promotion to her fellow worker despite her better experience and seniority . Since she will now be a subordinate to this guy , she quits and forms her own investment group . She is aided by a very frumpy Dianne Wiest . When she can't get anywhere due to her sex , she invents a male partner to get her ideas accepted . The film is a funny one and when Whoopi is forced to " produce " this partner , she gets a costume with the white face of a Marlon Brando mixed with a Thomas Jefferson profile and hair-do . That part is really hilarious . Of course , there is more fun ahead when Whoopi is accused of killing this partner and Wiest is accused of being an accessory to murder . With all this , the film is highly predictable but go enjoy it anyway .
Bridges of Toko-Ri is A Bridge to Nowhere	Imagine , Grace Kelly won the Oscar in 1954 for " The Country Girl . " Bill Holden costarred with her in that film and in this one , he plays her husband . Amazing that Miss Kelly did not have a major role in this film . This is really nothing more than a routine film again dealing with the subject of the futility of war . Holden plays a Colorado attorney who has been brought back for service in the Korean War . Fredric March , the commander is stoic throughout the film . How he relates to Grace Kelly in this film is quite puzzling . He tells her of the fact that he lost 2 sons in war-time and that his wife has gone off . Perhaps , he serves as the intermediary to prepare her for the tragedy that lies ahead . No matter what , it is an eerie performance . Mickey Rooney provides some comic relief in his role as a helicopter pilot who is ready to fight all of Tokyo when his Japanese girlfriend abandons him for another serviceman . We expect more from the film , which in my opinion is a major disappointment . There are some excellent aerial scenes .
So Long At the Fair - Ending Lacks Real Excitement	Curious film dealing with where is he ? Jean Simmons and David Tomlinson star as brother and sister in this one who go to Paris from London to view the 1889 French Exposition . Tomlinson mysteriously disappears and the film is devoted to looking for him . Trouble is that no one at the hotel will corroborate Simmons ' story and she is made to appear as emotionally unbalanced . Cathleen Nesbitt has a juicy supporting role as the hotel innkeeper . Many film shots of her make you think of Mrs . Danvers in " Rebecca . " She has that sinister Danvers look , yet is never allowed to totally breakthrough . Dirk Bogarde is convincing in the romantic lead . While you'd think that the reason for the disappearance had to do with espionage or something just as enticing , the ending is a bit of a downer . While it is plausible , it really wasn't that exciting . This film was a good one but lacked the extra push that was so needed at the end .
The Omen - That Nasty Little Brat !	The original and probably the best of the series dealing with the anti-Christ child who reeks havoc on the lives of his parents , presidential aspirant and ambassador , Gregory Peck and his lovely , but troubled wife-Lee Remick . As the child gets older , the woes of his parents worsen and why not . He was destined to destroy them to move closer to his ultimate goal of world control . As the sinister governess , Billie Whitelaw is excellent is conveying the emotion of an evil woman . The ending is quite predictable . Nobody allows a child to get stabbed to death under Hollywood standards . While adequate for the part , Peck seems uncomfortable when not acting in films of social consciousness . This film is more like social horror .
The Family Stone - Too Many Stones Unturned ?	Dermott brings Sarah Jessica home for Christmas to meet his family and propose marriage . Every conceivable thing goes wrong and the family can't warm up to her . In the midst , Dermott has a deaf-mute brother who is gay and living with a black gentleman . Another sister has broken off with her beau and there is still another brother . Things get out of hand and Sarah Jessica runs out and the other brother runs after her . When things started to go wrong , Sarah Jessica called her sister to come over . Claire Danes is the sister who does so little in the film . As you can expect , the other brother falls for Sarah Jessica and the same is true for the other couple . Haven't we seen this so many times previously ? In addition , the parents are played by Craig T . Nelson , who looks like he is ready to resume playing " Coach " after this and the usual free-spirited Diane Keaton , who has a secret to reveal that she is terminal . You can just imagine what the last scene is like a year later without Miss Keaton . A highly predictable film dealing with when things aren't and are supposed to be . The best scene is one on television showing Judy Garland singing " Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas " when everything has come out .
Viva Villa But Not Necessarily this Film	Shelley Winters in a typical western yarn set at the time of the uprising of the fiery Mexican Revolutionary Pancho Villa . Gilbert Roland , as Castro , another fiery revolutionary is fascinating to watch . He has these types of parts well under his grip . Even the use of the word gringo can't be said better by anyone . Gold is taken from a train to aid the revolution . Western star , Rory Calhoun , comes along for the ride as a American soldier of fortune , and Miss Winters portrays a woman of virtuous ideals , and full of love as well . This is a story of betrayal and redemption . The love triangle is there but is certainly not dominant in this film . Yes , there is lust and greed but it's revolution time !
The Young Stranger - Witnesses Anyone ?	A teenage James MacArthur stars in this film dealing with the age old theme of listen to your children as well as try to believe them . From an affluent Beverly Hill home , MacArthur finds himself being harassed in a movie theater after a patron complained about his putting his legs on a chair . The problem is that there were plenty of people saw the harassment by the manager of the theater but no one was asked to say anything . This is a definite problem in the screen writing . I had actually forgotten that James Daly was an actor . I remember him in television commercials . As his wife , Kim Hunter looks like she is annoyed with the whole plot . We suddenly find out that she has been contemplating leaving Daly for 5 years . What's stopping you lady , your life of luxury ? While John Frankenheimer always dealt with social problems , this one is cliché ridden . Acting kudos goes to James Gregory as a hard-nosed police officer who adds to the problem by giving MacArthur a bad time . I think this picture was a cheap stunt to continue the theme of " Rebel Without A Cause . " That Sal Mineo masterpiece also deals with wayward youth and a loss of interaction between parent and child . " Young Stranger " is adequate but certainly not in the league of " Rebel . " Whit Bissell is effective as the theater owner who is fed up with the behavior of all teenage movie-goers and wants to use MacArthur as an example . Usually a cowardly co-star in grade B films of the 1950s , Bissell shows his adeptness of really being a weakling . With regard to Gregory , Frankenheimer would get a brilliant performance out of him in 1962's " The Manchurian Candidate . " Remember him as the moronic senator married to Angela Lansbury ?
As Confusing as Medicare Part D Describes " Constant Gardener "	A very disappointing goes to " The Constant Gardener " Dealing with the greed and ultimate murders they commit , pharmaceutical companies really get some reputation from exploiting Kenyan people stricken with aids . They test tuberculosis drugs on them knowing full well they are terminal anyway . Then , they talk up how wonderful the drug is in issuing false reports . Rachel Weisz won a Golden Globe award as best supporting actress for playing Tessa , movie wife of Ray Fiennes . She is murdered along with a black Kenyan doctor when they discover what's going on . It is made to appear that Tessa , who loses Fiennes baby , and the doctor were lovers . That soon unravels when it is discovered that the doctor was a homosexual . The film soon descends into twists of who did what and when . Yes , it is as confusing as the new Medicare Part D program . Aren't the pharmaceutical companies to blame for this one too ?
The Illusionist Deals With A Vanishing Love	Edward Norton is in top form as a magician who loves the woman engaged to the prince of the Austria-Hungary before World War 1 . The two know each other from childhood but were separated due to her family . Leopold is a vicious character who plots to overthrow his father and marry Duchess Sophie . Norton reenters the scene as the Illusionist Eisenheimer and draws much attention as he shows his magical gifts . The fun really starts when Leopold kills Sophie after she tells him that she is leaving him . Paul Giamatti is the police inspector , a role that Charles Laughton would have had a field day with in his time . The film is engrossing and when Giamatti realizes what has occurred , the picture ends on a positive note . Love will keep us together .
The Court Jester Is One Foolish Joke	Danny Kaye was a fabulous entertainer . There is no question about that . However , he allowed himself to be in a very foolish , thinly lined plot in this 1955 mess . I did notice that the musical score for this movie was later adopted by Kaye in his 1960s television series . The film is a spoof of Errol Flynn films . We even have the sinister Basil Rathbone in it . Naturally , he is up to his old evil tricks-even worse than usual since he plots with a king who has usurped power by eliminating members of the royal family , but at the same time , Rathbone , has evil intentions of his own . Amazing that co-stars Rathbone , Angela Lansbury and Mildred Natwick just didn't burst out laughing at some of the inane nonsense here . Yes , we have famous dueling sequences , threats , intimidation made , but we've seen this all before in far better films . No question that Kaye does his best in this poor film imitating a Jester by knocking out the real one - a one scene brief performance by David Carradine . Natwick does well in her role but she doesn't have much material to work with . She is the lady-in-waiting who also doubles as a sorceress . Marion Lorne , of the Carol Burnett Show , would have had a field day with this part . Lansbury , on the other hand , shows that she can depict a certain nastiness . Not to the extreme of Mrs . Iselin , the monster character in " The Manchurian Candidate , " but she isn't Jessica Fletcher either of " Murder , She Wrote . "
Dragnet-More than Just the Facts Are Needed	Jack Webb and Ben Alexander , the two television icons of " Dragnet , " made this 1954 film . As an inducement to get people to see it , the film was colorized . The television show was black and white . The story centers on a runner who is rubbed out at the beginning . Unlike the television show , the killers are shown at the beginning so there is no guessing game . More action was needed . This film was made as if it were for television . There are two very good supporting performances by Virginia Gregg , as the widow of the murder victim . Her scene of utter despair and drunkeness was memorable . When it showed her on one foot , your heart could give out . Also noteworthy was Georgia Ellis ' portrayal of the murderer's wife , hard-boiled and abusive to police , she soon changes her ways when her husband is knocked off . We have the usual elements of police harassment , but this time it's more than justified , a witness who is scared off , thereby making the case harder to get to the guilty . When the head of the mob falls victim to cancer at the end , we can all say , " He deserved it . " Speaking of the latter dread disease , the film is marred in a way by Joe Friday's ( Webb's ) chronic smoking . The latter probably led to his early demise from a coronary some years ago .
In the Bedroom - Not in Any Part of the House	Tom Wilkinson gave a stupendous Oscar nominated performance in this 2001 film . He is the father of a young man who is killed by an insanely jealous husband . Trouble is that the young man was having an affair with an older woman . The heartbreak in Wilkinson's face is forever etched as he becomes a complex character desperately seeking revenge for what has happened . As his wife , Sissy Spacek gives another great performance . Her emotional outbursts will be forever endearing to the viewer . Marisa Tomei , who won the supporting actress Oscar for " My Cousin Vinny , " was again nominated here in the supporting category for her portrayal as the victim's girlfriend . The film does sag as it becomes one of revenge . We have the hunt them down mentality . Wilkinson pulls out all the stops as the enraged father .
3 : 10 To Yuma - You Can Afford Not to Be On Time for this One	Russell Crowe does not exactly sound western here as Ben Wade , an outlaw who is vicious and cunning . The movie becomes preachy at the end when Crowe and Christian Bale , who delivers a great performance , become too friendly . Does Crowe try to show he is a person with a conscience when he reveals at the end that his mother gave him a bible to read and then abandoned him at age 8 ? Does he become sympathetic to the plight of rancher Bale , who wants to bring him in to face justice so that he can collect money to save his family and ranch . The part where the sheriff and posse abandon Bale and his son represents a complete reversal of the " High Noon " concept . Crowe and Bale are natural enemies who come to understand and even aid each other . The ending will sadden but shock you . Nevertheless , the concept that there is good even in the worst of people is cliché here .
Cinderfella	The old story told with a twist . The sexes are reversed in this one . This time it's Jerry Lewis victimized by a wicked stepmother and her 2 hoodlum sons . Who else but Ed Wynn could play a fairy godfather ? Dame Judith Anderson , a veteran player of the wicked , is at it again but how can we expect this great lady to add comedy to spice up her performance . She needed to do her part with a comic twist as Jo Van Fleet did in the television version of " Cinderella . " Sadly , that's missing . Playing the role straight is of no consequences in this farce . The sons come off like underworld hoods . It's a little too heavy for this film . Jerry is funny but his attempts at singing fall quite flat . Nice to show the kiddies that guys can be victimized too .
Invitation Could Have Been More Inviting	Routine film involving father Louis Calhern's over protective approach for his ailing daughter . Not only isn't she told that she has a year left to live , Daddy Calhern uses his wealth to marry her off to Dan Pierce . ( Van Johnson ) The film would have worked better had it not been for the Ruth Roman part of Maud , the girl next door , who lost out on Johnson and never lets Ellen ( Dorothy McGuire ) forget it . Between this and finding a book , Ellen soon finds out what is going on . A series of flashbacks shows how Dan wooed her and the supposed happiness they found during their 10 months of supposed wedded bliss . The acting is quite good here , especially McGuire's Ellen . She is soft spoken at times and reminded me of Kathy , her Oscar nominated performance of 5 years before , in the memorable " Gentleman's Agreement . " She pulls out all the stops when she finds out what is really going on . Roman's Maud is a nasty character . She will do anything to get back her lover Dan , even if it means telling Ellen that she will die soon . The film goes down in quality once Ellen knows what is going on . It is with the change of season that we know that love has triumphed and all shall end well as the end flashes on the screen .
Hairspray-Spray It but Don't Necessarily Say It	Top-notch dancing and singing still can't save a very disappointing " Hairspray . " While it is a feel-good movie , there are too many social problems dealt here in an unconvincing way . Travolta's performance as Baltimore laundress , Edna Turnblad , is disappointing at best . She really puts it on in an over-the-top performance . Her face is made to resemble a rat . What saves him is his excellent dancing from prior experiences in " Grease " and the great " Saturday Night Fever . " There is a gem of a performance by Michelle Pfeiffer as the bigoted television manager . She will do anything to stop that teen show from integrating . Nikki Blonsky strongly resembles Marissa Jared Winokur , the Broadway Tracy . She is quite good in the role . She belts out those songs and dances up a storm with great determination . Queen Latifah is in fine form as a leader of the black singing and dancing group . Latifah adds to her performance as Mama Morton from " Chicago . " Harvey Fierstein should have re-prised his role as Edna on the screen from Broadway . He captured that part due to his sexual preference . That's missing in the Travolta performance . While this is Baltimore 1962 , the film is plagued with the worn out cliché that black students make up the majority of detention room attendees . This is not the case . Regardless of race , if you misbehave , this is where you go . The detention room in this film is being depicted where black students dance up a storm . While many detention centers in urban settings are out of control , they're not exactly dancing up a storm there either . It would have been better to show the dancing actions outside of school such as at dismissal time .
All that A Good Movie Allows	In honor of their 1954 hit , Magnificent Obsession , Hollywood decided to team Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson again for another tear-jerker . This one is All that Heaven Allows . Jane is a widow again who falls for the town gardener , nice played by Rock Hudson . Since Ron is much younger than the Wyman character , the town gossips led by Mona , an excellent Jacqueline de Wit , have a field day . The inference immediately is that the two must have had a relationship while Wyman was still wed . As was the case with so many Jane Wyman films , Agnes Moorehead is part of this one too . She again plays an understanding friend , Sara . She attempts to warn her friend of the gossip with its ramifications . I found Moorehead to be weak here . Sirk would have been better served to have her in the Mona role . Moorehead could play real vicious when prompted to . Bowing to the town gossip and her adult children , Wyman breaks off with Ron only to find herself alone with her new television set . It has to take an accident for true love to intervene as the film ends . for Wyman and Hudson lovers . As Jane Wyman in well into her 90s now , wouldn't it be nice if her masterpiece picture of 1951 , The Blue Veil , were shown ? The film is currently in litigation . Time to get this gem of a film out of mothballs .
This George and Martha Aren't First People	Bleak version of " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " Elizabeth Taylor sacrificed her good looks to portray Martha , the unhappy wife of a college professor . Taylor shouts across the scream with a vengeance . Her depiction of the wife traumatized by the death of their only child is a remarkable one and she was awarded her second Oscar for it . Richard Burton received another losing Oscar nomination , this time as George , the college professor husband . He is vile and often tipsy . He cannot control the situation nor life either . George and Martha are really 2 bored individuals letting loose on life in general . George Segal and Sandy Dennis were both Oscar nominated for supporting awards for their performances as a young faculty member and his wife who sit through the tirades of George and Martha . How anyone could sit through this on screen is beyond me . Apparently , academy voters felt sympathy for Dennis by giving her the coveted award in this category .
Man on Fire - Give the Kid A Break !	Definitely a forerunner to " Kramer vs . Kramer " with Bing Crosby starring as a father who has custody of his young son . His wife ( Mary Fickett ) divorced him years ago for a Washington political person . Crosby is a successful businessman who has a wonderful relationship with his son . Enter mom and her husband who want custody of the child . Anne Seymour , in a one-scene restrained performance , plays the judge who surprises everyone with her decision to give the boy to his mother since the child has no ties with her . An embittered Crosby goes on a brief binge while being consoled by Inger Stevens , an assistant to his attorney played by the usual movie-lawyer E . G . Marshall . The film is interesting and well acted by all but my flaw with it is that the child is constantly bounced around as Crosby and Fickett fight it out . In addition , the Solomon-like decision did not apply here . If we remember our bible , the woman who was willing to see Solomon divide the child really didn't love the child at all , if she wanted this to happen . In the film , the mother finally relents as she sees that the child really wants to stay with his father and therefore , in the tradition of Solomon , she loves the child more . This is wrong and the writers of this picture should have read the bible more carefully . Naturally , everyone comes to his senses in this one by the end as a reasonable solution is obtained . One could question why this solution couldn't be put forth at the beginning of the controversy . Nevertheless , the film shows insight in its discussing the effects of divorce on children , the anger of one parent in particular and that a child should remain with the female parent . Yet , haven't we come a long way in equality for both parents ?
Face the Music Doesn't Quite Make the Beat	To the other people who have evaluated this film : I have seen a lot worse . The story centers around a young couple who write and win an award for the best song in a film . While on the dais , the guy ( Patrick Dempsey ) , proposes marriage . You would think this would be the perfect ending . Rather , it's an imperfect beginning to a rather fair film . The couple soon divorce due to a misunderstanding and go their separate ways . Fast forward to several years later , where Dempsey , now in real-estate and engaged to wed his partner , meets up with his ex-wife . ( Molly Ringwald They are given the opportunity to write a song for Moishe , yes I mean Moishe , who is now happily wed to his wife Christine . Moishe and Christine ? Lord bless those inter-faith marriages ! This highly predictable film is noteworthy for its light comedy . Will they write the hit song ? How will they be drawn back into love ? It's highly predictable but somewhat amusing . You can face this music .
Amazing and Lovely - The Plot Thickens	Brenda Blethyn does an American accent in this quirky film about a woman who has complications following cosmetic surgery . Blethyn plays a divorcée with two daughters in addition to an 8 year old black girl that she has adopted . While Blethyn worsens in the hospital , the story really takes off . Daughter Emily Mortimer is an unmarried aspiring actress who has been in a film in exactly 2 scenes . She loses a part after trying out for another role since the screen chemistry is not there between her and Dermot Mulroney . She later meets him after breaking up with her boyfriend 2 days earlier . Catherine Keener is the other daughter who really has problems . She is trying to sell items that she has made . She is married with a child and her husband is routinely cheating on her with her best friend . She gets a job at a photo store and is attracted to the 17 year old running the place . His mom eventually calls the police and she is arrested for statutory rape . Just in time that Blethyn begins to get better . The 8 year old precocious daughter is becoming too obnoxious to take . While the film is interesting , there are far too many problems presented here . We can't thank the screenwriters for this .
The Red Danube-You'll Waltz Through This One	A very good piece of propaganda may best describe this 1949 film dealing with repatriation of people after World War 11 . Walter Pidgeon stars as the non-believer assigned to Rome and Vienna after the war . There he encounters the Mother Superior , played so well by Ethel Barrymore . The story concerns itself with Maria Buhlen - a young and wide-eyed Janet Leigh , who has been living in Austria , but since she is a Russian citizen , she must return to the Soviet Union . Even as a ballerina , her fate will be sealed there . Maria manages to escape before being turned in by the British who are looking to appease the Soviets . Of course , legislation is pending in the U . N . that would help repatriates such as Maria . Love blossoms along the way between Maria and an army man , Peter Lawford . Lawford , other than making love to Ms . Buhlen , has little to do here . Love seems to conquer all until tragedy intervenes . The film succeeds in showing the deprivation and fear of such people caught up by world politics . That little Austrian girl will just tug at your heart . The heavy here is Louis Calhern . He turns in a fine performance as a Russian soldier who goes by the book . He goes after Maria Buhlen with a vengeance . Mother Superior ? Maria ? Hiding Maria ? I thought I was back in " The Sound of Music " momentarily but this film is worthwhile and should be seen .
Sabateur Sabotages Itself At the Very End	Excellent Hitchcock thriller with Robert Cummings proving once again that he could really act up a storm . This time he is a defense plant worker caught up in a horrible plot when his best friend is killed at the plant . Priscilla Lane is the girl who suddenly becomes interested in Cummings as the plot thickens and he is pursued from California to N . Y . There is a diabolical plot by a group of wealthy 5th columnists to destroy from from within . Hitchcock was known to play up the upper echelons of society involved in mayhem in his long career as a director . Ironically , the film implodes at the very end . While we see what happens to the guy who killed Cummings ' friend , we don't see what happens to the rest of the gang , again , many of whom represent the upper crust of society .
Racket-No Foul Ball Here	Entertaining film with politics , crime and corruption the main themes here . Robert Mitchum plays a dedicated , righteous policeman who heads a unit of officers . He is as honest as 24 hours in a day . He takes pride in such officers as Bill Talman , a young cop gunned down in police headquarters by the usually evil Robert Ryan . Without the insanity of his earlier crime driven roles , Ryan comes across as the embodiment of evil . Ray Collins steals the show as a worm of a prosecuting attorney up to his neck in corruption . It is interesting to note that both Collins and Talman went on to TV careers in " Perry Mason . " Lizabeth Scott , as a lounge singer , caught up in the mayhem , tries hard to please but she does not evoke the emotion needed for her role . To say that the ending is justified is more than right .
Thank the Lord they Don't Do this to Directors-Film Suffers from Its Period 12	Yauzer , Yauzer . " They Shoot Horses , Don't They , ? " is only moderately successful in recreating the dance marathon of the 1930s during the depression years . Jane Fonda and Susannah York received well-deserved Oscar nominations for their portrayals as dance contestants eager to win the big prize for survival . As Gloria , the heroine of dance hall contests , Fonda was the embodiment of a period of social turmoil in America . Her utter despair and hopelessness as a born loser is well depicted in the film . York , as an aspiring actress , who seduces , Sarrazin , partner to Fonda , seems to be in a whirlwind of utter chaos . Her cracking up scene in a shower following the collapse of Red Buttons is memorable and poignant . We feel the tiredness of the contestants as the hours pass and they desperately try to stay on course so as not to be eliminated . Due to the depression-like atmosphere , there is still plenty of food for the aspiring contestants to eat . It's very hard to conceive that Bruce Dern and Bonnie Bedelia , who plays his pregnant wife , could endure so many hours of this torment . The lackluster effect is somewhat offset by the derby sequences . Played with the tunes of California Here I Come and By the Sea , By the Sea the contestants jog quickly so as to avoid elimination . Red Buttons portrays an aging sailor who does a nice tap dance scene but it's too much for him in the end . As the marathon emcee , Gig Young won a best supporting Oscar . This award was his 3rd nomination . He had been nominated for his alcoholic portrayals in both the drama " Come fill the Cup , " in 1951 and the delightful comedy , " Teacher's Pet , " in 1958 . In ' Horses ' he is right on step with the contestants , following their every movement . He is sort of like a town barker . Seemingly sympathetic to the contestants , he is nonetheless a businessman at heart . The film is truly a haunting portrayal of what marathon dancers went through in their quest for survival . Those revolving chandeliers shows a possible elegance in a period of want and deprivation . The problem is the gloom and doom depicted in the film . After all , even the Great Depression ended . It's still difficult to figure out the Sarrazin character . Was he victim of the depression , a lunatic or a loner caught up in an air of hopelessness ?
A Stranger's Heart - Terms of Endearment ?	People are at a hospital awaiting donors so that they can have suitable heart transplants . It's New Year's Eve . You know what's exciting about that for them ? There may be traffic accidents due to drunk driving and therefore there will be brain dead people with available hearts . What a way to think but the people are desperate . This could have made an extremely interesting story in itself but instead the turn revolves about a guy and a gal who are waiting for their hearts only to obtain them from a couple killed in a car crash . The two naturally find their way to love and they seek out the 7 year old daughter of the car crash victims . The child is 7 going on 70 . She talks way above that of a child that age even though she has endured such a tragedy . Everyone in the hospital looks awful which you would assume to be true as they're dying of heart disease . Jason , the leading man , never looked better . He looks like he is ready for an evening around town or certainly to play touch football or another sport . I can't imagine who made him up for the hospital scenes . This picture , which is good , would have been better if it concentrated more on all the characters at the hospital .
Paper Moon Proves that It's A Barnum & Bailey World	Depression era film with Ryan and Tatum O'Neil as two terrific con artists . How could Tatum have won for best supporting actress ? She is nearly every scene in the film and steals the show for sure . Amazing that she was able to beat out Madeleine Kahn's Trixie Delight in that category . You really get a feeling for the depression from what the film depicts . When Addie ( Tatum ) stares with that icy expression , you know you're vulnerable to just about everything . What makes the film so good is the bonding between Ryan and Tatum . Since they're father and daughter in real life , this helped the situation . It was that very bond that brings them together at film's end .
Hannah and Her Sisters Works Even Better if Woody Were Out	Woody Allen really had a great film here in 1986's " Hannah and Her Sisters . " The film deals with emotional relationships within a family . We see argumentative and temperamental parents whose 3 offspring daughters can be off the wall at times . Our relationships see affairs between the men in the family and their sisters-in-law . This is handled very well . Woody Allen is at his usual neurotic best as a television producer seeking the meaning of life when he is told that he doesn't have a brain tumor . What spoils the movie is Allen's attempt to leave his ( Jewish ) religion though he has never been as religious at all . He fails at Catholicism and toys with the idea of joining the Krishna movement . In the end , love conquers all . Diane Wiest and Michael Caine both earned Oscars in supporting roles . Wiest , as a chain-smoking neurotic woman who finds success in writing and happiness with her divorced brother-in-law Allen . Caine , is married to Mia Farrow , who was first married to Allen in the film . He falls for Barbara Hershey and all will end well as everyone is eventually paired off with their true loves . Some nice one scene acting by Maureen O'Sullivan as the mother of the girls here .
Lethal Lifestyle Doesn't Need to Be Flamboyant	Hal Holbrook has always been a wonderful actor but we don't need a flamboyant Perry Mason . Raymond Burr was so good at the part as he made you feel that he was a real attorney . Holbrook does not . Even his name Wild Bill immediately suggests a western dude who dabbles in the law . The story line is good here . As always , there is someone who wants to make money off of wealthy individuals . James Stephens is wonderful as the chess champ wrongly accused of the murder of a television fiend . Diahann Carroll is memorable as a drug addicted actress attempting a comeback and Dixie Carter is marvelous as a basketball owner keeping her husband under wraps so that she can continue a clandestine love affair and run his enterprises . William R . Moses proves once more that he is physically and mentally up to the part of Ken Malansky . He has the part down to a science , a good-looking , intelligent attorney ready to involve himself with the chicks .
Girl Next Door-Move in and Try It	Entertaining Dan Dailey and June Haver film . It's the story of a boy affected by his widower father's attachment to the woman who has moved next door . The singing , dancing and cartoon like sequence scenes are an absolute joy to watch . Dennis Day is wonderful here in a supporting role along with a very young looking Cara Williams . The story moves along at a rapid pace and is well done with the music adding so much to the story . Look for a stodgy Clifford Sunberg as a butler .
South Pacific-Come to Me	Rodgers and Hammerstein's great music is the salvation of this 2001 movie . For starters , Glenn Close was too old to play Nellie . Her singing voice can't be compared to Mitzi Gaynor . Emile De Becque as played by the Rade person had no singing range at all . He was like dumbfounded in the part . Some good acting is displayed by Lori Tam Chinn in the role of Bloody Mary . Her speech pattern works and is similar to that of Juanita Moore . Her singing of Bali Hai was inspirational to say the least . John Kerr fared much better in the original movie . There was a certain depth to his performance which is missing in Harry Connick Jr . ' s interpretation of the role of Cable . Yet , the music and scenery transcends all . The original show and movie were definite achievements for facing racial prejudice . How original to depict prejudice via the musical route .
The Westerner-Cowboy with A Comedy Flair	There were some parts of The Westerner that brought me to laugh . Walter Brennan , who won his third Oscar , as Judge Roy Bean , made me laugh with his obsession with Lillian Langtry . That obsession would prove to be his undoing . Some of the dialogue is hackneyed . After punching Bean , Cole ( Gary Cooper ) tells others in the next room that he is out now . Bean is a corrupt judge who has it in for the homesteaders . In fact , he is lynching and shooting them whenever possible . Enters Cole who is accused of horse stealing . He gets off when he gives details about the infamous Langtry to Bean and by sheer coincidence , the real horse thief rides into town . Love blossoms between Cole and Doris Davenport . She is angry when Cole seems to support the Judge . The latter goes against his words and burns the homes down of the homesteaders . Davenport's father dies when horses trample him during the blaze . If you look closely , you will see a very young Dana Andrews as one of the homesteaders . He says one line and is quickly out the door . The scene of the fire is memorable and Brennan's comedic-tragedy performance makes this a film not to forget .
This is England-Union Jack at its Worst	Here we go again . An 11 year old loses his dad in 1983 in the Falklands War . Bullied in school and very unhappy with his life , our young chap , who gives a wonderful performance , is recruited by a bunch of skin-headed losers . He resorts to violence . My criticisms of the film include his mother who scolds the group for keeping her son late and then goes on her merry way and the boy becomes a bona fide member . The film wants us to evoke sympathy for this brat . Yes , I call him a brat because of his actions . Not everyone who loses a parent at 11 resorts to such behavior . Let's stop making excuses for this type of recalcitrant conduct . The film does have redeeming value when the boy sees the death of a black member by the leader is a rage caused by the use of drugs . Question : Since when is a black person allowed to be in such a group ?
Scoop This Vintage Woody Allen : Scoop	Woody Allen brings his vintage comedy in his 2006 film " Scoop . " We have classic lines here such as : " You know the Jewish people . If there is any hint of anti-semitism , they write letters . " Another beauty was : " Kids , you bring them up and then they tell you when they're grown that you have Alzheimer's . " Still another was " Plansky , or Mandelbaum-they both observe the same holidays . " The plot deals with a ghost appearing to tell Scarlett Johansson about a serial murderer . She finds this out under the spell of magician Allen ( Sidney Waterman ) and the rest of the film deals with their attempts to get the whole story revealed with proof . Johansson makes for a good Plansky . Our serial killer-Hugh Jackman - is on target , literally ! An aging Allen acts as Johansson's father as they go through the estate . The scenes with the dead people riding about reminded me of the 1944 film " Between Two Worlds . " The end , where our killer tries to do away with Johansson , was similar in nature to " A Place in the Sun . " Naturally , this film yields comic results .
Whatever Did Happen to Baby Jane Hudson ?	As in anything she did , the late Bette Davis proved herself to be adept to horror . As the long-washed up child actress , Baby Jane Hudson , Davis pulled no punches in creating a memorable brilliant characterization which led to still another Oscar nomination . It is said that Davis was extremely disappointed when she lost the award . She does so well in terrorizing her invalid sister played with an anguish by Joan Crawford . What the made the movie so good was that in real life , Davis and Crawford loathed each other and they took this hatred out on the silver screen as well . Throwing her sister down and serving her a rat is all in Davis's master plan to do evil . Her rendition of " I've Written A Letter to Daddy " is memorable . Gothic horror beautifully realized by an ever effective Davis with remarkable support by Crawford .
Man of the Year - A Joke to the Chief !	While watching this film , I was saying to myself that it would become better when it would become more serious . That is exactly what happened . The problem with the film is that we were stuck with Robin Williams ' corny jokes . He plays a comedian who seeks the presidency and by some fluke wins . As far as the fluke goes , does this sound familiar ? Yes , he runs on a platform of integrity and ignoring the needs of special interest groups . As with too many candidates of today , he is quite vague on complex issues . The film vastly improves when it is discovered that a computer error has pushed him into the presidency . When Laura Linney , as Eleanor Green , an employer with the computer company brings this out , she is discredited in the usual discredited sort of way . Of course , Williams admits on a comedy news show that he shouldn't be president-elect after all . He now becomes even more famous on the comedy circuit because he has shown true integrity . Did the writers of this film ably do so ? The usually sinister Christopher Walken sheds that image and portrays an adviser to Williams or Dobbs as the candidate's name is in this film .
Anne Wasn't As Green in this Finale	While entertaining , this film was disappointing for a trilogy . The innocence of youth has long been forgotten with the advent of World War 1 . Anne is thrust into a clock and dagger like atmosphere as the story takes on an espionage subject matter . The problem is that we really don't know for sure where the espionage is coming from . Is that newspaper editor the traitor that he has been made out to be by that woman society gossip writer ? It's also hard to believe that the baby would recognize Anne . After all , he was just a baby when they were separated . To just say that the Colleen Dewhurst character died was not giving the part much justice at all . Parts 1 and 2 were so much better . Blame Part 3 on World War 1 .
East of Eden-Direction Really Unknown	Director Elia Kazan made " East of Eden " in 1955 . The story of a wayward youth , James Dean , who discovers that his mother-Jo Van Fleet , in a supporting Oscar win , is the head of a brothel . Van Fleet had abandoned husband Raymond Massey years before . Disturbed to begin with and so conflicted with this discovery , Dean depicted a new range in acting talent . Van Fleet's Oscar win was for the right year but not for this picture . She should easily have won as Katie Roth , mother to Susan Hayward , in the 1955 biopic " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " In ' Eden ' , Ms . Van Fleet is hardly on camera . The torment shared by Dean directly conflicts with his ultra-religious father , Raymond Massey , in an unforgettable performance . Cal will go away but not before Massey suffers a major stroke . It is after this , we start to see who the real righteous of his sons is . Cal will begin to show determination .
Transamerica Transcends All	Oscar Nominee Felicity Huffman gives a wonderful performance in this film . Unhappy with life and unable to make decisions , this male wants a sex change operation . Before she can have it , she discovers that she fathered a child with a woman now deceased . The character meets the kid and the two travel cross country on a self-revealing journey . A lot of these cross country films such as " Harry and Tonto " deal with human self-discovery while the journey is made . Transamerica is no exception . It follows the pair as they live , experience and as they come to find out their true relationship . This is a film dealing with the acceptance of a transsexual person in society . There are comic over-tones but the picture takes on a lot of meaning when Huffman comes face to face with her parents , especially the mother who could really never accept the situation . This film nicely challenges social mores and values .
Faith of My Fathers-John McCain-Man for All Seasons	Faithful biography depicting the life of Sen . John McCain as a prisoner of war during the Vietnam War . Coming from a strict military family , McCain is able to weather the storm on confinement and brutality of the North Vietnamese during the conflict . A weak student at the academy , McCain is backed up by his father , a very good performance by Scott Glenn . Glenn portrays a totally dedicated military official who doesn't even shake an eyelid when he informed that his son has been captured . The torture chambers and the torture inflicted on McCain and others is well shown . McCain is definitely pictured as a hero in this film . He refused to be released if it meant having to participate in North Vietnamese propaganda . A very good story dealing with military honor , call to duty and undying patriotism by our men and women in uniform .
Petticoat Junction - All Aboard !	Hooterville , Petticoat Junction , Homer Bedloe , some of the names of people and places in this memorable 1960s series . Edgar Buchanan played Uncle Joe . To me , he was a reminder of the Kingfish in the old Amos ' N Andy series . Old , lazy and shiftless , Buchanan etched an unforgettable character who lived life the way it should be-a leisurely rural existence filled with scheming to improve his lot and to avoid a harder way of doing things . Bea Benaderet was right on target as the mother of the 3 daughters operating out at the Shady Rest Hotel . What an appropriate name for a hotel out in the sticks . Charles Lane , who died recently at age 102 , was a scene stealer each time he was on . Yes , he was Homer Bedloe , always up to his neck to gain control of Shady Rest for the railroad . A nostalgic tribute to rural life was depicted here .
Dino and Susan - Fair Dynamic Duo	Move over Hilary Clinton and Condi Rice . You had Ada to contend with before your true political aspirations become known . Bo Gillis is running for governor . He is introduced to trollop Ada , and after a whirlwind romance , they wed . Ada is played by Susan Hayward , always at the top of her game . Even with her red hair ablaze , Hayward looked haggard and not in the best of health when she made this flick . Of course , Bo , ( Dean Martin ) is a fool duped to run for governor by political boss Sylvester , ( a not so charming Wilfrid Hyde-White , ) who does quit well in his part of a vicious back-room character who controls the state of business and will go as far as murder to make sure that he rules . Bo quickly realizes that something is wrong when a governor is just called upon to sign bills . The Lt . Governor tells him all about the Parks legislation . Sylvester makes sure that the Lt . Governor resigns . Suddenly , Ada is determined to be his replacement . When Bo is ready to buck Sylvester , he is nearly killed in a bomb placed in his car . As Ada had volunteered to be the lieutenant , Bo thinks that she is in with Sylvester . Along for the ride is Ralph Meeker , who plays the head of the police . He is as corrupt as they come . He even makes a play for Ada . Why didn't she try to unload him right there and then ? What is amazing in all this is that Ada becomes very intelligent regarding the workings of government and legislation very , very quickly . She has her own ideas in mind to rid the state of Sylvester's bossism . She confronts certain ladies at a tea party and reminds them of their husbands ties to the state , thanks to the legislation on the books that allows them to do business with the state . Suddenly , in a scene change , Sylvester is shown in a wheelchair . What happened Syl ? True though , you're as sly as ever . Bo is released from the hospital and in the capitol gallery views the showdown between Ada and Sylvester . Sylvester's old tricks will not prevail . Good for its depiction of corruption . Fairly good performances but storyline is so predictable .
Go for Broke Tackles Prejudice	Japanese-Americans serving in the U . S . army during World War 11 is the central theme of this film . How ironic that this occurred while we were placing other Japanese-Americans in internment camps during this period . Van Johnson harbors prejudice as he chosen to shape these recruits up . While he runs into difficulty with top brass , he does his job well . He comes to understand and appreciate his men . When he meets up with his old Texas regiment , he fights someone for passing an anti-Japanese remark . The Japanese players do a good job of showing that their true spirits were with the U . S . A totally satisfying film depicting the human spirit .
The Big Knife - Not As Sharp As Razor's Edge	Drama with Jack Palance as a big movie star in big trouble . He killed a child in a hit-run accident and someone or someones are threatening to spill the beans . We have a top-rated cast here . Rod Steiger steals the show as a movie studio mogul out to destroy Palance if he doesn't sign that 7 year deal . Looks wise , Palance has never appeared better . Kudos to the make-up artist who actually made the guy look good looking here . As his wife , Ida Lupino is not dominant in the film . There lacks that vicious quality which made her a star in so many other films . Nonetheless , she turns in an adequate performance as the conflicted wife . Jean Hagen and Shelley Winters portray two bimbos who are really flying high . Wendell Corey and Ilka Chase , the latter as a Hedda Hopper type round out the cast . Palance is quite conflicted here . He is almost a Shakespeare-like tragedy . We know that he is contemplating suicide because we see that near famous James Mason like walk in " A Star is Born , " the year before . Geraldine Page would repeat that phenomenon in 1978's " Interiors . " Ironically , Palance starred with Winters in " I Died A Thousand Times " in 1955 . The latter was a remake of the Ida Lupino vehicle " High Sierra " with Humphrey Bogart . What a grand reunion here for all !
I Think I Love My Wife - 7 Year Itch Revisited	I have to admit that this film was better than the 7 Year Itch . It tells the story of a guy who is bored with his marriage and begins seeing a woman , a girl he knew from his high school years . Though nothing happens between them , his meetings with her , especially when she comes up to the office , begins to affect his work and his marriage . I found this film insulting to black people when Kerry Washington ( the girl he rediscovers ) will ask him if he is married , has children or children out of wedlock . She refers to marriage with children as that white thing . Am shocked that black people don't find this offensive . Naturally , he follows her to Washington in a near mad cap escapade and is almost ready for a sexual tryst with her , when common sense and decency prevails . Is this the true caliber of sexual mores and trysts in our society ? Methinks not .
The Ship Comes First	When " In Which We Serve " was made in 1942 , England was in the midst of its finest hour . We see a film of honor , devotion , and loyalty to the realm . It is basically the story of a boat being torpedoed and the flashbacks of 3 sailors aboard the doomed wreckage . Noel Coward , a brilliant talent , did not perform well here . His scenes with his children appear awkward and he is unusually cold towards them . While a war is going on , that strong sentiment of a loving friendly tie is missing . Kudos go to Celia Johnson , as Alix , his wife in the film . She states in a memorable way that in the navy , devotion to the ship comes first . John Mills is also effective as a navy man . In a heart-wrenching scene , he must tell a fellow shipman that his wife and mother-in-law have been killed in the blitz . The ending is poignantly done . A tear will come to the eye as Coward says goodbye to those who survived the torpedoed ship . A film of valor and of the human spirit . England was certainly at its finest hour .
A Place Called Home-Be It Ever So Humble	Ann-Margret definitely turns in a very good performance here as a widow living in a gorgeous mansion in the woods . Her eyesight is failing but she has undying memories of her husband who has been gone for 8 years . The husband's nephew and niece want to get the property to develop it and sell . Sounds like an awfully familiar theme . Along drops in a drifter whose wife has abandoned him . He comes with his daughter . The drifter is hired by Margret to do chores and of course Tula ( Margret ) forms an attachment with the child . There is a social worker who invariably falls for the drifter . When the latter spurns the niece , this adds further fuel to the fire . The nephew and niece make sure to have him beaten up , have his identity thoroughly checked , and threaten the social worker accordingly . Had they found something real juicy with the drifter involving a court case and eventual exoneration , this would have made for a far more interesting film . Nonetheless , we see Ann-Margret vying for independence and eventually finding a new love in the town doctor . The happy ending shows that a new family can unite and that the greedy can't always get their way .
Animal House - Is There A Psychiatrist in the House ?	Funny but over the top comedy highlighting college fraternities and the excesses that they will go to . The film was a springboard for the careers of Tom Hulce , Tim Matheson and Peter Riegert . It also gave us the comedic talents of John Belushi , but sadly we were only able to have him for four years after this film . College fraternities have always placed a tremendous part on college campuses but this Delta fraternity is really outrageous at best . Naturally , the dean of students is made to look like the villain that he is . The ending becomes a slap-stick farce and is exaggerated even as revenge is sought .
Dark Knight-Joker and Others Go Wild	The film is good but is very much over-rated . The Daily News rated this movie . It is rather a as I shall try to explain . The acting is top-notch , especially Heath Ledger as the Joker and Aaron Eckhart , amazingly good as Harvey Dent , D . A . This is one film that is rare since good does not triumph over evil . Dent's transformation is magnificently realized . It just shows us what situations can lead someone so pious to go so wrong . The film is action packed . The special effects are marvelously arranged . As far as the Oscars for this year go , an argument can be made that Ledger's performance should be in the supporting category as well as Eckhart . Gary Oldham , as Gordon , should also be in the running for a supporting Oscar as well as Maggie Gyllenhaal , who has really shown a depth of maturity here in a breakout performance . My lone argument with this film is the last-half hour . Once the Gyllenhaal character is killed off , the film does go a bit down-hill . It becomes confusing at this point . Confusion we don't need as we wish to study the change in dimension depicted by Dent . That being said , the picture is one of a rare quality . A thin line is drawn between good and evil here and we wonder where we can go from here as the credits roll .
Cry Havoc - A Cry for Our Beloved Country	Needless to say , this war-time drama is gritty every step of the way . The big surprise here is the toughness of the part given to Ann Sothern . She certainly sheds her " Panama Hattie " way as well as comedic gifts in giving a very good performance as a no-nonsense volunteer among a group of women volunteering their services in Bataan during World War 11 . She finds love with a Sgt . Holt , who is never seen . He is also the love interest of Margaret Sullavan , who plays her usual moody self . This part was perfect for Sullavan who would commit suicide 17 years later . Joan Blondell , as always , is wonderful as the volunteer who was a burlesque queen prior to the war . Being shot in the leg is certainly no asset for this beauty queen and she plays the part to the hilt . The somber scenery , basically in a bunker , reflects the dangers that these women endured .
Tower of London-Dark Ending Battle Scenes Spoils It's All Killing in the Family	Basil Rathobone has a field day as the Duke of Gloucester . This madman , with his hidden figurines of the family he wants to kill one by one , is absolutely diabolically brilliant in his performance . The part was tailor made for him and once again proved that he was the master of evil . Equally impressive here is the work done by Boris Karloff , as the horrific Mord , the latter carrying out Gloucester's evil deeds . Vincent Price and Ian Hunter play Gloucester's brother , the latter , the king who was duped by Rathbone in his systematic elimination of the family . Price goes from being feeble minded to devilish in his role but like the others , he is a victim of his brother's insane goal . 1939 was certainly an important year for Barbara O'Neil . She plays her role well as Hunter's wife , a victimized queen . She realizes what is going on but is literally powerless to do anything to save her own 2 sons from the wrath of their uncle . In that same year , she briefly but strongly appeared in " Gone With the Wind , " as Ellen O'Hara , mother to Katie Scarlett . To me , the film is spoiled at the end by the dark battle scenes that were filmed . Both Rathbone and Karloff get what they deserve , but it occurs too quickly .
Inside Man-The Bank Robbery that Never Was ?	The film starts off as another " Dog Day Afternoon , " and for those of you who remember , " Violent Saturday . " Yes , a bank is allegedly robbed and hostages are taken . Something is terribly wrong when the chief inspector , Denzel Washington , provokes the gang leader , Clive Owen to shoot one of the hostages . There is plenty of screaming and yelling by the shaken hostages . A Jewish woman refers to the gang as Mishagunim ( crazies ) when they tell the victims to undress . We have an assortment of people in the bank of all different ethnicities . Christopher Plummer is the bank's Board Executive who has a terrible dark secret hidden in one of the vaults . He sends in executive Jodie Foster to pay off the gang . They leave and the hostages are thrown to the ground and are forced on a bus by the police . We have a racist cop who would rather live to be an old aged bigot as compared to a young dead liberal and a Sikh bank employee who is harassed by the police when he is freed and a hint of the bank's collaboration with the Nazis during World War 11 . The movie begins to falter once the hostages were released without incident and it is shown that the gang used fake guns , bullets and took no money whatsoever . What's going on here you ask ? A good caper goes awry at the end .
Plain Song Not Exactly Missing Themes	Interesting but too many plots bring this film down . We have a teacher who is pressured to pass a miserable child so that they can get him out of the school despite the fact that the brat assaulted the teacher . The teacher ( Aidan Quinn ) has a wife who has left him , apparently suffering from depression and has gone to her sister in Denver . There are 2 young polite boys from the marriage who eventually find an old lady dead in her apartment . They deliver the paper to her and never bother to report that the woman , who lost her son in Korea , has died . The boys get caught up with that miserable student , who has bigoted parents . If this isn't enough , we have America Fererra , who has been abandoned by her mother when it is determined that she is pregnant . She goes to live with 2 older gentlemen who have kept to themselves following the deaths of their parents . They are recommended by the teacher in the next room who has romantic visions on Quinn . The school secretary also has an eye on this man . Yes , the movie is interesting but the themes abound . Each character could have developed into a story by itself . Was the teacher motivating the student ? The pressure that teachers are faced with to pass students according to their supervisors is another theme . The depression of the mother . The life of the old woman ( Marion Seldes ) and the 2 older gentlemen who find they can contribute to life . I could go on and on .
Pitch One For Fever Pitch	Jimmy Fallon and Drew Barrymore sparkle in this delightful comedy about comedy and baseball . Instilled with the love of the Boston Red Sox from childhood , Fallon grows up to become a high school math teacher . He brings his students to a company where Miss Barrymore works and the two fall instantly in love . It's a shame that the kids that he brought were not used more in this film . All goes well until Barrymore is beaned by a foul ball . Their romance begins to hit the skids as does this picture , for in one scene , Fallon is talking about his sexual life with Barrymore to a student during school baseball practice . This was inappropriate but silly . Of course , love conquers all and by the end , we have a championship for the Sox , thereby ending the curse of the bambino . Stay with this film . Barrymore is perky and suits the role to a tee . Nice to see Marissa Jaret Winokur of " Hairspray " fame in this flick . Just too bad that nothing is made of her part . This talented thespian should be given better starring roles in the future .
Time Limit - Limit the Preaching Please	When you see this film's first scene , you think you are going to see " The Manchurian Candidate . " The first scene deals with apparent brain-washing . Richard Widmark is cast in his usual role as an attorney . Apparently , he got good experience in this part for several years later he was absolutely mesmerizing in " Judgment At Nuremberg . " This film deals with moral conflict . Widmark refuses to accept the fact that Richard Basehart , who is accused of consorting with the North Koreans while held in a prisoner camp during the Korean War , can't wait to get the entire situation over by pleading guilty and not justifying his actions one bit . There is an excellent supporting cast led by Carl Benton Reid , and a young Rip Torn is also terrific as a powerful witness to what has occurred . The film adequately captures the dilemma faced by prisoners of war during their capture . The problem with this film that as the truth begins to unfold , it becomes very preachy in nature . This is a usual flaw of such films . The ending will come as a surprise to many but you will not be surprised by the stoic beliefs of Carl B . Reid . Interesting , but we've heard this story before somewhere .
My Neighbor's Keeper - We've Seen This All Before	2 couples who knew each other from college days and lived across the street from each other in suburbia are traumatized when on Halloween night , one of the wives is killed . She is the one with the adorable two children . Right away we feel that something is funny because the other friend is childless and is desperate to have children . We have some real look like others in this film . The widower looks just like John Edwards and a judge at an inquest resembles Bill Clinton . Other than this , the story is too routine because we soon start to see the evidence mount up on the dead woman's husband . This guy was not such a great fellow apparently as the film goes on . We never meet his lady love who it is claimed has no interest in being a mother to his children . Naturally , the childless friend becomes very attached to the two children despite being warned not to do so by her husband . I was looking for conspiracy here . That would have made the film better . Otherwise , it's quite routine .
Great Raid Does Justice to the Big Screen	Very good telling of a raid led to free American prisoners of war in the Philippines at the end of World War 11 . The Japanese are depicted for their savage treatment of American prisoners . We see random shootings and other atrocities committed by a military induced society . The characters are not given the opportunity to develop since this is wartime . The ending sequence showing liberation pictures is heartwarming and a credit to the human spirit . We salute those who sacrificed so much so that others could enjoy freedom .
Lord of War - . . . And to think It All Began in Brighton Beach , Brooklyn	Nicolas Cage gives an admirable performance in this film as a Ukrainian émigré seeking a better life for himself in Brooklyn . The family came here pretending to be Jewish so as to get out of the old Soviet Union faster . It is true that Russian Jews intermarried among Jews so as to leave the Soviet Union but carrying this to the point that they acted as Jews once they were here was a bit ridiculous . Cage and his brother get into the life of gun-runners . We follow their escapades through various countries . They supply the guns to the highest bidder . They couldn't care less why the guns are being used . The film deals at length with their trips to a corrupt Liberian government . Cage marries along the way and has an ideal life which eventually catches up with him . The film deals with a CIA agent ( Ethan Hawke ) who actively pursues him until he realizes that Cage is also a government plant who will be allowed to continue to do this as long as the interests of the American government is served . Corruption was never worse . Very nice cinematography marks an engaging film .
Perfect Harmony - Love of Music Doesn't Cure Racism	The song goes that I'd love to teach the world to sing in perfect harmony . Unfortunately , in the area of racism and segregation , perfect harmony has yet to be achieved . This film takes place in a South Carolina elite private school for boys in 1959 , when segregation was the in-thing down south . The school supposedly prepares boys to take their place in the world-a world where they will continue to practice segregation . The best performance in the film is given by Darren McGavin , the headmaster , who epitomizes the old southern tradition of bigotry . His daughter conveys an absolutely phony southern accent and her attempt to emulate Scarlett O'Hara is outlandish at best . You would certainly think that the conflict between the new choirmaster and McGavin would come to the front due to the former's liberal ideas but this really doesn't happen . By the way , who was that brat of a young Klansman who attacks our white hero , Taylor , so viciously ? We never find this out . The film also deals with the coming friendship of Taylor and a black child , an orphaned grandson of the handyman , played nicely by the usually reliable Moses Gunn . Miscast in the film is Cleavon Little , as the town preacher . His call for justice is made in a voice that sounds too familiar from " Blazing Saddles " in 1974 . It has to be said that the boys exhibit beautiful choir singing . Paul , the promising student , is consumed by hatred . We see his typical rebelliousness due to being insecure , parents who never come to visit and his trend to sneaking a smoke in private areas . The film should be praised for its attempt to wipe out bigotry . Unfortunately , this problem is too big to be conveyed in 1 : 33 minutes .
Power & the Glory - The Glory that Power Didn't Bring	A real sudsy soap opera here as Spencer Tracy tackles the role of an illiterate until the age of 20 . He marries the woman who teaches him and her ambition and his drive leads him to success . Success but no happiness here . A n'eer-do-well son and a faltering marriage leads to disaster and tragedy . Tracy buys a railroad and succeeds only to be subjected to a disastrous rail strike and the death of 406 workers . The film appeared at the beginning to be uneven but is rejuvenated thanks to the excellent use of flashbacks here . A double separate suicide here . We know that riches can't buy happiness but this is a little too far fetched . Nonetheless , we have riveting performances by Tracy and Colleen Moore . Ms . Vinson , as the 2nd wife , is also quite effective .
Song of Love Shall Fill Your Heart	Beautiful music is the highlight of this nice 1947 film dealing with the lives of Robert and Clara Schumann . Katharine Hepburn gives a restrained , but compelling performance as Clara , the woman who gave up a promising career to marry Schumann and subsequently have 7 children with him . The early scenes are comic viewing Hepburn as a mother of 7 attempting to rear the children . I thought I'd see the famous cooking scene repeated in Hepburn's 1942 film - " Woman of the Year . " Paul Henried is in fine form as the brilliant music professor who was plagued with mental problems . In comes Robert Walker as Johannes Brahms . He has come to study with Schumann and moves in with the family . His love for Clara shall eventually drive him away only for him to come back to her several years after Schumann's death . There is an interesting performance by Leo G . Carroll as Clara's domineering father . There is a court scene as Carroll objects to his daughter marrying Robert . What would Womens Lib think about this ?
Gather Your Rosebuds-Human Element Shines	Forget the technical aspects of explaining what the function of these fliers are . It was a tedious explanation at the beginning of the flick and was as confusing as Price Waterhouse's explanation of voting procedures at the Oscars each year and as boring and difficult as Ethel Weintraub's chemistry class at Erasmus Hall H . S . in Brooklyn . The film begins to take shape when it discusses the human element . Rock Hudson portrays a hard driven commander who pushes his men to the limit so as to prepare our people in aviation for a war emergency . In the process of doing this , Hudson ruins the life of veteran Barry Sullivan . The former feels that Sullivan can no longer cope with the difficulty of the job and forces him into retirement . This retirement causes Sullivan's son to leave Stanford and the Sullivan character placing a bullet in his body in a suicide attempt . Rock , as Col . Caldwell , ameliorates the situation by visiting Sullivan in the hospital and gets him to say that he will strive for excellence in his new position in civilian life . Hudson also tries to get rid of Rod Taylor as he believes that the latter has become too chummy with the men . It is while Hudson is visiting Sullivan at the hospital that a simulated emergency occurs which tests the strengths of all . Mary Peach plays the British wife of Hudson . Her performance is not peachy-keen . When she first walks off a plane to meet her husband in an early scene , you would think that Queen Elizabeth was playing the part . A good film relating to working with men in a difficult but often unexplained task . Rod Taylor and Mr . Hudson can't be commended for their excessive smoking in this film . Is this what our army brass has come to ?
T-Men Make Sure You Infiltrate this Film	Two treasury agents infiltrate a dangerous gang of counterfeiters in this exciting 1947 film . The two are able to be accepted by the gangsters due to excellent detective and preparation on their parts . The heartbreaking scene where one of them was killed was skillfully done . The camera image of Dennis O'Keefe , after his cohort is killed , was memorable . Also memorable was the one scene that June Lockhart appeared in . Realizing that her husband is on assignment and unable to reveal himself , Lockhart plays along . Later , her husband is killed . Wallace Ford is excellent as a mob stooge . Another great film noir by director Anthony Mann . It is only at the very end that the head of these people is revealed . We never saw this person throughout the film .
Student Prince - Was Wallace Warfield Simpson Viewing this ?	I always thought that Mario Lanza did not get the lead role as he was too heavy at the time the film was made . Edmond Purdom does an excellent dubbing of Lanza and of course , Ann Blyth is terrific as the bar-maid , singing beautifully , although she will lose her love at the end . While viewing this film , I naturally thought of King Edward of England , who gave up his throne for Wallace Simpson , the woman I love . I guess that Sigmund Romberg didn't want this kind of end for his light operetta . Louis Calhern is wonderful as the venerable grandfather who tells his grandson that he is speaking to him as his king and not his grandfather ; therefore , it's his duty to marry the woman who has been chosen for him . Of course , the Romberg music is wonderful . Those renditions of Deep in My Heart and Drink , Drink are so memorable and touching . The ending will tug at your heart . Blyth sings while love slips away . Were you watching Wallie Warfield Simpson ? If you did , you must have counted your blessings .
That Hagen Girl - Another Illegitmacy themed movie	. . . And I thought I would be seeing a light-hearted comedy . Boy , was I in for a rude awakening . Believe it or not , Ronald Reagan gives a fairly good performance as a man who it is rumored fathered an illegitimate child . Nice to see Shirley Temple all grown up in her mature role as the illegitimate one . Naturally , she is sweet as she has to face a hostile town . With the insurance money that auntie left her adopted parents , why didn't they all move out of that Peyton Place of a town ? Rory Calhoun , young with those heavy eye-lashes , is hopelessly cast as the young man who loved Shirley ( Mary ) but married another to parental pressure . Lois Maxwell is the new teacher in town ready to buck the conventional tenets of the strict traditionalists . She loves Reagan but winds up not getting him when the secret is finally revealed . Who Mary really is was handled very clumsily in the film . It was rather a rushed ending , almost like a shot-gun wedding . However , the picture does try to show the effects of illegitimacy . Remember " Blossoms in the Dust ? "
Brother Rat is Quite An Unusual Rodent	This is awfully good comedy with Wayne Morris stealing the show as a Virginia cadet who leads Eddie Albert and Ronald Reagan into one situation after another . The Albert character is too dull here . I expected him to break out . Henry O'Neill is excellent as the corporal up to his neck with the wily three . Nice to have scene Ronald Reagan and future wife Jane Wyman in several scenes as lovers . The scene studying for the chemistry final at night was absolutely hilarious .
Love Comes Softly Experiments With New Theme	The film is a good one as it deals with a new theme in a very serious way . The theme being that people , who have lost their mates , marry at once , to provide for surviving children and to ease their loneliness . We saw such sociological occurrences after the Holocaust when lonely survivors in displacement camps wed within 30 days of meeting one another . This film is a salute to the men and women of the 1880s in the west . Through hard work and relentless courage , they were able to survive the vicissitudes of nature . No , this film is not Dr . Quinn , Medicine Woman but it's an earnest attempt to bring the struggles of the period down to a very personal level . While stunned by the tragic loss of her young husband , I found Katherine Heigl's performance here to be lacking . She needed more of a breakout in her role as the film went on . Only during the last 2 frames do we see a remote resemblance of that . Throughout the film , she seems to be just saying her lines without evoking any emotion whatsoever . Midkiff is better here ; although , there are some parts where I thought he was trying another form of Elmer Gantry . As a whole , the film should be praised to its undertaking of difficult subject matter .
Lost Behind Bars-The Obvious isn't What You Think	Interesting film about a reporter with her camera man . They are both doing a documentary about condemned prisoners and come across someone waiting for execution who is really innocent . Unfortunately , they are working with a town who can't wait for the execution to take place as well as a head detective who is hostile in the preparation of this documentary . The killer is facing execution for wiping out an entire family . A love affair with the wife had gone awry . Trouble is that it is quickly determined that the detective had an affair with the dead woman as well . The bodies begin to pile up including the camera man and the lawyer for the condemned prisoner . Naturally , there is a coroner in the film who is too sweet as she contemplates retirement to Costa Rica . The surprise ending is just that even though the film is contrived . Nevertheless , it's interesting because it appears so obvious that the head detective is the culprit until the very end .
Star Spangled Rhythm - Let's Hear it for Paramount	Paramount produced a cavalcade of stars in this traditional World War 11 patriotic film dealing with the situations that ensue when an attendant at Paramount Studios tries to impress his navy son by claiming that he is a studio mogul . Naturally , this evolves into situations too numerous to speak of here . Victor Moore is the father and Eddie Bracken stars as the son . Bette Hutton is marvelous as Bracken's girlfriend and the ensemble cast at Paramount are terrific when putting on a show for the navy . You have to feel for Walter Abel , a mogul who is victimized in the scheme of Hutton and Moore . Add for Bing Crosby's patriotic song ending .
Blues in the Night Well Paced , Fast Action	Interesting film by director Anatole Litvak creating film-noir with a musical . Two future excellent directors , Richard Whorf , who bore a strong resemblance to Robert Taylor , and Elia Kazan star . Kazan was also in Litvak's 1940 film " City for Conquest . " The picture has an excellent cast . A group of musicians led by Jigger ( Whorf ) meet up with gangster Lloyd Nolan while hitching a ride on a train . Nolan likes them when they don't turn him in despite the fact that he holds them up for $5 . 00 ! He brings them to a Road House where the group perform . We have some great musical settings here and the various montage depiction is excellent . The film is extremely well paced . There is never a dull moment . He moves beautifully from film noir to musical and back to film noir again . In addition , there is a terrific performance by Bette Field as a Road House girl in love with Nolan , who spurns her . Whorf is hopelessly in love with her and her rejection of him leads to his mental breakdown . How ironic that 16 years after this film , Nolan and Field both appeared in the 1957 film " Peyton Place " but had no scenes together . Field is both catty and quite vicious in this film . It's her viciousness that shall prove to be her undoing . Jack Carson toots his horn and his wed in the film to Priscilla Lane . One major flaw of the film is their lack of emotional outburst when it is revealed that their baby boy has died .
No Electoral College Needed Here - Gore Wins for the Environment	The inconvenient truth here is that Al Gore lost the 2000 election here . The country has been worse for that ever since . The documentary is well done . Gore points to the dangers of carbon monoxide emissions and there is some political gibes given by the former Vice President as well when we see former President Bush ridiculing the Clinton-Gore team on global warming several days before his defeat in 1992 . Notice that the states that have attempted to do something regarding global warming are the very states that Mr . Gore carried in 2000 . How coincidental . An informative piece of information even for those , such as myself , who never cared a bit about science either because I found it boring or had some miserable people teaching it 40 years ago . Vice President Gore , you're a good teacher . My hope is that a deadlocked 2008 convention will turn to you . John Edwards should be your running mate . Many of your views are in sync with his .
" Brokeback Mountain " When the Marlboro Man Goes Gay	Heath Ledger , in the lead role , takes on the character that would have been ideal for Paul Newman had Hollywood been allowed to make such a film years ago . Ledger is definitely the new Paul Newman . In many ways , he reminded me of the great star's performance in " Hud . " Even the way he wore his cowboy hat was similar to that of Newman . The first part of the movie will be viewed by many as objectionable . It details how the 2 shepherds fall into a homosexual relationship which becomes a " Same Time , Next Year " thing . The difference is that in the latter film , the couple could go on with their everyday lives . This picture depicts how their relationship , which was destined to go nowhere , ultimately ruins their lives . Ledger , in a low-voiced keyed performance , is terrific as the surviving partner of a relationship that ruined his marriage and leaves him alone at film's end . Jake Gylenhaal is wonderful as his counterpart . Strong-willed but realistic , he set an appropriate tone by his acting . " Brokeback Mountain " was the surprise Oscar loser for best picture . Even liberal Hollywood could not find itself in the end to vote for a homosexual based film . Instead , they chose the rather " safe " film " Crash , " which detailed racist problems in society . I guess that racism is still easier to deal with as opposed to homosexuality by film standards .
Crash Survives and Makes the Grade	This is not a film that will promote racial understanding but it certainly shows what can happen when we don't do this . " Crash " really refers to the cultural differences within the framework of a system that may very well be against us from our date of birth . There is redemption and miracles depicted here . The film is headed by an all-star cast . Matt Dillon , nominee for best supporting actor , steals the show as a racist cop who comes down to reality when the situation demands it . Otherwise , he is an out of control bigot , angry at the system for what it did to his father who practiced racial toleration and was victimized by reverse racism in his profession . Dillon has his moments in his emotional outbursts and could very well be walking down the aisle on March 5 . On March 5 , 2006 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences chose " Crash " as the year's best picture . Thinking back , I saw a very small but important similarity to the great 1947 Oscar best picture winner , " Gentleman's Agreement . " The two films show a similarity in that they tackle prejudice by hitting the nail right on the head . " Crash " will be a very important film as the years go on . There are other strong performances by Don Cheadle , as a savvy officer who , in neglecting a family problem , is blamed by his mother when tragedy strikes . I would have liked the Brendon Fraser and Sandra Bullock parts expanded . He is a D . A . and she is his wife . Their car is hijacked and he wants a black to be named in an important position for political purposes . Then , their parts seem to go limp . This is a film of racial and cultural misunderstanding well done .
Racing for Time-Running and Discipline ; Who was that Repeater ?	Even in this good film , it is admitted that the girls are worse than the boys . Incorrigible girls at a correctional facility are given the opportunity to form a relay team so as to promote responsibility , discipline and team cohesiveness . Charles S . Dutton , as Stackhouse , stars in this film . The movie has one of the worst performances I've seen on film in many a year . The warden who is as tough as a cockroach just mouths her lines . She has no expression whatsoever and it appears that she is just going through the motions . The picture itself is fairly good . Naturally , the 5 girls selected to run the race of victims of society . Notice how a strict female security guard comes to really appreciate the girls as she seems to soften up . The ending is a mixed bag . We are proud of the girls for showing team spirit when they are eliminated . However , one of them returns to prison and this is never shown . We are left holding the bag . Remember Run , Spot , run in our early readers . This is run , girl , run !
Catch and Release Explores New Founded Relationships	Interesting film where Jennifer Garner finds out that her fiancé , who has died unexpectedly , led a very different life than what she could have ever envisioned . The guy was a millionaire who had a one night stand with Juliette Lewis and was supporting the child from this alleged liaison . This story is basically dealing with the relationships formed after the death of Gray , the groom-to-be . We see the interactions among the friends and the ultimate rediscovery of love among them . When a DNA test proves otherwise , we see the noble actions of a mother who is willing to continue sharing her son's wealth . The film is well worth watching due to the strong interpersonal relationships that are depicted here .
Mystery Street is A Taut Thriller	Jan Sterling is a pick up lady who is pregnant . When she calls the father , he blows her away in a secluded area . Problem is that Marshall Thompson is on a drunken binge following the death of his son during childbirth . Sterling lures Thompson into his car and then steals it . When she is killed , the killer ditches the car and several months later Sterling's skeleton is found along with the awfully wet car . Excellent detective work by cop Ricardo Montalban and as a Harvard professor turned sleuth Bennett leads to the arrest of Thompson , thus destroying his life with his wife , nicely played by Sally Forest . Elsa Lanchester steals the movie as a snoopy , vicious landlady , whose greed shall lead to her demise as well . Well done picture by showing how the real killer is caught at the end . This is film noir at its very best .
A Good Picture for A Land Once Called Burma	Errol Flynn left his swashbuckling image to star in this interesting film about a group of soldiers in India assigned to blow up a Japanese radar station in Burma . While they succeed in their objective , the film focuses on their attempts to flee the jungle area . Flynn is impressive as a commander and George Tobias delivers a lot of comic relief as one of the soldiers . He keeps saying Mazel Tov to every event and compares a jungle shack to his mother-in-law's Bronx home . The film deals with the interaction of the men as a cohesive group attempting to desperately flee their surroundings after accomplishing their mission .
The Break Up is Certainly Hard to Do	Vince Vaughn and Jennifer Aniston star and deliver clever performances in this romantic comedy of two people who love each other a lot , but just can't live with each other . Annoying families and friends help to bring on the inevitable break up . The film deals with the ramifications for others brought on when the two split . It is rather funny and sad while their beautiful condominium is divided . The ending may be a disappointment to many but in reality it's the very truth . Besides , we are left hanging that it's possible that our 2 stars will reunite .
This Spurs Us On for More	James Stewart in a classical psychological western of greed and ambition . As a bounty hunter , Stewart meets up with a released Army vet ( Ralph Meeker ) and an aging saddle tramp , the last role of Millard Mitchell , who died in the year this film came out . Robert Ryan is the usual villain here . Janet Leigh portrays the daughter of one of his friends who has stuck around Ryan . The film depicts how Ryan will try to turn the 3 against each other so that he can escape . Greed cause decent men to do things that a moral person would not do . As Mitchell says , " I will have to pay the devil for what I have done . "
. . . More like The Whole Town is Mistaken	John Ford directed this 1935 comedy . Edward G . Robinson has an absolute field-day in a double role portraying a plain , introverted office worker who is mistaken for a major gangster . The fun begins when the gangster breaks out of jail and the usually hilarious Donald Meek identifies our poor worker . Jean Arthur co-stars as a fellow office worker . The confusion goes on and on with the gangster taking refuge at our worker's apartment . The latter has to get a letter from the police to hold onto so that he is not arrested . Later , he is taken in protective custody only to have the real thief take his place so that the latter can knock off someone in jail who has bad-mouthed him . The ending certainly shows that crime does not pay .
Paula-Speak Up Loretta-Morally Correct to Do	Loretta Young loses her baby and is told in the hospital that she will never be able to have children . Dr . Alexander Knox , who was so brilliant in " Wilson " tells her this . She is married to college dean Kent Smith . The latter never had much sex appeal or appeal of a leading man in any of his pictures . While driving to join Smith at a pre-promotional party for him , Young accidentally hits 7 year old Tommy Rettig of " Lassie " fame . Rettig , with those sad eyes of his , evoked a lot of emotion here as he is unable to recover from the accident . Not admitting to the police that she did this , Young instead volunteers at the hospital and takes in the boy and suddenly becomes a speech pathologist . She is guided by Knox who suddenly is an expert in this field anyway . Young and Rettig pull out emotional stops in this film . You may want to question the criminal justice system in the nonetheless happy ending .
Boy , Did I Enjoy this Wrong Number	A real Bob Hope farce is the 1966 film , " Boy , Did I Get A Wrong Number . " A businessman ( Hope ) gets a wrong number and it turns out to be that of a hot-tempered actress ( Ilke Sommer ) who seems to have a love-hate relationship with her lover-director , a very handsome Cesare Danova . During a major spat , she runs off and is hidden by Hope . Marjorie Lord plays the goody-goody wife and Phyllis Diller is literally along for the ride as a ditzy housekeeper , Lili . Diller is the sole of the film . She is hilarious and she aids her boss Hope . Of course , when it appears that Sommer is dead , Hope becomes the main suspect . True to form , there is a major chase scene and an ending that we can say is appropriate for a comic " soap " opera . Silly , but the laughs are worth it . Hope and Diller were an excellent twosome together .
People Who Live in Glass Houses . . . Little Children	People who live in glass houses should not throw stones . This is essentially the theme of this absorbing film . The town obviously looks at dismay at a convicted child molester who has been released . This is well shown at the pool scene when parents rush to get their children out when the molester ( an engaging Jackie Earle Haley ) jumps in . However , those who condemn him had better look into their own poor excuses for their lives . A couple is carrying on an illicit affair , and a guy who is the major leader against the molester is a former police officer who killed a child by accident years before and whose actions lead to another tragedy in the film . This is also a story of immaturity and frustration at its worst . A man who will not buy a cell phone , wastes all summer in not studying for the bar exam , an exam he has already failed twice , and begins the affair . The acting is quite good . As a woman who never wrote her dissertation to obtain her Ph . D in literature , Kate Winslet received her 5th Oscar nomination . In the role of the molester , Haley is memorable and was up for best supporting actor this past year . The common denominator in this film is the lack of immaturity of all the main characters and life's phoniness . The scene where Winslet discusses Madame Bovary is so good as while she discusses it , the film shows her love scenes with her new lover . This is an interesting film . The writers may have been attempting to show so much insofar as the love affair , child molesters and redemption . The scene where the former police officer tries to help the guy whose mother has died as a result of the officer's obnoxious behavior reminds me of the film " Crash " where redemption is attempted after a negative event has occurred .
Unstable-Not An Unstable Moment Here	Thriller about a new bride who has had mental problems . She weds a bank teller and the fun really begins . Megan and Woody are our lovely couple . Unfortunately , not exactly lovely . When I saw this film , the 1944 hit " Gaslight " with Ingrid Bergman and Charles Boyer immediately came to mind . This new film succeeds because it is paced extremely well and you are left wondering if Megan is really off her rocker or is there a conspiracy involving all or some family members . After a while , things are happening in such rapid succession that you begin to wonder that all is not kosher with the newlyweds . What's going on with the blouse , the cell keys , the phone , emailing private business to others , and all other sorts of mayhem ? Kathy Baker stars as our victim's mother . She does the best she can with a script that really limits her role .
Anthony Adverse - Anatomy of a Film on a Downward Spiral	Anthony Adverse was nominated for best picture of 1936 ! This is really hard to believe . What's even more difficult to fathom is that Gale Sondergaard was voted best supporting actress for her portrayal of Faith Paleologus , a vicious , cunning , sinister woman . This was Sondergaard's first film and she would begin her long career playing such evil parts . The movie started out interesting enough as Claude Rains killed Louis Hayward , ( Denis ) the lover of Maria ( a beautiful Anita Louise . ) Rains , a Spanish diplomat , was married to Maria . Hayward and Maria conceived their child only for Maria to die in childbirth . Maria's father , Mr . Bonnyfeather , was admirably played by Edmund Gwenn . When I read the book , I knew that the part of Bonnyfeather would be played by Gwenn . He was perfect for the part . Rains conveniently drops off the baby to a convent . The child grows up to be played by Fredric March and he becomes an apprentice to Bonnyfeather , not realizing that this is his grandfather . Faith is the housekeeper to Bonnyfeather who shall inherit his money providing that Anthony is out of the way . The picture becomes uneven and even starts to drag when Anthony is sent to Africa to recover his grandfather's fortune . It is there that he is drawn into the slave trade . The ending of the film is a real downer . It just goes to show you that unhappiness seems to be inherited as well .
Candles on Bay Street - Light A Prayer for It	Hallmark Channel seems to have recurring themes in their films . Someone always returns home either for romancing a widower , coming to grips with a bitter relationship with a parent , or as in the case with this tear jerker , Alicia Silverstone comes home to leave this earth as she is suffering from terminal cancer . It first appears that Silverstone will come into conflict with the wife of the vet that she loved dearly in childhood . Her young son is most appealing as we find out why her marriage dissolved with tragic consequences . The film tries to depict the strong ties that bind a small town together . This was nicely done . Polly Bergen , as Rosemary , has a small role as the vet's secretary . She does a little singing in one scene but time has hurt her once beautiful voice . Nevertheless , it's always good seeing Bergen on film .
Unfinished Dance - Memorable , But Where's the Punishment ?	Margaret O'Brien is charming and Danny Thomas made his film debut in " The Unfinished Dance . " Why Danny was good here , the part was tailor-made for another Danny-Danny Kaye . A little girl loves the ballet and aspires to be a ballerina . Her favorite ballerina ( Cyd Charisse ) has her career threatened by Mlle . Darina , an engaging wide-eyed Karin Booth . To stop Booth , little Margaret turns the switch off thinking that the theater will go dark . Instead , she presses a switch that lowers the floor and Booth falls in ending her dancing career . O'Brien is racked with guilt . Her best friend knows and another , a little brat , guesses that something is wrong . My objection to this film is that all is forgiven at the end and there is no punishment for little Margaret . Sorry Meg , you hurt a lady and should be punished . Charisse disappoints our little Margaret by wanting to give up ballet and wed . By the end , Meg is able to break up her affair and Charisse is back at it with Booth cheering her on . This is a little too bitter-sweet to take . Henry Koster's direction is competent . He admirably directed 1955's " Good Morning , Miss Dove . "
Today You Can Walk on The Boardwalk	A frightening look at a once thriving neighborhood which becomes the subject of decay . Veteran pros Lee Strasberg and Ruth Gordon are a married couple who live in Brighton Beach , Brooklyn and are literally terrorized by the gangs there . It was nice to see the wonderful Lillian Roth attempting a comeback in this film . As a tenant in an apartment building in Brighton , this film marked Miss Roth's return to the screen following a 44 year absence . She is effective though her part is brief . While her good looks faded with the years , she still had that pretty smile and I thought that at one part she would break into a medley of her former songs . Strasberg's inner world is falling apart just like the neighborhood . Stricken with cancer , Gordon dies literally in his arms . The ending is totally unrealistic . Could a man like an elderly Strasberg overpower one of these gang members ? Come on now . Nonetheless , for nostalgia buffs , the film is worth seeing .
Drive A Crooked Rode Hits Right Path	Hell hath no fury like a man scorned . Mickey Rooney starts out as if he is a Danny Kaye milque-toast character . Taken in by Diane Foster , he soon meets up with 2 guys who want his driving talent to be used in there robbing a bank . Rooney is great here as he goes from a quite guy , afraid of really living to aiding the guys in the heist . Hurt by the betrayal of Foster , she shows compassion at the end and this leads to tragedy as Rooney becomes a killer . This is really film-noir at its very best . The robbery was a complete success but the thieves were done in by personal reactions . This one is worth catching .
Staircase Murders - Watch Your Step Please	Treat Williams gives another excellent performance in this true story about a supposedly successful writer on trial for the murder of his second wife . Did he or didn't he kill her by the staircase and make it look like an accidental drunken fall ? Williams does best when he is the victim of accusations . His sinister performance is remarkably done . Did anyone ever bother to question why the other woman who met her death on a staircase 18 years before looked so good when her body was dug up ? This is also a story of strong family relationships . It depicts how part of that relationship begins to break up as the evidence begins to pile up . A footnote to all this is that one should never start rejoicing with their attorney until the verdict is announced .
Don't Give Israel Guilt Feelings	While I rated this film we are given a depiction of typical Jewish guilt . This deals with revenge by Israel following the Munich Massacre of 1972 . Along with Steven Spielberg are Janusz Kaminski , his cinematographer , and John Williams for musical scoring . These people worked with Spielberg in the Oscar winning " Schindler's List " and other films . Yes , the picture shows a moral dilemma . After killing many of the assassins , the Israelis are being depicted as committing atrocities as well . The writing was done by Tony Kushner , who has been a frequent critic of Israel during its forever conflict with the Palestinians . The acting is first rate . Spielberg used many unknowns along with Geoffrey Rush , who is quite effective as an Israeli agent .
Dance With Me Henry A Tribute to Great Comedy Team	While this 1956 film isn't a masterpiece , it's no slouch either as it showcases for the last time the talent of Abbott and Costello together as a comedy team . Running an amusement park , Abbott is up to his ears in debt and is beholden to the mob . Costello has 2 adopted children , a character of a social worker played by Mary Wickes , wants to take them away and invariably Costello gets blamed for the shooting death of the D . A . While the zany two's usual antics are missing , this is a fun film made enjoyable by the appearances of Gigi Perreau and Rusty Hamer . ( Make Room for Daddy . ) Ted de Corsia is at his best when he plays a gangster and he is no exception here .
Hello Dolly-Music for A Yenta	Though she was definitely far too young for the part of Dolly Gallagher Levi , Barbra Streisand shines in the part because of that golden voice allowing her to express the story going forward . What makes this film even better was on the constant off-screen bickering between Streisand and Walter Matthau , who portrays the curmudgeon Horace Vandergelder . Matthau is Vandergelder in every way . Thanks to the crisp dialogue in the film , he delivers his line faithfully . He is a sourpuss in every way of his life and he never lets the audience forget that with his sharp biting responses . Had Streisand been older , she would have been even more ideal for the part . She possesses that nosy body quality from " Funny Girl " and delivers a great performance . The music and choreography here are a delight to watch .
Living With the Enemy - With Husbands Like This	A beautiful Sarah Lancaster stars in this unusual movie . Mr . Humphrey ( Philip Lauder ) shows a profile similar to John Edwards . As an assistant to an executive , Allison finds the love of her life - any woman would find this handsome hunk a gem , as he is a billionaire . His firm , Cobalt , is amazing . After a day of whirlwind romance , they wed and the fun begins . He brings her home to an estate run by his alcoholic vicious sister who thinks she is an older version of Dorothy Malone's Oscar winning performance in " Written on the Wind . " I thought that this sister would be another Mrs . Danvers of " Rebecca " fame . Allison also sees that the house is like a fortress and she is given rules to live by the security agency that guards her . Turns out that Phil Lauder was married twice before . Wife # 2 was kidnapped and found dead . While walking on the street , Allison is pulled away by the FBI . She finds that Phil is under investigation for shady dealings-anyone opposing Cobalt seems to meet a sudden , nasty end . Look out for a sinister attorney-friend , the real culprit . The end is rather satisfying as we realize that Allison has become another Cinderella . It's another fairy-tale ending .
The Mighty-King Arthur To the Rescue	Two outcasts find friendship and a way out of their difficult lives in 1998's " The Mighty . " A young lad with a physical problem befriends a learning disabled young man whose mother was killed by an insane father . They live through the book of King Arthur and the knights of the round table . This book enables them to win out over a gang of school bullies and rescue the learning disabled youth when his father suddenly reappears and kidnap him . When our sickly youth succumbs at the end , his friend is able to go on and write a book . This is a warm story that carries us through adversity . Nice to see that Sharon Stone sacrifices her usual sexy roles to portray the mother of the ill youth .
Bloodhounds Has A Fairly Good Smell Over Broadway	Mitzi Gaynor and Scott Brady starred in this 1952 Damon Runyon tale involving gangsters and some good people . When Brady is returning from Florida , as the heat from the commission investigating him has been turned off , he runs into Georgia hick Mitzi Gaynor . Feeling sorry for her , this bookie brings her back to New York only to realize that she is a 20 year old girl . He sets her up for dancing and naturally being Mitzi Gaynor , she succeeds . As he falls in love with her , he will incur the wrath of his jealous girl who will turn the tables on him . Gaynor was just wonderful in her dance sequences . Mitzi Green is in fine form in a supporting performance as the mob's moll who helps both Gaynor and Brady as the two fall for each other . Very light and amusing entertainment . Look for 2 brief scenes by Charles Bronson as a mobster . Milo O'Shea handles his role as a police officer effectively .
Anatomy of an Oscar Loser	A good film but certainly not in the same league as the Oscar winner for best picture of 1959 , " Ben-Hur . " Other nominees included " The Nun's Story , " as well as " The Diary of Anne Frank , " and also " Room at the Top . " These superior films were better . Nonetheless , we have an excellent courtroom drama about a man accused of killing a man who allegedly raped his wife . Ben Gazzara is excellent as the army official on trial for the murder and Lee Remick certainly showed her capability as the so called victim in this film . Stewart acts like an attorney as he garnered his 5th and final Oscar nomination . Supporting nominations went to Arthur O'Connell as his alcoholic associate and George C . Scott , who is just great as a District Attorney . Watching Scott and Stewart go at it in court is just terrific . Kudos to Joseph Welch , a real life judge , for playing the judge . There were times when the judge spoke that I thought I was hearing the voice of Percy Kilbride . ( Pa Kettle ) Eve Arden is along for the ride as Stewart's assistant , who is waiting to be paid her salary for services rendered . Arden takes on a Della Street like role in the Perry Mason series . While she is effective in the part , I expected more of her usual movie wise-crack antics as she pulled in " Mildred Pierce " and so many other films . I was disappointed by the ending of the film . To me , it represented a cop-out . Nonetheless , the film should be lauded for its study of temporary insanity as use for a defense in murder trials .
Dan in Real Life Brings Family Life Home	Steve Carell proves that he is quite an up and coming versatile actor . In this interesting film , he plays a widowed newspaper writer with 3 children . They're invited to his parents ' house for a family weekend and mayhem ensues . Obviously , his children are precocious . One already is quite serious with her boyfriend . Dan plays the part of the father all the way by trying to disconnect this relationship . The parents , John Mahoney and the ever talented Dianne Wiest , are given little to do here . This is a story of a man trying to get his life back in shape after the passing of his wife . His family is there to get him to do this never realizing that this will lead Dan to fall for the girlfriend ( Juliette Binoche , who won a supporting actress Oscar some years back for " The English Patient . " ) of his brother . This is interesting movie fanfare made more enjoyable by the solid chemistry between Carell and Binoche .
Reunion in France-Joan Dresses Up in Occupied France	Interesting film with Joan Crawford caught up in occupied France during World War 11 . A young dashing John Wayne is terribly miscast as a flier in this film . Phil Dorn , who was memorable 6 years later in " I Remember Mama , " plays Crawford's love interest here . The two of them spend the film deceiving the Nazis . Albert Basserman plays an entirely too sympathetic Nazi official in the film . He must have thought that he was still starring in his Oscar nominated 1940 supporting performance in " Foreign Correspondent . " Of course , Ms . Crawford goes from clothes-horse to extreme patriot and remains in the arms of Dorn , both despised by the occupants for their supposedly pro-Nazi ways . How they fooled the public . Vive la France !
Pleasure Perfect	This film is highly predictable but is most interesting for the sullen performance by Adam Arkin . He is so glib that it's hard to believe that he is a sociopath and has killed his two wives . We know he is guilty but the plot here is how is going to be revealed as the killer ? Unfortunately , for him , his second wife , Fran , came from a close tightly-knit family . Daughter Kelli Williams and sister , portrayed by Amy Madigan , team up to play sleuths . They do a completely thorough job in tracing phone bills made by John Smith . ( Arkin ) The bills reveal that he has a girlfriend in another state . Where were the police ? Ladies , don't jump into marriage . Smith came from a purely dysfunctional family . Sadly , their inaction led to the second death .
Two Sisters from Boston Rates	Nice turn of the century film where Kathryn Grayson comes to N . Y . to sing in a joint . Her presence there threatens a scandal in her native Boston as her uncle is the Republican candidate for mayor of the town . He comes with his wife to investigate and the fun starts . June Allyson is her sister and Jimmy Durante , the owner of the place where Grayson is singing . To save Grayson , Durante arranges for her to sing at the opera with the established Lauritz Melchior . Peter Lawford , falls for Allyson but thinks that Grayson is having an affair with his father . The picture becomes funny at times but needed technicolor to brighten it up . Ben Blue is funny as a drunken waiter and Melchior shows some comedic gift here . A pleasant film capturing the turn of the century musical traditions in America .
Quo Vadis ? Translation Please	No one has ever bothered to translate into English the meaning of the title . Is it what's wrong ? The film is really mostly spectacle . The scenes of Rome burning were greatly handled . Peter Ustinov gave a magnificent performance as Nero . He totally captured the part . Just watching his facial expressions were a joy . His insanity is unbelievable and you really feel that the emperor is a real nut job . Too bad that both Ustinov and Leo Genn were nominated for best supporting actor . While Ustinov was far better than Genn , the latter had some great philosophical lines which he delivered so admirably . The film really discusses the blame technique which has been used throughout history for dictators to divert the attention of people from their horror . Yes , the Christians were blamed for the decadence of Rome .
To Train or Not to Train	Clint Eastwood directed this Oscar-winning film debating the above question . Should he or shouldn't he train a woman for fighting in the ring ? Am sure he knew that he made the wrong decision . Hilary Swank , his Million Dollar Baby fighter , won an Oscar for her brutally realistic efforts as a fighting heroine whose career was cut tragically short at its height . After Eastwood finally decides to train her , the film deals with her successes . It's , unfortunately , too good to be true . There is another young woman hot on her heels and eventually , she throws a punch that knocks us all for a loop . Morgan Freeman , last year's best supporting actor , for his role as the trainer , moderates our story . With Swank fatally hurt , we turn our attention to moral issues of letting patients die . We also see the immoral behavior of her family , they showed themselves to be there only for the buck . If Russell Crowe is this year's " Cinderella Man , " Miss Swank is certainly our damsel in distress . Eastwood's dilemma , after his ill-fated decision to train Swank , is whether or not to pull the plug . He consults a priest just before he does what he felt is morally right . I cannot fathom that the father would justify this . Am sure he consulted with him on this grave issue of the day , euthanasia .
On Dangerous Ground is On Level	Routine plot dealing with a hardened police officer ( Robert Ryan ) who finds love with a blind woman . The woman , portrayed in another terrific performance by Ida Lupino , has a brother who is suspected in the killing of a young girl . Ryan is a hard-bitten officer who strongly believes in beating up criminals to obtain information . Ward Bond is excellent in a supporting role of a father hell-bent on exacting revenge for his daughter's revenge . Even he finds sympathy for the Lupino character . The urban scenery is on par with cities and the crime factor . The snowy scenes in rural America are consistent with the icy feelings caused by a murder there .
That Forsyte Woman Sparkles	Interesting film and a total change of pace for Errol Flynn , playing an erudite gentleman who is as nasty as can be . He literally forces Greer Garson into a loveless marriage and of course she looks to be loved . For a change , her usual movie partner , Walter Pidgeon , takes on a supporting role and is totally subordinate to Garson all together . It is interesting how they find love together . Another interesting casting move here is Robert Young , the suitor of Janet Leigh , niece of Garson and Flynn . You would never suspect that Garson could find love with Young but they do until tragedy intervenes . This is still basically a story of Victorian England with an upper middle class family's snobbishness along with their traditional folkways and mores .
Mrs . Miniver	An Oscar winning performance by Greer Garson highlights this 1942 classic of a British family caught up in the Nazi bombings of England during World War 11 . While each member of the family is looked at , the center of attention is always focused on Mrs . Miniver . We see the annual Garden contest and English people tried their best to lead normal lives under adverse conditions . Richard Ney , who was married at the time to Miss Garson , plays her son in this film . Talk about original casting ! Walter Pigeon , Garson's co-star in so many films , is excellent as her husband . The scene of the bombing while the family is in the attic is realistic and chilling at best . The killing of the Miniver daughter-in-law , played by Teresa Wright , who won for best supporting actress , leaves a void in all our hearts . As memorable as this was , Wright should not have won . Her grandmother , played by the veteran actress Dame May Witty , pulled out all the stops as the grief stricken grandma , and was deservedly nominated for it . ( Of course , this was the same year that should have won Gladys Cooper the Oscar for her brilliant performance in " Now , Voyager . " An excellent effort of a film showing the strength of the British people at a time of crisis . Memorable to generations of viewers .
Grimaces Are Fine Here-Case of Grimacing Governor Merits	Hal Holbrook was far better here than in a previous episode . Why ? He actually tackles a case in the style of Perry Mason . Raymond Burr would have been very proud . This time he really doesn't let his personal life interfere in his conduct of this case involving the demise of a gubernatorial candidate and the governor as well . There is plenty of intrigue here especially when the second murder occurs . Tony Curtis is brutal in his brief stint as a mobster involved in this mayhem . While he looks much older and pale in this part , he delivers a good performance as a racketeer .
Where's the Pasteurization ? Story of Louis Pasteur	While Paul Muni does an admirable acting job here , this was certainly not one of his best performances . He was far better in " The Life of Emile Zola " as well as " Juarez " and " The Last Angry Man . " The film discusses Pasteur's battles with anthrax and rabies . It's amazing that pasteurization is not discussed . Am shocked that the milk producers didn't carry on about this . There are nice supporting performances by Josephine Hutchinson as his devoted wife as well as Fritz Leiber , Dr . Charbonnet , a doctor who would not believe Pasteur's idea and was willing to fight and humiliate him all the way . There is a nice historical backdrop to the film , especially as it relates to the Franco-Prussian War of 1871 . Donald Woods and Anita Louise are wasted in their roles as the son-in-law and daughter to Pasteur .
Task Force is Up to Par	Gary Cooper and Jane Wyatt shine in this 1949 film about the history of aviation in warfare . The picture begins in 1922 when carriers were just getting started . The picture is at its best when we see the early American isolationism that evolved after World War 1 . Gary Cooper is in fine form as the pilot who is banished to Panama for stepping on too many toes for his pro-carrier beliefs . Jane Wyatt plays a woman who loses her husband during a practice run and marries Cooper later on . The last 20 minutes of the film is shown in Technicolor under the admirable direction of Natalie Kalmus , a person used Technicolor so vibrantly in the films of the late 1930s and 1940s as well . The battle scenes are quite authentic and this picture serves well as a tribute to our fighting forces during World War 11 .
Custody - Gain Control Over this	Interesting film where an English professor , who is widowed , is forced to come to grips with the past when his daughter's real father suddenly shows up after 13 years . Seems that the real father walked out on his pregnant wife and she divorced him to marry the professor . Unfortunately , she dies of cancer at 36 . Our " father " had never gone through the process of legally adopting Amanda , beautifully portrayed by Kay Pannabaker . Ms . Pannabaker is the sister of the Pannabaker who plays the daughter of James Woods in the television show " Shark . " The sisters resemble each other . Speaking of resemblance , Rob Morrow , who plays the professor is a dead-ringer for Dustin Hoffman . The latter would have had a field day in the part . The story is interesting as the child is swept off her feet by her real father , John Sullivan . ( James Denton ) The fact is that he is a multimillionaire who shows his daughter the best of everything . Of course , he files for custody of his daughter and wins the case . It's here that this story begins to falter . Cliché driven themes take hold . Amanda is abandoned on Thanksgiving as Sullivan has to close a big business deal . Then there is the ultimate fight between dads where the usual Hollywood lines are repeated : " You weren't there when she broke her arm or cried for 6 months after her mother died . " The end is satisfying and is not totally unexpected .
Cinderella Man and His Princess 12	" Cinderella Man " beautifully captures the depression era when despair was constant and hope was nothing more than a dream . That dream is Jim Braddock ( Russell Crowe ) who captures the character . His talk , his walk , his style in the ring are all picture-perfect . You root for they guy because he is an underdog , a caring soul who gives back his relief money when things start to turn his way . The children have that depression look about them . You feel their hunger as well as their pride for their champion-bound father . Renee Zellwegger's finest hours come midway into the picture . I found her first part to be a contrived performance , best imitating a mixture of Alice Kramden and Sally Struthers . However , when the chips are down , she can pack an emotional wallop which the picture does as well . The scenes of Hoovervilles are realistic and compelling . Paul Giamatti has been nominated for best supporting actor for his performance as Braddock's trainer . He is there all the way , especially in the fight scenes , giving much needed supported encouragement to Braddock . The film has been criticized for its depiction of Max Baer as a womanizer , and overall miserable character . The film may also promote an anti-boxing feeling given that Baer killed 2 people in the ring and seemed to get pleasure out of it . We must remember that Crowe , in the final analysis , is the real hero for fighting his way out of the depression as well as the emotional " wallops " that he takes as well in the ring . A memorable film which is well worth the effort .
New Methodology of Teaching Rocks	If you're the conventional guy or gal , forget this picture . If you aren't , sit back and enjoy . A failed rocker goes into substitute teaching in an elite private school . He has a dream class and throws out the curriculum to teach them all about rock music including performing it . Forget the fact that it takes almost an hour into the film for the principal to show up to observe him . It's unrealistic and unorthodox , however , the picture works due to the performances of Jack Black and the kids that he molds . Joan Cusack has the right temperament of a principal who is ready to break out of her shell . Even goody-goody kids have hangups as the picture shows . Black must be given credit for his novel teaching ability bringing them out of their narrow-minded world . It's always great to learn new ways to motivate kids . Try this but not all the way . By the way , thanks to the parents for acting like parents , whether it be when they find out that Black is not a licensed teacher and when they see what he has accomplished .
Prince of Egypt - The Exodus Returns	Retelling of the classic exodus tale but this time it is set in animation . Ralph Fiennes is getting quite a reputation . First , as Amon Goeth , in " Schindler's List , " and now as Ramses , the pharaoh who wouldn't let the children of Israel depart from Egypt . Gone from this production is Nefertiti as well as the Hebrew overseer Dathan . How could the story be told without these two central figures ? The songs are just lovely . In this version , pharaoh is not immediately angry with his brother Moses . Also , the expulsion of Moses from Egypt is self-imposed . Nevertheless , the basic elements of the story remain and are beautifully depicted .
Flag this One Down-Flags of Our Fathers	Interesting story of those service men during World War 11 who hoisted the American flag at Iwo Jima . Trouble is that some who deserved credit for this fete got it , while the opposite was true of others . The greater part of the film is the War Bond Tour that our alleged heroes made . There is a terrific supporting performance by Adam Beach . He never got over the horrors of war , and during and after the war , he experienced extreme bigotry because of his Indian heritage . Beach conveyed this person entirely in a masterful performance . The use of flash back here is quite effective as we learn how these men reacted to their new found fame and how it ultimately destroyed several of them .
Mary Tyle Moore Really Got Support	" You're going to make it on your own " was part of the theme song for this hit 1970s sit-com . Luckily , for Mary Tyler Moore , she made it because of an outstanding supporting cast . Moore's dead-pan humor could become dull many times . You would actually be anticipating something occurring . When would it finally come ? Miss Moore was extremely fortunate to have a superlative supporting cast . People such as Ed Asner , Gavin MacLeod , Valerie Harper , Nancy Walker , Georgia Engel and Ted Knight provided the necessary strength for this show to succeed . Naturally , working in a newsroom with mostly all these characters didn't exactly hurt either . It may have been cold in Minnesota but the characters on this show provided the necessary warmth .
Deep Valley is Deep in My Heart	A greatly subdued Ida Luppino gives another wonderful performance as a backwoods girl suffering with a nasty father and mother who has been long suffering as a result of his abuse . Luppino does an excellent job as the girl who stutters to her frustrations in life . She falls for Dane Clark , who is a prisoner and escapes during a landslide . Pursued by the police , Luppino offers him help as the two fall deeply in love . Clark's problems seems to be environment oriented . He is not a cruel , vicious man but just a guy whose temper allowed him to run afoul of the law . Fay Bainter gives another wonderful supporting performance as the long suffering mother . Equally good is Wayne Morris , as a cop who also falls for Luppino . While tragedy beckons at the end , life does go on as the picture shows . Dane Clark is great here and he would always excel in taking parts of troubled men .
Bobby - Should Have Kept Bobbin ' Along	Film detailing the problems confronting the U . S . in 1968 and that fateful day and night at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles , where Robert F . Kennedy was shot and killed after winning the California primary . The film deals with a variety of characters and situations at the Ambassador . The film also mirrors the problems of the 1960s , drug addiction , boredom in retirement which isn't something new , Alzheimer's phenomenon , racial relations , marital woes and of course the Vietnam War with a set wedding so that the groom can avoid Vietnam service . Demi Moore gives an interesting performance as a nightclub singer at the hotel caught up with an addiction to alcohol . In a way , she resembles Anne Bancroft's Mrs . Robinson in " The Graduate " of the year before . It's just the way she stretches those legs . Is she supposed to resemble Rosemarie Clooney who was there that fateful night and was never the same after the shooting ? Anthony Hopkins is in fine form as a retired worker at the hotel who meets with an increasingly forgetful Harry Belafonte . William H . Macy plays the cheating husband who discharges an employee only for the latter to squeal about his affair with a hotel switchboard operator . Laurence Fishburne attempts to explain black accommodation to the hostile Latino employees at the hotel . All the stories shall inter-connect at the time of the shooting . A bold attempt to depict the social problems of the 1960s .
Ordinary Miracles Isn't Exactly Like That	The Conservatives must have had a field day in bashing this movie where a liberal judge takes home a foster girl who just about everyone has given up on . The story is the relationship that develops between both of these people , while the girl's miserable boyfriend encourages her to steal jewelry from the judge so that they can both flee and rid themselves of foster homes permanently . If this isn't enough , the judge , played admirably by Jaclyn Smith , finds the father , a widower , who couldn't cope following the tragic death of his wife when Sally was 3 . The judge makes believe that she wants him services for landscaping before she tells him the truth . Even with this obvious liberal bias , this film was extremely well done . The performances are first rate , notably Jaclyn Smith and Lyn Fonseca as the troubled child she takes in . I guess that the judge saw the Spencer Tracy-Mickey Rooney 1938 classic-Boys Town . Remember , there is no such thing as a bad boy . Everyone has redeeming qualities .
Edge of the City Keeps You on Edge	A skillfully directed film by Martin Ritt where a drifter and anti-hero , John Cassevetes lands in N . Y . to escape a tragic incident in his life , where he killed his brother in an automobile accident as well as going AWOL from the army . Cassavetes , always an intense actor , shows grit in his portrayal of a film . Am surprised that Montgomery Clift didn't get this part . Ruth White is his mother and does remarkably well in two scenes on the telephone . Once in New York , he befriends Sidney Poitier as the two work on the docks . Immediately , Jack Warden , a bully and villain in this film , takes a dislike to him and tragedy ensues when Poitier tries to defend his friend . Ruby Dee , plays Poitier's wife in this film , and is brilliant in a scene where she urges Cassavetes to reveal the killer of her husband . This is definitely an interesting film of moral values and the loner in society . With the backdrop of tenements , the right mood is depicted in the film .
An Old Fashioned Thanksgiving Is Just that in Nature	The warm family relationships that abound in this production makes the movie an appealing one . Taking place after the civil war , it chronicles the life of a widow with 3 children who are poverty stricken . The eldest daughter , a writer with a great imagination , concocts a story that ultimately draws their wealthy grandmother to their New Hampshire home . Jackie Bisset plays the stern grandmother . She is entirely too young for the part . Nevertheless , she gives a gem of a performance as a wealthy matron who married a much older widower than she and had a daughter with him to secure herself financially . The daughter ran away years before with a stable boy who has now died . Both mother and daughter must confront past events in front of the children . The story is filled with scarlet fever epidemics abounding . The film also deals with a getting kind grandmother who will go to any length to get her children and grandchildren out of the poverty cycle . It is a nicely done film with a triumph of the family spirit in this season of giving .
Boomerang Makes A Sharp Turn	Interesting cast makes this 1947 film intriguing . Elia Kazan directs this complex drama regarding the shooting of an elderly priest on the street . The weakness here was that the reason why the culprit killed the man of the church was never fully adequately explained . Nice to see Karl Malden and Lee J . Cobb in this film . Kazan would use them again 7 years later in " On the Waterfront . " Dana Andrews seems quite subdued here . He has given us much better performances through the years . Jane Wyatt's role is wasted . Her possible innocent involvement in Ed Begley's scheme is not fully developed . The film is also interesting as it shows that the reformers in government have plenty of skeletons in their closets as well . Forced confessions have always been a major problem in crime enforcement . Still another weakness in the film was Dana Andrews literally turning on the witnesses to the crime . While they deserved it , this wasn't adequately explained either .
A Cool , Dry Place is An Effective Place to Be	Guess what , Vince Vaughn can really act and it is about time that he be used more in mature subject matters . He is quite effective here in the role of a father who is forced to take care of his little boy when the wife and mother goes off to her sister's engagement party and never returns after 18 months . While the premise may be a little silly to believe , Vaughn gives it his all and in certain ways reminded me of Dustin Hoffman's " Kramer vs . Kramer . " The little boy is adorable and appealing in the role . The film works because it deals with maturity and responsibility in a very apt way . Vaughn is an attorney who also dabbles in coaching basketball in the film . One of his renegade players has a sister and you know the rest .
Keeping Up With the Steins-A Return to Basic Jewish Bar Mitzvahs	This comedy hits it right on the head detailing that the idea of the Bar Mitzvah in the Jewish religion has been long-lost . Rather , it has become the elaborate parties that families engage in to outdo one another . Such as the case with this film . In addition to the obvious plot , we are subjected to an estranged relationship by a father's abandonment of his family 26 years before and his attempt to reestablish a relationship with his bitter son at the time of his grandson's Bar Mitzvah celebration . Nice seeing Richard Benjamin back in films after many years behind the camera . His role as the rabbi is brief but to the point . Gary Marshall steals the film as the grandfather and should be Oscar nominated in the supporting category . Doris Roberts , wonderful as always , plays the understanding grandmother . She is willing to admit that she was to blame as well for her husband abandoning the family years before . Ms . Roberts seems to be comfortable in Jewish related theme films as is evident by the television rendition of " The Diary of Anne Frank , " the television film " Yiddish , " with Harold Gould and the 1975 film " Hester Street " with Carol Kane . She is continuing down the path of the late Shelley Winters . A film for all which shows what religion should be all about .
This Night is Worth Remembering - Remember the Night	4 years before the memorable " Double Indemnity , " Fred MacMurray first teamed with Barbara Stanwyck in " Remember the Night . " The story is typical Preston Sturgis-people meeting in unusual circumstances and falling in love . In this one , MacMurray prosecutes Stanwyck for shoplifting , and since it's Christmas time , he takes her home for the holidays . They encounter a madcap adventure before settling in his home . Virginia Brissac is memorable in a brief but devastating performance as a cold mother whose veneer tells you immediately what she is like . Contrast this with MacMurray's family , the wonderful , understanding Beulah Bondi as his mother and Elizabeth Patterson , as an also understanding spinster aunt . This film tries to depict that we are what we are because of our environment . It alternates in being funny and serious . Stanwyck's hard-nosed character does become gentle right-away but that's due to environmental factors . The ending may disappoint you at first but upon further thought there is hope for our two major characters .
14 Hours Very Good But Didn't He Have to Use the Bathroom ?	Richard Basehart was absolutely fabulous here as we feel his nervousness , his detachment from life , his hopelessness , and other problems . Paul Douglas , as the cop who Basehart is able to talk to , is great here . Ironically , in so many films Douglas always played the loud-mouthed person you could never count on to calm someone down . Agnes Moorehead gives a gem of a performance as the emotionally unbalanced , distraught mother . She blends into this performance a similarity to " Magnificent Ambersons " and can still be that holy terror as she displayed as Minnie in " Hush . . . Hush , Sweet Charlotte . " The picture again deals with mob psychology with some people anxiously awaiting Basehart to take the fatal plunge . Sidebars include Jeffrey Hunter and Debra Paget , as a young couple who meet among the mob and Grace Kelly , about to divorce her husband before this drama gives her a new lease on life and she is willing to try to sustain the marriage . Barbara Bel Geddes appears briefly as Virginia , the girlfriend to Robert ( Baseheart ) She is effective here . Martin Gabel's role as the psychologist fascinated me . How could he judge so soon after a brief meeting what the Moorehead and Robert Keith characters were all about ? That was a little too far-fetched . Overall , a gripping drama showcasing the living of life to its fullest .
Reading Room Fairy Tales Should Come True	This is a very nice film for people who aren't part of any educational system . Certainly , this is the way it is supposed to be . When an affluent African-American becomes widowed , he adheres to the wishes of his deceased wife by returning to a deprived area and opening up a reading room . When no interest is shown by the residents , he gives out free soda . Eventually , things begin to fall into place nicely ; even though Mr . Campbell , played marvelously by James Earl Jones , has his computer in the store stolen , and has a gun placed to his back . As stated , things fall into place nicely . A militant Muslim group , that feels that Campbell is exploiting the neighborhood , comes around and helps out when the store is burned down . Someone accused of stealing the computer turns his life around and works for Campbell as a security guard . Naturally , he admits that he didn't take the computer . He was shielding a friend who would be facing a stiffer jail sentence . The children who can't read are suddenly masters at it . The film is cliché ridden . If these things were true to life , how come our urban schools continue to suffer in the way they do ? We need people to direct films telling the truth of what is going on in our schools . These films with sugar-coated endings are nice but totally unrealistic .
Marsha Mason Does Helen Trent	Poor Marsha Marson . All of her relationships end in failure . The guy simply walks out . She has a precocious daughter , devilishly played by Quinn Cummings . The latter received a supporting actress nomination and faded from the movie scene real fast . Where are you Quinn darling ? Forced to share an apartment with a stranger , Mason may finally be on the right track . Richard Dreyfuss is that man and in a surprise Oscar winning performance ( Richard Burton was also up for Equus that year ) , he is perfect in the role as the charmer . By movie's end Dreyfuss has to go off to somewhere but unlike the other men in her life , will return . How do we know he is coming back ? Just see this delightful film and find out .
Twisting Plot Creates Interest in " To Have and to Hold "	A married man has an affair . You would think that when he would try to break it off , there would be blackmail . This is not the case and that's what makes this film out of the ordinary . Instead of the blackmail concept , the plot is twisted where it is made to look that the guy is trying to kill his wife and in the process , she has killed the intruder . Justine Bateman , as the wife , appears too old for the part . Unfortunately , she looks a lot older than her husband . The girl who would not let go brings only downfall to the guy who loves her and has hired someone to beat up the husband . Instead , Bateman kills the intruder and the other two now try to extract revenge .
Painted Veil - Somerset Maugham At it Again	Memorable film showcasing the acting talent of Edward Norton and Naomi Watts . Literally forced into a marriage by an overbearing mother , Watts soon finds herself in China with her bacteriologist husband . She soon finds a lover in Lev Schrieber , a Diplomat . Angered when he discovers the affair , Norton wants a divorce but soon " compromises " his feelings by having Watts come with him to a remote area in China undergoing a cholera epidemic . Of course , Schrieber would not divorce his wife for political and social reasons . The film tells us that through loneliness and frustration , Watts soon finds comfort in working in an orphanage and meets with an understanding nun , well played by Diana Rigg . It is through this work that Watts finds herself and she and Norton fall back in love . She is pregnant and the film never clearly states who the father is . With revolution and the epidemic enduring , all seems to be going well with the couple until the cholera hits one of them with tragic consequences . The film is beautifully realized with some lovely cinematography .
Verdict for Judicial Indiscretion	Anne Archer is at the top of her game as a supreme court nominee . She walks and carries herself like the late Jackie Kennedy . Smart , poised , and elegant , she has everything going for her until she is set up in a plot to discredit her so as to get her nomination out . You do begin to wonder when the rapist shows up as part of the news corps and is seen with Archer's daughter . It all comes into focus as a corrupt , miserable senator has set out to destroy Archer for destroying him some years back . The film is also quite good as it shows you how a supreme court nominee is guided through the process by White House assistants .
You Can't Run from It	Viggo Mortensen and Maria Bello are a couple in Indiana with 2 children . Their older son depicts the town they live in as one where you grow up , get a job and become an alcoholic . The couple are hardworking owners of a diner . Their peaceful life comes to a crashing change when 2 killers attempt to rob the diner and are promptly shot to death by Mortensen ( Tom . ) Without warning , Ed Harris and his crew show up and begin calling Tom by the name of Richie . He denies he is Richie but they continue . Finally , in one scene Harris and his cohorts are killed by Mortensen and his son who has come to his defense . Yes , Tom is really Richie , a former member of a crime family who had assaulted Harris years before and had fled to begin a new life . Eventually , Tom ( Richie ) returns to the Philadelphia home of his brother played by William Hurt in a one scene role that earned him a best supporting actor performance . The 2 brothers tangle and you know the outcome . The film is nicely done with good performances by Bello , Mortensen and Harris . Hurt for best supporting actor ? Silly !
One Man's Journey-Homage to those Dedicated Doctors of Yesteryear	Lionel Barrymore gave a memorably restrained performance in this 1933 film . It stands as a precursor to films such as 1959's " The Last Angry Man " with Paul Muni . The setting takes place in rural America circa 1910 . Having lost his wife in childbirth , Barrymore returns to his roots only to lose his first patient there as well to child-birth . The embittered husband is ready to take the baby to the poor house but Barrymore takes the little baby girl in along with his young son . Just on the girl's 4th birthday , the father returns and seems much reformed . Barrymore gives the girl , Letty , back to him . Letty maintains a father-like relationship with Barrymore through the years . As the years pass , Barrymore wins the hearts of the town with his dedication and free services for the impoverished . He lets opportunities pass which could have gotten him out of the town . Some how we know this from the George Bailey effect of 1946's " It's A Wonderful Life . " Like George Bailey , this doctor is going nowhere . May Robson costars as a beloved housekeeper who enters the Barrymore home at precisely the right time . This is a nicely done heartwarming story of rural America from 1910 through 1933 .
Smart People isn't Only for the Very Intelligent	Dennis Quaid stars as a self-centered intellectual English professor who still has plenty to learn about learn about life . A widower with 2 children , he has established quite a dysfunctional family . Ellen ( " Juno " ) Page plays Vanessa , his intellectually strung-out daughter who talks about normal sexual mores and is plenty to contend with . There is also a gem of a performance by Thomas Haden Church , who portrays Quaid's adopted brother . Appearing to be one with manual labor skills , Church exhibits a lot of intellectual curiosity while certainly having many hangups as well . We also have Sarah Jessica Parker , a former student , and now a doctor , who meets up with Quaid when he is hospitalized . The story does wilt somewhat when the relationships begin to develop but things are neatly tied up . The film shows you that even the intellectual can get caught up in difficult situations . Being smart isn't as great as it has been made out to be .
Hogan's Heroes-Showed Nazis What They Really Were !	No one can ever state that the Nazi Regime of crackpot Adolf Hitler were anything else but despicable . The television show , " Hogan's Heroes , " attempted to show the Nazis for the moronic creatures that they were . Yes , it is true that it was done in comedy style , but let the world see how stupid these beasts really were . We had a wonderful cast that worked well together . Coincidentally , several members of the cast appeared in the classic 1961 film " Judgment at Nuremberg . " I enjoyed how Hogan and his men could come and go as they pleased right under the nose of Col . Clink , who boasted that no one had ever escaped from his camp . I enjoyed the constant threats of the Russian front , and John Banner ( Schultz ) constantly saying - " I See Nothing , I hear nothing , etc . " We shall never forget what the Nazis did to the Jewish people and other groups during their reign of terror . " Hogan's Heroes " provided us with a necessary escape .
Last Holiday : Diagnosis : A Good One	Queen Latifah is in fine form as a plain worker is diagnosed with a terminal brain disorder . This is all thanks to a malfunctioning cat-scan machine . Deciding to leave life with a bang , she goes off to Europe and meets some interesting people at a skiing lodge . There's her boss , played with disdain by an older Timothy Hutton . There is her senator , who was too busy the Sunday before , to attend church services as well as a Congressman and his wife . The film deals with ethics along the way . It talks of fulfilling your life's dreams . Take the chance . It deals with a greedy , vicious corporate America . Latifah soon earns the trust of all , especially when she hits it big at the gambling table . Her scene on skis is hilarious . Her man runs to join her in a very funny ending . Good , clean fun . Worth seeing . Don't miss it .
Higher Learning Explores Social Problems on Campus	Interesting film revolving around racism , resulting prejudice and life at a college . We have some interesting performances here by Omar Epps , as a student , with hang-ups and Laurence Fishburne , as a tough political science professor who chides his own people for being lazy . 4 years before she won the Oscar , Jennifer Connolly again plays a college student . Interestingly , Michael Rapaport , who I believe is Jewish in real life , plays someone weak in mind who is drawn into a neo-Nazi movement with tragedy resulting . The film is good especially when it tries to show that the college crowd try to get together for toleration of each other , but unfortunately violence ensues . The police are made to come off badly in this film . No matter what , black students are routinely harassed and beaten . The picture succeeds since it points out the need for human understanding and tolerance .
O What a Wonderully Done Monster !	Charlize Theron well deserved her best actress Oscar for " Monster . " The person who did her make-up should have received one as well . Ms . Theron is marvelous as serial killer Aileen Wuornos , a prostitute who went on a killing spree . Theron received remarkable support from Christina Ricci , who played a young girl seduced by Wuornos . Ricci's face shows her unhappiness and disturbance and ultimate betrayal of her lover . The film does suffer from clichés such as Wuornos's attempt to justify the killings . Raped at age 8 by her father's friend , she would be subjected to abuse by the father as well . When she is found guilty of the killings and sentenced to death , Wuornos screams that you're killing a raped girl . Does this life history excuse her from what she did ? Not even a psychiatrist would be able to justify this .
Red Skies of Montana Reaches to the Stars	This action adventure film is still another great opportunity for Richard Widmark to display his great acting talent . In this very good film , he leads men into fighting forest fires in the Montana-Idaho areas . When tragedy strikes , a disoriented Widmark can't remember what has transpired . The film provides a wonderful supporting performance by Jeffrey Hunter , a fellow fire-fighter , who lost his father in the blaze . A suspicious Hunter feels that Widmark ran out on his men . The film shows what these men have to go through in fighting such dangerous fires . Heroism is the order of the day and Widmark and company respond valiantly .
Baby Mama is Delightfully Deceitful	Tina Fey again goes beyond 30 Rock and Saturday Night Live to prove that she is a major talent . Fey , who certainly helped cause the defeat of the McCain-Palin ticket in November , is just fabulous here as a 37 year old career woman obsessed with having a child . Unmarried and finding that nothing is happening , she seeks out surrogate parents , the woman well played by Amy Poehler . Things become involved when Poehler has deceived Fey and there are added complications when Fey falls for former attorney , Greg Kinnear , who now is basically a healthy soda drink guy . The end is amusing and really what you would expect but this is a fun picture so go enjoy it .
Ace in the Hole is A Big Carnival	This film was also appropriately titled " The Big Carnival . " What a circus-like media atmosphere is created when sly reporter , Kirk Douglas , goes after a big story in New Mexico . A man becomes trapped in a cave and Douglas decides to exploit the situation to its fullest extent . While the media goes crazy over the situation , Douglas creates a moral dilemma by taking the slow way to free the poor fellow . What Douglas doesn't realize that he is in for is the guy's wife , played memorably by Jan Sterling . Trapped in a loveless marriage , Sterling is convinced by Douglas to hang on . When he becomes too demanding , tragedy results . There is also a nice supporting performance by Porter Hall , usually funny in a movie . This time , Hall attains dramatic heights as the editor . Exploitation has always been a great Hollywood story . This film is no exception to the rule .
I Liked Malice	Alec Baldwin , Nicole Kidman and Bill Pullman provide the right chemistry in " Malice . " Problem with this film is that there are two themes brought to the screen . While they are tied together , a third theme is not adequately explained as the film ends . Nevertheless , we have a good story about a serial killer killing young college co-eds , while at the same time Baldwin and Kidman plot against her husband ( Pullman ) who it appears is the jerk of the year . When Pullman finds out that he has been duped , he wants to be cut in on the $20 million dollars that Kidman has won with the aid of Baldwin , her lover . Bebe Neuwirth plays a detective caught up in both situations . She says her lines like a truck driver from Brooklyn or the Bronx . The late Anne Bancroft shines as Kidman's alcoholic mother . To say that she knows her daughter is to put it mildly . George C . Scott does well in a brief appearance as a witness for the surgeon Baldwin . A good thriller with wonderful plot twists .
The Citadel - A True Doctor's Dilemma With Great Inspiration	A wonderful look into the medical profession with a fine performance by that wonderful character actor Robert Donat . Rebuked by the coal citizens of Wales when he wants to research tuberculosis and working in the mines , Donat is lured to working with the wealthy and living the appropriately high society life style . It is only with the death of a friend during botched surgery by a doctor for the wealthy , the Donat character realizes that it's time to go back to his former way of doctoring . Rosalind Russell is miscast as Donat's wife . In the film , she is the prim teacher who gave up her teaching career to marry the good doctor . This film is an excellent representation of the medical profession . It is extremely well done and worth watching .
Forever Meeting Til We Do It Again	The striking similarity of this good film is its resemblance to " Dark Victory . " In fact , Bette Davis was offered the lead role but to the storyline bowed out in favor of Merle Oberon who gave a memorable performance as another dying heiress . Another major similarity is that George Brent and Geraldine Fitzgerald appeared in both of these films . Brent and Oberon play people who meet at a bar and fall in love instantly . Unfortunately , she is dying of heart disease and he is a convicted criminal on the lam . Frank McHugh and Binnie Barnes give excellent support as friends of Brent who try to hatch a plan for him to escape . Pat O'Brien is just a natural as the police officer who is assigned to watch Brent . With his love for Oberon and his saving of O'Brien during an escape attempt in the ocean , one wonders how Brent could be a convicted murderer . That phase of the movie is not discussed . While both know the fate of each other by the film's end , we can't forget this wonderful story and especially the human relations that develop . O'Brien is excellent as he discusses life's philosophy in a memorable scene with Miss Barnes . The ending scene on New Year's eve will bring a tear to your eye . This film should not be confused with films of the same name that were made in 1936 and 1944 respectively . All 3 films dealt with different subject matter .
Too Brief for this Memorable Encounter	British actress Celia Johnson lost the Oscar for best actress in this wonderful film to Olivia De Havilland for " To Each His Own . " Yet , the remarkable Miss Johnson was able to garner the N . Y . C . film critics award for her amazing performance as a British housewife , who accidentally meets a man and in a short time , they both have a memorable romance . The wonderful Trevor Howard was that man . The two were absolutely ideal together on the screen . The love they found and shared so briefly was memorably drawn into our minds by the strengths of their respective performances . Remember their parting scene ? Remember when it appeared that Alix ( Johnson ) would commit suicide ? Remember , when she returns to her husband how he says , " You came back to me ! " A wonderful film especially for romantics of any age .
The Game Plan Has Winning Combination	Our football hero has it all . The women , the fame , the money and then his daughter suddenly shows up . We've seen films before where the unknown child suddenly enters a parent's life . Naturally , the child at first creates havoc on our swinging bachelor's life . Naturally , it's a story of how the two ultimately bond together . Naturally , there are those complications that arise when it comes out what has happened to the mother . Naturally , the child takes sick and is rushed to the hospital . Naturally , this shall all have an adverse affect on dad's championship football game . Naturally , the ending is a delight . We've come to love and appreciate such films . This one is no exception either .
High Wall-Tall Thriller	Something different for Robert Taylor . He stars as a possible insane killer who tries to prove his innocence . The film also showcases the acting talent of Audrey Totter . For a change , she is in a major role and not relegated to the many supporting roles she did in films . Much of the action takes place in an asylum where Taylor is committed after allegedly strangling his wife . Marshall Thompson is wonderful as the sinister boss who is the killer . The black and white photography depict the trouble that Taylor is in as he tries to prove his innocence . At first , Taylor did not want any help thinking that he was guilty . He thought that he could use his brain disorder on his behalf . When his mother suddenly dies , he needs to raise his 6 year old son . Totter is the compassionate psychologist who takes the child in and gradually comes to realize that Taylor is an innocent victim . This is a very interesting psychological thriller .
Hollywoodland-Tinsel Town Shows Itself	Interesting film dealing with the death of George Reeve , who played Superman on television . A wonderful role model for children , he was idolized until his untimely death . The movie questions whether his passing was by suicide , or was it murder ? Adrien Brody is in fine form as the detective probing the case . In the old days , Dick Powell or Dana Andrews who have had this part . Brody is nonetheless convincing of a detective who really delves into this mystery and in the process nearly gets his head handed to him . As a result of the beating he sustains , he temporarily comes down as a person . Bob Hoskins and Diane Lane are terrific in supporting roles as a husband and his wife caught up in this mess . In addition , Ben Affleck is in fine form as Mr . ReeveThe flashback technique is used well here to show Reeve's life . His mother is an interesting character . Why did she change her attitude so suddenly ? That's another story in itself . The black and white background sets the mood for this film .
Out to Sea-Go Down to the Sea in Ships to Catch this One	Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon , both of whom are sadly missed , proved once again that they were a team dedicated to their craft of bringing hilarious moments to the screen . This film is just another example of this . This time out they play two brothers-in-law who land on a ship as dance instructors on board . Of course , their boss is a perfectionist and miserable person named Gil Godwin who just enjoys harassing these boys . It's hilarious how Lemmon gives a quick lesson in dancing to Matthau and how the latter dances a riotous rumba with the boat's owner Rue McLanahan . Too bad that fellow dance instructors Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor are given so little to do but their parts call for that . Matthau falls for Dyan Cannon , on board with her fellow gold-digging mother , the usual outrageous Elaine Stritch . Unknown to them , Matthau has no money either . The widower Lemmon falls for Gloria De Haven , looking lovelier than ever . The film belongs to Matthau and Lemmon and will serve as a further tribute to their illustrious careers .
Kiss of Death Makes You Wonder	Even though he saw his gangster father cut down by police bullets , you have to wonder how a kind hearted , sympathetic character as Nick Bianco , well played by Victor Mature , settled down to a life of crime . In addition , was there anything going on with Nick and the babysitter while Nick's wife was living ? They sure teamed up quickly and Nick remarried very fast after his wife's suicide . Despite these possible flaws , we have an engrossing film dealing with a gangster must face when he starts squealing on fellow mob members . Of course , Richard Widmark steals the movie with his performance of the insane hooligan with that memorable laugh , eerie smile and depraved indifference to human life . Throwing a wheel-chair bound Mildred Dunnock down the stairs was most shocking . It would take a performance such as the one given by Edmund Gwenn in the family tradition film , " Miracle on 34th St . " to defeat Widmark . Ironically , Widmark was never Oscar nominated again .
For the 1st Time - One of Mario's Lasts	The voice of Mario Lanza carries this nicely done film . The plot is a good one as a unreliable opera star finds love with a deaf mute girl . Lanza was also a pretty good actor . Zsa Zsa Gabor is in this one as a countess . She looks young but when she speaks , you think it's sister Eva talking from the " Green Acres " television show . Lanza sings a variety of songs . His singing of the opera Othello is superb . I have to confess that I laughed when I saw a " dead " Desdemona besides him . The latter looked like a younger version of former Secretary of State Madeleine Allbright . Our deaf mute gains her hearing only to lose it again with fiancée Mario blaming himself . The plot becomes silly when Mario begins a bar-room brawl and then the patrons of the bar try to exonerate him in court . Sit back and listen to that beautiful golden voice of the late Lanza . What a talent was lost when he left us so unexpectedly .
So Well Remembered in Great British Film Making With Unevenness	The British Rank Organisation came up with a gem of a 1947 film , " So Well Remembered . " Interesting to see the usually kind and sympathetic Martha Scott playing a nasty sought of woman here . You wouldn't think that from the beginning of the film when Scott as Olivia seems to be a victim of her father's imprisonment . Sociologists would enjoy this film tackling the housing situation in Britain circa the post-World War 1 period . The areas shown are slums with diphtheria running rampant . John Mills is our hero here . He sacrifices a very lucrative career in parliament to devote his energies to improving housing in his area and therefore trying to solve the problem of poverty . He weds Olivia who can't seem to bring their young son to a clinic when the diphtheria epidemic strikes . After the child dies , she leaves her husband , remarries and has a son by that film , played by an adult , Richard Carlson . Trevor Howard shines as an alcoholic doctor . The unevenness of the film may be shown from the problems of poverty to the all-possessive Olivia who tries to smother her war-injured son . ( Carlson ) . She is finally rebuked in her effort to do this by Mills , who should have done this years before . An interesting film , well acted .
Irma La Douce - Some Like It Hot It Isn't	Funny 1963 film re-teaming the great Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine once again . As he was in " Hot , " Lemmon is another good-natured jerk , who falls for hooker MacLaine and accepts another identity so as to keep her going financially and off the street . While Lou Jacobi is appealing in the role of the bar-keeper , his main presence is a major reason for the downfall of this film . When Lemmon is blamed for killing off the character he has been portraying , Jacobi knew all this and could have gotten Lemmon off . Instead , he continues the charade which lands Lemmon in jail unnecessarily . Some may call this comedy , I call it stupidity . Lemmon is wonderful as always as the cop and as the street-walker , Mac Laine delivers another Oscar nominated performance .
Case of Glass Coffin Is Not Fatal	Perry is literally up to his old tricks defending a magician accused of murdering one of his workers . What a motive he had . The woman told him that she was pregnant with his child . Naturally , there are others in the cast that can prove to be good suspects as well . Bill Moses , besides being a private investigator as well as an attorney , shows that he can get physical here . The guy is always making it with the chicks . However , he actually talks in an intelligent fashion . I was able to figure out who the real killers were right away . The killer and his cohort looked more like father and daughter rather than husband and wife . You just had to put the pieces together . The adoption scene was lovely at the end but was it really necessary to put in ? Love should keep this couple together period .
Go to the Casbah-Algiers	After 68 years , the sound on the filming is surely going but " Algiers " remains a picture of intense intrigue . A wonderful performance is given by Charles Boyer as the suave , cunning Pepe Le Moko , a jewel thief who has taken refuge in the Casbah-an eerie place surrounded by labyrinths and bullets along the way . The police can't seem to " smoke " Pepe out of his refuge despite repeated raids . He has his gang of cohorts with him along the way . Pepe longs for his former life in Paris . In a chance meeting , he meets the Hedy LaMarr character , a young , beautifully vibrant woman who reminds him of his days past and of his current situation hiding out in the Casbah . Sigrid Gurie is Ines , her evil-looking eyes tells you her intentions . If she can't have Pepe , no one else will either . There are fine supporting performances by Joseph Calleia as a sinister looking detective and Gene Lockhart , as a traitor who pays the ultimate price for his treachery . Those Boyer never uttered those famous words , " Come to the Casbah , " go anyway to enjoy this well done film .
Freedom Writers - It's Just the Same Old Story	As far as movies go , this is still an excellent adaptation of what goes on in our urban schools . Hilary Swank gives a superb performance as an idealistic teacher who confronts a bunch of misfits and becomes a miracle worker . This is where the movie suffers as is the case with most of these school movies . By the middle and end of these films such as " To Sir , With Love , " and " The Ron Carey Story , " the worst pupils imaginable become outstanding . We never saw this in earlier school films such as " Goodbye , Mr . Chips , " or " Good Morning , Miss Dove . " The film is realistic when it shows the uncaring school district and especially the English supervisor . The latter was memorable . It should be noted that the real character that Swank portrayed left teaching after several years . If she were so devoted to education and so very successful in the classroom , she should have remained . After all , this was supposedly her calling in life and this supposed calling led to the break-up of her marriage . Let's challenge our film directors to make realistic movies about the school systems in our country .
Coal Miner's Daughter-Well Worth the Shovel	Sissy Spacek won an Oscar for portraying Loretta Lynn in this 1980 biography and Tommy Lee Jones , who portrayed her husband , should have been Oscar nominated . Spacek and Jones are just perfect in this musical story . There are a few inconsistencies in the film . Why was that man shot at the beginning of the film ? If Lynn's father loved her so much , why did he allow her to marry at 13 to someone they knew for about a month ? Is this an example of rural southern behavior at its worst ? The film shines due to the fact that Spacek did her own singing . She is matched every way by Jones's outstanding performance as her husband , the man who knew to get away from the coal mines as soon as possible . Beverly D'Angelo appears in a much understated performance as the tragic Patsy Cline . It was with her untimely passing that Lynn became the Queen of Country Music . Lynn certainly wasn't much of a mother as she quickly leaves 4 children behind in pursuit of her career . Adding twin girls for a total of 6 doesn't seem to complicate matters at all . British director , Michael Apted , successfully conveys the southern country musical scene in this film . Even Minnie Pearl shows up in Nashville but just smiles and says nothing .
Murder On the Orient Express - Blame All Here	Agatha Christie's marvelous tale of who did it again provides for a wonderful 1974 film . Surprisingly , Ingrid Bergman , as a timid missionary , won the best supporting actress Oscar . Bergman gave far better performances and should not have won here . Even in her acceptance speech , she reminded the Academy of Valentina Cortese's performance in " Day for Night " as the actress who forgets her lines during filming . Albert Finney has a field day in acting . As the inspector , he is suspicious of everyone and everything . He really acts like an inspector though at times it was difficult to understand him in a contrived French accent . The film is helped by a tremendous all-star cast . With the exception of Finney , no one really dominates here as we come to realize why Richard Widmark deserved to be done in by all .
Stepsister-Ph . D Candidate Cinderella With A Twist	A modern day Cinderella tale . In this one , a Ph . D . candidate loses her mother , a pediatrician , in what is thought of as a tragic accident . Soon , her father , also a physician , meets a woman ( Linda Evans ) with an interesting daughter . They marry and the fun begins . Evans and her daughter Melinda are thieves . The twist comes when Evans actually falls in love with the doctor and tells her daughter that she is calling off their plans . When the husband is killed by Evans ' daughter , mother wants to send her away but this brat has other plans-killing her mother and blaming the Ph . D candidate ! The plot twists here are excellent . The movie moves at a fast pace and is a joy to watch on the screen . The psychological trapping at the end is a delight for the viewer as well .
Andrews & Tierney In Top Form-Where the Sidewalk Ends	Gene Tierney and Dana Andrews , who were both so memorable in 1944's " Laura , re-teamed for this excellent 1950 film-noir . An embittered policeman , Andrews as Mark , can't get over the fact that his father was a hoodlum who died in a police shootout while trying to break out of jail . As a result of his bitterness , Mark doesn't know when to stop using his hands . It's this inability that leads to the accidental death of a small-time hood . ( Craig Stevens ) In trying to frame gangster Gary Merrill , Mark unintentionally puts the heat on innocent cab-drive , Tom Tully , who is the father of Gene Tierney , who was separated by Stevens . This is a well-thought out film dealing with the conscience of a basically decent human being . The ending is not exactly upbeat as Mark will have to face the music . At least , he finally admits to what he has done .
True Lies is True to Form	An exciting action-packed film with Arnold S doing a great imitation of a married James Bond . The action sequences are phenomenal here . There are many chase scenes and the ending scenes with the airplane hovering around Florida are absolutely awesome . As the supposed computer salesman but really a CIA agent , Arnold is quite convincing in the role . Had he gotten parts like this , he could have stayed in the movies and California would be having another governor now . Jamie Lee Curtis is just perfect as the plain-Jane wife who is drawn into Arnold's way of life when she is recruited by an agent of the enemy . Tom Arnold is in perform form in a supporting role as Arnold's sidekick . The story can be silly when Harry ( Arnold ) suspects his wife of having an affair , but does it pick up when the action and storyline of a terrorist plot to hurt America is brought to life .
The Maid Was Made in Heaven	Martin Sheen and Jackie Bisset are just wonderful together in this comedy dealing with a New York businessman ( Anthony Wayne ) , Sheen , who moves to Paris to work for a company . Along the way , he follows Bisset , who is in need of a nanny for her precocious but obnoxious daughter . The young lady is terrific and I thought I was going to see another Quinn Cummings of " Goodbye Girl " fame but sadly her part is weakened to the prevailing story that while Sheen becomes the maid and wins the heart of the little girl , he is really going to being working in the same firm as Bisset . Imagine her reaction when she discovers who Sheen really is . The two will then work together to destroy someone who wants to borrow money from the firm but who is a very poor credit risk and someone who had romantic designs on Bisset . The story is quite predictable but it's nicely done and after all , we're in romantic Paris . Sheen proves that he has an ability to do comedy .
When the Remake Was This One Merits	Fannie Hurst's novel came to the screen in 1934 . I have to say that while the picture was good , the 1959 remake with Lana Turner was far better . That one really drained you with the emotional stops pulled out by Turner , Susan Kohner and Juanita Moore . With the exception of Louise Beavers , that emotional drain is missing . Warren William who played Colbert's love interest was as stiff as a board . He was very similar to John Barrymore in appearance but that's about it . Colbert did not show what I call a sharp range in this film as did Fredi Washington , as the daughter who was ashamed of being black . The story line was better here in that it allowed for both women to go from poverty to wealth . The film literally dealt with two women who made a success for themselves financially but were unable to cope with motherhood . It's really a shame that Hurst had Colbert taking advantage of the Beavers character by offering her only a 20 % share of the business . I never believed that the daughter was ashamed of being black , rather , she was angry at the fact that black people did not have the same opportunities as whites . The scene in the classroom and that funeral will forever tug at your heart .
" Anne of the Thousand Days "	Richard Burton received the 6th of 7 Oscar nominations as Henry V111 in this costumed-lavish production . Burton has the right temperament for the part of the tortured king , obsessed with the idea that he must have a son as a daughter cannot rule England . That hat that he wore throughout the film was ridiculous . The costume designer should have been faulted for making it . He looks so silly in it . Genevieve Bujold shines especially in her condemnation scenes . She plays the role of an ill-fated condemned Anne Boleyn in a much striking difference then say the doomed Queen Marie Antoinette ( Norma Shearer ) Bujold is more resolute in her determination to die for her beliefs . Shearer , touched your heart with that magnetic tear in her eye . That feeling is missing from Bujold's performance . John Colicos is excellent as Cromwell , whose lies would condemn Boleyn ; nevertheless , a supporting actor's nomination was given to Anthony Quayle as Cardinal Wolsey . The latter's morality can certainly be questioned in his bed-scene . Given the woman in the scene , the latter becomes hilarious to view . A majestic movie score well captures the mood of the story . Irene Papas is basically wasted as Catherine of Aragon . A fine actress , her role deserved to be more meaty in content .
Good View for Killing	Better than the average James Bond thriller . Christopher Walken's make-up man should be criticized . His face looks like he should have been in " Goldfinger . " The story about a berserk ex-KGB agent who plots to raid Silicon Valley by creating a massive earthquake is interesting at best . Terrific action scenes includes the usual chase scenes but this time involving a fire engine . It was done well and comic relief was there with the policemen involved . They did a great job of acting like Keystone Cops . Grace Jones is catty , vicious and while her redemption comes way too late , it was there . Roger Moore did well in the part but his age was starting to show in several scenes . His female costar looked like his daughter in several of them .
Bringing Up Buddy - A Fine Romance	In the song , " A Fine Romance , " there is a line that describes my maiden aunts . This may also best describe " Bringing Up Buddy , " a very funny television show that unfortunately didn't last too long . Frank Aletter plays the orphaned Buddy who is brought up by Aunt Violet and Aunt Iris . Enid Markey and Doro Merande played the aunts in meticulous fashion . They were the embodiment of spinsterhood , who tried to cope with their nephew . Of course , they did provide plenty of love and guidance along the way for the much harried Buddy . The opening musical score sounded like we were back in elementary school . Perhaps , this was appropriate as the two spinsters were overly protective of their nephew .
Anna Karenina Goes Hollywood	Why did Hollywood make the 1935 Greta Garbo film over ? It is true that Vivien Leigh gave still another great performance in the title role . She was ably supported by Ralph Richardson as her cold embittered husband and Kieron Moore , as her lover who led to her ruination . The problem with this film is the same problem that we have with films relating to the stories of Tolstoy and Shakespeare . For some reason , they become most boring especially around the middle of the film . Leigh is excellent in the role of the doomed wife . Her miserable husband is totally consumed by his diplomatic career . He uses religion as a pretext for his refusal to give her a divorce . He is cunning and quite sly here and Ralph Richardson , in the role of her husband , is most convincing . I love that during a major snowstorm he states that he is snowed under from all of his work . What a great use of the pun technique here . A highly dramatic emotional film so well acted . It's just too bad that even the plot can't motivate more of an interest among the viewers .
San Quentin : Good Prison Yarn	Humphrey Bogart , Ann Sheridan and Pat O'Brien star in this 1937 film detailing prison life . A man and army official with a heart , O'Brien is sent to this prison to help reform it from a vicious guard played in his usual sinister way by Barton MacLane . O'Brien falls for lounge singer Sheridan . Coincidentally , her brother is sent to the jail for armed robbery . Tough guy Bogart is reformed by O'Brien until a misunderstanding leads Bogie to believe that he is being treated well since O'Brien is stuck on his sister . Jealous and angry of O'Brien being brought in over him , MacLane " arranges " a breakout of Bogart and another inmate with tragic results for all resulting . This picture details when a criminal tries to go straight but other things just get in the way . Marc Lawrence , who died recently in his 90s , is also excellent as one of the inmates . The film also shows emotionally disturbed people being in the same prison as hardened criminals . Note Veda Ann Borg in a small but captivating role .
Sullivan's Travels - He Got the Last Laugh	Preston Sturges , who was always so interested in the common man , wrote and directed this 1941 film dealing with a comedy director's desire to make a serious film commenting on the social problems of the period . As he has led a charmed life , Sullivan ( Joel McCrea ) decides to go out and live among the impoverished . He immediately meets up with a girl , Veronica Lake , and the two go on wily adventures . The picture really begins to take off when a vagrant assaults Sullivan , causing temporary amnesia . The thug , killed by a train , is mistaken for Sullivan who is then imprisoned and endures plenty of hardships along the way . It is only when the truth is revealed that Sullivan realizes the power of laughing . A solid performance by Joel McCrea , Lake is good but her part fades drastically , especially when Sullivan is jailed .
Dead Man Can Tell An Interesting Tale in Man Who Never Was	Interesting film with Clifton Webb and Gloria Grahame starring in a British plot to fool the Nazis during World War 11 . We wanted the Germans to believe that the invasion would occur in Greece rather than in Sicily . A young man , who died of pneumonia , was used by the British government in the plot to fool the Germans . The first hour of the movie deals nicely with how the British hoped to accomplish this plan . The second part deals with the Nazis sending an Irish spy ( Stephen Boyd ) into Britain to investigate the authenticity of Pvt . Martin , the alleged victim . Interestingly , in the film , Webb and Grahame never appear in any scenes together . Webb is Montague , a British army official , who hatches the plot . Grahame lives with Webb's secretary and accidentally falls into the plot when her boyfriend is killed . Her emotional trauma in a scene with Boyd fools him since he thinks that Grahame's dead boyfriend was Martin indeed . An interesting film with shrewd overtones .
Gay Divorcée - We All Need Other Correspondents Like This	" The Gay Divorce " produced the first song ever to be honored with an Academy award in 1934 . That catchy tune was the continental . That elaborate , lengthy dance sequence was just truly memorable . Everyone would want to kick up their heels and start dancing to beautiful music , dangerous rhythm , etc . The thin plot evolves around Mimi ( Ginger ) going with her eccentric aunt ( played with memorable timing by Alice Brady ) to lawyer Eggbert . ( Edward Everett Horton ) Seems that Mimi wants to divorce her husband and Horton hires a correspondent , an Italian gigolo , who does this for a living to provoke her husband . Of course , Eggbert has a nephew , Guy Holden ( Fred Astaire ) who falls for Mimi as the fun truly begins . Imagine , Mimi soon has two correspondents . Naturally , she dances up quite a storm with partner Astaire . The ending is absolutely hilarious , but it's the great dance sequence and chemistry between Astaire and Rogers that makes this film .
Granger Shines in Brummell Tale	Giving up a military career when he is rude to the Prince of Wales , Stewart Granger is excellent as the handsome gentleman consumed with looking great and cavorting with upper class society in this elegant film . Peter Ustinov is just marvelous as The Prince of Wales . Again and again , he shows that he was just born to play these majestic spots . Robert Morely is fabulous in the one scene that he appears in the film as the insane king . The weak link here is Elizabeth Taylor . She seems like she is acting in 1944's " National Velvet . " The picture is a wonderful study of class values , snobbery and redemption in the end .
All the Good Ones Are Married - Real Good Ending	Darryl Hannah has really matured from her early years as a girlfriend of the late John F . Kennedy , Jr . and films such as " Splash . " In this film she gives quite a performance as the married wife who brings misery to her family when she takes in a fellow worker to live with . The latter brings havoc to the family by having a brief fling with Hannah's husband . The performances are excellent though the story is riddled with unfortunate usual coincidences such as mother taking ill and Hannah unable to get back to her husband which leads him into the arms of the fellow worker , the worker's frustration by having an unfaithful boyfriend and mother who lives rehabilitation without giving a forwarding address . As her marriage implodes , Hannah gives an excellent performance as the over-working mother whose life seems to have literally fallen apart . There is no violence in this film and the ending is most satisfying . We've seen a lot of this before through the eyes of violence and tragedy .
Surviving the Nut House	Jack Nicholson's first Oscar winning performance as a patient in a mental institution . Based on Ken Kesey's best seller , we come to realize that the heads of these institutions are in desperate need themselves . Nurse Mildred Ratched was skillfully played by Louise Fletcher , who won the best actress Oscar . Needless to say that an argument could be made that Nurse Ratched was a supporting performance . Fletcher also benefited from the fact that Elizabeth Taylor and Anne Bancroft turned the part down . Could one imagine Geraldine Page doing this role ? She would have had a field day with it . Anyway , Ratched is an instigator . She riles the inmates up and then steps away after calling for emergency assistance . She is sicker than anyone confined there . Nicholson , ideal for the role , made the most of it . His refusal to conform shall lead to his ultimate downfall . Note a strong performance by Brad Dourif as one of the inmates , who Ratched destroys in one of her blistering fits . Remember our short friend Mr . Cheswick ? Vulnerable , his nervousness was memorable in a well designed film .
No Lances Broken Here	Spencer Tracy shines in this tale of a cattle baron and his sons . Starting with nothing , and becoming wealthy , Tracy's wife dies and he remarries an Indian woman , well played by Katie Jurado in an Oscar nominated performance as best supporting actress . She is devoted to her husband . Count the number of times she says my husband in this film . At times , it became somewhat annoying , added to the fact that she had a lisp . Therefore , it became " my huthband . " Surprised , the directors didn't point this out unless they thought she could get away with it due to her accent . Anyway , 2 of the sons are well played by Richard Widmark and Robert Wagner . Widmark is insanely jealous of Joe ( Wagner . ) He claims how hard he worked , and that Joe , Tracy's son by Jurado , had little to do because by the time he came , they were wealthy . Financial difficulties lead to a court trial and jailing of Joe who takes the entire rap . A fatal heart attack soon befalls Tracy , who loved Joe deeply , and could not see him taking the blame for all . Years pass and Joe is released from prison . Widmark , despising him out of jealousy , plans to kill him but is instead killed himself by another Indian . A better than average western showing complicated and conflicted family values .
Spitfire Grill-Get The Charcoal Ready for this One	Whatever became of Alison Elliott , the heroine of this film ? She gave an extremely believable performance here as a woman released from prison for killing the stepfather who had impregnated her and then had caused the death of the baby by beating the mother . Ellen Burstyn is the old lady who Elliott goes to work for . As always , Burstyn again proves that she is at her best when she does her mean , crotchety acting . It's another fine job . The story will tug at your heart since it's a tragic one . It again proves that you can't always judge people by what has happened in their lives . This misconception brings on the tragedy at the end that will drive you to tears . Note an interesting performance by Marcia Gay Harden , as a blond , worker of the Burstyn character who befriends Elliott . This is a very good study of rural life and human relationships .
No Sweet Sugar on Doing Time on Maple Drive	Who knew or remembered that Jim Carrey could be dramatic ? He offers a genuine deep performance as a troubled youth , bright , but a high school drop-out who is unbearably harassed by his holier than thou parents , especially a father who is a perfectionist in every sense of the word . Ironically , the Carrey character soon takes a back seat to a brother , a closet homosexual , who breaks off with his fiancé , and a married sister , ready to abort her pregnancy because the father always believes in being financially prepared before starting a family . James Sikking and Bibi Besch are first rate as the parents out of the 1940s and 1950s who are living the 1990s as if that period never existed . This is a very well done film worth watching .
When Incompetence Was In Session-Caine Mutiny	If it weren't so tragic and serious , I could see " The Caine Mutiny " being a comedy in the tradition of " Hogan's Heroes . " That being said , Humphrey Bogart gave a masterful performance as the mentally deranged leader of the ship . Makes you wonder how a person this ill could assume such an important position . Ask any of us who have served under various New York City principals and we can tell you why . Fred MacMurray was engaging as a heel , a part that would suit him even better , 6 years later , in the classic " The Apartment . " Bogart's Oscar nomination was well deserved but the supporting nomination for Tom Tully was ridiculous . As would happen 6 years later , Fred Mac Murray was passed over in the supporting category again for " The Apartment . " Bogart's in and out behavior was well done here . His distorted face and handling of his arms gave us a devastating performance of a commander who is in deep emotional trouble . We see all the signs - the emotional outbursts , asking for apologies , degrading subordinates by calling them all kinds of names , constant agitation , need for perfection , picking on the asinine so as to get a reputation as a solid leader , Bogart finally cracks on the witness stand just as Ida Lupino did in the 1942 classic , " They Drive By Night . " E . G . Marshall seems to have made a career as an attorney . Did he ever go to law school and take the bar exam ? Jose Ferrer is engaging as Barney Greenwald , the attorney for Van Johnson-accused of leading the mutiny against Captain Queeg . ( Bogart . ) During his outbursts , Queeg would certainly give you that queasy feeling . As for Ferrer , he even looks Jewish to match his name ! I found the picture to be average , with a love story thrown in . Robert Francis , as a young idealistic officer , was quite effective as well as May Wynn . Shocked to read that Francis died in a plane crash the following year after this film came out .
Summer and Smoke	Tennessee Williams is at his best here in this great play made into a startling motion picture . The phenomenal Geraldine Page is absolutely brilliant here as a repressed spinster who finds love with the doctor next door only to throw it away . Williams continues his never ending attack on religion , rebelliousness , drug addiction and dysfunctional love . Una Merkel , who received a supporting Oscar nomination for her role as Alma's ( Page's ) mother , is excellent here . She is weird , a manipulator and pulls out every stop in a very good performance . Too bad that her role was concentrated solely at the beginning of the film . Laurence Harvey has what it takes as the wild doctor brought down to reality when his lifestyle causes the tragic demise of his father . Miss Page exhibits every nuance in playing the part that made her such a great actress - a neurotic woman , in conflict with society , or is she a victim of it ?
The Marrying Kind : Who Needs A Divorce	Garson Kanin and Ruth Gordon wrote a corker for this 1952 film . Just like 1983's " Terms of Endearment , " we see a comedy turn to tragedy suddenly with a tremendous emotional impact . Sorry to say that both Aldo Ray and Judy Holliday were miscast here . Ray had that hoarse voice that would serve him better in war films or in pool halls . He is just not the husband-type that would find himself in the situations that he did . As for Miss Holliday , that sing-song voice of hers was great for her Oscar-winning " Born Yesterday , " but enough already . However , both Ray and Holliday achieve star like qualities when the film turns serious . Their emotional outbursts towards each other are memorable to say the least . You wonder why the two of them , in love and so much to live for , turn up in front of a judge seeking divorce . The judge is kind enough to sit down to try and straighten things out . We are then led on an Odyssey of a 7 year marriage gone terribly wrong . Of course , the tragedy that ensues at the beach will absolutely shock and tug at your heart . The wonderful ending is reason enough to see this often quirky but rewarding film . The ups and downs of a marriage are well depicted here . I always wondered where my 1952 second grade teacher got that corny song " Good Morning to You , Good Morning to You . We're all in our places with sunshiny faces , etc . " Don't you think that song is sung here ? After all , the film was made in 1952 .
Roughly Speaking-Speaking of Nostalgia	A wonderful Rosalind Russell vehicle with Jack Carson in fine form as her 2nd husband . It tells us of a woman's determination to survive this world-despite deaths in the family , a heel of a husband , ( Donald Woods ) , illness , and the Great Depression . Russell throws her usual zest for this type of commanding woman in the film and succeeds . Though out of his league as the usual grade B actor , Woods succeeds here in the part of the first husband , who walks out on Russell after 10 years of marriage , 4 children and a life of hard times . The film is definitely a slice of Americana and the idea of hard work and accomplishment . It also very well deals with adversity just as things are going so well . Isn't that so true of life itself ? That's why the film succeeds and is quite memorable .
Final Analysis - You'll Enjoy this Evaluation	When viewing this film , I thought that Alfred Hitchcock had returned to film making . A marvelous , intriguing film dealing with a psychiatrist who becomes involved with the sister of his patient . Unfortunately , he is unaware of their diabolical scheme . As a gangster husband of Kim Bassinger , Eric Roberts is quite effective in this role . Ms . Bassinger has one of her best roles and turns in a powerhouse performance as a deeply disturbed woman whose diabolical scheme is unimaginable . She uses psychiatric data to justify murdering her husband , and if things don't go her way , she can always blame her sister's psychiatrist , played by Gere , who gives a restrained but compelling performance .
All's Not fine for Country Girl	Grace Kelly's win for best actress in " The Country Girl " was quite controversial . After all , she beat out Judy Garland for " A Star is Born . " While Kelly hid behind horned-rimmed glasses , to hide her natural beauty , many believed the Oscar should have gone to Ms . Garland . As Frank Elgin , a drunken has-been actor , Bing Crosby shed his Father O'Malley image and offered a fine dramatic performance for which he was Oscar nominated . A family that has everything loses it all when their young son is tragically killed by a car . Elgin had been holding on to the boy , but while speaking to a reporter , he let go and the youngster walked into traffic . This horrifying loss has immediate ramifications on all concerned . A shattered life befalls the once great Elgin . William Holden has the part of the writer who can give Elgin a much needed comeback if he can only stay sober . ( Ironically , Holden an Oscar winner the year before , announced Grace Kelly the winner of the ' 54 Oscar . ) Can people live through such adversity ? The film is a test of that .
Bottom of the Bottle-Successfully Hits the Bottle	Interesting film dealing with family relationships and ultimate responsibility for family actions . Successful lawyer , Wendell Corey , must come to grips when his convict brother , Van Johnson , escapes from jail and shows up at his doorstep . Corey had abandoned Johnson and a younger sister years before to get away from the poverty stricken family . The film succeeds because it shows the eventual path that must be taken by a sudden ethical turn in the life of Corey . I am my brother's keeper is the theme of this well-played film . Ruth Roman is wonderful as the sympathetic sister-in-law to Johnson . While it is true that the film ultimately turns into a modern day posse-like hunt for Johnson , it succeeds because of its redeeming quality of family relationships above all else .
Body of Evidence - Evidently More than A Body Here	Despite the awful performance by Madonna , this is a film noir in color and it works well . Madonna fails in her attempt to emulate Lana Turner in this lurid sex tale romp . Willem DaFoe , as her attorney Frank , takes on her case when she is accused of murdering her sex mate who coincidentally has left her $ 8 million in his will . Each time the prosecution seems to have sewed up the case there is a sharp turn and these turns make for one interesting film . Naturally , our attorney-client relationship goes all the way . Julianne Moore is good as the anger stricken wife of Da Foe and Anne what's her name is very effective as the secretary with her own agenda . Along the way , Frank Langella appears briefly as a lover of Madonna who has the tables turned on him when Madonna reviews his sexual exploits . The judge in the proceedings is marvelously played here . She acts as though she is a junior high school principal and it goes well with the turf .
Great Music and Choreography , But It's the Same Old Story	" West Side Story " lost various Broadway Tony awards but came up with 10 Academy Awards including best picture of 1961 . The film beat out the great " Judgment at Nuremberg . " Jerome Robbins ' choreography can't be beat . Lenny Bernstein's music is just phenomenal . You know from it that the Jets and Sharks think they own the neighborhood . They can certainly make life difficult in the neighborhood . Just keep them singing and dancing and everything could be fine . Unfortunately , this is really a musical version of Romeo and Juliet without gang warfare . In the Shakespearian classic , we had to contend with family feuds . It's the same old story of oppressed people calling out for help in America . Everyone wants a good piece of the action , to secure the American dream . Unfortunately , the Jets and Sharks , two neighborhood street gangs are in need of desperate psychiatric help . Their answer to everything is singing , dancing and using the knife . Poor Simon Oakland . As officer Krupke , he comes off as the tough uncaring police chief who is ready to bust heads . Natalie Wood is wonderful as Maria but too bad that the usual reliable Marnie Nixon had to sing for her . Why wasn't Carol Lawrence from Broadway allowed to do the movie ? George Chakiris ( Bernardo ) won the best supporting actor award as did Rita Moreno for best supporting actress . Why this occurred is beyond me . Many people are not aware that Chakiris and Moreno did not do their own singing in the film . Besides , Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland were magnificent in " Judgment at Nuremberg . " They were literally robbed of the coveted award . Why does Rita have to sing to Maria that a boy like that , he killed your brother ? You don't keep going with a guy you just did that . If someone has to explain that to you , you've got trouble . If we can go beyond the oppression and need for understanding and just enjoy the singing and dancing , you're in for a treat . Russ Tamblyn dances like he owns the streets of N . Y . He certainly appeared in great films such as " Peyton Place , " " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers , " and this musical as one .
Waterloo Bridge - The Original-Gritty and Forceful	Mae Clarke does a remarkable job in the same year that James Cagney put a grapefruit in her face in " Public Enemy . " Miss Clarke is quite effective as the heroine of " Waterloo Bridge . " As a prostitute working the streets of London during World War 1 , Clarke gives a tour de force as a woman who can be loving one moment and difficult to handle in the next . The story deals also with class warfare when during an air-raid , Clarke meets a wealthy Canadian serving in the British army . He falls for her and she loves him but she knows that their differences would prevent them from true happiness . Brought to his country estate , his kindly mother , played by a charming Enid Bennett , warns against such a liaison . Fred Kerr , as his step-father , provides comic relief as a deaf elderly British officer . One weak link in this film is Kent Douglass , who portrays the young man . Naive and kind , the chemistry is really not there between himself and Miss Clarke . He is only effective briefly in a scene with veteran actress Ethel Griffies , who portrays a greedy , conniving landlady . The film has worn well through the many years and is worth seeing due to Miss Clarke's excellent performance . Am sure that Vivien Leigh and Leslie Caron , who both starred in the remakes , learned a lot from Miss Clarke . Look for Bette Davis as Douglass's sister . This was her first film and it is interesting to see how she evolved into the great talent that she was .
Loving Leah Oy , But it's Assimilation and Accommodation	In the orthodox Jewish faith , when a man dies , the wife is supposed to marry his single brother , if there is any . In order to avoid such a marriage , there is a nasty ritual that the man and woman has to go through . This is the case in " Loving Leah . " The film is somewhat unrealistic . An orthodox woman would not just take up with her brother-in-law as the film seems to suggest . When he calls her on Friday night , he should have realized that she'd never answer the phone and as for the sleeping arrangements made with the arrival of her mother , forget it , it doesn't happen like that . In addition , the prospective mother-in-law would never have a change to a more modern attitude in invoking the Lord's name for justification . All of the above being said , the movie is still a very interesting one and becomes extremely poignant at the end as the unveiling of the stone for the deceased draws near . The film tries to succeed in attempting to reconcile assimilation with accommodation here . Sociologists would have an absolute ball with this film . The film is still quite memorable and open to a lot of discussion . Some people may need to see it twice for a better understanding .
Back to You and Me	Quite a good film is depicted here despite the fact that it's hard to believe that Rue MacLanahan's daughter did not realize that Rue was staying out and away from her terminally ill husband and father because he wanted it that way . You know that the waitress who is chasing after Dale Midkiff will wind up with the attorney . They have so much in common . That's so obvious . That being all said , the picture succeeds because it's a sentimental tale about home life , the saving of the life of a young boy and the renewed love of his widower father and woman doctor who comes back to the town to attend a high school reunion .
Mama Miami ! Moon Over Miami	Light fanfare with Bette Grable , Don Ameche , Bob Cummings , and Carol Landis in a fun-filled film . The Technicolor by the always reliable Natalie Kalmus in really great here . We never get tired of plots dealing with 3 ladies trying to get rich guys for themselves . This picture isn't How to Marry a Millionaire ( 1953 ) but it's enjoyable along with the marvelous dancing and singing . As the aunt , Charlotte Greenwood joins in the fun . Did anyone notice how depressed Carol Landis looked ? She would kill herself 7 years later . Jack Haley , as the snooping butler , is a joy to watch . He provides an excellent foil to Miss Greenwood .
Eight Below - Man's Best Friend Never Stops Amazing	Dog lovers and myself to a degree can appreciate this film . Set in Antarctica , it deals with a member of a scientific team who is forced to abandon his dogs during a fierce storm . With the real wintry weather setting in , he is unable to get back to retrieve his beloved dogs . The film shows how the dogs were able to survive under such adverse conditions . Bruce Greenwood plays the doctor who was looking for a meteor way out in the area . The film deals with bureaucracy and the member's inability to get to his beloved dogs until nearly 6 months . The ending is heartwarming . It shows the relationships that the dogs have with each other which allowed them to ultimately survive . Another film dealing with the human or shall I say the animal spirit . I didn't think that Hollywood had it in them to make a movie like this . Congratulations .
Pocahantas Gets Her Man ?	Wonderfully animated film , even if they distort history . Too bad the anti-Semite Mel Gibson had to play John Smith . A better role that would have been suited for that misery would have been Gov . Radcliffe . Back to the film , which is an interesting one , it depicts the basic reason for war-greed . The music is carefree and great . All sing well . As Willow , the Tree , Linda Hunt is impressive . ( She usually is . ) Too bad that the father's choice for Pocahantas had to catch a bullet . The way the film turned out , they really didn't have to kill him off that way . After all , we are dealing with a younger audience .
Sentry-Guard the Doors ; There's Treason Among Us	Interesting thriller about a presidential assassination plot with some interesting twists . It seems that the Secret Service is under suspicion . One of the service members is a traitor . It appears that it's Michael Douglas since he is having an affair with the first lady played by Kim Basinger . David Rasche is our president . He has often played a fool in movies . Doesn't he know what's going on ? Naturally , Douglas fails a lie-detector test given to all members of the Service to locate the traitor . He failed because he said that he wasn't doing anything wrong in the last 30 days . Therefore , Douglas becomes a wanted man and due to his expertise in the agency , he is able to elude his pursuers for a while . Basinger comes to his aid by admitting the affair and then the movie begins to focus on the attempted assassination in Toronto , Canada . Kiefer Sutherland plays another agent who ended his friendship with Douglas when he suspected that the latter was having an affair with his wife . Imagine , how he must feel when he finds out that it's the first lady ! Interesting plot but the shoot out ending is all too familiar to movie goers .
Julie - Great Thriller Hits the Screen	Very good Doris Day vehicle following the year that she showed Hollywood that she could finally act in the memorable " Love Me or Leave Me . " What a horrible thing to discover that your second husband killed your first husband ! It was originally thought that hubby # 1 did himself in . Jourdan plays the maniacal killer who foolishly confesses to Day what he had done . The film then becomes a cat and mouse chase after Day flees the house with Jourdan in hot pursuit . Barry Sullivan is convincing as the friend who gets himself shot while attempting to aid the fleeing Julie Benton . ( Day ) We learn from this film how little the police can do in such situations . Where was the order of the protection for Day against this maniac ? Conveniently , Benton reverts back to her life before marriage as a stewardess . Naturally , Jourdan follows her on board and here is where all hell breaks loose . Frank Lovejoy plays the detective who knew what Benton would be in for . Jack Kelly shines as the pilot who is shot by a rampaging Jourdan . In a brief stint , the old-timer Mae Marsh , throws plenty of anxiety , as the hysterical passenger , who finds both pilots and Jourdan shot . Julie now has to fly the plane with its 60 passengers . She gets great support from the air controllers and a wonderful supporting cast as well . Hold onto your seats for this engaging film !
Mrs . Henderson Presents A Winner	After one day of widowhood , Dame Judi Dench declares that it's not for her and are we fortunate for it . She sets out to find a new meaning in life for herself . Purchasing a theater , she works with a fabulous Bob Hoskins who becomes the producer of her Windmill Playhouse . This is Hoskins ' best part in years and he makes the best out of it . Dench turns in still another well deserved Oscar nominated performance as a classy lady , whose secret of losing a son to World War 1 , comes out at the end of the film in a wonderful speech delivered to the troops and political officials , the latter wanted to shut the theater since it was attracting too many people and would become a target for bombing . Dench also turns in a comical performance . Her players in the theater go nude and Hoskins himself undresses as Dench appears . Dench , seeing an unclad Hoskins , states : " So you are Jewish ! " The film turns serious when Dench tries to play matchmaker with a tragic bombing resulting . The pictures nicely captures the will and resolve of the citizens of England during the Nazi blitzkrieg .
California Suite - A Sweetie of A Film	Neil Simon focuses his attention on a variety of people at a hotel in this 1978 comedy hit . Walter Matthau certainly has a penchant as a hotel guest . Remember him with Maureen Stapleton and several other ladies in another hotel farce comedy-drama ? Matthau , as always , is hilarious when he attempts to hide a hooker from his wife . It seems that Elaine May is always the naive victim in films . Remember her in 1972's " The Heartbreak Kid ? " The real acting kudos here goes to Maggie Smith for a gem of a supporting Oscar-winning performance in this film . Smith plays an actress at the hotel who has been nominated for an Oscar . A win would mean a tremendous comeback for her . Naturally , she loses . How many people have won Oscars for playing an Oscar loser in a film ? Judy Garland accomplished the opposite in 1954 in " A Star is Born . " In the film she is an actress who wins the academy award but in real-life competition lost it to Grace Kelly for " The Country Girl . " Only the lord knows why . Smith is just grand as she prances around the room delivering memorable one-liners . This is just a gem of a film .
Glenn Miller Story-Forever in the Mood	Glenn Miller's rise to fame and the tragedy that took him from us at the height of his career makes for a wonderfully entertaining film . This film is rich because of the wonderful performances of James Stewart as the band leader and June Allyson , the latter was just made for the picture . She captures the depth of a devoted wife and we all can just cry with her when her happiness was ended so suddenly . Naturally , the supporting cast of musicians and scenes with Frances Langford , Louis Armstrong and Gene Krupa are just wonderful . We view Miller from humble beginnings to stardom , the old-fashioned Hollywood Way-he earned it by hard work and perseverance as he went through life looking for that sound . My main flaw with this film . Just like Miller's life , it ended too suddenly . It could have gone on and on while we all danced the night away in tribute to this find musician . Ever Harry Morgan's tear in the end tells you what this was all about .
The Brave One is A Psychological Thriller	Although vigilante justice seems to be justified at film's end , this is definitely a terrific psychological thriller with Jodie Foster and Terrence Mason producing a fine chemistry between the both of them . After her fiancé is murdered during a Central Park mugging where she falls victim as well , Foster becomes a vigilante when she at first turns up at the wrong places , a store where a husband has shot his wife and in a subway car where she is definitely threatened . The best part of all this is that she has her own radio show and speaks out about what is going on . The film is wonderful in the way that Terrence Howard comes to realize that Foster has gone on a killing spree . Foster has never been better as the emotionally scarred woman who becomes a vigilante . She is at her neurotic best and is given wonderful support by Howard as a very understanding detective .
Garden of Evil-Return Us to Eden	A film dealing with greed and envy . An all-star cast gets us through the plot . With breathtaking scenery , Susan Hayward , as Leah , secures the aid of Cameron Mitchell , Gary Cooper and Richard Widmark in trying to free her trapped husband in a mining cave . As the husband , Hugh Marlowe steals the acting in the film . He appears to be ungrateful when freed and lashes out at Hayward for bringing him into this situation . The remainder of the film deals with the group trying to get back to civilization and away from the Indians who menace them . Of course , the bodies begin to mount . A very young Rita Moreno appears in this film in one scene as a bar room singer . Everyone seems to be aiding everyone else in the cause to survive . Interesting film but haven't we been down this road before ?
Juno Really Heats Up	A really inspiring film despite the usual subject matter of an unwanted teen pregnancy . Ellen Page really gives a lot of herself in her Oscar nominated performance as a teenager in trouble . Fortunately , this girl has her head on her shoulders . She knows that she can't keep the child and is able to find what she thinks will be the ideal couple to adopt her baby . Unfortunately , the couple proves not to be what we're all expecting . It seems that Page has entered their lives just at a time when their very marriage is disintegrating rapidly . Ellen's father and step-mother play an understanding couple in this situation . I was a little perplexed regarding the stepmother part of Allison Janney . When hearing the news of Page's pregnancy , she begins to exhibit religious fanaticism that we saw her do so well on a comedy level in " Hairspray . " Suddenly , she falls into line and gives a truly compelling supporting performance . This is a lovely , emotionally paced film .
You Must Love this Dog	Bright quirky comedy dealing with love and relationships with a wonderful cast . John Cusack and Diane Lane are both recent divorcees from others and find romance through the internet and love of dogs . Lane has a strong family to support her emotionally and keep finding possible suitors for her . Nice seeing veteran actor Christopher Plummer in a comedic role as Lane's widowed father who has a variety of dates so that he shall never forget the true love that he lost . One such date is Dolly , played in a very funny way by Stockard Channing . Channing's role is similar to that of the late Maureen Stapleton in " Interiors . " She is a real live wire even after burying her third husband . Dermot Mulroney plays another love interest to Lane . His son is in Lane's pre-kindergarten class . Sit back and enjoy this comedy .
Becket - Men for All Seasons	Very good moral conflict is depicted here dealing with a man's devotion to his king and to the lord . When you think of it , Richard Burton's troubles began when Henry 11 , played masterfully by Peter O'Toole , appointed him as the Archbishop of Canterbury . Burton soon takes his position very seriously and this will lead to the tragic conflict between these 2 figures . Burton's Becket and O'Toole's Henry are fantastically done by these thespians . Both earned well earned Oscar nominations for their performances that year as well as John Gielgud in a supporting role as France's King Louis . After viewing this film , we can see how lucky Oscar winner Rex Harrison ( " My Fair Lady " ) was that both Burton and O'Toole were nominated . Martita Hunt excels as Henry's strong-willed mother . 1964 was quite a year for Ms . Hunt . That same year she starred as a member of a European royal family in " The Unsinkable Molly Brown . " A flaw in " Becket " is showing the transition of Burton from a lecherous individual to servant of the lord . This transition occurs too quickly and is unbelievably hard to fathom .
You'll Fall For Niagara	Marilyn Monroe always wanted to be a straight-dramatic actress . She succeeded in this 1953 film . Unhappily married to Joseph Cotten , the two are at the famous falls where Monroe plots with her lover to kill Cotten . Jean Peters and Richard Allan ( who also went under the name of Max Showalter ) are a married couple who befriend the two . They try to comfort Monroe when they all think that Cotten is dead . Monroe soon realizes that the plot has gone awry and that her lover is instead dead . Cotten has gone totally insane by her actions and plots her demise . The chilling scene where Monroe meets her end is done extremely well as the chimes ring . The latter was supposed to signify the death of Cotten by her lover . Cotten fleeing with Jean Peters , in the boat by the Falls , is done in an exciting , ambitious way . The end is marvelously staged .
Gandhi the Great	This film well depicts the study of racial prejudice and how best to combat it . Yes , Gandhi adhered to the practice of non-violence , but there were times , as shown in the film , that his followers didn't listen to him . This would cause him to fast . Ben Kingsley was excellent in the title role . You actually felt for him and would empathize with his pain and suffering along the way . The film shows the beginnings of the movement , demonstrations , fasts and possible redemption . How ironic that this man of peace took two bullets at the end of his life . The picture certainly depicts how miserable the British were . Whether it be in the case with India and with Israel , the British certainly had a lot of soul searching to contend with .
North Country Travel to See it	In an abusive relationship with 2 illegitimate children , Josie leaves for northern Minnesota to work in the mines . She encounters sexual harassment in a place where her own father works . It is as if this is the norm by the guys who work there . Even the manager and owner claim that this is not a place for women , and with the economy in recession , women are taking over jobs from men . Charlize Theron is much more subdued here then in her Oscar winning performance of " Monster . " Nevertheless , she delivers a believable performance of a sexually harassed woman whose background threatens her believability and leads others including her own son and father to condemn her . Naturally , we have other women at the firm who are afraid to talk up as they need their jobs . Frances McDormand plays a wise-cracking union representative who allows this to continue . In a flash of a second , she is dying from Lou Gehrig's disease and will serve as a catalyst to spur the other women into participating in a class action lawsuit . Sissy Spacek , as a repressed mother to Theron , is sympathetic in her role . Woody Harrelson is effective as a guy at a bar who appears to be one of the boys but is soon seen as the lawyer for Theron . A film worth suing for and fight to engage in . A film supporting family values which attempts to show that such tenets of family members can lead to condemnation of a wayward woman , even in her fight for justice .
Jaws-Claw Your Way Into This One	While it's not " Schindler's List , " this 1975 thriller is exciting by the nature of its topic . The first part of the movie deals with the town's lack of response when it becomes quite evident that a shark is on a killing spree . What happens to Mayor Murray Hamilton for failing to act ? Hamilton , in a fine supporting performance , depicts that same lack of kindness that he showed 8 years before as the husband of Anne Bancroft in " The Graduate . " Roy Scheider , whose career really never took off , hits his stride as the police chief . The late Robert Shaw gives a tremendous performance as the adventurer with the problem that he garbles his words when he spoke . There were several scenes where I found it difficult to understand him . Lorraine Gary , as the wife of police chief Brody , ( Scheider ) is adequate but she doesn't seem to be caught up enough in the action . The second part of the film deals with our trio-Scheider , Dreyfuss and Shaw , on board to kill the ferocious beast . While I will be in the minority here , I felt that the film begins to drag somewhat . Yes , the scenes with the shark trying to kill our heroes are great , due in part to the wonderful editing here , but the talk among the central characters is down right dull after a while .
Dad - Father for All Time	This 1989 drama would have been even more effective had it dealt with the inadequacies of a hospital . It appeared to be going that way when Jack Lemmon , as an aged parent , goes into shock following cancer surgery and the hospital is ready to discharge him . Lemmon gave another strong performance in his versatile career . The problem here is that the performance became lopsided somewhat when the focus of the picture changes to the idea that Lemmon , who comes out of a coma , has been hallucinating for all these years thinking that he has had an alternate life in New Jersey . Olympia Dukakis stars as his elderly wife who just can't take his discussion of this life and in one scene , the emotional outburst between her and loving son , a very good Ted Danson , is truly memorable . Kathy Baker is wasted as Danson's divorced wife . The way the two acted towards each other , you are left wondering why they divorced to begin with . Ethan Hawke is quite impressive as Danson's young son . The film regains its quality when the cancer returns but seems to jump rapidly to Lemmon's demise and Danson taking leave of the family . Why was all this rushed up ?
All the Lord's Children	Marlee Matlin's Oscar winning performance highlights this very good 1986 film . As a deaf mute , angry and frustrated with her life in silence , Matlin takes a job as a janitor in the School for the Deaf that she attended . The school is run by Philip Bosco , a savvy educator who really doesn't want to rock the boat . The latter could have been rocked by the coming of idealistic speech teacher William Hurt . Hurt gives a knockout Oscar nominated performance as he battles with Matlin along the way as the two fall in love with each other . As her estranged mother , Piper Laurie is convincing in a frustrated role that earned her a second best supporting actress nomination . The haunting musical score sets the tone for a marvelous film . It is interesting to see how Hurt works with deaf youngsters . The AFT should have considered giving him their teacher of the year award . The Motion Picture Academy seems to have a fetish for people with disabilities . Jane Wyman and John Mills joined Matlin in winning Oscars as deaf mutes . It is Matlin's performance though that deals with the subject of deafness itself without other incidentals .
Battle Hymn-Affirmation of the Human Spirit	Solid Rock Hudson vehicle dealing with a preacher's accidental bombing of an orphanage in a small German city during World War 11 . The preacher , Dean Hess , played beautifully by Rock Hudson , comes back to the states following the war but is unable to fulfill his duties and reenlists for action in Korea 5 years later . It is through his work in Korea that Hudson is able to reaffirm his faith . Carl Benton Reid plays the town deacon . I remember Reid for playing Hudson's father-in-law in " One Desire " with the mean Julie Adams as his wife and the kindly Anne Baxter , the woman he should have married . The film does go a little over-the-top with the death scene by Hess's buddy , played to the hilt by Don DeFore . When Hudson tells a dying DeFore that death is where one door opens after another closes is a little too much to take ; although , it's effectively done . Married to Martha Hyer in the film , Hudson soon learns that she is with child when he goes off to Korea . There , he meets Anna Kashfi , a young woman who has fled the ravages of war in her town . Due to his religious upbringing , romance does not evolve around the characters . In fact , she dies tragically near the end of the film . The remaining part of the film deals with the attempts of Yang ( Kashfi ) and Hess to get the children out of a warring province to safe haven somewhere else . I thought we were going to see another " Inn of the 6th Happiness " here but we did not . This is definitely a film of the triumph of the human spirit . It's another solid film for veteran director Douglas Sirk . He made so many of those women's pictures in the 1950 that starred Rock Hudson .
Satan Never Sleeps = The Devil Made Them Do this Great Film	William Holden and Clifton Webb make an engaging pair of priests in China at the time of the 1949 Communist take-over . Since Holden arrives late to replace Webb at the mission , the latter isn't able to get out in time as the Communist forces invade . This is a story of how 2 different priests in the way of Crosby and Fitzgerald in " Going My Way " come to know one another under such adverse conditions . The film succeeds due to its depiction of the eventual disillusionment towards Communism of a Chinese person who almost became a priest before being totally brainwashed by the Red system . France Nuyen is absolutely wonderful as the young girl , who is saved by the Holden character and refuses to leave him . There is definitely a comic take to this fine film as Priest Webb will eventually think that her unborn child is that of Father O'Banion ( Holden ) The film shows how the Communists would go to any length , including murder to get their point across . It shows how individual thought is done away with under the Communist system .
Saturday's Children Plays Well	The director of this film died recently as we was approaching 100 . Dennie Moore , who plays the common Gertie , with a typical Brooklyn accent , turns 99 in December . Wonderful seeing John Garfield in a non-gangster role . As the sympathetic Sims , an inventor whose a dreamer , Garfield etches a totally believable character . Anne Shirley plays the girl who loves and tricks him into marriage . Garfield plays basically another George Bailey type . The opportunities are there for him but situations arise which prevent him from fulfilling his dreams . Claude Rains plays his philosophical father-in-law who plots to do away with himself so that Garfield and Shirley can live happily ever after . The two work in the same office , fall in love and marry . With the coming of war , she gets laid off and he is asked to take a pay cut . Sad but realistic . This true to life film does end happily .
Great Debaters - Lots to Discuss Here	Terrific story dealing with a small black college in the 1930s whose debate team ultimately defeated Harvard University . The film is a complex one as there are really several different plots occurring here . We have the debate team , racism in the south and dealing with unions all in one film . It has been said that one's best writing comes from your own personal experiences . You can really draw upon that here since your own personal experiences may help you come debate time . This is exactly what occurs in this film and it is done very well . There is an amazing supporting performance by Forest Whitaker as a Ph . D religious fanatic who correctly views education as the way to achieve success in this world . Whitaker depicts a fanatic and is truly phenomenal in this role ; he is far better here than in his award winning " The King of Scotland . " Denzel Washington , as the instructor and union organizer , is condescending in the role , but he brings the necessary strength in achieving another unusually good performance here .
Les Girls - Vive These Women	Wonderful movie where the late Kay Kendall writes a book about her experiences with her dancing troupe . Trouble is that she soon finds herself in a British court being charged with libel . With a superlative cast , fine gowns by Orry-Kelly , and dancing and singing routines that are memorable , Les Girls is an absolute pleasure to watch . The film deals with three different versions of a story . It is done in a comical and musical way which makes it so appealing . Two of the women accuse each other of attempting suicide . As the master of the dance group , Gene Kelly is absolutely fabulous here . The story that he concocts by the end of the film is hilarious , but it's great as it restores a friendship and saves two marriages . After each story is told , there is someone walking around the court with a sign-The Truth Be Told . May I use the words on the sign to state the truth that this 50 + year film is a gem .
Nothing Sterile About This Cuckoo-Kookie Pookie Shines	Liza Minnelli received a well deserved Oscar nomination here as best actress as Pookie Adams . Emotionally detached and socially awkward , Minnelli etched a memorable performance as the young girl reduced to saying anything to garner attention in her long pursuit to be accepted and loved . Co-star and future director , Wendell Burton , is just wonderful as the shy boyfriend who comes to love the way out Kookie . This is truly a wonderful story of maturity gained through love . It would only take an outstanding performance by Maggie Smith in " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " to beat out Minnelli as well as Jane Fonda's tragic Gloria in " They Shoot Horses , Don't They ? " Pookie's early scenes as a real lovable nut job are so realistic . Her acting depth is well realized here as she emotionally matures . The ending is definitely a downer but so has been Pookie's very existence . She still has to find herself .
Going A Wonderful Way	Poignant and deeply moving best describe this Oscar winning film of 1944 . Progressive Priest , Father O'Malley , is sent to a run-down parish to improve things . There he meets the conservative priest , played in a memorable performance , by Barry Fitzgerald . The two will come into conflict . O'Malley will deal with an abundance of church problems . He helps deprived children . His rendition of the songs Going My Way and Swinging on a Star is memorable . The latter won the best song of the year award . As the loving fathers , both Crosby and Fitzgerald won Oscars in the best acting and supporting acting categories . Interestingly , Fitzgerald had been nominated for best actor as well . The ending will not allow for a dry eye in the house . That is guaranteed . There is poverty all around but love conquers that . O'Malley quietly leaving the parish for his next assignment is memorable as well .
Great McGinty When the Public Works Didn't Really Work for Public in Fabulous Film	Outstanding writing and direction by pro Preston Sturges highlighted this 1940 satire on politics . To think , public works program being used for graft by crooked politicians is the major theme of this film . As a hobo , who pleases the town political boss , and rises to be mayor and governor , Brian Donlevy etched an unforgettable character . He is great here as the man who marries a woman with 2 children and seems to have it all , only to throw everything away in his attempt to do something honest . While it is true that the ending of the film is a downer , you have to credit Sturges with the marvelous satire that she shows regarding the political world . Akim Tamiroff , as the town boss , is just great in his role . Those eyes would continue to bulge 3 years later in his memorable part as the Spanish revolutionary in " For Whom the Bell Tolls . "
You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby -	Why wasn't this favorite of mine sung in a Bobby Darin biography ? Kevin Spacey did quite well singing the legendary singer . Just too bad that he didn't make this film 10 or more years ago . He came across too old for the part . Joaquin Phoenix , of " Walk the Line " would have conveyed a much needed younger spirit . As I stated , Spacey's voice and dancing are up to par . His motions emulating the late Darrin are terrific as well . The film has two very good performances . One is by Kate Bosworth , who portrays the late Sandra Dee . Dee is depicted at first as an immature young star , easily led by an overbearing , domineering mother . Nina , the woman who Bobby grew up thinking was his mother is also well done by the actress Ms . Aaron , who portrays her . The woman looks just like an Italian Lainie Kazan . A young lad named Ullrich plays Bobby as a young boy . He is quite effective and the idea of having him and Spacey on screen at the same time is splendidly done . Bob Hoskins and John Goodman , Bobby's supposed brother-in-law and manager , do well with the script handed to them . Brenda Blethyn , well remembered for " Secrets and Lies , " and " Little Voice " is miscast her . She just doesn't come across as the supposed mother of Darrin . Her funeral scene remains puzzling though it again shows that the show must go on at any cost . The film nicely deals with Darrin's social activism . Though we all know the end of the film , it does not end in a downer but in a well-staged music ensemble instead .
A Best Picture of My Life	When I saw the title of this great Oscar winning film of 1946 , I immediately thought of what our returning soldiers from the war had gone through . Who would ever guess that the title emanates from the likes of the character of Virginia Mayo , scolding her husband ( a marvelous Dana Andrews . ) She had the nerve to tell him that she wasted the best years of her life while waiting for his return . Actually , she didn't wait , she had Steve Cochran , in a very brief part , to wait the war out . Who can forget that scene when Frederic March returns home and is greeted by his family . Myrna Loy didn't have to say anything . The way she stood there was forever memorable . What did Dana Andrews have to do to win an Oscar ? He was so good here as a returning GI but was denied a nomination . March was adequate and was rewarded with a best actor Oscar . I don't know why in a year , when Jimmy Stewart was up for It's A Wonderful Life , did March deserve the accolade . The movie was timely as the war had just ended . Other poignant scenes dealt with Harold Russell , who had lost his limbs during the war , dealing with his handicap . Unlike her undeserved Oscar for Mrs . Miniver , Teresa Wright , who died this year , was effective as March's daughter .
Wrong But So Very Wonderful	To all fellow history buffs out there , while this film is historically inaccurate-it is far more entertaining . After all , when we go to the movies , don't we deserve that . The animated version of " Anastasia " is marvelous . The singing , dancing and music are beautifully done . John Cusack and Meg Ryan are wonderful doing the voices of the heroine and Dmitry , a man who as a child , had gotten Anastasia and her grandmother out of the palace . Angela Lansbury should be made the Queen of animation . Between her role in this as the grandmother , ( the animation looks like a very stern Bette Davis ) and as Mrs . Potts in " Beauty of the Beast , " this great actress should just go on and on . The staging and the song about December are great . Christopher Lloyd's voice as the horrible Rasputin is as evil as ever . So , for now , throw out the inaccuracies and sit back and enjoy . Furthermore , this comes to you from a retired history teacher !
Glossy Soap Opera Works Nicely 12	Olivia De Havilland's first Oscar came for " To Each His Own . " After a one night stand with a pilot , De Havilland , a small town girl with intelligence and moral fortitude , finds herself in trouble . Giving the child up is the most heart rendering thing imaginable to view . Years later as the world enters World War 11 , in a chance meeting , De Havilland meets the child , now a grown man and in the army as well . Through the years , when they did meet , he could never imagine why she would cling to him . With his wedding approaching , De Havilland attends it in London , where she now resides . When the son realizes who she is , he brought many a tear to the eye when he says , " May I have this dance , mother ? " Well done tear-jerker . A bold step in tackling the concept of illegitimacy ; although , we saw this concept as early as 1932 in " The Sin of Madelon Claudet . " Heroine Helen Hayes got an Oscar for that one as well . What does that tell you about Hollywood and socially controversial topics ?
Tomorrow Can Be Wonderfully Forever	This excellent 1946 vehicle provides Orson Welles with a role that he is most sympathetic with . Married to Claudette Colbert in this film , he is soon declared missing and dead . Colbert quickly remarries a wealthy gentleman who is most sympathetic when this apparent tragedy strikes . Fast forward 20 years . By chance , Colbert comes across Welles in a new disguise . This is all coming about as World War 11 will envelop Europe . It appears that Welles was not killed off during World War 1 , but merely was missing and apparently suffering from amnesia . The film becomes a heartbreak after this . Both Colbert and Welles really are conflicted here . She suspects that he realizes his true identity now and he realizes that the son she bore is his . Both Colbert and Welles put on some very fine acting here in this film where you had better have plenty of handkerchiers available .
Confession is Heavenly Bound	Ben Kingsley and Amy Irving are becoming famous playing Jewish people . Kingsley played Dr . Herman Tarnower in that awful HBO film about him and Ms . Irving was memorable in " Yentl . " Amy lights the sabbath candle as their little boy coughs up a storm and runs a high fever . Desperate , they take the child to the hospital where they are ignored . This picture is excellent in the sense that it depicts too well what goes on in so many of our emergency rooms . The child dies and in his anger , Harry Fertig ( Kingsley ) kills the 3 people that he believed were responsible for doing nothing . You would think that the movie would settle down into the moral dilemma whether or not Fertig was justified in the actions he took . No , it is much more than that . Baldwin , who defends Fertig , shall eventually fall for his wife and uncover why Fertig's firm wants him to cop an insanity plea . They have been involved in infesting the waters of N . Y . with toxic poisons . Baldwin wants to run for District Attorney . At the end , he does the right thing but ultimately ruins his political career . A wonderful film detailing moral values in a society desperate for them .
The Bright Side of Darkness	A story of misunderstanding among friends with tragedy resulting and an uplifting of the human spirit . This marks the 1935 film " The Dark Angel . " Fred March , Merle Oberon and Herbert Marshall are childhood friends in England . When they grow up , World War 1 has begun and March and Marshall serve in the British army . March and Oberon are lovers . Marshall is foolishly led to believe that March is with another woman right before battle . Angry , he sends March out in a mission and the latter is killed . When he discovers the truth , he is guilt ridden as is Oberon for she was the woman who was with March that night . Had she not insisted that she be with him , Allen ( March ) would still be alive . Time tries to heal wounds . 3 years passes and Marshall and Oberon have forgiven themselves and plan to wed . The chance meeting with a blinded March is memorable . The latter tries to shield his blindness but the truth again merges in a beautiful ending . March , who couldn't bring himself to go to his friends as a blind man , finds compassion once again in the arms of Miss Oberon . Beautifully done .
Ladies of the House Were Not Housebound	A typical film dealing with 3 women working on the fixing up of a house left by a church member , so that they can sell the house and provide for needy children , really blossoms out . We soon find out that this work really serves as therapy for these women to combat one whose husband has been stricken with a fatal form of cancer , another whose wealthy husband has been cheating on her with his secretary , and the third whose husband has retired and she now feels that their marriage is faltering . Florence Henderson does a beautiful job as the widow and is equally matched by Donna Mills , the wife of the cheater , who comes down to earth and sees the true value of life by doing this work for their church . The film deals with the fulfillment of life by working for an admirable goal . It succeeds here .
Sleeping With the Enemy - A Rude Wide Awakening	This abusive husband is just too much and as a result , wife Julia Roberts fakes her own drowning just to escape . When a fellow swimmer calls to pay his condolences the maniacal husband becomes suspicious . Seems that Julia never learned to swim . By a series of conniving ways , our fiend finds out where his wife has gone . She has settled in a small town in Iowa and attempted to make a life of her own . She even told her husband that her blind stroke victim mother had died when in reality she had her moved to another home in Minnesota . Julia finds love in the way of a college teacher . There is one funny line when the husband puts a gun to the head of a drama teacher . It can be him since he is in a relationship with another guy . The ending will tell you just how miserable Julia was when she makes the phone call to police . It also tells you that getting papers to keep these fiends away is nothing more than worthless . This film is exciting and nicely paced . How the husband finds out the whereabouts of his wife is also fascinating .
Small Town Girl - Is Big Town Stuff	Wonderful Janet Gaynor and Robert Taylor comedy depicting the differences between the upper and middle classes of society . Gaynor longs for a life outside of her town and Taylor represents everything that she wants . Though meeting him in an unusual way , and marrying him while he is drunk , he turns his part as a total heel when he becomes sober . Reluctantly , she agrees to stay with him for 6 months in pretending that there is wedded bliss . We know that the picture shall be devoted to how the two will find their way to love despite there being Taylor's fiancée , nicely played by a bitchy Binnie Barnes . Despite his cruelty to his wife , Taylor shows an element of compassion in his treating of a brain injured child . Somehow that child will become the link that will bring this couple together and start Barnes packing .
They Drive By Night An Excellent Vehicle	Wow ! Ida Luppino gives a memorable performance in this Humphrey Bogart , George Raft film . Ida was such an under-rated actress . What did she have to do to win an Oscar yet alone be nominated ? That's right , Ida Luppino was never nominated for an Oscar even though she would win the New York City Film Critics award in 1942 for " The Hard Way . " Unbelievable ! In this film she plays the frustrated wife of truck owner Alan Hale . Trapped in a bad marriage , she desires for lust but certainly can't get that from the happy-go-lucky Hale . When the Bogart-Raft brothers come to work for Hale , Luppino thinks she has found romance with one of the brothers . She decides to end her marriage by killing Hale with gas fumes from his car . When spurned by her suitor , she allows him to be blamed for Hale's death . Her crack-up scene in court at film's end must be one of the greatest scenes filmed on screen . Hysterically shouting that the doors made her do it , Luppino proved one again that she was one of Hollywood's greatest femme fatales . Ann Sheridan proved her mettle in the film as well . This picture was sort of a warm up for two years later for Sheridan , when she made a hit as Ronald Reagan's girl friend in the 1942 memorable " King's Row . "
Love Finds A Home . . . Be It Ever So Humble , This is Heartwarming	Sequel to " Love Finds A Wing , " this is a very nicely done film . In the sequel , Lillian has been adopted and it's several years later . Annie , married and pregnant , visits her fellow doctor friend , Dr . Owen , who desperately wants a baby , but seems unable to become pregnant . Lillian finds a love interest , an assistant to her adoptive dad , the latter has become quite overprotective . Patty Duke , who at 63 , is starting to look her age appears as Annie's mother-in-law , a mid-wife set in her ideas . The film is of value since both Duke and Doc Owen come to understand and tolerate each other . At times , Ms . Duke looks like Irene Ryan portraying Granny Clampett in the old Beverly Hillbillies television show . Nevertheless , Duke turns in a very good performance as a spunky lady . The movie is also a good one as it avoids violence and ends in a way that we will be ready for part 3 .
A Place in Movie History	Standout film which was a remake of An American Tragedy with the late Sylvia Sidney . The film was remade in 1951 with Montgomery Clift , Elizabeth Taylor and Shelley Winters . The culture of rich vs . poor is explored in this film . Lonely drifter Clift meets Ms . Winters first and then in a chance meeting , meets the wealthy Ms . Taylor . Her wealth and position in society is what most affects Clift . Eager to leave Shelley , he soon discovers that she is pregnant . This part , as the impoverished pregnant girl with nowhere to go , was the best part and performance by Miss Winters . We feel for her as she tries to maintain a grip on the Clift character . She brings to the part a nervousness rarely seen in motion pictures . Had she been nominated for best supporting actress , she would have possessed 3 Oscars in that category . Instead , she was nominated for lead actress and lost to Vivien Leigh in A Streetcar Named Desire . Clift is perfect as the drifter ; he was Oscar nominated for it . His scenes in the court , where he maintains that the drowning of Miss Winters was an accident , are real and leave a vivid reminder in the minds of the viewers . The film also marked a breakout performance for Miss Taylor . Up until then , possibly with the exception of 1949's Elephant Walk , her roles were mostly childish in non-dramatic films . The viewer is put in the moral dilemma of whether or not Clift made an attempt to save the drowning Ms . Winters . Capital punishment becomes a question as always . Anne Revere is effective in an all too brief role as Clift's bible-reading mother . All emotional stops are put out in the final scene when Taylor visits a condemned Clift in prison . . A superb production .
Everyone Should See this Amazing Gal	This wonderful film has often been described as a wonderful piece of Americana and so it is . It is beautifully realized thanks to a wonderful cast , terrific pacing and a story line that we can repeat over and over : money isn't everything . Charles Coburn gives another wonderful performance . This versatile actor , who moved from drama to comedy with ease , is fantastic as the elderly gentleman who visits the family of the woman who turned him down years before when he proposed to her . While the woman herself is now deceased , Coburn finds her family in the ideal American town of the 1920s . Lynn Bari is wonderful as the status seeking mother married to a soda store owner-Larry Gates . Then there is Gigi Perreau who is as precocious as ever . A young and beautiful Piper Laurie appears as their elder daughter who becomes engaged to Rock Hudson , a soda jerk at Gates ' store . When Coburn goes to live with family , posing as a border , all hell breaks loose when he gives them anonymously $100 , 000 . The money changes all of them drastically . There are wonderfully comic turns everywhere and there is a short but memorable Charleston done by Laurie and Hudson . Even , Coburn figures in the dancing . You will be upset when the movie ends because Coburn , on the verge of being found out , announces to the family that he may never see them again as he leaves . Nevertheless , this is a feel good movie ; it conveys the American ideal and values so well and with great comedy along the way .
Maude - Edith Bunker's Liberal Cousin	Lady Godiva was a freedom rider . . . And when the country was falling apart , Betsy Ross had it all sewn up . . . and then there's Maude ( repeat , ) right on Maude . That was part of the opening theme song of this very popular show of the 1970s brought about by Beatrice Arthur visiting Archie and Edith Bunker's home on " All in the Family . " Go know that Edith and Maude were cousins . The hilarity broke loose when Maude's liberal views were tested with Archie's ultra-conservative leanings . Arthur was such a success on the show that she was given her own show " Maude . " While Maude is very liberal , the film showed that her home was anything but functional . I guess that the same can be said about any liberal or conservative . The show was highlighted by another great supporting cast with Bill Macy and Adrienne Barbeau as husband and daughter to Maude respectively .
Sweet Bird of Youth-Strikes Sour Chord of Aging Well	Tennessee Williams wrote a terrific Paul Newman and Geraldine Page vehicle in this 1962 top-notch production . Newman is certainly Chance Wayne . He hits every emotional height in the role of a hustler trying to outfox an aging movie star , Alexandra Del Largo , played to the hilt by the fabulous Geraldine Page . This is another super performance for Page and Williams seemed to enjoy writing for her as addicted person in both this film as well as " Summer and Smoke " the year before . Ed Begley won the Oscar for his sensational portrayal of an extremely ruthless southern politician who has got it in for Newman for getting his daughter , Shirley Knight , into trouble . Begley knows how to handle that cane for more than just walking . Mildred Dunnock plays her usual soft-spoken but wise sister-in-law to Begley . Rip Torn , son of Begley in the film , is menacing due to his dominance by his outrageous father . Madeleine Sherwood , who costarred with Newman in 1958's " Cat on A Hot Tin Roof , " is terrific as Begley's tormented mistress who manages to turn the tables on this vicious character at the end .
Life Support - Gives Life A Chance	A very good film showing the life of a former drug user who works for an outreach program for women with HIV . Queen Latifah , a very fine actress , is well suited for the part of Annie . What makes this film so good is that there is little violence . All the characters give meaning to this very endearing film . Latifah is especially effective in her sessions with other women . There are marvelous supporting performances by the daughter she gave up to her mother . The latter is also quite good . This is a very compelling story detailing the black experience with regard to home life and personal identifications and self-esteem . The Brooklyn locations are a joy to see .
Straight from the Heart -	This is a wonderfully realized television movie starring Teri Polo and Andrew McCarthy . McCarthy , as the embittered widower , sullen and angry with life , shows that he has become a masterful matured actor . He has really graduated from the days of the college or high school teen movies that he starred in years back . What makes this film so good is the way that the McCarthy character and Teri Polo gradually fall in love . How they get together is interesting enough . His sister writes an ad for her brother to meet someone , Polo's friend is upset that her friend's 5 year romance seems to be going nowhere and answers the ad for her friend . This brings about the Polo trip to the west where she immediately shows McCarthy that she can handle a rural life as well as his apparent insults . This is a heartwarming tale featuring the animals on the farm and an embittered father-in-law who blames McCarthy for his daughter's death after she gives birth to a baby girl who also dies .
Sentimental Journey is Tear Jerker to the Hilt	Wonderful film with John Payne and Maureen O'Hara , one year before they made the successful " Miracle on 34th Street . " Amazing that Connie Marshall , who played the part of their adopted daughter in " Journey " didn't get the Natalie Wood part in " Miracle . " This film is literally a 4 star tear jerker where an ailing Broadway actress and her director husband adopt a child only to see the mother die shortly afterwards . Both the father and daughter are devastated but use the memory of his wife and mother as a link to be drawn together . Payne has never been better as the embittered husband who lost his wife so unexpectedly . Maureen O'Hara , with that Irish brogue , conveys the part of the doomed mother and wife so beautifully that tears shall come to your eyes . In a complete departure from his usual roles , William Bendix is just marvelous in a supporting role as the couple's friend who attempts to bring comic relief to the film . Some memorable scenes show him trying to buy toys for the child , as well as discussing child psychology with Payne . Nevertheless , the film belongs to the touching performance of child actress Connie Marshall . Coming into a home as an adopted young child only to lose a mother so fast afterwards is preciously captured by Marshall's performance . There are definitely sentiment in tears but the film is engrossing and well worth the effort in watching . Sadness is so beautifully depicted here .
Mr . Skeffington	Another great Oscar nominated performance by Bette Davis . In this one , she plays Fanny , a selfish woman who thinks of nothing but her beauty . As she ages , she will do about almost anything to keep youthful looking . The picture begins where she is overwhelmed by a plethora of suitors . Eventually , she will marry a banker , wonderfully played by Claude Rains . Frustrated by getting older , she leaves it out on him and he is eventually driven away . Returning later , Fanny is stunned to see him now blind . Apparently , he was in a Nazi occupied country and being Jewish did not exactly help . She takes him under her arm and leads him away . Now , as a blind man , she will accept him knowing that he can't see her age . This was done in a poignant manner .
Song Without End is A Memorable Musical Biography	Opulent film is terrific with Dirk Bogarde playing Franz Liszt in a totally memorable performance . Capucine , as the Princess Carolyne , and Genevieve Page , as the abandoned mistress , were truly terrific here as well as a fine supporting performance by Martita Hunt , as the Czar's sympathetic sister . Hunt literally made a career of playing strong , erudite women . The set decorations here are phenomenal , they're on par with the great 1944 film " Wilson . " The music is magnificent although we could have done without knowing about the friendship between Liszt and the anti-Semite Richard Wagner . Another flaw is the miscasting of Lou Jacobi as Bogarde's manager . Jacobi sounded like he came out of the Catskills . This film for Jacobi came after his super performance , the year before , in the beloved " The Diary of Anne Frank . " ( Happy Birthday Lou as you turn 95 on Dec . 28th . ) The first part of the film deals with Liszt's career . His playing in concerts in various European countries was remarkable . The second part deals with his ill-fated love with the Countess Cathryne of Lichtenstein . While we see that Liszt entered the priesthood when his proposed marriage to Cathryne was rejected , we really can't tell if Cathryne became a nun . I imagine no since she was still technically married in the eyes of the church . Nonetheless , we have a powerful , beautifully acted film . Too bad that Totentanz , a Liszt masterpiece , was not played here . I had to know that piece of grand music in a required music course at college . Like the movie , Totentanz was a masterful piece .
A Great Night and Beautiful Day	Beautiful biography of Cole Porter wonderfully realized by Cary Grant in the title role . Many criticized the film due to the fact that Porter's homosexuality was omitted . What they fail to recognize in their criticism is that we're dealing with 1945 . Our moral behavior was so differently viewed at that time . The affluent Porter family wanted him to study law ; with his gift for songwriting , he had other ideas . Jane Wyman , as Gracie , is wonderful as well as Mary Martin portraying herself . Donald Woods is a loyal friend along with a very young newcomer to the screen , Dorothy Malone . Monty Woolley plays himself , a stuffed shirt , in a great performance . A college professor , who gave everything up to pursue Porter in California , only to achieve a remarkable movie career for himself . The Porter songs come alive especially the title song-Night and Day . Cary Grant was meant for the role . He alternates beautifully , handling the musical part greatly and gives a wonderful performance when it came to Porter's personal life-especially his war injury and other accident that followed . The film probably marked the end of Jane Wyman's career in musicals . She did quite well as Gracie , discovered by Porter in his early years and then transferring with him to Broadway and success . With the exception of singing In the Cool , Cool , Cool of the Evening with Bing Crosby in 1951's " Here Comes the Groom , " Wyman fled to strong dramatic roles after " Night and Day . " Mary Martin's heart certainly belonged to daddy . She belted out her classic song in the film . Ginny Simms was wonderful here singing a variety of Porter tunes . Too bad that her career really never took off . Alexis Smith , adequate for the part of Linda , really acted subservient until she leaves the workaholic Porter . The ending where they come together and embrace was typical Hollywood all the way . With beautiful set decorations and the Porter music , the film is memorable . Monty Woolley is a steal scener as Porter's friend , a college professor at Yale , who gave up his professorship for a stage and screen career .
Jeffersons-Movin ' On Up Was A Possibility	Very funny comedy of an affluent black family living the American dream in achieving success in their dry good business . Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford provided terrific chemistry as the husband and wife team . Sanford always knew how to crack those one-liners at a vulnerable but lovable Hemsley . Militant son Lionel was always good for a laugh and as the mother-in-law , Zarra Cully , proved that having the typical mother-in-law to deal with wasn't only an Italian or Jewish problem . Franklin Cover and Roxie Roker successfully showed that with understanding , inter-racial marriages could work .
Fatal Desire-When SexyKitten meets Jersey Dude Online Results	Eric Roberts has matured but has never been better than an alcoholic ex-cop who gets involved online with an apparently unhappy woman who is married . Their above names are their online names . They meet online and a raging affair ensues linking Pittsburgh , Pa . and Atlantic City , N . J . Trouble is that a lot starts to evolve from the affair . Our " kitten " becomes pregnant and tells of her abusive husband who may be mob linked . Enraged when she informs him that she loses the child , Roberts , who urged Heche to remain non-violent confronts the husband and shoots him to death . It's at this point where the story really turns . Heche shows great acting in her change to a vicious , calculating woman who used Roberts to further her goal . Will not give away the ending but will say - " Hell hath no fury like a man who is scorned . "
A Sky for All Seasons - Touching American Piece	A true wholesome American story about teenagers who are interested in launching their own rocket in a rural West Virginia coal mining town , after the launch of Sputnik in 1957 . Through trial , tribulations and perseverance beyond belief , they are ultimately able to achieve their goals . Jake Gyllenhaal , as the leader of the group , is excellent in the title role . As his motivating science teacher , Laura Linney is quite good but her southern accent is over the top . There is a standout supporting performance by Chris Cooper , a head miner , who wants his son to follow in his footsteps , but gradually comes around at film's end . What makes this film so unusual for our times is that there are no bed-hopping scenes and no profanity whatsoever . It is the epitome of an American story that is well done . Besides the science angle , we have the father-son disagreement , football scholarships as a way to escape coal mining , and the loving spirit of family . Why aren't pictures like this recognized more at award times ?
Fear Strikes Out Hits Home Run	Outstanding biography detailing the life of Boston Red Sox slugger Jimmy Piersall . The late Anthony Perkins depicted the appropriate temperament in his portrayal of this baseball legend . Driven by a domineering , obsessed with perfection father , Perkins is outstanding in his portrayal . He is equally matched by Carl Malden , terrific as the father . From childhood Perkins is seen as being driven by his father to achieve perfection . Nothing less will satisfy the compulsive driven father . The scene where Perkins goes berserk during a game is memorable . His recovery is well staged as well . My diagnosis would have been to keep his father away but to make sure that the viewers see this wonderful film .
Kings Row - A Welcomed Addition to Any Neighborhood	The absolute best picture that Ronald Reagan ever made . Why wasn't he given better film roles after his impressive performance as Drake McHugh ? Ditto for Bob Cummings . So sad to realize seeing both of them in the scenes of this picture , young and charming . Unfortunately , both fell victim to Alzheimer's Disease . The picture is first rate . 1942 seemed to be a big year that Hollywood spoke about mental illness . Claude Rains also starred in " Now , Voyager " that dealt with Bette Davis's breakdown following a regimented life with a tormenting mother . " Kings Row " deals with schizophrenia . Betty Field did an outstanding job as the doomed Cassie . The film also deals with a sadistic surgeon played by Charles Coburn , in a terrific brief dramatic performance . As his wife , Judith Anderson was at her usual eerie self . There are so many themes in this film . We see the class differences among Drake , Dr . Mitchell ( Cummings ) and in a terrific performance , Ann Sheridan as a girl from the wrong side of the tracks that shows her devotion to Drake when he has a series of unbelievable misfortunes befall him . Drake's line " Where's the rest of me , " when he awakes to find that his legs have been amputated is unforgettable . " Kings Row " was nominated for best picture in 1942 . It would take a classic such as " Mrs . Miniver " to have beaten it out .
Really Not How to Wed into Dough . . . But Film Shines ' / 2	Bette Grable , Marilyn Monroe and Lauren Bacall make quite a team in this 1953 fun film . Bacall is the leader of the girl pack whose quest is to get 3 rich guys . They take an expensive apartment along the way . Bacall has by far the best lines in the film . She comes off with her constant wisecracks and they are hilarious at best . Monroe is perfect as her usual dumb blond . Grable is literally Loco in this flick as well . The film reunites David Wayne and Rory Calhoun as two of the suitors . Both had appeared together a year earlier in the Jane Froman musical-drama biography of " With A Song in My Heart " with Susan Hayward . The ending is quite a pleasant surprise . Resigned to marrying a relative pauper , Bacall and the others are literally floored when a millionaire reveals himself instead . A fun film showing that money isn't necessarily everything .
Get that Letter to 3 Wives	In a year where " All the King's Men " was voted best picture of the year , Joseph L . Mankiewicz was able to win the director's award for " A Letter to 3 Wives . " An interesting note to the Oscar race that year , " All the King's Men " won the picture , actor and supporting actress award . It lost everything else from director down . How unusual this is . Mankiewicz crafted a superb film where a woman named Addie sends a letter to three women claiming that she has run off with one of their husbands . The film becomes a guessing game to see who the man is . Wisely , Addie is never shown but is depicted as quite a vicious character . The acting is superb all around as we delve into the lives of the marriages of each of the possible victims . The ending may be quite a surprise for many to take but is quite satisfying nonetheless .
Two Women Splendidly Good	Sophia Loren is truly memorable in her Oscar winning performance of 1961 . She portrays a mother trying to help her child survive World War 11 in Italy . Unable to put up with the bombings in Rome , she decides to flee with her daughter to the countryside . There she will meet adventure after adventure . A widow , who had been married to a much older man , she had a lover whose only wish is that a bomb should fall on his wife so that he could be free to marry Loren . During her adventure , she meets Michele , solemnly played by Jean-Paul Belmondo . A man who had one time thought of becoming a priest , he lusts for her before tragedy ensues . The molestation scenes are adeptly depicted . This was also an unfortunate part of war . A memorable film made better by Loren's captivating performance . A gem of a film .
My Son , My Son is No Sunny Boy But Shines Anyway	We have often seen in films the self-sacrificing mother and the negative effects it has had on children . This 1940 film deals with a father , who attains wealth as a writer , and has a son that he spoils rotten so that the latter can have everything in life that he didn't . Naturally , tragedy results from all this . Our father is played wonderfully and Louis Hayward , as the son , is excellent as well as the son who ruins the life of so many . Ironically , it is the mother here , a religious woman , who sees from the beginning that there is a need to discipline the boy . The father can't do this and the two argue only to show that their marriage has been a failure . When dad meets Madeleine Carroll , his wife is conveniently killed by being run-over . Ironically , this occurs on her way home from church . The son has also met Carroll and when he learns that his father loves her , he plots to destroy their liaison . The father's friend also marries and has two wonderful children . The daughter grows up to become a famous actress and is indebted to the father for writing her plays . The actress is Lorraine Day , and she is miscast in this film . When he can not have Ms . Carroll , Hayward turns to her and when she finds herself in trouble , the father offers to marry her as the son rejects her . Day takes her life tragically . World War 1 in England intervenes and the son , seeing his father's devotion , becomes a hero but it is too late . An absorbing film dealing with the loving relationship between father and son . It should not be missed .
Taking Chance - What the Results of War Are All About	Kevin Bacon gives a restrained , compelling performance in this film dealing with the meticulous handling of our soldiers killed in Iraq . Every detail is described and the army is very strict about making sure that customs and traditions are fulfilled as the loved ones are returned to their families . It was wonderful seeing Blanche Baker back in films after so many years . The daughter of the legendary Carrol Baker , Blanche won a best supporting actress Emmy over 30 years ago for the memorable " Holocaust " television series . After following this up with a role in Robert Redford's " The Candidate , " she seemed to have dropped out of sight after all these years . " The mortician did the best he could . It is recommended that the body not be shown for viewing . " This line will forever live with me . The film deals with patriotism and how a young man , apparently full of life , died a hero in Iraq while protecting others .
Kind Lady Was Duped into Great Thriller	Maurice Evans has a field day as a supposed artist who tricks his way into the home of dowager Ethel Barrymore and then with the aid of Keenan Wynn and Angela Lansbury , hold her hostage in her own home . They try to make others believe that Barrymore has gone insane and proceed to sell her belongings along with the house . George Sanders would have had great fun in the Evans part but the latter is convincing as the vicious con artist . Betsy Blair is appealing in the small role of his disturbed wife . Wynn and Lansbury have what it take as the evil co-conspirators . The trio almost pull it off but we know that they will not . Utterly engaging and exciting .
Would Have Been More Magnificent with those Cut Minutes	Booth Tarkington's memorable novel became a hit film of 1942 . It's the story of the deterioration of an American family set in the mid-west at the turn of the century . Their lives change drastically as the country is industrializing . Orson Welles amassed an impressive cast where Joseph Cotten twice attempted to marry Isabelle Amberson , ( Dolores Costello ) but fate intervened each time . While both marry others , it appears that their offspring George ( Tim Holt ) and Lucy ( Anne Baxter ) will marry each other but the fates are tempting again . Holt , as the wealthy scion , steals many of the scenes in every sense of the word . He is equally matched by Aunt Fanny , a superb Agnes Moorehead . She portrays a spinster aunt , sister-in-law of Isabelle , who has designs of her own regarding Cotten . An interesting note to this film is that Agnes Moorehead won the N . Y . film critics award for best actress in 1942 for this film . When it came Oscar time , she was nominated for best supporting actress for it and promptly lost to Teresa Wright in " Mrs . Miniver . " Orson Welles does a great job directing . The close-ups of the town gossips are memorable . The eerie scenery sets the standards of what the film is all about . It is filmed beautifully in black and white . The coldness of winter is evenly set against the strong family relationships that only death can put an end to . Too bad that over a half-hour of this wonderful film was cut . As an example , Isabelle running off to Europe after the vicious gossip destroys her relationship with Joseph Cotten , only to return gravely ill . There must have been scenes between all of this . Nevertheless , this is a memorable classic motion picture .
Jolson Sings Again-He Could Go on Singing	Wonderful sequel to the 1946 film . Larry Parks , William Demarest and several others repeated their parts from the original . The film picks up exactly where the original had ended . Disgusted with his life , Jolson ( Parks ) walks out on his show business career and for several years travels , dabbles with horses and lives a real care-free life . With the death of his mother , ( Tamara Shayne-who really doesn't look or act too Jewish at all ) , Jolson embarks on a tour for services until illness ends that . There is a nice performance by Barbara Hale ( the future Della Street ) as the southern nurse that he marries . Hale has just the right Arkansas twang in her speech to carry it off . When illness follows him , Jolson withdraws from entertaining fearing that his lung operation has affected his voice . He also feels that no one is really interested in him anymore . Unfortunately , the latter is true . It is only when his life story is made into a motion picture that he makes a genuine come back . Parks is absolutely amazing as Jolson . Though Al sang , Parks does a brilliant job of dubbing . His mannerisms are so easily identified as those of Al Jolson . Ludwig Donath plays Jolson's cantor father . O my , a cantor eating in a non-kosher restaurant . What were the Hollywood writers thinking ? Just hearing Jolson belt out his usual great tunes is great in itself . Entertaining and wonderful to view .
I Want to Be Teacher's Pet	Doris Day sings and stars in this delightful 1958 comedy about the head of a newspaper , who never really had a formal education , attending a journalism class taught by a perky Miss Day . Clark Gable is that student and he fools day by pretending that he is a new student of journalism . Of course , she is elated when she sees his work and romance will invariably follow . Gig Young steals the picture as Day's therapist boyfriend . The scene where he is drunk and subsequent hangover is absolutely marvelous . Watch Day when she really discovers who Gable is . Come to school for this charming flick . Gable really shows comic talent here , even when his age was beginning to show .
A Mountain Worthy to Climb	William Lundigan and Susan Hayward starred in this 1951 film regarding the trials and tribulations of a preacher and his wife . The scenery was truly beautiful in the part of Georgia where the film was made . Alexander Knox , so memorable in 1944's Wilson , steals the film in another wonderful performance as the dirt farmer , a non-believer , whose child drowns accidentally while under Hayward and Lundigan's care . That scene in itself will just tug at your heart . A film of the human spirit beautifully realized by Lundigan and Hayward .
" A Daughter's Surprise	Loretta Young's Oscar-winning performance in " The Farmer's Daughter " was a major upset in 1947 . All the so called experts had predicted that Rosalind Russell would win for " Mourning Becomes Electra . " Ms . Young had some hefty competition besides Russell . We had Susan Hayward for " Smash-up : The Story of A Woman , " and Dorothy McGuire , for the Oscar winning film , " Gentleman's Agreement " Nonetheless , Loretta is to be congratulated for her authentic Swedish accent as a maid who works for a Congressman and by the end is elected to that high office herself . We see corruption in politics ; unfortunately , not something unusual even for these times . What makes it somewhat scary is the bigotry that is introduced along with the corruption . With fine support by Ethel Barrymore , Joseph Cotten and Charles Bickford , " The Farmer's Daughter " is a wonderful movie .
Torn Curtain-Paul Newman Gets Through the Iron Curtain !	1966 drama featuring Paul Newman in counter-espionage . He is a scientist who defects to Communist East Germany so that he can get his hands on a certain formula . The trick is for him and his wife , Julie Andrews , as lovely as ever but in a non-singing role , to get back to the west . The film is tongue and cheeks where Newman is pursued by the Communists once they realize what he is really up to . An amazing scene is how he tricks a colleague , an East German scientist , into giving him the formula . Lila Kedrova , a previous Oscar winner 2 years before , in " Zorba the Greek " appears briefly in a pivotal role as an older woman who helps Newman and Andrews flee . Unfortunately , she is unable to get out but her line that she is not Communistical is memorable . Shouting fire in a theater allows the Newman-Andrews team to flee . Of course , this ruined the ballerina Tamara Toumanova's performance and at the end she nearly succeeds in tipping off the Communists to the whereabouts of Newman and Andrews . A wonderful , exciting film .
Take A Front Seat and Enjoy " Back Street "	Absorbing drama based on Fanny Hurst's best selling book . Susan Hayward is at it again ; this time as dress designer Rae Smith who meets soldier John Gavin . While love beckons between the two immediately , we have that many a time life complication-Gavin is already married . His wife will agree to a divorce . Unfortunately , Ray doesn't get to the airport on time to give Gavin the answer he is waiting for . Assuming that the affair is over , he goes back to his wife . The latter is played fantastically by Vera Miles in a terrific supporting performance . Vera is vicious and will do anything to keep her man as she later decides against divorce . Years pass and Rae keeps meeting Gavin . They literally become back street lovers . Miles even uses their young children to tell Rae to get away from her husband . After a fashion show , Miles makes a scene . Headed for a showdown with her husband in their car , Miles presses on the gas and exits this life along with her husband . Get those tissues out in the final scene as the children come crying to Rae . As they say , " there is no one else left for them . " A true tear-jerker well acted , far better than the 1930s version with Charles Boyer .
A Memorable Soul '	John Garfield delivers a worthy Oscar nominated performance in the story of " Body and Soul . " Poor and from a tough neighborhood , Garfield sees boxing as a way out of his current existence . As usual , veteran pro , Anne Revere , was called upon to play Garfield's mom . This terrific Oscar winning actress ( 1944 for National Velvet , in a supporting role ) played just about everyone's mom in Hollywood during the 1940s . " Mom " to Gregory Peck in " Gentleman's Agreement , " Linda Darnell's mother in " Forever Amber , " Montgomery Clift's mom in " A Place in the Sun " and Jennifer Jones'mother in " The Song of Bernadette . " To me , Miss Revere , who was a descendant from Paul Revere , delivers a memorable line in the movie . To paraphrase , she states : " I want you to be respected . I want you to be a teacher . " Sure , in 1947 , the teaching profession was looked up to-to use a pun , it was revered . Unfortunately , this great line has been overshadowed by the line , " Everybody dies . " Must we always be true to life ? A hard-nosed , gripping film dealing not only with human emotions , but the fighting ring as well along with its corruption . A film exhibiting one wallop of a punch .
Since You Went Away for Memorable Depiction	It's World War 11 at the home front . Claudette Colbert's husband is missing in action . The picture is interesting in the fact that we never see the husband but we do view the trials and tribulations of his family at home . The supporting cast joins Miss Colbert in creating great performances . Colbert was nominated for best actress and Monty Woolley and Jennifer Jones received supporting nominations . The latter had won the best actress Oscar the year before for " The Song of Bernadette . " This was the first time that a best actress winner was nominated in the supporting category . Agnes Moorehead is no slouch either . The veteran thespian shows her grit in a brief but memorable role as an unpatriotic friend of the family . Joseph Cotten , in uniform , as a faithful family friend , provided great emotional support as well . We also have a grown up Shirley Temple as a courageous daughter . As Fidelia , the maid , Hattie McDaniel showed perseverance and determination . She is basically a subdued Mammie in 1944 clothing . That ending scene will cling to your hearts . A triumph of the American spirit in every way .
Get Up that Ladder to See this Wonderful Film .	Remember the classic Oscar-winning film , " How Green Was My Valley ? " What made that film so great was the deep connections of a Welsh mining family and the people around them . I felt that same deep connection when I saw Ladder 49 . Here we see firemen interacting not only on the job but in their personal lives as well . We share their joys and their heartbreaks . John Travolta shines in a supporting role as the commander of the firemen . Joaquin Phoenix is very appealing as firemen Jack Morrison , whose story is the picture . While trapped in a burning building , flashbacks are well used to show his life from the time of his joining the fire department , his meeting with his future wife , his marriage and his heroic deeds . The stalwart ending of the perseverance of firemen , in the face of tragedy , makes this a heartily recommended film .
G is for Great for this Film : G-Men	Still another wonderful film by James Cagney is 1935's " G-Men . " Cagney plays a recent law school graduate who has a difficult time in setting up a practice . When his friend , played by Regis Toomey , who was the real life friend of the late Ronald Reagan , urges him to join the FBI , Cagney puts the application down . All that changes when Toomey is gunned down . It turns out that a mob figure , who retires from crime , had put Cagney through school , and will die tragically as well as the film draws to a close . The acting is first rate especially by Cagney and Ann Dvorak as a flapper who marries a mob figure and will pay dearly for that by film's end . Margaret Lindsey , plays a love interest of Cagney , a nurse , who is the brother of Robert Armstrong , a G-Man , who at first has it in for Cagney , but comes to respect him . A young Lloyd Nolan appears briefly as a G-Man , and boy-friend of Lindsey , who is also tragically shot to death . A great plot involving bank robberies and passing laws to strengthen the hands of G-Men are at the forefront of this exciting film . A must see for Cagney fans .
Mama Mia ! Exuberance in the Air	I loved the exuberance depicted in this wonderfully entertaining and engaging film . We've come along way from 1968's Buona Sera , Mrs . Campbell . The plot remains basically the same but the story line has to be updated to keep abreast of today's living standards . Meryl Streep is great here . Am surprised by her lovely singing voice . Ms . Streep is such a versatile actress . The close ups reveal a much older lady and after all , Streep is approaching 60 or so . The dancing is lively and full of life . The music by abba is rendered in a wonderful pulsating mood . Christine Baranski , though uglier than ever , is memorable here as well as the wonderful Julie Walters , they both sing and dance up a storm here . The guys taken on their roles as the possible fathers with precision . Skarsgaard is older looking , but shifty-eyed to a point . Colin Firth also shows versatility , but it is Brosnan who really captures his part as the guy who really loved the Streep character . This is really a very , very feel good movie . The surroundings on this Greek island are breath taking . See this film , dancing queen and kings alike !
Daddy Longlegs Is Wonderful	Fred Astaire and Leslie Caron were such marvelous dancing partners in 1955's Daddy Longlegs . The story line is wonderful . Astaire " adopts " a young Parisian orphan and pays for her college tuition . Throughout the years , she writes in gratitude but he chooses to ignore the letters . Fred Clark and Thelma Ritter , two veteran movie pros , gave terrific support as workers under Astaire . The sentimental Ritter , as Alice , is able to bring the two together and the film takes on a new meaning until Caron discovers that Astaire has been her benefactor . As romance blossoms , we're happy to see that Clark and Ritter have romantic designs on each other as well . The dance sequences have never been better . Both Astaire and Carone show their gracefulness . Fred even knew how to put-over " Something's Got To Give . "
My Foolish Heart - Susan Hayward Triumphs Again	When I saw Susan Hayward in " My Foolish Heart , " I immediately thought back to her other successes " With A Song in My Heart , " and " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " There are so many similarities in her acting , especially at the beginning of Foolish Heart . She even brushed her hair the same way as in " Tomorrow . " As always , Susan Hayward got the role of the troubled woman . She evokes such sympathy in this particular role as Eloise , a woman who recounts a tragic love affair at the start of World War 11 . Dana Andrews , a very fine actor , is perfect for the part of her ill-fated lover . Special acting kudos should also go to Robert Keith for his portrayal of her understanding father . Keith was quite a good actor . He really was in top-notch films . Besides this gem , he was Barney Loomas in " Love Me or Leave Me " and the doomed father to Robert Stack and Dorothy Malone in " Written on the Wind . " Notice that the term pregnancy is not used in the film . I guess that in 1949 we didn't talk of women being pregnant while not being married . Unfortunately , this movie would probably be regarded as corny today but 1949 was such a different world in movie history .
Bonanza Certainly Was For All of Us	As part of our late 1950s vocabulary , we well knew the Ponderosa , Little Joe , Hoss , Ben Cartwright , etc . on that great show " Bonanza . " It came Saturday night and everyone was glued to the television set . This was a real show depicting family values . There may have been a weekly crisis , but it was the strong family atmosphere that pulled everyone together . Lorne Greene was dominant as the patriarch of the family . His words depicted wisdom . We often were left to wonder that Ben Cartwright , a widower , must have been the best of husbands to that poor wife of his who had died . He reared wonderful sons . Naturally , we all wondered why Pernell Roberts left the show . The show was a gold mine and Roberts surrendered loads of money when he departed . His career never took off as he was associated as a Cartwright son . He should have tried to get back into the series . He certainly lost a bonanza by dropping out .
It Happened in Flatbush-Take Me out to the Ball Game	Enjoyable movie . Years back they would have called this a B film . Today , it would rate Lloyd Nolan provides just the right touch as the baseball manager . His speech intonation reflects a wonderful Brooklyn accent . We bums in Brooklyn would appreciate every minute of it . Brought back to manage a baseball team by the owner , ( Sara Allgood in an all too brief performance ) the film depicts the trials and tribulations of managing a last place team to pennant contention . Romance is in the air as Nolan tries to woo the snooty niece of the recently deceased owner . Carol Landis does well as the niece . We see Brooklyn at its best here as the faithful root for the Bums of yesteryear . Wonderful nostalgia .
Thing About My Folks - Makes You Think	Excellent endearing film with Peter Falk and Paul Reiser joining forces as father and dad . Dad shows up one evening to state that after over 40 years of marriage , mom ( Olympia Dukakis ) has left him . The rest of the film depicts the father and son on a day trip to get dad's thoughts off what has occurred . With them away , the daughters can play detectives . The story shows the adventures of father and son in their discussion of life , what should have been , why mom was complaining about dad as they discuss their philosophies of life . We see an unexpected fishing trip and pool playing which leads to a near brawl . Both men seem to break out of their daily lives . The end is a downer as we learn why mom suddenly left . It becomes a story of courage and the human spirit in the face of adversity . It's never too late to change .
Longford is Lord of the Films	Knockout film made for HBO starring Jim Broadbent , as a retired legislator , who with his very liberal beliefs , takes on the cause to pardon a child killer played by Samantha Morton . Broadbent and Ms . Morton have never been better . In fact , these performances are probably the best of their respective careers . Broadbent , as Lord Longford , has for years visited prisoners in jail . He soon discovers that he and Morton are both converts to Catholicism . First incurring the wrath of his wife , the latter later joins him on his mission . The film is a definite belief in rehabilitation of the most hardened criminal . The eye for an eye tooth for a tooth principle doesn't belong here . Despite public outcry and his ultimate betrayal by the Morton character , Lord Longford , who died at 95 , always felt that he did the right thing by advocating Myra's pardoning . This is definitely a film promoting social consciousness . Did you know that in England that all child-killers had been paroled as they were males ? Of course , this did not apply to Morton and her lover , both of whom killed several children .
Kentucky-Family Feuds Make for Great Memorable Filming	Terrific film dealing with the horse racing scene in Kentucky . We are taken from the beginning of the civil war , when generations of feuding between families begin when a Goodwin is killed by a Dillon during the taking of horses for the union army . The film then jumps to 1938 and the generations that followed these families . Naturally , Loretta Young and Richard Greene will become lovers and are from the different families with Greene hiding his Dillon name . Walter Brennan is absolutely magnificent here as the older Peter Dillon , who cried hysterically at the time of his father's murder in 1861 . He plays a crusty , cantankerous individual with a rare knowledge of horse breeding and with it all , a wonderful human heart . His Academy Award as best supporting actor was extremely well deserved here . The blue grass of Kentucky was never more enjoyable in this sprawling film of great memories of a bygone era .
No Way to Treat A Lady is A Treat to Moviegoers	Rod Steiger was sensational in this 1968 film . His ability to disguise himself and play so many different parts as an insane killer was just fabulous to watch . Yes , the film was definitely an eerie won but you never know what's coming next . Eileen Heckart was just fabulous as the Jewish mother of her son-the police officer , played so well by George Segal . You just wonder when Heckart , Segal and girlfriend , Lee Remick , will be drawn into the web of this serial killer who seems to strike without reason . Who can ever forget his first venture into killing disguised as a priest ? Rod Steiger had a definite field day with this film . Dealing with the macabre , it was truly a memorable film .
The Tie that Binds - School Ties	Anti-semitism was alive and functioning quite well in America in the 1950s . Our film takes place in 1955 . At the local Roxie Theater , in Scranton , Pennsylvania , " Rebel Without A Cause " is playing . What an appropriate title . In this film , our " rebel , " Brendan Fraser , does have a cause . At first , I laughed . Brendan Fraser playing a young Jewish guy . The laugh is on me . He comes across in a wonderful performance as a typical American young man who happens to be Jewish . Scouted by an elite Catholic prep school , Fraser takes the challenge by transferring to the Boston school . It is here that we see that anti-semitism is rampant among the supposed elite of the young students attending there . The Jewish people are stereotyped in the usual ways that we have been denounced through the ages . It must be said that Christian people are negatively stereotyped here as well . Warned by the scout to keep it quiet that he is Jewish , Fraser seems to assimilate among the other students . His winning ways at a football game get him endeared with the rest of the guys . In fact , he falls for the girl that fellow student Matt Damon likes . Naturally , via a slip it comes out that Fraser is Jewish and he is subjected to the worst torments by the rest of the students . His girlfriend , in addition , now rejects him because her grandmother would turn over in her grave if she ever she heard that she was dating a Jewish boy . Here is a school that prides itself on its honor codes . They know full well what is going on . Talk of honor at this bastion of bigotry ? This is hypocrisy at its worst . The film also deals with pressures of student life-getting good grades so as to get into the Ivy League Schools . As I'm not one of the most optimistic people , for me , the picture ended well . Green ( Fraser ) tells the headmaster off . " You used me to improve the football team and I will use you to get into Harvard . " He walks off the campus a determined but yet a bitter young man . Great to see a film end like this rather than we all sat down and lived happily ever after . I might be sounding bitter but the theme here is not exactly " Mary Poppins . " I liked this film so much because it depicts that upper class Americans went to church and then practiced hatred for the rest of the week . May I also state that Matt Damon is terrific in a supporting role as a bigot . He conveys the twisted and tormented hate that is so anti-American as well as anti-human . It's sad that the Oscar-winning film " Gentleman's Agreement " conveyed this in 1947 . The unrelenting hatred goes on and on .
Another Martyred Joan in Stirring War Film	An under-rated but excellent film is 1942's " Joan of Paris . " While it is still another World War 11 story of allied soldiers , trying to get back to their homeland from an occupied France , it is certainly worth seeing . The acting by Michele Morgan , Paul Henried and Thomas Mitchell is first rate . Cornered by the Gestapo , Morgan acts like the true Joan of Arc . May Robson , who was so good in " Lady for A Day , " shines this time in a supporting role , as an elderly teacher who is also a member of the French resistance . Look for a young Alan Ladd is a brief but pivotal role as one of the group of soldiers . Just as we saw in Casablanca , the year after this film , there is a memorable scene ; this time children are singing the Marseilles at a time of adversity . Obviously , the film is timely as it was made during the war when the free French fought alongside the British to combat the Nazi menace .
Wild is the Wonderful Wind	When Johnny Mathis sings the opening theme to this film , you know you're in for a treat . Mathis does not let you down . Anna Magnani is brought to America by her new husband , played memorably by Anthony Quinn . It seems that Quinn was married to Magnani's sister Rosa . Rosa wrote Magnani of the wonderful life she had with him . Unfortunately , Rosa dies . This is a tragedy for Magnani because she falls into a marriage from hell with Quinn . Things go from bad to worse . Magnani , in a fine performance , screams that Rosa is dead ! Naturally , Anthony Franciosa , as a cowhand on the ranch , really makes things interesting . Franciosa merited a supporting nomination here . Ironically , he was vying with Quinn for the best actor Oscar that year . Franciosa was up for " A Hatful of Rain . " Quinn and Magnani were Oscar nominated for their strong powerful performances . It was wonderful seeing Magnani sing in her native Italian . Subtitles should have been in the film at the beginning since only Italian was spoken . Magnani delivers the same type of energy that she displayed in " Rose Tattoo . " Quinn appears in the same gripping way as he did in his powerhouse performance in " La Strada " 3 years before . The woman who played Magnani's sister-in-law looked similar to Ida Kaminska . I wasn't surprised to see that she was also born in Poland . The earthy Magnani does not disappoint here . A must see film to see how this situation can be resolved and a marriage salvaged .
Right Decision Before Dawn	This film was nominated for best picture in 1951 and along with " A Place in the Sun , " should have received more careful attention from Academy voters . Their choice of " An American in Paris " as best picture left a bitter taste in the mouths of movie people . " Decision Before Dawn " chronicles the U . S . army's attempt to recruit German soldiers to spy on their own countries . These recruits are tested at a prisoner of war camp . A very young Oskar Werner steals the show as one who is chosen . The picture becomes even more exciting as Werner eludes the German army as the gestapo is on to him . This film deals with those Germans who realized that the war was lost and what Germany had done , they want to redeem themselves even if it means that their countrymen would denounce them after the war . Then , there are those who would use this as an attempt to get back home and inform the army of the traitors among them . Werner gets terrific support from Gary Merrill and Richard Basehart , the latter a fantastically under-rated actor .
A Lover's Revenge - We Need More Revenge Like This	Terrific , well paced thriller with William R . Moses , the Ken Melansky on the old Perry Mason television series giving an absolutely riveting performance as a millionaire psychopath who abuses his wife to no end causing her to make telephone calls to a radio therapist . When he walks in on one of her calls , he chases her out of the house and she is fatally struck by a car while trying to flee . Moses is outraged and vows revenge on the therapist , really believing that she caused his wife's death . Moses goes into full acting mode here . He creates situations which totally destroy the therapist's life , marriage , and ultimately leading to the death of the good doctor's wife . In the interim , he has paid a hooker to have a relationship with the husband , tape records certain messages and sets a scheme in motion that can only lead to absolute mayhem and destruction to all those who come within his orbit . Moses has never been better . He is a cool , calculating maniac who will stop at nothing to achieve his objective . He is sinister all the way and even has police suspecting that the therapist killed her own husband ! This is a very well done movie and is highly recommended .
Green Acres Was the Place to Be	Both the late Eddie Albert and Eva Gabor found their niche in this mid 1960s television classic . Green Acres is the place to be . Fun living , etc . N . Y . is where I'd rather be . I get allergic smelling hay . Darling I love you but give me Park Avenue . The chores . . . The storesYou are my wife . . . Goodbye city life . Green Acres , etc . This show theme song , abbreviated since I can't remember all the exact words , depicted the ongoing struggle between Oliver Wendell Holmes ( Albert ) and his wife , memorably played by Eva Gabor . Fed up with urban life , Oliver moves the clothes-horse Eva to the country to embark on a new life filled with fresh air . The show depicted the weekly adventures of these two people attempting to adjust to rural life . The basic theme here was that love conquers all . This marvelous show certainly did .
Laugh in Socked it To Us So Well	Fabulous television series running from 1967 to 1973 . What made the show so great was the lively supporting cast associated with it . The sketches with Arte Johnson as the old man starting up with Ruth Buzzi on the park bench were constantly hilarious . Who had the idea to put that net on Buzzi's hair ? It made her look so appropriately ugly . When she swung that pocketbook , we roared with laughter . Then we had Judy Carne saying " Sock it to Me ! " Remember when Richard Nixon said that famous line briefly on the show ? Dick Martin gave us that dead pan like humor and Dan Rowan portrayed the typical slick but constant smoking guy on the show . Joanne Worley was loud but so well suited for this continuous mayhem . I can't imagine how announcer Gary Owen was able to restrain himself from laughing . This show and " That Was the Week That Was " gave new dimension to television .
The Barkleys of the West and Not Broadway	Barbara Stanwyck on television ? After a lengthy memorable film career , Ms . Stanwyck embarked on a television series , a western , known as " The Big Valley . " As matriarch Victoria Barkley , Stanwyck etched still another unforgettable character . With a wonderful supporting cast who made up her " children , " each week brought a new exciting episode with a great host of guest stars . There were times that Stanwyck looked her age , if not older , but her acting was her usual great self . Another rousing theme back this show .
They Made Me A Criminal Could Have Kept Going	Very good 1939 film where John Garfield plays another boxer who becomes a victim when everyone thinks he has committed a murder . Trouble is that the killer and Garfield's girl , Ann Sheridan , in a brief but good performance , get killed while trying to elude the police . A crooked attorney persuades Garfield to flee N . Y . He lands in Arizona and meets up with the Dead End Kids . . They've been sent there by a funding program to keep them out of further trouble . Of course , Garfield finds a new love interest but must conceal his identity as everyone thinks he was not only the killer but was the victim in the car crash . May Robson is fabulous as the grandma type running the place for the wayward youth . Claude Rains is also effective in the role of the detective who suspects that Garfield is still alive and pursues him when a picture is snapped of him in Arizona . The film really deals with Garfield's relation to the boys . While the ending is good , you want to see Garfield go back to N . Y . to proclaim his innocence .
The Very " Wonderful " Thought of You	Dennis Morgan and Eleanor Parker star in this wonderful World War 11 film how a weekend meeting between a soldier and a girl lead to marriage and brief happiness . The best part is that there is a wonderful ending . Morgan comes home to Parker's family-a bickering one . Andrea King plays Parker's sister , who tired of waiting for her husband to come home , has been playing the field . She too realizes that she is wrong when her husband comes home unscathed from the war . Morgan and Parker have a perfect screen chemistry . The picture would be considered corny by today's standards . We need more films of this quality . These war pictures searched for true meaning in the lives of people at home during the war at a time their men and women were serving . This is certainly a wonderful prelude to 1946's " The Best Years of Our Lives . "
Sun Never Sets for this Gang	Three distinctive Jewish stories highlight this 1991 film . One segment entitled " Yiddish " is an excellent venture into the world of senior citizens in Miami Beach , Florida . Harold Gould is one such senior . Intelligent and outgoing , he wants more out of life . Certainly more than what his long-time wife , played with gusto by Doris Roberts can offer . She is made for this part as the typical Miami Beach " yenta " parading around in loud-colored clothes with a big-mouth to match . One like her is content to sit by a set or gab with the neighbors all day . Gould begins to find relief from this way of life by attending a Yiddish workshop . There he meets a woman who shares the same problem that he does-boredom with his way of life . The two act beautifully at their Yiddish playhouse . As time goes on , they are drawn to each other . As time goes on , it's time to call in their respective spouses and children to discuss what is to be . Predictably , Roberts becomes hysterical at the thought that her husband is walking out on her . The other woman's husband seems to accept that his wife is leaving ; he has been preoccupied with his hobbies . The children on both sides are not happy , but in defiance to all , our new lovers walk out and ride on their bicycles away to begin a new life for themselves . This film tells us that it's never too late to enjoy life and to follow your dreams . Why continue to suffer a drab existence ? It's done well and is a pleasure to watch .
Walking A Great Line	Joaquin Phoenix gives a beautiful performance as the late Johnny Cash . Phoenix , who did his own singing , is absolutely superb as the late singer , who had a rough childhood with an abusive father whose disdain for him increased following the tragic death of his brother . Reese Witherspoon portrays June Carter , the love of Johnny's life . Ms . Witherspoon , though adequate in her acting , really has a supporting performance and why she has been nominated in the best actress category is an enigma to me . The picture belongs to Phoenix all the way . His characterization of fame , fortune , drugs and downward spiral are well done . The two sing quite well and the chemistry is great between them .
Miracle Run and Old Clichés . . . Yet it Still Works	Mrs . Morgan loses the man in her life when her twin boys are diagnosed with autism . He just can't handle this and has her leave home with the boys . Officials want them institutionalized , but Corrine , played excellently by Mary Louise Parker , has other ideas . She fights the system all the way to secure an education for the boys . Parker conveys a level headed woman's frustration in fighting the system . Her performance is believable . When the school district is forced to act , a special education tutor is provided . While he works wonders with the boys , funding to pay him dries up . He has taught Corrine how to deal with her sons and miraculously , by the next scene , several years has passed and the boys are teenagers pursuing the guitar , running , geography , astronomy and other activities . How they achieve so rapidly is conveniently omitted . With this omission , the film does not fail as it is inspiring and faithful to the human spirit .
Girls on Probation - Well Worth Probing this One	Excellent film dealing with who you meet up . Jane Bryan innocently meets up with her friend , played in fine fashion , by Sheila Bromley . Bromley leads Bryan into 2 horrible escapades leading to jail for both these characters . Bromley , terrific here , is hard-boiled , vicious and will do anything to please her lover . After her first run in with the law , when she is cost wearing a dress that Bromley stole , Bryan meets up with future D . A . Ronald Reagan , whose young girlfriend turns out to be a very young SUSAN HAYWARD . Sig Ruman , as Bryan's father , sheds his comic image here in a totally believable performance as a stern father who will not believe his daughter is not up to no good . This is an exciting film with a great Hollywood ending .
Religion Was Never this Way as " Come to the Stable Shows "	Loretta Young's beautiful Oscar-nominated performance , as a nun , in the wonderful " Come to the Stable , " highlights this beautiful film . This film deals with a group of nuns who are committed to building a children's hospital and what they must go through to get the necessary approval as well as the funds . After a very difficult time in procuring money , they attain their goal only to get a thumbs down from the church that feels it has other obligations to attend to . There is a heart warming performance by Thomas Gomez , as a parishioner who is widowed and has lost his only son to World War 11 . Stingy , he finally donates in memory of his son . His remembering of his son was so poignantly done . Elsa Lancaster and Celeste Holm were each nominated for best supporting actress for their performances . Holm plays a mean game of tennis in one scene . A beautiful film of the human spirit .
Neil Simon Romp	3 wonderful short stories are fused together in this 1971 film . The first story , which is the best , stars Walter Matthau and Maureen Stapleton as a couple whose marriage is failing and is spending their 23rd or 24th wedding anniversary there . Stapleton is terrific here as always . She shows great depth in going from a ditsy housewife to a woman hurt by the affair her husband has been having with his secretary . In the typical tradition of Simon , Stapleton wonders why her husband couldn't be more original since all men have affairs with their secretaries . Matthau stars in the second story as well but this time with Barbara Harris . As a Hollywood producer , he has come to N . Y . on business but has other things on his mind such as the seduction of Harris , a housewife from N . J . that he knew years ago when he lived in Tenafly . Matthau is quite funny here with his attempt to be suave and slick . While constantly changing her times of departure , Harris is hilarious while becoming quite inebriated from the liquor that Matthau serves up . Yet , this is the weakest of the 3 stories since you can't await for that bedroom scene that invariably takes place . Guess that Harris ' marriage to Larry isn't as great as she made it out to be after all . In the 3rd segment , Matthau and Lee Grant star as a couple whose daughter is about to be married at the hotel . Trouble is she has wedding jitters so she locks herself in the bathroom . A very funny routine is establish by Matthau and Grant attempting to get her to come out and get married . It is only when her husband-to-be is summoned , he solves everything by telling her to " cool it . " So , here we see the generation gap is action . The common link in the film is room 719 where the 3 stories take place . If only the walls could talk , they'd tell you not to miss this film .
Rendition - Very Intriguing Political Thriller	Very good political thriller regarding the aftermath of terrorism and the using of political torture to obtain one's objectives in flushing out the terrorists . The story is interwoven where two families are adversely affected by the terrorist events . This is one of Meryl Streep's best roles in years . She plays a cold , calculating , cunning director of the CIA who allows these things to go on . She is out of the George Bush-Dick Cheney school of handling the war on terrorism . Had her part been expanded , Miss Streep certainly would have been up for an award at Oscar time . Jake Gyllenhaal is our hero . A CIA agent who really can't take what's going on . We have a terrorist who actually has a heart and it costs him his life in this well directed , finely paced film . Alan Arkin appears briefly in the part of a conniving senator . Mr . Arkin seems to get better with age .
Room At the Top . . . And They Lived Miserably Ever After	Laurence Harvey delivers a knock-out performance as Joe , the status climbing guy , who will do just about anything to achieve his goal . This story reminds me somewhat of A Place in the Sun , where a young man is torn among lust , social climbing and ultimate tragedy . Harvey was never better in any film , even the 1962 " Manchurian Candidate . " He is desperate for love , recognition in a place of upper society . While he achieves this in the end , we know how really unhappy he is . Simone Signoret , as Alice , 10 years older than Harvey in the movie , but filled with lust received the Oscar here for 1959's best actress . I believe that she got it because Elizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn canceled each other out in " Suddenly , Last Summer " and Audrey Hepburn was terribly overlooked for " The Nun's Story . " ( 5th nominee Doris Day was out of her category in " Pillow Talk , " nominated because the academy had overlooked her brilliant performance four years before in " Love Me or Leave Me . " ) Signoret was difficult to understand in several scenes and was far better as the Oscar nominated Contessa in the 1965 memorable " Ship of Fools . " The film's endearing theme is that moving to the top does not always buy you happiness . Hermione Baddeley received an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress as a dear friend of Signoret . She torn into the screen in her brief 3 scene appearances , but etched an unforgettable performance . Heather Sears shines here as the spoiled , rich girl who is looking for love . Her parents are the epitome of upper-class snobbishness in society .
Cowboy and the Weakling in Remarkable Sync	Both Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight were best actor nominees for their performances in this 1969 Oscar winning film . Too bad that they probably were able to cancel each other out . American icon , John Wayne , would have probably won anyway due to his long Hollywood history . Can anyone ever say that he was better than Voight or Hoffman ? Voight's naivety is believable . He encounters Ratso , a conniving character . Both soon have the tables turned on them by Sylvia Miles , who plays the prostitute Cass , in a memorable brief but supporting performance . The frustration and contempt on her face tells her whole story . You want to cough with Ratso . His disgusting appearance , his motions , his entire demeanor made his performance even more outstanding . Ratso , you deserved that Oscar and not the Duke ! " Midnight Cowboy " has the distinction of being the only x-rated Oscar winning film in the history of the Academy Awards . An achievement of two losers who find each other and a hostile , uncaring environment about them . The film is also greatly helped by the song " Everybody's Talking , " beautifully arranged and sung .
From Russia With Love - James Bond At His Best	A musical score and song generally can make or break a film . Such is the case for From Russia With Love . This 1963 film has a haunting theme which can never be forgotten . Sean Connery , always fabulous as the sexy James Bond , is at it again . He is just masterful in the role of the darling British Agent up to his neck in intrigue and usual suspense . Acting kudos must go to veteran actress Lotte Lenya , widow of legend Kurt Weill , for her performance as a major player in the evil organization of Spectre . As Rosa Klebb , Ms . Lenya was the embodiment of evil . She'd sell her soul to the highest paying devil . As wicked and ugly as they come , who can ever forget her knife in the shoe final scene climax . She takes a bullet to the chest and collapses against that wall in true Hollywood fashion .
Beyond Borders-Love Transcends All	A perfect vehicle for Angelina Jolie . This role was made for her as an activist meeting the love of her life . The picture is basically divided into 3 parts . Starvation torn Ethiopia of 1984 , Cambodia in 1989 and Chechnia of 1995 . Engaged to a wealthy gentleman , who later loses his fortune in the market and shows his infidelity , Jolie meets a dedicated but hardened doctor in Ethiopia as she enters a life of dedication to the impoverished of war torn nations . Clive Owen is terrific as the doctor who seems frigid to all by the experiences he has endured . Yet , he eventually finds love with Jolie as the years pass . Am surprised that this high quality film had such short duration on screen . It is extremely well crafted . This is a story of two idealistic human beings who risked everything for those affected by warWait until you see the secret that Jolie reveals to Owen by picture's end . You will not be really surprised for love endures all situations .
Freedomland-Constitutional Rights on Being Held Captive ?	Intense drama starring the gift Samuel L . Jackson and Julianne Moore , both of whom turn in outstanding performances . The problem here is with the script . There are too many subplots going on here dealing with a woman who claims her car was carjacked with her child in it , a detective whose son is doing time for armed robbery , his interrogations which lead to an asthmatic attack , and a group dealing with finding missing children whose leader has quite a heartbreak of her own . The story takes place in a black housing project in 1999 . Since it's first believed that the kidnapper is there , there is a lock down of the project . No one can get in or out . This goes on for several days . There is the ultimate tension between the police and the residents who are being held captive . Come on now , holding people hostage like this ? If this were reality , the Rev . Al Sharpton and company would be marching all over the place . When Moore's story falls apart , a tragic story replaces it . This film on racial tension is a little too much to take . We're anything but free in this freedom land .
Money Can Be Everything-Brewster's Millions	Dennis O'Keefe in a field day romp in Brewster's Millions . He becomes an instant millionaire through inheritance but in order to get the full $8 million , he must spend $1 million by age 30 , which is in 2 months . He is not permitted to tell anyone why he is spending money as if there is no tomorrow . Naturally , his love-life will be adversely affected . Of course , when this occurs , O'Keefe gets that Midas Touch . Everything and everyone he touches yields a gold-mine . As his butler , Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson has lots of fun here and you can see that he is enjoying himself . . The film co-stars Helen Walker as his befuddled girlfriend and there is a nice turn by June Havoc , as a flashy Broadway show-girl , caught up in this mayhem . The picture succeeds because of the fine performance of O'Keefe who has the part of the suddenly wealthy ex-G . I . down to a science . We feel his emotions of joy , frustration and comic desires .
Wuthering Heights - Descends the Clouds	The New York Film Critics defied conventional thought in 1939 by selecting " Wuthering Heights " as the best picture of the year . This must have come as quite a surprise to all the " Gone With the Wind " fans out there . Laurence Olivier will probably be forever remembered as our hero Heathcliff . His love for the Merle Oberon character probably represents one of the greatest love stories that Hollywood ever produced . Olivier was terrific because he was in the brooding move . He showed the same depth of character the following year in " Rebecca . " It is amazing that the motion picture academy passed him up for both performances . Who can ever forget the heather of the film ? Geraldine Fitzgerald , who won the film critics ' award for supporting actress for her role in the film . She played a bitter , loveless woman ready to settle into a grim spinsterhood similar to Olivia De Havilland's " The Heiress . " A memorable production with a memorable cast .
Flamingo Road - Upper Society vs . Joan Crawford	A fabulous Joan Crawford vehicle reuniting her with Zachary Scott of " Mildred Pierce " fame . Again , Scott eventually takes a bullet , but this time it's by his own doing . The film came 4 years after " Pierce " and Crawford looks a lot older here , probably because of her lighter hair . The film is a good one involving upper vs . lower class and dirty , corrupt politics in the name of one Sydney Greenstreet , who is just wonderful here . ( I don't know what the other writers wanted with his performance . ) He is the embodiment of the big city corrupt official who will destroy anyone in his path . He thinks he is self-righteous yet and his name of Titus is most appropriate for him . As the carnival girl , trying to build a life for herself , Crawford etched another memorable performance . She is at her best when she lifts herself up from adversity . Scott is wonderful in the role of the guy , pushed up in politics and thrown into a political marriage with disaster resulting . David Brian has his moments as the other shady official who Crawford also falls for . Get yourself to Flamingo Road !
It Happened in Brooklyn-Only in My Borough	Wonderful film with a stellar cast . Frank Sinatra and Peter Lawford shine as two quiet buddies who return to Brooklyn after World War 11 service in England . Actually , it's a first trip to Brooklyn . The film is so endearing due to its themes of clinging to your aspirations . Sinatra finds Kathryn Grayson and falls in love , but when she introduces Lawford to him , you know the rest . Jimmy Durante plays a rather subdued custodian in a school where Grayson teaches music . She is down as she wants an operatic career . The film is lifting when she and the 3 guys all join forces to make sure that a poorly financed student , who is brilliant at the piano , can continue his musical education after college . In Hollywood tradition , they succeed . Tamara Shayne shows her usual earthy appealing as the boy's mother . Sinatra belts out Time After Time and Grayson's operatic scene is memorable . This film is definitely heartwarming and a joy to watch .
All This , And Wonderful Too	Bette Davis is not the villain in this one . That's a sure change of pace . She plays an innocent French teacher who tells the class of a tragic love affair with a Duke , well played by Charles Boyer . She has to talk as gossip is swirling about the incident that occurred in France . Davis was the governess to the two children of Boyer and his wife , brilliantly played by Barbara O'Neil . Insanely jealous , Frances as Duchesse , ( O'Neil ) imagines that Davis and Boyer are having an affair . She screams and yells violently throughout the film . When she goes back on her word and will not give Davis an appropriate letter of recommendation , Boyer becomes enraged and kills her . The set decorations are appropriate to what is being conveyed . O'Neil , who the year before was Scarlett O'Hara's mother in Gone With the Wind , received a well deserved supporting Oscar nomination for playing the Duchesse . A story of gossip , insane jealousy and lust , it will wet your appetite .
Shirley Shines in Hilarious Romp	Shirley MacLaine again proves that she is quite an actress in this 1964 film . Showing that money isn't everything , Shirley keeps marrying and losing her husbands to sudden deaths . Along the way , they leave her with a bundle ; therefore , she accumulates a vast amount of money . However , this is the film where m is m-money makes one absolutely miserable . Done with comic flair , the picture is just terrific . My favorite sequence is with Dick Van Dyke . He is just a poor sole when he meets Shirley , but after they wed , the work ethic sets in as he eagerly gets everyone to hop on down to hoppers . The dough pours in but Van Dyke just works , works and works until he falls down dead ! Hop on down and catch this film at your local video . Then , sit back and enjoy life !
The Corn is Certainly Ripe " Corn is Green "	In comparison to past and her performances after 1945 , Bette Davis gave a restrained but compelling performance as the schoolteacher in a Welsh town who wants to improve the education of the town's children ( already mostly miners in " The How Green Was My Valley " vein ) through education . In this wonderful performance , I see elements of Davis's " The Little Foxes " as well as her 1944 film " Mr . Skeffington . " Leave it to Davis to find a brilliant student , a terrific John Dall , in her midst . The problem is that Dall is a drinker who feels he is betraying his fellow miners in pursuing an education . The maid's daughter , Bessie , played with evil intent by a fabulous Joan Loring , gets into trouble thanks to Dall , and she threatens to ruin all concerned . The end , where Davis agrees to take the unborn child and raise it herself , while vowing never to see Dall again , may be regarded today as corny but is well done . This film is memorable because of its depiction of class structure and the opportunity for upward mobility . Both Dall and Loring received Oscar nominations in the supporting categories but Davis was denied a best actress nomination here which is somewhat surprising . Mildred Dunnock and Rhys Williams costar as teachers in Ms . Moffat's school . Dunnock , so young here , but displays the same vulnerability as Elsie Thornton in 1957's " Peyton Place . "
North By Northwest A Great Geographic Film	Alfred Hitchcock at his very best with this 1959 suspense thriller . Advertising executive Cary Grant becomes unwittingly involved with spies when he is confused for someone else . The problem is that Kaplan , the someone else that he is confused with , never existed . The latter name was created by the CIA to deflect suspicion on one of their own operatives , Eva Marie Saint who has infiltrated the spy mob led by an angry James Mason . Jesse Royce Landis adds come highlights as Grant's mother . The scenery is sumptuous and that airplane scene along with those at Mt . Rushmore are great , even if most of the dangerous scenes at " Rushmore " were filmed at Culver City , California .
Where There's A Will . . .	Excellent film starring Marion Ross , as an ailing grandmother , and the grandson she finds , played quite well by Frank Whaley . Whaley appears to be a grandson on the way to doing no good . Owing money to a mobster , he flees to Texas when he discovers that he has a grandmother . The product from a young relationship , his mother had died at age 5 and the father abandoned him 10 years later . Whaley comes to Texas with the idea of taking as much as he can from the old woman to pay off his debt and get even more . He immediately plans to have her declared incompetent and put away so that he can get everything quickly . This is the story of a warm relationship developing from grandson to grandmother . The grandson's presence gives new meaning to the grandmother who fixes herself up and is about to marry again only to have death intervene . The performances are excellent , especially that of Marion Ross as the grandmother . At the beginning of the film , she comes across as a typical rural grandma , but her faith is restored by her grandson , who becomes a man . The end will tug at your heart but you will know that you have seen something special .
Running Aground and Amok Was Never Better than This	Hilarious best describes this 1966 Oscar nominated film for best picture . The laughter actually begins when a Russian submarine , commanded by Theodore Bikel , runs aground off the coast of a small New England town . The problem is not only the submarine but the absolute craziest people who reside in the town . Carl Reiner and Eva Marie Saint and their " children " are in the town for the summer to not only vacation but for Reiner , a playwright , to come up with a perfect topic for a show . Little does he know what's in store for him . The appearance of the submarine sets off absolute mayhem and hysteria in the town . Alice Foss , a riotous Tessie O'Shea , is tied up with Reiner in a hysterical scene . After freeing herself from being tied up , veteran pro Doro Merande rides around in a motorcycle carrying the sign alert . Then there's Fendel , played by Paul Ford , who wants to organize a militia to fight the invaders . Ben Blue is riding up and down with his horse to announce the invasion of the Russians . In the midst of all this there is a love interest between John Philip Law , one of the Russian sailors who comes on shore , with the Reiner-Saint daughter . Things really come to a monumental showdown until a child gets stuck at the top of the church tower . Both the Russians and townspeople work together to free the endangered child . A good laugh is had by all . See how people of any group can come together when an emergency calls .
Sudden Fear - The Advantage of Being A Writer	Joan Crawford was absolutely marvelous in this 1952 thriller . In this film , she plays a wealthy playwright who rejects Jack Palance for the lead role in her new play only to wind up marrying him instead . Crawford has everything until she discovers from a taping machine that Palance and secret girl friend , Gloria Grahame , plot to kill him . Using her writing talents , Crawford concocts a plan to outdo them . Remorse sets in before she can do this but she is aided by fate as the film ends . Crawford becomes mesmerizing once she knows she is an intended victim . Gloria Grahame certainly had a busy 1952 . Besides this film , she collected the supporting Oscar for " The Bad and the Beautiful , " and was also in the best picture winner that year - " The Greatest Show on Earth . " Palance displays the villain type character that he would make famous in his 50 + film year career .
Fracture-No Break in this Law	Anthony Hopkins basically continues his eerie ways from " Silence of the Lambs " in this film . Problem is that he is probably a little too old for this part . Nice to see Embeth Davidtz in this picture . It has been 15 years since Ralph Fiennes threw a bookcase at her in " Schindler's List . " Ryan Gosling , on the other hand , is too young for this part . He is supposed to be a hot-shot lawyer on the verge of landing a big position at a law firm . There are some scenes where he looks like an emotionally disturbed young man . The plot here is what saves the film . Carelessness on the part of the Gosling character allows for Hopkins to go free after he has shot his wife in the head . Gosling eventually figures out how Hopkins was able to find the gun . He did it in the way that Jessica Fletcher would in " Murder She Wrote . " All said , this is an engrossing film which keeps you guessing and on edge .
Yes , May the Lord Bless Red	Red Skelton was still another major star who made the transition from movies to television with ease . His shows certainly brought a laughter to the American households of years back . He would begin the show with an opening monologue . Afterwards , we would have a variety of characters . Remember Gertrude and Heathcliff in the monologue ? How can we ever forget San Fernando Red ? I remember one episode where as a king Red introduced his queen by referring to her as your fatness . Go know that Red would use his comedic talents to really hide from his tragic life . He lost a son to leukemia at age 11 or so . His wife , Georgia , died by suicide .
Sing You Judy Believers	Judy Garland turned in still another phenomenal performance in 1963's " I Could Go On Singing . " As a singer touring England , Garland lets out the secret that she is the mother of Dirk Bogarde's son . Bogarde had passed the boy off as his adopted son so as not to humiliate his wife . The problem is that the latter is now dead and Garland is ready to fulfill her motherly role . Or , is she ? Garland emits the same emotion that she did as Vickie Lester in 1954's " A Star is Born . " While Bogarde is good as her former boy friend , could you imagine what James Mason could have done for this part ? Imagine re-teaming Mason and Garland in a motion picture . There is a surprising nice small supporting performance by Jack Klugman as Garland's manager . He warns her that she might have to go to court against Bogarde to prove that she is the mother of his child . What would that do to her career ? While all this is going on , Garland fabulously belts out " I'll Go My Way By Myself , " as well as the title song . It is amazing to me that in a very weak best actress category of 1963 , that Garland was not nominated for best actress here .
We Made Room for Daddy	Outstanding comedy series of the 1950s starring Danny Thomas as Danny Williams , a comedy pro who battles his loving family along the way . Created by Sheldon Leonard , the show was memorable with a phenomenal supporting cast . When Jean Hagen left the show to pursue a movie career , she was replaced by Marjorie Lord . Lord knew just how to recite her lines in such a way so as to get what she wanted . Rusty Hamer , who committed suicide in 1990 , at 42 , was simply terrific as the precocious Russell . He often did battle with his father in a memorable but comic way . Rusty sure had excellent comic timing for one so young . Who can forget Hans Conreid as Uncle Tanousse ? Amanda Randolph was that spunky maid . We certainly made room for this daddy and his family for each and every episode .
Gene Krupa Story Drums Up My Support	Sal Mineo , who made a career of played conflicted people , does a magnificent job in the biography of legendary drummer Gene Krupa . Mineo , as Krupa , gets wonderful support from James Darren and Susan Kohner . 1959 was a remarkable year for Miss Kohner . It was that year where she received a best supporting actress nomination as the troubled daughter of Lana Turner's maid in that great film " Imitation of Life . " Krupa's family wanted him to enter the priesthood . However , Gene's calling was for being a drummer . As is the case with so many talented people , success came quickly and unable to handle it , Krupa descended into a life of drinking and using reefers . At a time , when there were investigations revolving about musicians and drugs , Krupa's career suffered from his conviction and serving time in prison . While Mineo at age 20 , may have been too young for the part , he does a very credible job as the tormented youth . Kohner , as his girlfriend , Ethel , never gave up on him even though he literally walked out on her before his troubles again . As she did in " Imitation of Life , " Kohner shows her own emotional conflict . Her early retirement from films deprived Hollywood of an excellent talent . We also lost a great talent , when Mineo , who would get possibly the best part of his career as Dov Landau , the following year , in " Exodus , " was murdered in 1976 . Lawrence Dobkin , who in 1959 , was an important player in the television series " The Untouchables , " scores well here as a protégé of Krupa . Celia Lovsky , who was so memorable in many old films , usually portraying elderly women , was wonderful in 2 scenes in portraying Krupa's disappointed but loving mother . Of course , a Jewish woman playing a Catholic mother , might have raised some eyebrows at that time . This is an excellent film where the social mores of the time derailed Krupa's great talent and career .
Match Point Strikes A Right Balance	This is one of Woody Allen's best picture in years . With his usual philosophy of life and ethics , Allen is able to blend this film in with such classics as " A Place in the Sun , " and " Crimes and Misdemeanors . " He successfully recreates the dilemma of the emotions generated by the desire for upward mobility seen in the latter film with the ironic circumstances of the former . In addition , we have an Alfred Hitchcock ending which is just marvelous here . This is a story of a tennis player getting involved with a rich student's family and the resulting love affair and tragedy that occurs . Scarlet Johannsen is terrific as the American born woman who is disillusioned with her quest for an acting career and inability to find a mate . Dropped by the student , she begins an affair with the teacher who has married the student's sister . The aristocratic British family is shown as self-righteous , and alcoholic at best . A wonderful hard-hitting film on ethics and values . The visits of the murder victims will haunt you . That scene was poignantly done in depicting the dilemma and justification of the protagonist .
Adventures of Robin Hood A Marvelous One	With a rousing musical score that won the 1938 Oscar for Erich Wolfgang ( Wolfie ) Korngold , and an outstanding Natalie Kalmus work in Technicolor , " The Adventures of Robin Hood " still stands out as a marvelous film . What a great cast ! Errol Flynn is dashing , charming and most provocative in the lead role . He is given phenomenal support by two usual film rascals , Claude Rains , as the evil King John , trying to usurp the throne from Richard the Lionhearted who had gone off to fight in the crusades and Basil Rathbone , as evil as ever as Sir Guy . There is one weak link in this fabulous production . It is a young Olivia De Havilland as fair maid Marion , a Norman , who comes to admire Robin and his band of merrymakers for what they are doing to help the victimized Anglo-Saxons . Miss DeHavilland really lacks the maturity for the part . She is not convincing here but would go to gain that maturity in performances years later . As always , Una O'Connor provides some comic relief as her lady-in-waiting . Needless to say that Eugene Palette , as Friar Tuck , is perfectly cast in his rascal-comedy-like role . While there may be distortion of history at the film's beginning , it is worth it . After all , Hollywood was known to take historical liberties in many of its early films so as to spice up the romantic angle . The costume designs are perfect for this period piece and all concerned are excellent with the swords . Come to think of it , Rathbone , Flynn and others had plenty of experience in that in other films as well .
The Old Maid Shows Similar Themes	A spinster named Charlotte giving up her life for a girl named Tina . Sounds like the great " Now , Voyager . " It's not as good but is passable . Davis plays a woman settling down to a grim spinsterhood after having an illegitimate child . She stays with relative Miriam Hopkins and the two battle it out as the years pass . The film is hurt by the fact that the vast majority of scenes take place in the house where the two are residing . The child , Tina , refers to Davis as Aunt Charlotte and in her bitterness , Davis is highly critical of her . In response , Tina often says nasty things to her . The theme of women giving up their lives to keep a major secret of illegitimacy hidden has often been shown in films . This time it's adequately done to the fine acting of Davis and Hopkins .
Three Coins in the Fountain Made it Mine	Dazzling cinematography and a wonderful story line made this 1954 blockbuster film the treasure that it is . The story of the loves of 3 secretaries in Rome is absolutely captivating . Headed by a fine cast , the film succeeds beyond expectations . The real-life tragic Maggie McNamara is engaging as an Audrey Hepburn look alike who finds romance with a young Louis Jourdan , who sheds his usual French accent in this film . McNamara tries to learn everything about the wealthy Jourdan character to snag him . However , her true love for him , makes her confess what she has done . The always reliable Dorothy McGuire and Clifton Webb again show their mettle . She has been working for him for 15 years in Rome , when she decides to go home and Webb , to keep her , proposes marriage . She happily accepts but when Webb learns that he has a terminal brain tumor , he tells her that he was too impulsive in proposing . Their resolution is most poignant in the film . Rossano Brazzi and Jean Peters play the third couple here . A misunderstanding and violation of company rules costs Brazzi his job , but love will conquer all . This picture is definitely for the romantic and young at heart . There had to be some controversy here when the title song of this film beat out The Man Who Got Away from Judy Garland's " A Star is Born . " There should have been a tie in this category .
See this Film " Because I Said So "	Diane Keaton does it again , this time as Daphne , a single mother , totally engrossed in the romantic failures of her daughter . She actually goes through the motion and puts an ad in the newspaper regarding her daughter . She then interviews prospective suitors for the daughter . The latter is well played by Mandy Moore . Complications arise when Moore finds one guy through the ad and another by accident . The picture is then devoted to which fellow she will invariably go with . Further surprises erupt when Keaton finds love with the father of one of the two suitors . The film is the testimony to modern technology with the constant use of cell phones and the internet . It really doesn't get better than this .
" Rain Man " Autism Speaks Out	Dustin Hoffman , in a truly brilliant performance , as an autistic person , shut out of family life by his parents . It is only with the death of his father that the normal son , Tom Cruise , learns of the brother he never knew . Hoffman is totally believable as the victim of autism . We see and feel his very struggle . Cruise seems to be another hot-shot performance who is deeply affected and toned down when he meets his brother . We view the autistic as not the hopeless or seemingly retarded , which society has viewed them . A film of the heart , richly brought out by the superior acting of Oscar winner Hoffman . A remarkable journey of a young man who wants to cope in a world that has shut him out .
Summer of My German Soldier-A Love Story to Remember	This movie should have easily qualified as a filmthat best promotes human understanding among people . It may be rather annoying to even try to comprehend that a young Jewish southern girl could would give shelter to an escaped German prisoner of war . Kristy McNichol depicts an amazing portrait of the unhappy , young girl thirsting for acceptance and love . Michael Constantine gave a remarkable performance as her difficult father and Esther Rolle , as the maid , Ruth , gave a superb Emmy-winning performance as an understanding maid caught up with these events . Bruce Davison portrays the German who is supposedly not guilty of Nazi atrocities . This is how his role appears . He has escaped , but he joined the German army and he might have been a member of the Hitler youth movement . The action takes place in 1944 Georgia , in a rural area . The townspeople are filled with prejudice . Even the FBI inspector acts as if he would like to get something on the Jews . Notice the opposite interpretation that as McNichol is in bed , Davison is hunted down and ultimately shot . It is interesting to see that society views McNichol as a traitor for harboring an escaped prisoner of war . The film also deals with an extremely complex relationship that exists between father and daughter . Constantine's outburst at his daughter at the end is some acting . As the mother , Barbara Barrie , is given little to do . It was annoying that she is stereotyped as the typical Jewish mother with that loud shade of lipstick on her lips . Memorably done and well worth viewing .
A Beautiful Mind-Fine With Inaccuracies	John Nash , a brilliant mathematician , is also a paranoid schizophrenic . Played admirably by Russell Crowe , this guy really has some serious hangups . Married to his former student , played by supporting actress Oscar winner Jennifer Connelly , the professor goes through some rough stages , and even as the movie ends there are still problems with his mental condition . Crowe is absolutely phenomenal . His poor off screen behavior led to his losing this Oscar . The film conveniently doesn't mention that Nash had a history of anti-semitism . Accuracy should have been maintained , that's even a law of mathematics !
Double Jeopardy - Where's Barbara Stanwyck for this One ?	The film reminded me of the 1944 classic " Double Indemnity . " Bette Davis , Joan Crawford and Barbara Stanwyck would have had a field day with this one . Instead , we have Ashley Judd in an average performance in a great thriller of a movie . Ms . Judd is framed for the murder of her husband , who is played quite well by Bruce Greenwood . The latter adopts a southern accent for his years in the south after he and Annabel Gish , who plays Angela Green , a private school teacher , concoct this scheme . It's office to prison for Miss Judd . Imagine her amazement when she speaks to her little boy on the phone and hears him say " Daddy , " when Greenwood walks into the room . The rest of the film is devoted to Miss Judd's scheme of revenge . Tommy Lee Jones enters the film in a supporting role as a parole officer who is having trouble with the bottle . Soon paroled , but breaking it at every attempt to get to her husband , Judd and Jones are led into quite an adventure while she seeks out her husband . In the interim years , Angela dies in a supposed gas explosion in their home . The film is well paced and exciting . It's just that Ms . Judd's performance is somewhat restrained . Bring back those ladies of the Golden Screen Age time !
Careful , This is Excellent	One of the best British movies that I've seen . This is certainly in the tradition of the 1946 heartbreak " Brief Encounter . " This gem of a film deals with the ensuing custody battle between a couple and the wife's sister . The problem is that their third sister , the mother of the child , has died and the father , an alcoholic , is not capable of raising the child . We learn that at one time the father had a romantic interlude with his wealthy sister-in-law . The little boy , Nicholas Gledhill , gives the most phenomenal performance . Interesting to read that this young lad has never appeared in another film . The cruelty that this child has to go through when he stays with his wealthy aunt-from the children from the private school that he attends . The film demonstrates how mean other children can be . The film is so good because it shows two diverse sisters-one who is wealthy and the other , poverty stricken especially when her husband , a defeated candidate from the Labor Party , loses his job . The musical score is fabulous and absolutely haunting . The ending will tug at your heart with its Titanic like tragic occurrence . This is a memorable film , well told .
Amos N Andy - Done in By Political Correctness	Outstanding television series originally from radio . It dealt with life among black people . Though the show was an instant hit , it came at the time of the rising influence of the NAACP and other civil rights groups of the early 1950s . Through successful efforts of threatening advertisers with boycotts , the show was suddenly taken off the air . How come we never heard such protests in the early 1970s with " All in the Family ? " Certainly that show may have offended other groups but it was done in fun as was " Amos . " With characters such as the Kingfish , Andy Brown , Lightnin ' and Sapphire with her mother , a memorable cast of great black acting talent was shown . Unfortunately , none of these talented thespians went anywhere after the show went off . I hate to use the pun , but were they blacklisted ? Yes , Kingfish was lazy and shiftless and he did try to fool Andy Brown with some of his outrageous schemes . Yes , Sapphire was a wife with a temper and her mother was memorable as well . How many groups can also boast having mothers-in-law like what the Kingfish endured ? Plenty .
Bound By A Secret - A Very Good Soap Opera	One point of contention is that through a lot of the movie , you think that Lesley Ann Warren and Meredith Birney are sisters . Only later on do you discover that they've been life-long friends with quite a secret . Birney took Warren's child at birth and raised her as her own . Warren goes on to become a Broadway luminary and television star before abruptly pulling the plug on her career due to her terminal condition from breast cancer . She returns to the Birney residence with the idea that she will tell her daughter , who calls her her aunt , that she is really her mother . Meredith gives a solid performance as the friend , who is afraid of life and taking chances . When Will Hutchinson comes along , she is hesitant to get involved with him since her own husband walked out on her with " their " child some years before . Nice to see Timothy Bottoms back in films . Older now , he looks like a cross between Howard Duff and former President George W . Bush . Warren still looks so pretty after all these years . I , of course , was taken back to her wonderful performances in " Cinderella , " as well as " Victor , Victoria . " How can I forget " Evergreen ? " This wonderful film does a great job in resolving dilemma among all the women involved .
Great Fever to Catch	John Travolta truly shines as dance hero Tony Monero in this wonderful 1977 production of " Saturday Night Fever . " When Friday night comes around , Tony can quickly forget about the rest of the week , get those dancing shoes ready , dress up and head down to that Bay Ridge Disco and dance the night away . The songs from the Bee Gee's are great . Shockingly , they were not nominated for best song among the Academy Award nominations . Why not ? What was the nominating committee thinking ? Tony has his problems at home and frustration at work . Dancing becomes an outlet for him and what an outlet he has . Fast on his feet , Arthur Murray praised Travolta's dancing in this film ; although , prudish Arthur and Katherine objected to the language . We see the lives of average Italian Brooklynites on the streets of Bay Ridge as well as the disco . Complications ensue . Tony's brother , a priest , comes home and announces that he is leaving the church . There may be homosexual implications but that is fortunately glossed over . Karen Lynn Gorney is an excellent dance partner for Tony . Usual TV good girl , Donna Pescow turns in a surprisingly good performance as a girlfriend rejected by Tony . There is plenty of excitement beyond the dance floor . That memorable scene on the bridge , where tragedy befalls a pal of Tony's , is terrifically done . Get out your dancing shoes and dance up a storm . This is sure one fever well worth catching .
Case of Silenced Singer Brings Added Surprises	Another very good Perry Mason film where a singer , with a changing personality , is murdered and her second husband is arrested for this . As always , Perry uncovers a slew of others who could have done the victim in . You know that something is really amiss when of all people , Alice Ghostley , is killed by the killer as she same him at the scene where he didn't want people to know that he had been there . Other potential suspects include the woman's first husband , and two female friends . The ending , as always , is a real shocker . You'll almost feel empathy for the killer until you realize that he or she tried to blame the first husband out of revenge for his previous affair . As the singer , Vanessa Williams sparkles . Her singing , in flashbacks , is absolutely sparkling . Wonder if she did her own singing .
Great Ride in ' Aviator ' 12	Leonardo Di Caprio might very well suffer from the Dorian Gray complex . He just looks too young for his parts whether it be this engrossing film or 1997's " Titanic . " Nevertheless , he was quite good as Howard Hughes . The film shows Hughes ' life , complex as it was , totally absorbed in aviation and film making . Kate Blanchett , as Katharine Hepburn , was perfect . She really established a well authentic New England accent in playing Kate the Great . Her Oscar win was like a 5th trophy for the late Miss Hepburn herself . The film is very fast paced just like the life of Hughes himself . Tragically , the man was victimized by OCD , which invariably ruined his life . As the senator , Alan Alda received a well-deserved best supporting actor nomination . Tied to Hughes ' competitor in aviation , he tried to ruin him only to have the tables turned on him . While the part was brief , Alda showed a crustiness that I never thought he was capable of . I thought I was viewing Melvyn Douglas when I saw him in his scenes-especially the luncheon scene with Hughes . An interesting biography , well-crafted by Martin Scorsese , who just can't seem to find Oscar gold .
Well , Leo Nice Guys Can Succeed - Pursuit Rates	Former Giant manager Leo Durocher always claimed that nice guys finished last . This movie contradicts that famous statement . The film may definitely be described as another " Kramer vs . Kramer , " but on a very poor side . Thandie Newton continues her moody , nasty ways that she so well exhibited in " Crash . " This time she is the frustrated wife of a wonderful guy who seems to be going nowhere very fast . The film deals with the trials and tribulations of Chris Gardner , memorably played by Will Smith . We feel the heartbreak that Smith endures as he becomes an intern as a stockbroker for Dean Whitter , and at the same time loses his wife , can't pay off his debts , sees some light under he hears from the Internal Revenue , and is forced to live in a shelter with his son , beautifully played by his real-life son Jade . This is essentially a film of the Jones's just trying to make it in a difficult urban environment . It succeeds well beyond our expectations .
Miss Bishop Meets Mr . Chips and Miss Dove	Martha Scott gives a memorable performance as Miss Bishop , who teaches freshman English for over 50 years and obviously has an effect on her students . The effects should have been more closely depicted . We briefly see a student with interest in astronomy . We can hardly think that a student will be nurtured through an understanding of a transitive verb . The one student who is affected by Bishop is a terrific Rosemary De Camp in a supporting performance . De Camp plays a foreigner who memorizes the Declaration of Independence and years later becomes a history expert . The film depicts the life of Miss Bishop . Unfortunately , for her , what we see here is a revisit to the radio soap opera of the 1930s , Helen Trent . Remember Helen ? She never went beyond 35 but had miserable luck when it came to men . The same is true for Bishop here except for the fact that she ages the 50 years . Edmund Gwenn is marvelous as her first college professor . He certainly would serve as an inspiration to us all . Bishop's love life was something else . She had every opportunity to marry milkman William Gargan but refused to do so . Anything to do with social class here ? Methinks so . Two other romantic liaisons end miserably and tragically as well . Still , Scott's acting is terrific here . It was interesting to see that after 25 years of teaching , her methodology is criticized by the new college president . She is essentially told to get with it and she takes the plunge into the new century with new clothes and driving a car ! This film is a total memorable experience !
This Film is Everyone's Pal " Pal Joey "	Great Frank Sinatra-Rita Hayworth-Kim Novak effort in this marvelously staged 1957 film . The part of Joey Evans must have been created for Frank Sinatra . He is still that swinging bachelor at his swinging best . As the widowed wealthy woman with an interesting past , Rita Hayworth hits her stride in this one . Kim Novak is the plain Jane just about ready to burst out of her self-imposed shell . The songs , especially If You Asked Me I Could Write A Book , are just fantastic . Who can forget the expression on Mrs . Simpson's ( Rita's ) face when Joey belts out " That's Why the Lady is A Tramp ? " A great film dealing with the theme that money isn't everything .
Bangs With A Wallop-Bang the Drum Slowly	Usually in baseball every pitcher and catcher on a particular team develop some sort of relationship since they need team work to be successful . Such is the story here added with the complication that the catcher Bruce , shyly but beloved character played by Robert De Niro , is dying of Hodgkins Disease . As the dying catcher , De Niro captures a simplicity rarely seen in his acting . It's really a standout performance . Michael Moriarty is the faithful pitcher and Vincent Gardenia received a well deserved supporting nomination as the suspicious manager of the team who hires a detective to find out what's going on between these 2 guys . Inevitably , the team finds out and attempts to come to the rescue of the stricken catcher . This is certainly one of the best of the baseball pictures as in the case of Pride of the Yankees , it explores tragedy and the human relationship among team players than can develop during such adversity . Selma Diamond is on hand as is effective in her brief 2 scene appearance as the sly telephone operator who knows something is amiss . The one disappointment was that when the inevitable occurs during off season , other than the Moriarty character , no one else attended the funeral .
Pretty Woman is Really Pretty Good	Julia Roberts earned a well deserved Oscar nomination for her role as a prostitute hired by a businessman to escort him for a week . Richard Gere does extremely well in the part of the guy , who needs an escort , but finds true love instead . Roberts does well as a woman who must rise to the occasion when she is hired as the escort . The film is really a Cinderella story of an underprivileged wayward woman who finds a wonderful opportunity and makes the most out of it . Her change to a real classy lady is done with style by Roberts . With a wonderful musical score and words to follow , " Pretty Woman " is delightful , uplifting and well worth to view .
The Book of Ruth - Excellent : Story of Immaturity , Lust and Violence	This was a terrific film dealing with a teenage girl , verbally abused continuously by a mother , who drove 2 men out of her own life . Christine Lahti gives an absolutely fabulous performance as the mother who always comes up with a line to put down her n'eer-do-well son-in-law . When her simpleton daughter marries this pill popping , lazy fellow , all he takes is the constant verbal abuse by his mother-in-law . Nothing remedies the situation , even the birth of a grandchild adds to the woes of the family . This is a perfect example that comedians would use to describe life with a mother-in-law . Obviously , this is not funny here and the story invariably turns tragic . This is a tale of what the lack of education and maturity can lead to . I highly recommend this film .
Babel-Talk Sure Isn't Cheap in this One	If ever there were a picture that shows how world-wide gun control is needed as well as exploring the problems of immigration , that's " Babel . " This is an excellent heart-wrenching film . As with last year's Oscar winning film " Crash , " the film deals with interpersonal relationships which are tied together by the film's end . " Crash won the Oscar , but " Babel , " which is far better , failed to cop the best picture Oscar this year and a lot of people should start wondering why . A rifle given by a Japanese businessman to a poor Moroccan will soon touch off an international incident . As we live in an age of terror , it is soon believed that terrorism played a part . These inter-connecting stories touching with people of Japan , Morocco and Mexico is extremely well directed with fabulous performances as well as a film that will get you to think . There are such strong emotional ties here . Two impoverished children who inadvertently create a near world-wide crisis , a couple victimized by their senseless act of violence , a young Japanese deaf-mute girl who is severely disturbed and an illegal Mexican maid who made the mistake of her life are so well described here . We can feel for these people . The director and cast of this film should be warmly congratulated .
Sun Never Sets on this Boulevard	Billy Wilder's memorable dramatic film , " Sunset Boulevard , " was made in 1950 . The lead role of Norma Desmond , a washed-up actress , had first been offered to actresses Pola Negri and Norma Shearer before landing in the capable hands of Gloria Swanson . This film heralded the return to the screen by Miss Swanson after many years . It was well worth the wait . Swanson , as Desmond , evokes fear and emotion-complex but yet believable to the audience . A has been actress , who dreams of a comeback , she is mystified by the appearance of William Holden , an apparent gigolo , who made a wrong turn with his car and entered the Desmond world . Norma is needy and emotionally ill . Her butler , played by the excellent Erich Von Stroheim , admits to Holden , that he had been married to Desmond years before . Though the marriage had faltered , he remained to tend to her needs . He even sends her cards with the names of her adoring public-in reality long since gone . Like a magnet , Desmond is attracted and immediately attached to the Holden character . When he ultimately attempts to leave her , she shoots him dead and acts as if this was part of a scene in one of her films . Completely off by film's end , she tells Cecil B . De Mille that she is ready for her take . Be ready for a tale of misfortune , of great acting performances and an attempt to understand the human psyche .
Go Upstairs for this Killer	A very good film with a major surprise twist describes " A Killer Upstairs . " Tracy Nelson , unfortunately , is not very believable as the mother . You see absolutely no emotion shown . True , she believes that her emotionally disturbed son is innocent of murder , but at least she should act the part out at least by showing she is distraught . Instead , she goes vigilante and gets lucky . What saves this film is the surprise ending . The twist that occurs really makes sense when you think of it . An old Bruce Boxleitner stars as a know-it-all detective . At least , he admits how wrong he was at the end . Don't always lie for your children . A time will come when the police will not believe you .
W-XYZ and a Botched Presidency Followed	A very good film by left-wing two time Oscar winner Oliver Stone . Yes , we have to remember that since Mr . Stone is so left-wing , he would tend to vilify our 43rd president in any manner he can . As an example , he never stated in the film that following / 01 , the country was not attacked during the remainder of the Bush Presidency . The above comment being said , the film is an authentic account otherwise of a miserable presidency by a man who allowed religion to get the best of him to interfere with government . Mr . Stone completely ignores the economic climate created by the Bush Administration as well as The Hurricane Katrina debacle as well . Josh Brolin gives a splendid performance as the heavy smoking alcoholic who can never please his father or mother . Basically a failure until the age of 40 , Bush used his religious awakening to move him up the political ladder real fast . Thandie Newton is just awful as Condi Rice . Stone makes her out to be nothing more than a parrot to the whims of W . From what we saw of the real Ms . Rice , Ms . Newton was nothing like that . The film shows the raging debate in the Bush White House regarding what to do with Iraq . Richard Dreyfuss , as Cheney , and the person portraying Colin Powell do excellent acting jobs in their respective roles . Ellen Burstyn appears briefly but is memorable as Barbara Bush . As always , she has that difficult persona to deal with . Equally effective is James Cromwell as President # 41 . The ending where Bush is alone out in the outfield as the ball is up in the air best reflects the thought of how lost W was . One of the best endings I've seen in a movie in a long time .
The Lost Weekend - Weekend Worth Remembering	Memorable Ray Milland film where he showed Hollywood that he could really act . After playing numerous cads and other Hollywood types , in 1945 Milland gave a well deserved Oscared performance as a writer who is a hopeless drunk . In conveying what a drunk goes through during binge drinking , Milland fully captured the aspects of alcoholism and was honored by Hollywood's highest acting award . The film also gave Jane Wyman an opportunity to break through from her usual silly inane parts up until this film . As the long suffering but dedicated girl friend , Wyman showed that she could handle problem parts adeptly . New York of the 1940s is also well shown . Director Wilder handled details brilliantly here depicting the pawn shops and other stores that are closed on Yom Kippur , the Jewish Day of Atonement . Milland's scenes of delirium and utter despair are memorably shown . He is able to bring us , in a vivid portrayal , what alcoholics go through . His performance showed that alcoholism is a disease . This break through film of 1945 is memorable in that Wilder took on the problem of alcohol addiction . The film would serve as a trail blazer for " Smash Up : The Story of A Woman , " and " I'll Cry Tomorrow . "
Reign Over Me - Thy Kingdom Come	We knew that invariably films about post-traumatic stress evolving from would be made . Hollywood has done itself a big favor in the making of this film . Adam Sandler creates a part that Dustin Hoffman would have easily snagged years ago as the heartbroken dentist who loses his wife and 3 daughters to the calamity . Sandler is mesmerizing as a person who left devoid of emotion , who seems to be in somewhat of a catatonic state by his mumbling and refusing to spill his hurt out . He gives a completely truly amazing performance as a widower who can't face life following this horrible tragedy . Don Cheadle , as his dentist friend , who encounters him by accident and goes all out to aid him , is equally good in the role . Cheadle has some hurdles to clear for himself . His marriage is in trouble due to his being away from his wife ( Jada Pinkett Smith ) , as well as being accused by a woman of sexually harassing her after it was the woman who went after him in his office , as well as the sudden death of his father . Donald Sutherland is terrific in a one scene characterization as the judge who plays Solomon in the decision in what is to become of Dr . Charles Fineman . ( Sandler ) This is a picture of brutal reality done well by director Mike Binder . It is also a confirmation of the human spirit-of relations among people and family to try and come out of such a tragic situation . Sandler easily deserves a best actor nomination for his performance . He probably will be bypassed since the film came out so early in the year . Nonetheless , Maggie Smith was able to perform that fete in 1969's " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie . "
Madame X - My Sonny Boy ! Soap Opera Filled Wtih Golden Suds	1966's " Madame X " was a second version of the original starring the Oscar nominated Ruth Chatterton in a memorable unforgettable performance . This sudsy story of a woman who accidentally killed her former lover and lived to regret it every day of her life pulls out all the stops . It's as if Lana Turner had to wear a scarlet letter for what she had done for the rest of her life . Having fled the scene thanks to her vicious mother-in-law , played with relish by Constance Bennett , Turner returns years later and is defended by her now grown up son , Keir Dullea . He doesn't know why , but Dullea is drawn to this mysterious woman . He had been told years before that his mother was dead . The film is convincing because of the wonderful cast . Lana Turner has never been better and Constance Bennett's final performance before her death in 1965 of a stroke , is heartfelt and filled with passion . That last scene is absolutely gut-wrenching . You will feel for the characters . A truly remarkable film done superbly by a fine cast .
This Devil Fashions Well	Win or lose , Meryl Streep is sure to garner her 15th Oscar nomination for " The Devil Wears Prada . " Not since Joan Crawford's performance in " The Best of Everything , " have we encountered such a nasty bitch for a boss . Streep is just impossible to deal with . Cold , demanding , degrading and downright impossible are words not even adequate enough to describe her . She is a 1000 % business woman . Amazing that she has married and has twin daughters ! Where did she ever get the time for that ? She hires a Northwestern graduate , Anne Hathaway , to be her second assistant . Miss Hathaway soon proves that she is adept at her job and starts to win favor with the hard-nosed Miranda . ( Streep ) Along the way , her dedication to her job leads her to a falling out with her friends and long-time boyfriend . Naturally , as part of her job , she begins to rub elbows with the biggest people of the fashion world . The film also deals very well with deceit and back-stabbing ; unfortunately , so common in the business fashion world . The ending is well-timed and those who love fashion will particularly enjoy this . Along with Miss Streep , I wouldn't be surprised if Emily Blunt is nominated in the supporting category . She plays the first assistant to Miranda , a dedicated worker who thinks only of fashion week , that is , until she has a rude awakening .
December Bride Was a 12 Month Affair	Hilarious comedy where Spring Byington played a doting parent ( Lili Ruskin ) living with her married daughter and son-in-law . Along the way , she makes friends with Hilda Crocker , memorably portrayed by Verna Felton . Miss Felton was so adept at comedy ; yet , I remember her for her magnificent performance as the neighbor in the 1955 film classic " Picnic , " based on the William Inge play . Both Hilda and Lili cook up ideal schemes in the way of Ethel Mertz and Lucy Ricardo . Remember the fabulous opening music ? It just told you what you'd be in for the next half hour . Harry Morgan was truly great as a wacky next door neighbor who chronically complained about Gladys , his long suffering wife . When December Bride went off the air , " Pete and Gladys " went on with Morgan and Cara Williams in the lead roles . Those were certainly the days of spin-offs at their best .
Generation Gap - Cliché But Hits Home Run	Ed Asner once again proves what a versatile actor he is . His incorrigible grandson goes to spend the summer with him after experiencing behavioral difficulties in school . Trouble is that the boy is depicted to be not as bad at all . Coming from a home where the father abandoned them , the young lad just seems to get into fighting difficulties . The story is heavily cliché since we see how the boy comes to calm down and accept his stern grandfather who gives him the regimen of discipline and the depiction of the hard-work to succeed ethic in life . Naturally , there is a romantic interest for both our lad and grandpa . The latter is pursued by Rue McLanahan . While she is no longer Blanche Devereaux of " Golden Girls " fame , Rue evokes much sympathy here . Of course , our young hero seems to get in trouble but that's quickly resolved . Unfortunately , a return of cancer comes along so we know what the end shall bring . Along the way , we even discover that grandpa was a war hero . While we've seen so much of this before , the film is nevertheless a real gem . You'll love the characters and you will come away a better person for experiencing this film .
Little Princess - Thank Heaven for Little Girls	Charming film in color where Shirley Temple's dad goes off to fight in the Boer War . She is left is a fancy girl's school with a headmistress who is stern . When word is brought to the school that the father , who adored his Sarah ( Temple ) , has been killed and the child is left penniless , poor Sarah is shut up in the attic and made to work in the kitchen . Move over Cinderella . Sarah never gives up hope that her dad ( Ian Hunter ) is living and she searches feverishly for him . When a Indian mystery man ( Cesar Romero ) makes her room beautiful during a ballet sequence , Sarah is suspected of stealing . Mary Nash is the wicked headmistress and acts in the same way as Margaret Hamilton in " The Wizard of Oz . " Richard Green and Anita Louise play lovers , who are discharged from the school , by Nash for loving each other . The ending is wonderful when Sarah finds her dad with the help no less of Queen Victoria ( Beryl Mercer ) . Enjoyable tale for children and adults alike .
Cactus Flower Really Blooms	Goldie Hawn's depiction of a simple young lady caught up in a love triangle with an older man , a dentist , played with such relish by Walter Matthau , that she won the best supporting actress Oscar for 1969 . The film , however , is another tribute to Ingrid Bergman . Rarely , did we ever see her in a comedy and she literally kicks up her heels here as a dedicated dental nurse who is thrust into a scheme for Matthau to tell Hawn that they're married . It is such a joy to watch Matthau and Bergman fall for each other here . Theirs is an accidental love affair in the making . As Matthau's friend , Jack Weston is fabulous as his partner in the scheme as well . Rick Lenz gives ample support as Hawn's newly-found boyfriend as well .
Grandpa for Christmas - Another Good One for Strong Family Values	At the age of 90 , Ernest Borgnine turns in a wonderful performance as a grandfather discovering that he has a granddaughter . Problem is that he has been estranged from his daughter for many years . The daughter sided with her mother in a messy breakup between her parents . It is only after the daughter becomes injured in an accident that the grandfather takes temporary custody of his grandchild . Even the granddaughter has been brainwashed into thinking that grandpa is an ogre . That all changes when Borgnine shows tender loving care and takes charge in her life . It's a wonderful story again emphasizing strong family traditions . It is most appropriate for the holiday season .
Damn Yankees - Cinderella , Time Machine & Just Great / 2	A Washington Senator fan makes a pact with the devil to make him young so that he can play against those Damn Yankees . A truly great opportunity for Tab Hunter to perform in the leading role and he comes through with a genuine performance . The devil is the wonderful Ray Walston ; he was always devilish by nature so that is why he is so good in the role . The true accolades go to Gwen Verdon , as the temptress Lola . Who can forget her infamous " Whatever Lola Wants , Lola Gets . " Whatever Lola wants , Lola gets . . . . . . I'm no exception to the rule . I'm irresistible you fool . Give in . Verdon repeats her Broadway role and is a master at it . No wonder she won the Tony Award so many times .
This Narrow Margin Provides A Clear Landing	Excellent film-noir wonderfully paced with a memorable performance by Marie Windsor as the widow of a mobster called to testify in Los Angeles and she must get there by train from Chicago . The surprise is who Windsor really is as well as Jacqueline White , an unassuming mom on the train who is mistaken as the mobster's wife . Are they really mistaken ? There is plenty of action in this rather short 75 minute film . Usual grade B actor Charles McGraw gets the lead role of the cop ordered to escort Windsor to L . A . It turns out that he is being tested as well . Well done film filled with irony . Highly recommended for those into film-noir .
My Blue Heaven - Almost A Penny Serenade Musical	Wonderful Bette Grable and Dan Dailey fanfare dealing with a musical couple's hard luck in having their own child . They are forced to resort to adoption when a traffic accident causes the loss of her unborn child . We then see unscrupulous adoption procedures and other mayhem preventing this couple from having a child of their own . The couple do a routine on television and Dailey along with Grable show they could still sing and dance at their best . In a brief role , Mitzi Gaynor , who would play Daley's daughter 4 years later in " There's No Business Like Showbusiness , " turns up as a fellow dancer who is ready to flirt and take Daley away from Gable . The wonderful is ending but we expected that . In such film predicaments , they usually do just that .
Talk To Me , Please Do	Don Cheadle gave a remarkable performance as an ex-con who gets out of jail and enters the world of talk radio . His vulgarity seems to make it appear that he will get nowhere quite quickly but that all changes with the tragic assassination of Dr . Martin Luther King . Petey Greene ( Cheadle ) rises to the occasion and becomes an instant star . The film reminded me of the classic 1957 picture " A Face in the Crowd . " It shows how someone could attain instant fame and yet at the same time be unable to cope with the newly founded fame . Cheadle is absolutely off-the-wall in his chain smoking performance as the radio host Petey Greene . He certain overcomes any adversity but again is unable to live with his fame .
She Woke Up Pregnant-Biology Never Lies	Very interesting story which we can certainly relate to in our times . Connie , who is married with 2 children , finds herself pregnant . Tests indicate that her husband is not the father and naturally his suspicions are aroused . This is so since he had a vasectomy and the couple had briefly separated for 3 weeks . Suspicion soon falls on the dentist who had put her to sleep during a dental procedure . The dentists surprises all by admitting that he is the father but claiming that the 2 had an affair so the sex was consensual . Interestingly , Joe Penny plays the evil dentist and you really come to hate him . Joe has become like Richard Chamberlain and Perry King , the macho guy of television movies . Both parties bring charges against each other and it is very interesting to see how Penny is trapped at the end . The film depicts an almost end to a marriage , before the husband realizes that his wife is a victim . The film shows the intricacies of the court system and how you have to maneuver around it . Well acted and quite interesting . Makes you shutter when you have to go under for any procedure .
One Phone Call You'd Never Want to Receive	Surviving a plane crash and then going on to meet the families of those who did not . What an intriguing idea ! How morbid , to say the least ; but yet this is a well-done film mostly because of a fine ensemble cast . Shelley Winters is one of the passengers who did not make it . Following a difficult life and breakup , she is one of the passengers who interacted with the survivor . What do you say to the families at a time like this ? How does one feel ? Why did they survive the crash and the others did not ? We face serious questions of ethics and moral values in this film . Surprisingly , Bette Davis took a supporting role in this film . She is quite effective as the bedridden wife of one of the victims . No matter how large or small the part , Miss Davis always could figure it out !
All My Sons - For Social Justice and Humanity	Excellent film dealing with Arthur Miller's story of a man who sold defective plane parts to the military during World War 11 resulting in the death of many pilots . Edward G . Robinson gave us an outstanding performance as the conflicted individual , who did this for his own selfish-interests only to escape prosecution but to see his partner jailed . This is a story of intense inter-family conflicts . The partner's daughter was to be married to Joe's ( Robinson's ) son Larry in the film . The picture begins with the fact that Larry is missing in action . Ann , played by Louisa Horton , is now becoming engaged to Joe's other son , Chris , played with marvelous insight by a young Burt Lancaster . Mady Christians is also a standout as Joe's devoted wife , who herself is in denial that Larry is probably dead and knowing full well what her husband did was wrong . This is a terrific film dealing with moral conflict and the ultimate tragic resolution to it . You have to wonder what Edward G . Robinson had to do to be nominated for an academy award . This is Arthur Miller at his best writing . A truly American classic .
A Time to Remember - The Years Go By Too Quickly	Doris Roberts does a wonderful job as a difficult mother who is having her daughter home for the Thanksgiving Holiday . Trouble is that the daughter has been alienated from her mother for quite a while . This daughter ( Dana Delaney ) has had a child out of wedlock and is an accomplished artist on the verge of winning a scholarship grant in order to pursue her career . Roberts plays a widow who lives with her sister-in-law . ( Louise Fletcher ) Other than the fact that Fletcher plays a woman who was once in show business , her character is not fully developed . The years have also taken their toll on Ms . Fletcher . She appears quite old and is very heavy . The Roberts character is suffering from the early stages of Alzheimer's Disease and her fears are worsening as the disease is progressing . Her coldness and aloofness are attributed to Delaney as her just being her usual nasty self . In reality , Roberts wants to hide as much as she can since she knows that within 1-2 years she may not recognize anyone . The costume designer must be criticized here for allowing Doris Roberts to wear such loud clothing . After all , Ms . Roberts is heavy and her color schemes only brings this out . An equally good performance is by the other daughter known as Valetta . She is a dominating , cold , stuck up woman who is afraid that her husband's frequent absences for business purposes is more than that . This film deals with the importance of family and strong family relationships . It is well recommended .
Mildred the Great	Mildred Pierce , a comeback film for star Joan Crawford , brought her a well-deserved Oscar for best actress of 1945 . Crawford , as Pierce , portrays a woman whose marriage to her husband , nicely played by Bruce Bennett , falters . Left with 2 children , a vicious older daughter played in a superb memorable performance by Ann Blythe and a younger daughter , Pierce must fend for herself . Learning the restaurant business in a hurry as a waitress , Pierce soon goes into business for herself . Along the way , she meets up with Wallie , played well by Jack Carson , as an adviser , and Monte Berrigan , a shrewd , cunning , gigolo forever remembered by Zachary Scott . Monte knows how to show Veda a good time . Too good ; in fact . Veda fights with mom , tries to swindle her new husband by claiming she is pregnant , and slaps her mother when the latter finds out that she is not pregnant . Later , thinking that Veda will return if she marries Monte , Pierce does so , and in addition to the marriage , makes Monte a partner in the restaurant business . Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned . How about a mother who finds out that her daughter is carrying on with her step-father ? When confronted , Veda states that Monte will divorce her mother and marry her . When Mildred storms out , Berrigan calls Veda a tramp and proclaims that he'd never marry her . Shot dead for this statement , Veda pleads with her mother to save her stating that it's just as much her fault that the killing occurred . The film was shown in flash-back sequence where Mildred confesses to the killing but the cop is not buying the confession . An all-star cast including Eve Arden , as the fast-talking , wise-cracking Ida , are perfect . What a mother wouldn't do for a child is the theme of this movie . The film has all the emotions depicting a broken marriage , the death of the younger daughter , a fast-talking gigolo , an ungrateful , impossible daughter beyond control , and that money can't solve all the problems . .
Dear Frankie - A Daddy for 2 Days Shines	This film is all about how pictures used to be and the way they should be . A woman , together with her mother and deaf-mute child , has been fleeing the abusive father of the child . The child , who is now 10 , believes that his father is on the ship Accra . When he writes his father , mother does the responding . Emily Mortimer , as the young mother , is excellent as well as the deaf-mute child who conveys the needed emotions . The plot becomes interesting when the boat docks . Emily hires the brother of a friend to portray the dad . The man turns out to be the " perfect " kindly father . The child clings to him . The sister of the real father comes to reveal that the real father is dying . In an emotional scene , he demands to see the dying child . The ending just shows you how perceptive children can be . A wonderful film , true to the heart .
Kotch is Top Notch	What a wonderful movie . For a change , Walter Matthau plays a sympathetic rather than a cantankerous character . He is just wonderful here in his Oscar nominated performance . What makes the movie so good is that it doesn't really stress the attempt of his son and daughter-in-law to put him in a home and then show the misery of homes . Rather , it deals with the coming of life anew for Matthau when he takes a profound interest in the very pregnant babysitter for his grandson . What an interesting idea and it is so well developed . Deborah Winters gives a fantastic supporting performance as the pregnant girl , orphaned , raised by an uncaring brother who finds meaning in her life when she aided by Kotch . There is a totally winning song dealing with what you do with your life . This film was definitely an under-rated gem . Too bad .
A Trip to Remember	Finally , an Oscar win for 8 time nominee Geraldine Page . Page , who died at age 62 in 1987 , made a career out of playing older frustrated women . She fits the bill perfectly here in her crusty portrayal of an elderly woman , with a heart condition , who wants to return to her home for one last visit . She currently lives with her son and daughter-in-law , the latter doesn't exactly want her around either . After a bus trip , where she encounters a kindly young Rebecca De Mornay , in a good performance , Page reaches her destination and pulls out all the emotional stops when she comes to her former home . Page was never better in this remake of an original TV movie of the early 1950s which starred Lillian Gish .
Zodiac Offers Compelling Guessing Game	Absorbing , taut thriller about a serial killer in San Francisco and the resulting havoc that is caused . The film is a continuous guessing game of leads , innuendos , and much more as the state of California struggles with these bizarre killings which are spread over several years . The acting here is top notch with commanding performances by Mark Ruffalo , as a police inspector heading the investigation , Robert Downey Jr . , a reporter , caught up in the mayhem and acting in a way that you could be suspicious of him as well . In addition , Jake Gyllenhaal is in fine form as a cartoonist working for the San Francisco chronicle who becomes obsessed with finding the guilty . There are plenty of questions , threats and intimidation along the way . While the ending offers no complete solution , this is a film that really gets you to think .
Man Who Knew too Much Just too Good	Doris Day had already proved herself as a fine dramatic actress the year before this film in the great " Love Me or Leave Me . " This time she does it again along with James Stewart in Alfred Hitchcock's " The Man Who Knew Too Much . " In typical Hitchcock style , a vacationing couple in Morocco accidentally stumble on an assassination plot . The plotters want to make sure that nothing will stop them . Therefore , they kidnap the Stewart child . Remember the scene when Doris realizes that her son has been hidden in the embassy where she and Stewart have gone ? Que Sera Sera was the surprise Oscar winner for best song of the year . The conventional wisdom was that For Thee I Know from " Friendly Persuasion " would win the award . However , with Doris singing the former , with fear in her heart for her son's safety , how could it lose ? Great picture . The excitement and tension never let up . That's what great movie making is all about .
Another Day that Shall Live in Infamy	, a monumental event in our history , is given fair treatment in this well-made TV movie . Both the Clinton and Bush Administrations take it on the chin , for their lack of true understanding of the dangers posed by the likes of Osama Bin Laden and his gang of murderers . Condoleeza Rice and others come off as absolutely idiotic in this drama . As Bin Laden becomes increasingly dangerous , Dr . Rice seems to be more interested in reorganization of various bureaus within the government . Dear Condi , the bureaucracy goes on and on . Harvey Keitel , the usual movie tough-guy , is in fine form as FBI Agent John O'Neill . Disenchanted with the lack of co-operation and competence within the government , O'Neill left the FBI in 2000 and ironically went to work as the head of security at the World Trade Center . An intriguing film which details the apparent failure of government under two presidents to absorb what was going on in another part of the world . These events were allowed to spread like a cancer and as a result , we paid the ultimate price .
Beloved Enemy-Woe to Wonderful Foe	Film loosely based on Irish revolutionary Michael Collins . They added romance to this 1936 picture , and even though it has been fictionalized , it's still a very good picture . The chemistry between revolutionary Brian Aherne and Merle Oberon , the daughter of a British diplomat is just fine here . They meet by chance when Oberon accompanies her diplomatic father to Ireland for him to see what is going on . There are some fine supporting performances here , especially by Henry Stephenson , as the diplomat , David Niven as an attaché and another gem role for Donald Crisp , as a militant revolutionary . This love story brings out the futility of war and the famous line in Charles Dickens ' " A Tale of Two Cities , " in that every revolution breeds fanatics . How true .
Our House is Our Wonderful Movie	Doris Roberts proves once again that she can do dramatic parts as well as being the mother in the comedy television show with Ray Romano . In this one , she is a very wealthy woman , whose life has come to a dead end . His suicide attempt is thwarted by a homeless woman . Soon , the Roberts character brings the homeless into her home . They become her therapy . She is doing something productive . Naturally , her stuck-up daughter can't stand this as well as wealthy neighbor , Beverly Hills condominium developer , Gil Greenberg . Greenberg takes Roberts to court . When terminal cancer strikes Roberts , who had been in remission , the home is left to the homeless and the daughter assumes a much different attitude . A wonderful movie since Doris Roberts is so able to depict this wealthy woman who comes to the aid of others . While it may have a fairy tale quality , it's a wonderful film of the human spirit .
This Song is Worth Remembering-Song to Remember	Entertaining and beautifully arranged fictional account of the life of Friedrich Chopin . Jose Iturbi playing for Cornel Wilde did an outstanding job in the recitals . With Poland on the verge of revolution , a young Chopin dedicates his music to his beloved homeland only to forget himself by the female writer Georges Sand . Merle Oberon is truly remarkable as Sand , a self-possessive woman , a true stinker in every sense of the word . She makes Wilde forget about his heritage and is totally self-absorbing . There is another fine performance by Paul Muni as Prof . Elsner , his music teacher and compatriot in freedom-like thinking . Muni is wonderful here especially as he lies about Chopin's apparent abandonment of the cause . Unlike others who have commented , Wilde's nomination was most surprising to me . He stood no chance up against Ray Milland's vivid portrayal of a delusional alcoholic in 1945's best picture " The Lost Weekend . " Muni and especially Ms . Oberon were deserving of supporting Oscar nominations here .
Ron Clark : This Teacher is in A Class of His Own	An excellent , extremely interesting film of a teacher in the New York City school system . While the movie is terrific and a joy to watch , it is unfortunately unrealistic . I give the movie for effort because this is the way that situations like this should turn out but they don't . The New York City school system is in a quagmire and no one has been able to solve the problems . Mayor Bloomberg and Chancellor Klein have been hoodwinking the public into thinking that conditions are getting better . Unfortunately , they aren't . Nevertheless , we have a true story of a teacher who did make a difference . From North Carolina , Ron Clark had a definite calling for teaching . He comes to New York and takes on a class that no one wants . The students are way out of control . Yes , Clark gets it right by putting down the rules . Did you notice how quickly most of the class turned from being recalcitrants to ardent listeners ? Unfortunately , this does not happen in 99 % of our classrooms in the city . In addition , teachers do not get the support of supervisors as at first shown in the film . The latter does an excellent job of showing the home environment of the pupils . Obviously , from dysfunctional homes , this type of environment is not at all conducive to learning . I once read that a teacher said that we must get into the minds and the world of the students we teach . Sometimes , we have to drink that chocolate milk or skip rope just to reach these children . Clark does that . Mat Perry is excellent as the idealistic teacher who certainly is so sure of himself except for that moment when he temporarily lost it . It is also obvious that the students that Clark had were capable of doing the work but were severe behavior problems . Notice that everyone must have been reading on level or knew how to read to be able to comprehend what he was discussing . Yes , he brought the material , including the rap music on the presidents to their level but there had to be an innate ability to begin with . Clark tried to work with the abilities of his students by concentrating on the positive . Speak to our New York City teachers . It's not happening the way it happened in Clark's classroom . Isn't it unfortunate that someone with Clark's talent left the city to form an academy in Georgia ? Another problem in our system is that the most creative teachers are leaving to the world of supervision or just plain quitting . I would like the producers of this film to do a follow-up on the rest of the system . It should only be as good as this film . In retrospect , the film did not show the role of the assistant principal and guidance counselor in the school . For sure , these students were in need of professional help . A therapist was needed as well . The movie did bring out that the principal was solely interested in exam scores . Notice that he chewed the teacher out in front of the students . How do you expect students to show any kind of respect when that occurs ? I also observed that there was no talk of co-operative learning . The bulk of the instruction came from Mr . Clark itself . Try that today in a New York City classroom and your headed for trouble . Am sure that the teacher of the honors class had to answer to the principal when Clark's class did better on the statewide exams . I wouldn't want to be in that teacher's place . On top of everything else , the film adequately showed what some of the parents are like in the system . Right away , the mother threw out the words white teacher . In summary , the film was very well made and is a definite reflection on society today and how we value education .
Don't Miss this Fraulein	A simply marvelous film made in 1958 dealing with post-war Germany . Actress Dana Wynter delivers a marvelous performance as Erica . What she has to endure here is absolutely memorable . Both Erica and her father shield an escaped American prisoner of war ( Mel Ferrer ) in their Cologne home towards the end of the war . Right after he leaves , her father is killed in a bombing and she takes refuge with a recently widowed cousin who has 2 very nasty people working for him . When the cousin is killed trying to protect Erica from drunken Russian soldiers , she escapes prison from Col . Dmitri , wonderfully played by Theodore Bikel . Bikel seemed to have mastered the Russian army role . He would repeat that character in a comical way 8 years later in " The Russians are Coming , The Russians Are Coming . " Of course , Dmitri wants sexual favors for saving Erica and when he proposes , she escapes to the west . By coincidence , she meets up with Mel Ferrer , the guy she and dad had sheltered . He is now a big-wig in the American army . Unfortunately , before this , she had met up with that nasty couple from her cousin's house . They are now in the game of prostitution and they sign her up . Realizing what's going on , she runs away but her name is on the prostitution list throughout Germany . Her encountering with her former German fiancé is memorable . Helmut Dantine plays the part so well in a one well defined scene . The ending is absolutely satisfying . This is a well-done film by director Henry Koster . It tells of citizens of a defeated country trying to make it in a new world .
Superb Acting Marks That Hamilton Woman	Vivien Leigh , two years after " Gone With the Wind , " is remarkable here again . She possesses those Scarlet like qualities here . The film uses history as a backdrop in exploring the relation between Lady Hamilton and Lord Nelson , a tragic ill-fated romance if there ever were . Though very effective in the part , Laurence Olivier is certainly not dominant here . In addition , there are some very fine supporting performances . Gladys Cooper again shows her mettle ; this time as Lord Nelson's wife . Ms . Cooper , a terrific actress , always came to life when she portrayed domineering , bitchy types , refusing to compromise . This part would start the foundation for her memorable performance the following year in " Now , Voyager . " In the same year that she snagged a supporting actress nomination for " How Green Was My Valley , " Sara Allgood appears in this film as Lady Hamilton's mother . She literally shows a common touch to this role . Alan Mowbray is excellent as the older man that Leigh marries for social position and standing . This is quite different than his usual comedic parts . The battle scenes at Trafalgar are well done . This is a great film for history buffs and the romantic .
Sinatra Shines with Ella and Antonio	Not only did Frank Sinatra have a great singing voice , the guy knew how to put over a song . His dancing , and other movements around the stage are just a joy to watch . Why he had to smoke while singing The Girl from Ipanema was beyond me . Poor Antonio Carlos Jobim had to be subjected to second hand smoke . Ella Fitzgerald was absolutely fabulous here but why did she have to sing with those eyes wide shut during her first and second numbers ? It's really a shame that all 3 major talents are gone now . We need more of this type of singing . These 3 artists represented fine class in the musical world . Nice to see Nelson Riddle get the necessary recognition that he so richly deserved for arranging the music of The Great Chairman of the Board .
You Bet . . . Gamble on " Two for the Money "	for viewing gambling as the root to all evil . Brandon knows how to pick sport winners so he is recruited by big-shot gambler Al Pacino to come to N . Y . and work for him . Brandon starts off as a Willie Stark , naive , smart and a regular guy . Pacino soon puts him through a metamorphosis of changing his name to John Anthony , and making him a general swinger-cigar smoking , with a drink in his hand kind of guy knowing full well how to use the f word . Pacino soon puts him on his cable station and John Anthony , with his football predictions and sly style , soon becomes a sensation . People will go along with his wagers and gamble heavily themselves . Naturally , we have the mob involved . When he does well , John is everyone's boy ; when the tables start to turn mobster " Armand Assante " shows how little he can regard human dignity and I'm putting that mildly . The picture though is a positive one . Showing that gambling is nothing more than suckers guessing who will win , it depicts when it's time to get out . This was one time you don't want to get out because of the usual outstanding performance of Al Pacino and Matthew McConaughey , the guy who Pacino makes as John Anthony . A searing look into the world of gambling . All bets are on for this rather good film .
Million Dollar Mermaid A Honey	Wonderful film exhibiting the talents of Esther Williams portraying swimming Annette Kellerman at the turn of the 20th century . The water sequences were never lovelier and the story of Kellerman , who overcame adversity as a young child , was remarkable . Victor Mature is in fine form as her promoter and eventual lover , Frank Sullivan . Jesse White brings his comic relief as Sullivan's side-kick and Walter Pidgeon is endearing as her father . Coming from Australia to star in the Hippidrome and other features , Kellerman exhibited outstanding talent in her swimming career while at the same time trying to maintain her dream of being a ballerina . Ballet star Maria Tallchief brief appears as the legendary Pavlova in the film . When professional differences end her romance with Sullivan , Kellerman really makes it on her own thanks to the help of David Brian , as the head of the Hippidrome . While the tragic accident she had while making " Neptune's Daughter " in Hollywood almost cost her her life , it brings on a wonderful moving ending . This is a highly entertaining film .
Tight Spot-Excellent Film Position to Be In	Ginger Rogers sheds her usual movie ways and portrays a girl surviving a sentence for hiding a criminal . She is offered her freedom if she will testify against someone who the government is trying to get . Problem is that her ex-boyfriend has already taken a fatal bullet on his way to testify . Edward G . Robinson is the D . A . here in this exciting film . There is a marvelous supporting performance by Brian Keith , as the cop , assigned to watch her . Naturally , romance blooms and there is quite a surprise waiting for viewers when we realize who he really is in this film . Here is a girl telling those in prison to keep their mouths shut and do as little as possible . " Never volunteer " is her motto . How quickly the situation and her beliefs change . As Sherry Conley , Rogers depicts a girl whose environment led her astray . The film is well worth catching .
An Impossible Choice 12	Note to Mr . Styron : This was an impossible choice . The worst of all moral dilemmas . Meryl Streep was magnificent as Sophie . She seems to come a long way from the horrors of the concentration camp to Coney Island in Brooklyn . Well supported by Kevin Kline , Sophie eventually recounts the impossible situation she found herself in while incarcerated in a concentration camp . A guard demands that she gives up one of her two children so that the other may survive . What mother could ever make a choice like that ? A mother faced with that dilemma would have committed suicide . That said , Streep gave a totally outstanding performance . Her best actress Oscar was well earned .
" Network " Great View on Screen 12	" I'm mad and I'm not going to take it anymore , " yells anchorman Howard Beale . Marvelously played by Peter Finch , Beale etched an unforgettable movie character . It was certainly a sad scene when Finch was posthumously awarded the best actor Oscar for his portrayal of a very frustrated anchorman . As a news honcho hot-shot lady , Faye Dunaway merited an Oscar for best actress . As a network executive , William Holden had to settle for a best actor nomination . Yet , his movie wife , Beatrice Straight , was the surprise winner of the best supporting actress award . Remember her outburst when he told her that he was leaving her ? You'd have to remember because that was one of her two scenes in this film , but she made the most out of it . " Network " is one of the few movies where 5 acting Oscar nominations occurred . As mentioned before , we had Finch , Holden , Dunaway and Straight nominated . Ned Beatty would join them with a supporting nomination . Great film for the news hounds .
Man in the Gray Flannel Well Suited	Gregory Peck relives his war experiences as he tries to settle down to a normal existence as a civilian following World War 11 . Move over , Frederic March , ( " Best Years of Our Lives " and also in this film as well , ) Peck has other problems . It seems that he fathered an illegitimate child while in the service . The mother wants Peck to help out financially . News of this indiscretion is a natural shocker to wife Jennifer Jones , who reunited with Peck after the memorable " Duel in the Sun . " Screaming and beside herself at first , Jones comes to realize that helping the child is the right thing to do under the circumstances . Lee J . Cobb , a great under-rated actor is tops as Judge Bernstein , who will work with Peck to provide for the child . A wonderful film depicting a moral dilemma .
Madame Curie Great Chemistry Between Stars Mingles With the Physics	Faithful rendition of the tale involving physicists Marie and Pierre Curie . Fresh out of their " Mrs . Miniver " roles , Walter Pidgeon and Greer Garson again etched unforgettable characters . Pidgeon here is even better here then as Clem Miniver . In this film , he shows a frigidness , never depicted by him before in films . He appears afraid and incapable of any human relationship . How the two find their way to love is an inspiration to us all . The early part dealing with the separation of radium from barium was tedious at best . Not one to be a science scholar , this is some ways reminded me of a horrible chemistry teacher that I had in high school . She too was frigid and very incapable of forming lasting relationships . Fine support is offered from Albert Basserman and Henry Travers , the latter being memorable in " Mrs . Miniver " as well . Dame May Witty briefly appears as Pidgeon's devoted mother . The resurfacing of Garson , Pidgeon , Travers and Witty was like a reunion of the Miniver characters . Garson really pours on the acting as the film develops . She is devoted to her experiments in physics but shows memorable emotion with the tragic death of Pierre Curie .
Carmen Jones : What Would Bizet Have Thought ?	Sumptuous film based on Bizet's opera Carmen . Truly a story of lust , honor and the downfall of both characters well played by Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge . Dandridge would have been a true Hollywood success story had her years in Hollywood been today . America was still hesitant to give black performers key roles in motion pictures . True , we had films such as Cabin in the Sky ( 1943 ) but where did that film go to ? Otto Preminger must be credited for taking a big chance in making this all-black picture concerning Carmen Jones , who works in a parachute factory , and the soldier , Belafonte , who must escort her to the magistrate when she has broken the law . The music is fantastic although Belafonte and Jones did not do their own singing . It is as if Belafonte is being tempted by the devil , and he fails the test by submitting to Dandridge in the end , which leads to both their unhappy fates . Dandridge received a well deserved Oscar nomination for the lead role . Many say that America wasn't ready to have a female black actress voted the academy award ; she would lose to Grace Kelly for The Country Girl . Qute a difficult choice when Judy Garland , ( A Star is Born ) , Audrey Hepburn , ( Sabrina ) and Jane Wyman , ( Magnificent Obsession ) were also in the running . A memorable film , an ensemble cast with the great Pearl Bailey giving wonderful support , most endearing to us all . .
Angel is Anything But That While Delivering	She was an A student by day and a hooker at night . Living the life of a lie , when in fact , her mother had abandoned her 3 years before , Angel has taken to the street to make a living for herself . On the way , she has met a variety of characters and unfortunately there is a psychopathic killer on the loose who murders 2 of her hooker friends . We have a first rate cast here led by Ms . Wilkes , as our heroine , Rory Calhoun , as Kit Carson who relives his days of long ago on the strip as well as Susan Tyrrell , a foul-mouthed character along with Dick Shawn , who portrays a transvestite quite effectively . Cliff Gorman plays a very understanding police officer . There is action . There is drama , especially when Angel's secret life is discovered and she is humiliated in school . She then goes on a death hunt when May , her friend , is stabbed to death . This is a surprisingly interesting and good film .
Front of the Class is Unrealistic A-1	One common denominator of most films dealing with schoolteachers , they're usually quite good but are totally unrealistic . " Front of the Class " falls into this category . Marvelously staged with a wonderful cast , the film deals with a young man afflicted with Tourette's Syndrome who wishes to teach . Based on a true story , the film chronicles the life of Brad Cohen from childhood , where he meets up with unsympathetic teachers . ( Naturally , how can they maintain order by having his noises allowed in class ? ) His father , stoically played by Treat Williams , can't accept the problem and is divorced from mom , Patricia Heaton . Heaton is the diligent mother who researches Tourette's when no one is willing to admit that young Brad is suffering from this illness . Even if they knew , the so called experts don't know how to handle the situation . When Heaton takes Brad to a support group , she quickly pulls him out after hearing a parent saying that schooling these children is a complete waste of time . Of course , Brad grows up wanting to be a teacher to show that all children can learn and to show that he is the teacher who can accomplish this , while giving the dig that none of his teachers ever understood him . Brad , they may have understood you but they had other children to deal with . After getting the run-around , Brad finally lands a job teaching 2nd graders when the assistant principal nudges the principal to hire this young man despite his handicap . Wonderfully , most of the children in the class cooperate while one exceptional child in the class is dying from cancer . Interesting to note that a veteran teacher in the grade " dumped " her most unruly student on Mr . Cohen . Naturally , he is able to handle him because he " understands " him . If only Mr . Cohen came into an urban classroom and saw the realities of the situation . I guess that Mr . Cohen succeeds because he is the most disruptive influence in the class . The film tries to build bridges and urge cooperation and understanding with people having physical handicaps . If society as a whole were only so tolerant , what a perfect world we'd live in .
The Pruitts of South Hampton Comic Genius of Divine Phyllis Diller	How do you do ? ( 3 times ) My Dear . What a surprise ! What a surprise ! Nice to see you here . The Pruitts of South Hampton live like the richest folk , but what the folk don't know is that the Pruitts are flat broke . These are some of the hilarious lyrics as the show started off each week . Phyllis Diller would come down in elegant gowns singing the title song only to ask for a buck at the end . Diller's comic timing was never better as the viewers were led on weekly escapades . Remember when Diller opened a safe and found something better than money ? The audience roared when she announced that she had found Regina Wentworth's birth certificate ? Wentworth was played by Gypsy Rose Lee . Sadly , this show didn't last too long but the laughter sure did . Remember Mrs . Pruitt's butler ? He was a funny one as well .
The Harder They Fall - Can't Box This Film In	An excellent excoriation of the boxing business with an excellent Humphrey Bogard leading a great cast in the film . Bogard places a recently laid off journalist who becomes involved with fighting promoters led by Rod Steiger , still in another ruthless role for him . The story is about fixing in the fight game as well as paying fighters the least amount of money thanks to terrific bookkeeping schemes by bookkeepers . Jan Sterling portrays Bogart's self-righteous wife . Unfortunately , Miss Sterling was given little to do in basically a man's film . The film ends abruptly after Bogard has it out with Steiger . I would have loved for it to go on to see how Bogard's writings would affect Steiger and the rest of his mob . When viewing this terrific film , you may become an anti-boxing person .
O What A Beautiful Picture	Rogers and Hammerstein's Carousel , a glorious , rousing , inspirational film . What music , what stars , what chemistry . A rich plot revolves around beautiful music where a young girl ( Shirley Jones ) meets and quickly marries Billie Bigalow , How will Billie make money for his bride , who is soon pregnant as well ? What will he do ? In that gorgeous soliloquy , Billie talks about his plans for his son . He never anticipates a daughter . Sadly , Billie falls under the influence of the dishonest Cameron Mitchell , in another gem of a performance following Love Me or Leave Me , the year before . The two are killed during a failed holdup . A widowed Jones is comforted in the memorable You'll Never Walk Alone . While in heaven , Billie can come down from there and try to square things , especially with his troubled daughter Louise . Bring plenty of handkerchiefs , but leave the theater knowing full well that you have seen a masterpiece .
When the Critics Are Wrong : Monster-In-Law Rocks	A surprisingly hilarious spoof on mother-in-law and daughter-in-law to be in their bitter rivalry . Jennifer Lopez meets the doctor of her dreams and they decide to wed . The problem is his mother , Viola , played with relish and great comic timing by Jane Fonda . A pleasure to welcome Fonda back to the silver screen . She plays a neurotic , vicious washed-up Barbara Walters type who can't bare that her precious physician son is marrying supposedly beneath him . The two exchange in bitter rivalry with Lopez eventually turning the tables on Viola . Viola has an assistant , delightfully played by Wanda Sykes . Sykes comes up with one-liners in the tradition of Thelma Ritter . She is a great side kick . Fonda's reaction to the announcement of the engagement hasn't been shown in a funny way . We had the Katie Roth ( Jo Van Fleet ) reaction when Lillian was set to marry David in " I'll Cry Tomorrow , " but that was a totally different genre . Look for veteran Elaine Stritch as Viola's mother-in-law . She steals the scene and gets Fonda to look at herself . A very pleasant surprise of a film . Watch it and chuckle with laughter .
Sweeney Todd - Well Worth the Cut	I shall have vengeance sings Sweeney . ( Johnny Depp ) He certainly tears into this role with a vengeance . How well he sings the music of Stephen Sondheim . The guy is an absolute natural and is equally matched by Helena Bonham Carter's terrific interpretation of Mrs . Lovett . This film reminds me of the 1968 Oscar winner " Oliver ! " due to the sets and how it brings out differentiation among the social classes of early England . The film also reminds us that revenge doesn't necessarily pay at all . What goes around comes around is so appropriately depicted here . The cast is just smashing with Alan Rickman and Sasha Baron Cohen giving excellent support in their respective roles .
Zwartboek or Black Book Delivers	Terrific film dealing with the German occupation of Holland during World War 11 . The film is fabulous due to the exciting plot twists . Even though many of the good guys turn out to be villains , the film is done so well that you just don't mind having to think a little . Imagine , a Jewish woman , whose parents and brother were gunned down by Nazis , is eventually accused of being a traitor . An admirable job is done to depict her as this , especially since she was the one who helped to wire German headquarters while working for the Dutch underground . When it's discovered by the Nazis , what she is up to , they fabricate stories which they know will be heard by the underground . The cast of German and Dutch actors are wonderful . One question I have is since when was escaping to Belgium considered a panacea ?
The Wide Wonderful World of the Loony Bin - " Harvey " ' / 12	James Stewart shined in this comic performance of 1950 . Elwood P . Dowd is a mild-mannered gentleman whose difficulty is that he has an imaginary friend , Harvey , which is no less a rabbit ! Added to the confusion is his sister , the adorable but ever nutty Josephine Hull . Miss Hull apparently made a career of playing lunatics . She was excellent as Cary Grant's aunt in " Arsenic and Old Lace , " and for " Harvey , " she was voted best supporting actress . The fun really begins when Stewart is sent to a mental institution . Another example , of " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest , " but in a comic vain . As always , in these situations , the tables are turned supposedly on normal sister Hull .
Changeling - Strong 1920s LAPD Corruption Setting	Lengthy but worthwhile Clint Eastwood film dealing with police corruption in Los Angeles in the late 1920s . Angelina Jolie gives a worthy performance as the mother of a kidnapped boy , victimized by the police when she refuses to accept the child they find and claim is hers as her own son . This shows and leads to a massive cover-up of the LAPD . When the police chief commits Mrs . Collins ( Jolie ) to an asylum for refusing to play ball with them , we see the corruption not only of the police department but the asylums of Los Angeles during this period . I thought that I was going back to Olivia De Havilland's " The Snake Pit " in 1948 . The film is well directed as usual by Clint Eastwood . Great how she shows the simultaneous trials of the man accused of killing the son of Mrs . Collins while the LAPD heads are tried for what they did to Mrs . Collins . Getting through that asylum was almost like " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . " The main problem with the film is that it is too long . It could have ended at least 20 minutes to one half hour before .
Worthy Sequel to " The Robe " ( 1954 )	A sumptuous musical score , in the tradition of Miklos Rosza's Ben-Hur , greets the movie goer who sees " Demetrius and the Gladiator . " This 1954 film was a sequel to 1953's Oscar nominated " The Robe . " Victor Mature plays a Christian who denounces his religion when his beloved is killed or so he thinks . Susan Hayward , as beautiful as ever , is the evil Massalina married to an emperor in this film . Ultimately falling for Mature , she will give him up to rule with her husband at film's end for the glory of Rome . The real acting kudos go to Jay Robinson who portrays Caligula . He is the very embodiment of evil and gives a tour-de-force performance in the tradition of Peter Ustinov's Nero in 1951's Quo Vadis ? You feel and almost understand Caligula's insanity which will stop at nothing to achieve his quest of obtaining the religious robe . " Take hostages , " he screams to his commanders . He even kills with the robe in his hands in order to see if it works . Fresh from his sadistic Fatso in " From Here to Eternity , " Ernest Borgnine appears as Strabo , a bull-like head of the gladiators school . In certain respects , this film is far better than the sequel . Hayward shows her usual gutsiness far more than a subdued Lady Diana ( Jean Simmons ) in the original . Mature is quite appealing , especially in his denunciation scenes of his faith . His ultimate redemption is truly remarkable as well .
Goodbye , Mr . Chips-Just When You Thought the ' 39 Film was Tops , this Comes Along	30 years after the original film , " Goodbye , Mr . Chips " was made over as a musical . Peter O'Toole and Petula Clarke starred in this wonderful remake of the beloved schoolteacher , Chippington , who is referred to as Chips by his beloved wife . O'Toole was excellent here and received another Oscar nomination . You have to wonder what Peter O'Toole has to do to win an Oscar . He has lost the coveted award 8 times now . You also have to wonder that he lost in 1969 to John Wayne for " True Grit , " which was really a testament to Mr . Wayne's long career and popularity . This year was also marked by great performances by Richard Burton , " Anne of the Thousand Days , " as well as Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight for " Midnight Cowboy . " Surprised to see Petula Clarke cast as Mrs . Chippington . However , as this was a musical , a beautiful voice came well through and she did a nice piece of acting as well . Who can forget the scene when Chips carries on in the class despite the news that his beloved has been killed in a bombing . He never got to tell her the wonderful news of his pending promotion . The beautiful cinematography and music only enhanced a truly memorable experience .
Craig's Wife-You Can't Forget this Mrs .	Psychiatrists must have had a field day with this wonderful 1936 film . Rosalind Russell proved her mettle here and was certainly well deserving of an Oscar nomination for her portrayal of an absolutely miserable wife , consumed by her house and totally out of touch with reality . Angry by her father's abandonment , Harriet ( a totally brilliant Russell , ) etches a totally unforgettable character as a woman literally consumed by herself . She is all about Harriet and nothing else . In this process , the form depicts her eventual alienation with all those around her orbit and it is heartbreaking and rendering to say the least . Russell was never better here and the motion picture Academy should spank itself for over-looking her in a year where Carol Lombard was nominated for " My Man Godfrey , " as well as some other ridiculous best actress candidates . Russell is well matched by John Boles . Boles does a worthy job of playing the good natured husband caught up by Harriet's misery . A remake entitled " Harriet Craig " was made in the 1940s with Joan Crawford and Wendell Corey . While it was good , it was no match for this winning film . Alma Kruger , as the aunt , gives a noteworthy supporting performance as well . An excellent film dealing with psychotic misery .
The Boys from Brazil-South America Terror	Frightening film dealing with the cloning of future Hitler's . This very disturbing dramatization is well realized thanks to the splendid performance by Gregory Peck as Joseph Mengele . Peck really shed his usual wonderful person-liberal who always benefits humanity in an amazing performance as this vicious animal of a person . Am surprised that Peck did not receive a well deserved Oscar nomination here for playing Mengele . The nomination for best actor instead went to Laurence Olivier for playing Ezra Lieberman , a man in hot pursuit of Mengele and other Nazi animal war criminals . The Lieberman character was based on Simon Wiesenthal . Who was that lady that Peck referred to as an ugly bitch ? She certainly looked like a clone of Ruth Gordon as Mary Todd Lincoln . Look for a young Steve Guttenberg at the beginning of the film . Uta Hagen gives an excellent one scene performance as Frieda Maloney , who works with Peck in his horrible diabolical scheme .
The Verdict is in-Newman Does It Again !	Remember in 1959 when Paul Newman played an attorney who rose among the affluent in " The Young Philadelphians ? " As Frank Galvin , in the 1982 film , " The Verdict , " Newman again is practicing the law . He has been down and out in his luck and has essentially become an ambulance chaser . A long comes a case of a woman given the wrong anesthesia and as a result , she is comatose . Galvin takes the case and immediately nothing seems to go right . The presiding judge and defense attorney for the accused doctors seem to be in bed with each other . A doctor , who was going to testify for the comatose victim is bought off , and Newman's new love interest is working secretly for the defense team as well . In addition , Galvin is screamed at by the brother-in-law of the victim . The former wanted Galvin to take the money that was being offered to settle the case . What makes this movie so memorable is that it deals with our court system and seeming injustices . The church , which ran the hospital , does not come out looking too well at all . There seems to be corruption at all levels . While the jury did reach a verdict quickly , this is definitely a story of redemption and remarkable courage .
Millie oh Millie , You Are My Girl	Entertaining musical , made in 1967 , with Julie Andrews as Millie . She comes to town in the 1920s in the midst of a sort of sexual revolution for women . Andrews endears herself by singing Mazel Tov at a Jewish wedding . Her rendition of Jimmy Oh Jimmy , My Jimmy Boy will warm your heart . Along the way , she meets a very sheltered Mary Tyler Moore , who soon becomes a victim of a white slave trade run by innkeeper Beatrice Lillie , in an absolutely hilarious performance . Instead of Lillie getting a best supporting actress nomination , Carol Channing , as an eccentric wealthy widow , got the nod in that category . Years before he became U . S . Ambassador to Mexico in the Reagan administration , John Gavin , a handsome actor , played a love interest in the film . A wonderful journey of the flapper period .
Worth to See this Each Dawn	That magical year of 1939 produced still another excellent film - " Each Dawn I Die " James Cagney plays a newspaper reporter who only wants to do good . When he uncovers corruption of a candidate for governor , he is framed for drunk driving which lead to the death of 3 innocent young people and is imprisoned . Naturally , the corrupt politician is elected and puts Victor Jory on the parole board . While in jail , Cagney encounters George Raft and the two become quick pals . When Raft escapes , he looks for proof that shall vindicate Cagney . He succeeds and comes back to jail to spill the beans . There is excellent acting all around but a sterling cast . Cagney conveys a different type of toughness . That of a person who can withstand the horrors behind bars . The film vividly shows the heavy handed way of some of the guards . In one scene , Cagney acts like a toughened person made criminal-like by what he has to endure . We would see that years later in an Oscar nominated performance by Eleanor Parker in 1950's " Caged . "
Love Takes Wing-Only Angels Have Them	This is a wonderful , endearing film which appears to be the beginning of a series on Hallmark network . While it resembles the former Dr . Quinn Medicine Woman television show of years back , we need more of this quality , heartwarming tales . Two female doctors venture forth to the west , this time Missouri . In a rural area , they encounter a cholera epidemic as well as the usual superstitions , prejudice and viciousness of a town in believing that the orphans caused the outbreak . 82 year old Cloris Leachman is just wonderful as a dedicated woman working in the orphanage . There is also fine acting by Patrick Duffy as the conflicted mayor of the town and by director Lou Diamond Philips , who also plays a heavy in the film . One doctor soon finds a male interest and by the end of the show , they wed . Of course , just like Dr . Quinn , they adopt Lillian , a precocious youngster caught up in the epidemic , who acts like a young Florence Nightingale . Looking forward to the continuation of this Love series .
Dodge City-Don't Dodge this Film	Errol Flynn's British accent was showing big-time in this 1939 film but he made the most of it . This is an exciting film dealing with western expansion following the Civil War . Michael Curtiz's expert directing along with a strong cast and great story make for one interesting film . We have Bruce Cabot as usual playing a villain . He will purchase cattle but will kill the seller so as to avoid paying . The bodies begin to mount . After a tragedy befalls a child whose father had been killed by the Cabot character , Flynn , a cattle dealer , decides to clean up the lawless town . Earlier , we meet Olivia De Havilland with her irresponsible , reckless brother , played by a very young William Lundigan . When his drunken shooting causes a cattle stampede with death ( including his own ) and destruction ensuing , his sister ( Olivia ) despises Hatton ( Flynn ) for firing the shot that ultimately killed her brother . Ann Sheridan plays a dance hall queen who will cover up for the brutal Cabot . Miss Sheridan's part is wasted here . She has little dialogue but does light up the screen by her singing and dancing . As Flynn begins to clean up Dodge City , the arrests and shootings mount up to an exciting climax . A bar room brawl is memorably staged in the film .
Hello Frisco , Hello - S . F . Great As Always	Wonderful music and sumptuous color mark this great 1943 film . The song You'll Never Know won the academy award that year and deservedly so . This is a sparkling musical where John Payne really shines as Johnny Cornell , a street hustler , who goes from rags to riches . While I thought that Clark Gable would have been fabulous in the part , Payne is quite good here . Alice Faye seemed to just get better and better . Continuing her tradition in " Alexander's Rag Time Band , " she goes through a lot to get her man . Jack Haley and June Havoc give great musical support to Payne and Fay . Havoc looks just like Lucille Ball in several scenes . Hard to believe that just 4 years later , she portrayed Jewish secretary Elaine Wales in " Gentleman's Agreement . " I guess that's what acting is all about . The devil here is Lynn Bari , a socialite from Knob Hill who is wiped out only to marry an up and coming Cornell and then take him for a financial ride . Of course , love conquers all at the end but you will feel so good after seeing this film . They just don't make musicals like this anymore .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn - Rural Realization in Urban Area	James Dunn , often a fixture in Hollywood , won the best supporting actor award for his performance as Johnny Nolan in 1945's " A Tree Grows in Brooklyn . " Imagine , in one year Hollywood gave the coveted award for playing a drunk as well in " The Lost Weekend . " I guess that booze was the in thing that year . Seriously , both performances were great that year and Dunn captured our hearts as the pathetically poor alcoholic living a dreary existence in a Brooklyn tenement with both a daughter ( Peggy Ann Garner ) and wife ( Dorothy McGuire ) who love him so very much despite the hopeless of their situation . Surrounded by poverty and deprivation , this is a feel-good movie in the sense of the strong family ties that are depicted . How much the daughter respects her father even as he descends further into misery . Just like Brooklyn can never be thought of as rural in 20th century America , we see the sociological impossibilities brought about poverty and the inability to overcome it , but we can all dream a little .
Notes on A Scandal - A Great Test of A Film	Splendid performances by Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett highlight this excellent film . As a totally burned-out and frustrated veteran teacher , Dench gives a worthy Oscar nominated performance and she is equally matched by Blanchett as the novice teacher whose frustration causes her to begin a relationship with a student . Unfortunately for Cate , Judi learns of the affair and uses it to her advantage to try to blackmail Cate into totally obeying her . She literally wants Blanchett to give up her family and life to be totally under the thumb of Dench . A shocking film describing life in this British school . This could be any American school and shows us what education has come to .
Shell Seekers - Seek Out this Wonderful Film	I have to admit that as much as I dislike Vanessa Redgrave for her political views , she gave a wonderful performance in this film . The story of a painter , whose paintings are worth a fortune and are desired by two greedy children , is an absolute artistic treasure . Flashbacks are beautifully realized to show the unhappy life of the Redgrave character during World War 11 . It depicts a war-bride marriage and a tragic love affair . When the boyfriend of Redgrave's youngest daughter's b is killed in a boating accident , his daughter goes to live with Redgrave and the two develop an important bond . The ending will forever tug at your heart and you will know that Redgrave did right in her will . Max Schell appears briefly as young Redgrave's artist . He is great here and shows a completely American accent .
Bette is Outfoxed at the End in Memorable Film	Bette Davis as still another southern belle in the memorable " The Little Foxes . " Bette was at her brutal best as scheming , vicious Regina Gittens who wants status and wealth at any cost . Herbert Marshall portrays her banker husband . As Regina so adequately stated in the film , " Go know that you would develop heart trouble so early . " She loathed him as he could never elevate himself to her standards . She represents moral decay as a ruthless vixen among her nasty brothers . While Marshall recuperates away , Bette schemes with her brothers . When he returns , she argues with him and when he suffers a major heart attack , she does nothing to aid him . Who can ever forget him gasping for air and pleading with her to get his pills ? Unforgettable and unforgivable that she sat there with her lip drooping and a mean expression depicted like Madame De Farge at an execution , as Marshall's life slipped away . Bette was nominated for an Academy award along with Patricia Collinge , memorable as the unhappy alcoholic Aunt Birdie as well as Teresa Wright , who as Alexandra Gittens , was the antithesis of Regina in every respect . With her husband dead and the ability to checkmate her brothers , Regina seems to have it all only to lose it when Alexandra , suspicious of her father's death , tells her off and runs away with her beau portrayed by a young Richard Carlson . Note how Bette's beauty fades as the picture ends . It is the realization of loneliness and a grim way of life ahead . We saw a similar happening at the end of Olivia De Havilland's " The Heiress . "
They Don't Make Killings Like this Anymore-The Killing	A very interesting Stanley Kubrick directed film is 1956's " The Killing . " This is a story of a convicted thief , Sterling Hayden , who executes a daring robbery at a race track with a group of formerly honest people living plain lives but who fall victim to the amount of money involved . Ted de Corsia stars as a corrupt police officer , and there is a very good performance by Elisha Cook Jr . , a racetrack cashier , whose wife ( Marie Windsor ) has been cheating on him with Vince Edwards . When she learns of the plot , she involves Edwards with dire results occurring . This is an excellent piece of film noir .
Way Ahead of its Time Advise & Consent	Very interesting 1962 film dealing with the confirmation hearings by the senate of a proposed Henry Fonda to be the next Secretary of State . While the questioning of Fonda , at the beginning , is amateurish at best , the film becomes more absorbing when it deals with a homosexual past of Utah Sen . Don Murray . As always , Charles Laughton steals the film in his acting ability . Here , he places a conniving , corrupt South Carolina conservative senator out to destroy Fonda's nomination . Who was Bette While imitating as a senator from Kansas ? Was it Nancy Kassebaum , Alf Landon's daughter ? An interesting , intriguing film dealing with the politics and bureaucracy of Washington . The surprise ending may be viewed as a cop-out by many . Dealing with homosexuality in 1962 was an achievement , and director Otto Preminger should be complimented for undertaking this achievement .
The Jazz Singer-When Accommodations Were Made	Wonderful version of a cantor's son in conflict over his orthodox Jewish beliefs and his desire to be a singing star . The only major flaw that I had with this film is that by the orthodox Jewish people , there is no accommodation made whatsoever in the field of intermarriage . If it occurs , the person intermarrying is regarded as dead as depicted in the film . Caitlin Adams , who portrayed Jesse's wife Rivka , is true to life since she chose to break with her husband due to her orthodox beliefs . Others might argue that their marriage was headed towards a downward spiral anyway . Laurence Olivier is absolutely mesmerizing as Diamond's father . His authentic Jewish accent and tearing his clothes are memorable . Diamond's voice is superb and is acting is on par for the role . " Love on the Rocks , " as well as " Acapulco , " and " Coming to America " are wonderfully staged . In the world of today , we need understanding and accommodation and that's exactly what we get in this fine film .
Anastasia-You Are the One	After her scandal with Director Rosselini , would the American public accept Ingrid Bergman again ? The answer was a resounding yes in 1956 when Bergman won her 2nd best actress Oscar for Anastasia , the story of a girl who might be the only surviving member of the Czar Nicholas's murdered family . Yul Brynner had a banner year in 1956 . Besides playing the man who introduces Bergman as Anastasia to society , he gave a brilliant performance in The Ten Commandments and won the best acting Oscar for The King and I . Terrific by any standards . Remember the beautiful song written at the time of the movie ? Remember those lyrics ? Anastasia , are you the one ? Why wasn't Helen Hayes nominated for supporting actress in this film ? As the grandmother of Anastasia , she gave a heart-wrenching soul searching performance . Bergman's innocence or lack of was just perfect for the part . At the end , Hayes tells all to go home as the show is over . As Anastasia has fled , is she an impostor ? Was she the real descendant of the Romanovs who panicked ? We may never know that but what we do know is that we had a wonderful picture .
Megan Follows Another Triumph-Anne of Green Gables ( The Sequel )	Wonderful sequel to the 1985 original film . In this film , Anne has become a teacher and faces the challenges of classroom life . Gilbert loves her dearly . She wants to be friends with him , but expects more from life . As the film went on , I was thinking that Anne would wind up as another Helen Trent . This very good film really soars when Anne accepts a teaching job at a Womens College . Here we see class distinctions working at their absolute work . The Pringle Family controls the town and are nothing more than egotistical snobs looking to make Anne miserable . For college girls to act like that was unbelievable . I thought I was back in junior high school . Besides Ms . Follows and Jonathan Crombie ( as Gilbert ) , there are excellent performances especially by Ms . Dunsmore as Miss Brooks , who is afraid of life and is apparently stewing in her own misery . She etches an unforgettable character as a tyrant of a principal out to get Anne at any cost . Even when Anne proves herself worthy , Miss Brooks is as keenly jealous as ever . It takes the picture for Anne to win Miss Brooks over . Naturally , Brooks has a breakout scene where she declares her hatred for teaching . Wait a minute . She is out of the classroom as the school principal . The late Dame Wendy Hiller is fabulous here as a tyrannical Mrs . Harris , making life miserable for all around her , especially her long suffering daughter . Anne has that natural talent to win her over . The picture is fabulous because it shows us what basically good people can accomplish .
Golden Boy - A Gem in A Golden 1939 Year	1939 remains a golden year for motion pictures and this film is absolutely no exception . William Holden is excellent as a violin player turned boxer who sacrifices all for making money to help his father and be someone . The father is played in a positively brilliant performance by Lee J . Cobb . Cobb dons an Italian accent here and conveys utter sympathy as the poor shop owner who only wants the best for his son . Adolphe Menjou and Barbara Stanwyck play lovers who stumble on Holden ( Joe Bonaparte ) and want to get him to the top to make the all important dough . Joseph Calleia plays the heavy here as a mafia-like gangster who wants a part of Joe as well . Even with the fancy clothes and change in lifestyle , Holden was unable to convey the change unless this is what the author , Clifford Odets , wanted . A tragedy ensues in the ring only to make Bonaparte a better person and Stanwyck , realizing her love for him , abandons Menjou as the two return to his father . It should be noted that Bonaparte has a sister in the film , who gives a clumsy imitation of Gracie Allen . Sam Levene , plays her cab driver husband , in a role that was made for him . Menjou , as the promoter , and Stanwyck , as a woman who regrets pushing Bonaparte in the ring , are excellent . This is certainly an anti-boxing film
The Endearing Men - The Men	Hollywood began to show films dealing with the psychological , physical , and emotional problems of returning World War 11 veterans in the late 1940s and early 1950s . Films such as " The Best Years of Our Lives , " as well as " The Men , " and " Bright Victory " are such films . " The Men " deals with a group of guys suffering from spinal injuries in a hospital for them . This film was Marlon Brando's first and certainly established himself as an actor with a future . He captures the desperation and hopelessness of one such paralyzed soldier . Jack Webb , the future king of television's " Dragnet , " is marvelous here in a supporting role as an embittered veteran who comes around . Teresa Wright does well here as Brando's girlfriend . She desperately wants marriage and has Brando eventually come around to her thinking . You would think that the film would end with their wedding but Wright soon realizes on her wedding night the difficult road ahead of her and she can't take it . This forces Brando to leave and return to the hospital . Howard St . John is wonderful as Wright's father-in-law . He steals his scene as he warns his daughter of the difficulties she would face . Everett Sloane , as the hospital physician , is compelling in his scene outburst when a beloved soldier succumbs to spinal meningitis . His experiences has toughened him but Sloane does show his human side in a memorable scene near the end of this film . The film shows us the exercise regimen that the paraplegic soldiers go through in order to gain their strength . This is a remarkable film , directed by the veteran director Fred Zinnemann .
Mommie Dearest - Even Any Mother Couldn't Love This	This film is based on adopted daughter Christina Crawford's biography of her legendary screen mother , Joan Crawford . Faye Dunaway gives an absolutely mesmerizing performance as Miss Crawford . Her make-up artist deserved some kind of recognition for those broad shoulders that the late Joan Crawford was known for . Many say that Dunaway's performance was over the top . What are they talking about ? She is absolutely brilliant as the screen icon who was unbelievably brutal to her children . Who can forget the scene with the hangers ? Who can forget the scene after Crawford wins the Oscar for Mildred Pierce ? She acts as if she felt the award was coming to her . No matter what , Crawford was emotionally distraught . Dunaway conveys this in every scene of the film . What made Joan Crawford tick ? As her abused daughter , Diana Scarwid turned in a powerhouse performance as well . Notably absent were Oscar nominations for both Dunaway and Scarwid in the best actress and supporting actress divisions . What has happened to Ms . Scarwid ? She was terrific as well as Bess Truman in the HBO biography of Harry Truman starring Gary Sinise . She seems to have faded from the acting scene . Her presence is missed as well as quality pictures such as this one .
Get Out and See It 12	The unexpected hit of 1990 earned a best picture nomination and a best supporting actress Oscar for Whoopi Goldberg's portrayal of Oda Mae Brown , a psychic delivering comic relief in a film . Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore are lovers separated by fate . The fate being that Swayze is murdered . Murdered by his best friend , played quite well by newcomer Tony Goldwyn , the great grandson of Samuel L . Goldwyn . There are some scary moments as the plot reveals itself . Oda Mae is hilarious at a memorable bank scene . Those devils coming out to punish Goldwyn and others are quite eerie but necessary for the plot to sustain itself . The movie discusses the fact that not even death can prevent love from being pursued . As hard as that is to swallow , you leave the theater knowing that love conquers all .
Love A Many Splendored Thing Morning Mist 2 Lovers Kissed & the World Stood Still	The beautifully engaging song with the same name as the film won the best song Oscar in 1955 . Love is a many splendored thing . It's the April rose that only grows in the early spring . Love is nature's way of giving a reason to be living . That golden crown that makes a man a king . Once on a high and windy hillIn the morning mist two lovers kissed and the world stood still . Then your fingers touched my silent heart and taught it how to sing . Yes , true love a many-splendored thing . How can we forget such a beautiful song . Henry King , the director , had the privilege to work with Jennifer Jones twice that year for this film and the greatly under-rated film " Good Morning , Miss Dove . " Jones was nominated for " Splendored Thing " but she could have been easily nominated for Miss Dove as well . William Holden is just great as the war correspondent sent to report on the Communist revolution in 1949 China . His love for Jones , an oriental doctor , was endearing and so memorable to watch . While the ending is not pleasing , this is still one of the greatest romances ever put on the screen .
This Affair Certainly Well Worth to Remember	" Why couldn't it be me , " ? asks Carey Grant when he finally discovers that Deborah Kerr has been paralyzed after being struck by a car . Those words are memorable , as is the film , a remake of the classic 1939 " Love Affair , " with Irene Dunne and Charles Boyer . Our lovers meet quite by accident while on board a ship . Both involved with others , they soon find a love which is even rare to describe by Hollywood standards . They agree to meet in 6 months , if they still feel this same genuine passion about each other , on top of the Empire State Building . Grant arrives , but tragically on her way , Kerr looks up to the building and is hit by a car . As a result , she is wheel chair bound and will not allow herself to be seen by Grant in this condition . Naturally , by Hollywood standards , Grant finds her through a painting she has purchased . Love endures despite tragedy is the central theme to well made film . With thespians like Grant and Kerr , who could really miss ? A must for lovers as well as those needed to be loved .
San Francisco-Rousing Tribute to A City	Jeanette MacDonald belts out the title song in a benefit to help out her former boss Blackie Norton , played to the hilt by Clark Gable . Gable , must have been rehearsing for the part of Rhett Butler in " Gone With the Wind . " Blackie and Rhett are so similar . Mary Blake arrives in town and meets up with Blackie and the priest . ( Spencer Tracy ) Both men love her , but of course , as priest , for Tracy it's a respectful love . Respect , that is , for her moral character , which he questions by Blackie having her dress in the way she did at his dance hall . A fight ensues between Blackie and the good Father . Both had been childhood friends . Enter love interest played by Jack Holt . Jack brings Mary to his mother , a brilliant Jesse Ralph , who recounts that she once loved a Blackie Norton type and married him ! The movie is best remembered for its vivid earthquake scene . That April earthquake of 1906 was totally devastating . Blackie searches for Mary-He finds the father who brings him to Mary . Your heart will go out when you see Gable fall to his knees to give thanks for Mary's life . A rousing finale , where the title song is again sung as the city is rebuilt , ends this terrific film - a testament to the citizens of this great city .
Come Back At Any Time , Any Year	Alan Alda and Oscar nominee Ellen Burstyn are simply fabulous in this comedy about married people , who meet by chance , and for the next 26 years have a once a year weekend relationship . Their affair seems to move with the times . They are in a sense faithful to their spouses but the chemistry is just right to continue this thing . At times , their feelings seem to change as the world changes . Alda goes , for example , from a worker for Stevenson who voted for Goldwater . Burstyn seems to drop out of the system dressing one year as an Indian but then later on becomes an entrepreneur . This film could have been called " The Times of Your Life . " Make time and see it .
Plenty to Deliberate Here in Taut Thriller	Terrific . Exciting thriller about a woman on jury duty who is threatened by the mob to make sure that the jury votes for acquittal . Demi Moore is the juror with conviction , that is to save her young son who is threatened . Alec Baldwin is the psychotic killer who will go to any length to make sure that Moore tows the line . He even kills her friend , Ann Heche , a doctor . Tony Lo Bianco is the head of the mob syndicate who fears Moore even after he is acquitted of all charges . An exciting ending for this gripping film . Moore becomes Rambo-like in the end and it's well justified .
I'm So Glad We Had this Time Together	This show was an amazing hit due to the fine comedic talents of Carol Burnett and a terrific supporting cast of Tim Conway , Vicki Lawrence , Harvey Korman and Lyle Waggoner . Those sketches of Burnett will be forever etched in the minds of television viewers . Who can forget Mrs . Wiggins or Nora Desmond , the latter a take off on the brilliant performance of Gloria Swanson as Norma Desmond in 1950's " Sunset Boulevard ? " Swanson , at one time , guest starred on the Burnett show and stated that she never realized that Norma Desmond was such a comical rather than tragic figure . I'm so glad we had this time together .
Who Was Asleep in Oscarville ? Cagnes Shines in Another Biopic	What were the members of the Motion Picture Academy thinking when James Cagney was not nominated for his outstanding performance as Lon Chaney in 1957's " Man of A Thousand Faces . " ? Cagney was at his best portraying the masquerade man whose personal life was such a heartbreak . This was certainly an outstanding follow-up after the wonderful " Love Me or Leave Me " two years before . Fresh from her Oscar win for " Written on the Wind , " Dorothy Malone pulled off another great performance . Cagney's acting toward his deaf mute parents was a sight to behold . Celia Lovsky , a veteran Hollywood matron , was his loving mother . Her bold eyes spoke of the love that she could not blurt out due to deafness . Always a sympathetic woman , Lovsky was the real life live in girlfriend of actor Peter Lorre . Who can forget Cagney during his terminal cancer scenes ? Unbelievable .
Requiem Delivers Knockout Blow	A punchy fighter , Anthony Quinn , gives a brilliant performance . Quinn shows a depth in acting range in this film which he showed in 1954's " La Strada . " At the end of a long career , Quinn is approached to be a counselor in a summer camp . Unfortunately , his trainer , played in an outstanding supporting performance by Jackie Gleason , has other plans . He wants to get him into wrestling and that he should take a dive . The difference between wealthy and poor societies is brought out here and done quite well . The ending is sad but exactly to the point .
Mississippi Burning-We're On Forever Fire With this One	Outstanding film dealing with the murder of 3 civil rights workers during the fiery civil rights struggle of the 1960s . Gene Hackman is absolutely marvelous as a southern FBI agent attempting to track down the cowardly killers in this absolute thriller of a motion picture . He receives fine support from Willem Dafoe . The latter plays a northern FBI agent in conflict with Hackman as no matter what the FBI attempts to do , they are thwarted every step of the way by a bigoted , disgusting town and local law enforcement officers up to their necks in corruption and murder . As the wife of a deputy sheriff , Frances McDormand is fabulous as an abused woman with a conscience . The film is terrific as it shows how the bigots attempt to justify their ways as appropriate to their religion . They can cite phrases justifying the segregation system . It was only after the FBI began to play hardball with this hoodlum element that something was able to be done .
The Joker is Wild Goes All the Way	Tremendous 1957 film showcasing the life of Joe E . Lewis . After a brief singing career ended , due to Chicago gangsters , Lewis finds another voice in comedy . Nevertheless , he was left an embittered person unable to even be happy around those who loved him dearly . After playing a junkie in 1955's " The Man With the Golden Arm , " Sinatra again gives a wonderful performance as the alcoholic Lewis . He belts out " All the Way " the way that song was supposed to be sung . Jeanne Crain is in fine form as the wealthy woman who loved him dearly but did not marry him due to his behavior and the advent of World War 11 . The real surprise here is the wonderful supporting performance of Mitzi Gaynor as the chorus girl that Lewis wed on the rebound . Gaynor proved that she could really act as well as sing and dance here . Her drunken scene where she told Lewis off was great . Eddie Albert got plenty of practice being around alcoholics when he appeared with Susan Hayward twice in " Smash-Up The Story of a Woman , " as well as " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " Albert plays the part of Lewis ' understanding pianist with conviction . The ending may be a downer but is true to life . At least , Lewis was ready to stand on his feet despite being alone .
Please Ring My Doorbell , Anytime	Wonderful television show . Remember : " You sent for me sir . " " Mike . " We were well on our way to discover who was going to get the next million dollars . Funny , how the writers of this show would never have the benefactors ask Mike Anthony to stay for a cup of coffee or danish . The show was absolutely great because it took us into a world of fantasy where we could imagine what we would do with all that money . A variety of people received the money at random . Did John Beresford Tipton use the phone book ? I vividly remember where one such " lucky " person was on death row waiting to be executed for murdering someone . No , he wasn't guilty . P . S . He was spared at the end when his innocence was proved . You never saw the Tipton character and that made the show even more engaging . After Mike got the money , you would hear the most rousing musical score which I can still hum to this very day . Of course , with inflation the way it is-the show would have to be retitled today as the trillionaire and would star among others - Mayor Bloomberg of NYC .
Forever Touching-The Untouchables	Outstanding weekly television series of the late 1950s and early 1960s . Who can ever forget that haunting theme music that was played at the beginning and end of each episode ? The show was just terrific , even down to the superb narration of Walter Winchell . Having lost the Academy Award for his brilliant performance in " Written on the Wind , " in 1956 , Robert Stack turned his attention to this television series . He portrayed Eliot Ness , a crime buster of A-1 quality , who would bring down some of the biggest names in crime history . With a terrific supporting cast , each weekly episode was an absolute treasure to view . People such as Nehemiah Persoff and Virginia Vincent had standard stand-out roles . Yes , there was plenty of violence but Chicago of the 1930s was just that .
Funny Girl , Wonderful Girl ( 1968 )	Barbra Streisand detailing the heart-breaking life of Fannie Brice in " Funny Girl . " Starting out life on the lower east side , Brice achieved stardom being going to the Ziegfeld Follies . She soon proves herself to be a formidable match to Florenz Ziegfeld himself , played by the wonderful Walter Pigeon . She matches wits with him and in the end does a part the way she wants it done . Hilarious and outrageous at best . Of course , the film deals with the romance and her marriage to gambler Nickie Arnstein , a remarkable Omar Sharif . Kay Medford plays her mother and in a very funny scene , Arnstein plays poker with the girls including the late Mae Questel . Out of kindness , he lets the ladies win . Naturally , there is plenty of heartbreak in this great musical film . Shady dealings leads Arnstein to prison . When he comes out , he decides to end the marriage as he felt that the two were just not good for each other . This leads Streisand to belt out on stage the classic My Man . There's not a dry eye in the house after her beautiful rendition . Streisand wonderfully captures Brice's antics as Baby Snooks and other routine sketches . Her Jewish accent is way up to par and for all this she tied with Katharine Hepburn for " The Lion in Winter , " for best actress . Streisand sings like a beautiful bell in this rich William Wyler production .
It's a Woman's World All the Way	Excellent film depicting 3 nominated men for a top executive job at Gifford Motors . The ever perfect Clifton Webb shall decide who gets this top spot . The nominees are Cornel Wilde , Fred MacMurray and Van Heflin , but their wives shall play a crucial role in determining who gets the job since Webb is from the old school that behind every man is a woman . . . . June Allyson , married to Wilde , is terrific as the ditsy-klutzy wife who can't seem to do anything right . She really doesn't want her husband to get the job and she makes no bones about it . Lauren Bacall is wed to MacMurray . Their marriage has hit the rocks and Bacall vows to leave him after he gets the precious job . She sees the job as a stress-related killer . The most vicious of them is Heflin's Arlene Dahl-vicious to the hilt , she will do anything to get her man the top post . The ending is marvelously staged and well deserved to all the contestants and their respective spouses .
From Here to Eternally Good	This anti-war movie was proclaimed the best picture of 1953 , deservedly so . Montgomery Clift is the anti-hero Pruitt . This man is ready to take anything or anyone on . Frank Sinatra , as Maggio , is also anti-hero . Both of our friends are in one scrap after another . Deborah Kerr is unhappily married and begins a relationship with Commander Burt Lancaster . Their steamy scene on the beach is absolutely memorable , quite controversial for 1953 . Then , of course , there is Donna Reed , who as Clift's girl friend , was named best supporting actress of the year . With the bombing of Pearl Harbor , Clift , who had gone AWOL , wants to return to his unit . Reed utters those immortal words : " What did the army ever do for you ? " Of course , he returns and is promptly shot . Everyone on the base is naturally upset after the bombing-it's shoot first and ask questions later . The film basically concerns itself with an army unit boxing tournament . One of our heroes will not box for his unit and as a result suffers for it . Of course , it is Deborah Kerr's miserable husband who gives the guy an awful a lot of problems for refusing to do so . An investigation after the Pearl Harbor bombing will drive him from the service . Sinatra , in his best supporting Oscar performance , fights with a bull-dog played viciously by Ernest Borgnine . When Sinatra winds up later in the stockade , Borgnine is in charge and beats Sinatra to death . Clift responds to this by stabbing Borgnine to death in a back alley . That's when he became AWOL . It is amazing that this anti-war , anti-army film was voted for best picture . Sure , it deserved the award but we're talking about 1953-the McCarthy era . Belated congratulations to the Motion Picture Academy for their fine choice which probably irked McCarthy . This film was certainly one of the best anti-war films ever made . It really delved into the military pointing out a very ugly side of it . The picture received 5 acting nominations , Lancaster , Clift , Kerr , Sinatra and Reed .
Laura-An artistic Accomplishment	Fabulous four star film with Clifton Webb stealing the show as columnist , Waldo Lydecker . The part was perfectly suited for Webb since he played his usual erudite , perfectionist , egotistical , man about town whose highly intellectual quality would lead him into disaster . The cast in this top-notch , who done it thriller is superb with the always great Dana Andrews as the policeman who falls in love with the portrait of supposed murder victim Laura Hunt , played perfectly by Gene Tierney , who shows that vulnerable , sweet charm about herself . A big casting surprise here is Judith Anderson , always a heavy in films , playing the role of a woman in competition with Tierney for the affection of a young , charming Vincent Price . Anderson , looking younger here and even attractive , does well in her sarcastic performance of a lonely , desperate woman searching for romance . The plot twists and turns are perfectly realized here .
This Titanic Survives All the Time	An excellent version of the 1953 original as well as the 1956 " A Night to Remember . " We really have character development in this fine picture . Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet shine as our doomed hero and heroine . In a comeback performance , Gloria Stuart does very well in the part of Winslet as an old woman . What is so enjoyable about this film is the sociological depiction of the upper and lower classes . We can see from almost the beginning of the disaster , the lower class will be doomed to tragedy . Frances Fisher gives excellent support as Kate's upper class mean mother . This is a mother so mean that Kate went through life never revealing to her that she had survived . Di Caprio , it has been argued , looked too young for the part . He really seemed to mature as the film went on . His scene before his demise was well done and memorable .
" Ben Hur " Too good to be true	This Oscar winning best film of 1959 is outstanding . It details the beginnings of the Christian religion through the eyes of Judah Ben-Hur , Charlton Heston , and his family . While the Romans occupied Judea , Heston has built a strong friendship with Roman centurion , Massala , played in a memorable vicious performance by the late Stephen Boyd . When a loose rock from Ben-Hur's house accidentally falls on a Roman , Massala condemns the family . He had begged Judah to throw his lot in with the Romans . Condemning his friend will throw fear into everyone since if he could do this to his best friend , anything is possible . While his mother and sister are sent to the dungeons and ultimately develop leprosy , Judah becomes a slave on a ship . Ultimately , saving the Roman head ( Jack Hawkins ) , Judah returns from Rome and seeks revenge on Massala . The chariot race is the ultimate event . It is staged with an excellence beyond belief . Massala is ultimately killed and Judah will find his mother and sister in the leper colony . Their ultimate cure at the time of the crucifixion of Christ is memorable . The silent film " Ben-Hur , " ended with Ben-Hur's conversion to Christianity from Judaism . Director William Wyler wisely chose not to do this . The supporting cast members of Haya Harareet and Sam Jaffe are terrific . As the sheik , Hugh Griffith was named best supporting actor . I can't believe this was done . Stephen Boyd should have been nominated here instead and should have been the winner . Heston deservedly won the best actor award . A wonderful gripping film .
Crime Might Even Pay	Glorifying bank robbers during the depression years ? It works in the fabulous Bonnie and Clyde Film . Great chemistry between Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway , both just fabulous in lead roles . It's a hot , steamy day down south when a bored Bonnie looks out her window to catch Beatty trying to steal a car . The two meet and fall for each other instantly . Bonnie sees Clyde's gun and is enamored with it . She quickly learns to shoot in a deadly perfection . The two quickly take to robbing and when they kill an officer , there is no turning back . As time goes on , they make quite a reputation for themselves . They become brazen . " Good afternoon , " they say . " I'm Clyde Barrow and I'm Bonnie Parker and we rob banks . " While on a retreat , they meet up with Clyde's kin , his brother , Buck , portrayed in a devilish way by Gene Hackman and his wife , a memorable Oscar-winning turn for supporting actress Estelle Parsons , as Blanche , the reluctant member of the gang . Talk about ensemble casts , we have the gasoline attendant , C . W . Moss played by Michael J . Pollard , a kidnap victim , played with hilarity by Gene Wilder as well . Violent shoot-outs ensue . With a high price on their heads , the gang becomes legendary . Depression era people are desperate . They may even look to the gang as heroes against a system which has turned against them . The final shoot out scene is outrageous and not for those with weak stomachs . A classic motion picture . .
Now , Voyager - An Excellent Expedition	After seeing this great film , I realized that not every mother wants the best for her children . Gladys Cooper gave a brilliant performance as the outrageously domineering mother . Her best supporting actress nomination was well deserved . It's a pity she lost the coveted award to Teresa Wright , the tragic daughter-in-law in " Mrs . Miniver . " Obviously , Oscar voters could not bring themselves to vote for such a wicked mother that Cooper portrayed . ( The following year Cooper gave another brilliant performance as the wretched nun in " Song of Bernadette . " She lost the Oscar because who would vote for a vicious nun ? ) No words are adequate to describe the outstanding Bette Davis performance in this film . Sorry , Greer Garson , Bette deserved this Oscar as she did so many . Her change from a hopelessly-drawn spinster to a ravishing beauty with all its torment can never be forgotten . Thank you Claude Rains for your excellent portrayal of the psychiatrist .
This Raisin Is Delicious and Beams in the Sun	Outstanding version of the Lorraine Hansberry classic . Sean Combs is just terrific as Walter , a young frustrated black , who has an opportunity to make it in a prejudiced world but is victimized by his own people . Bitter , he is ready to take the white man for a ride when the latter is willing to pay him off so that he and his family don't move into an all white neighborhood . Combs interpretation of the role is marvelously depicted and interesting to note . Unlike Sidney Poitier , he brings a common touch to the part . He is an embittered militant who is willing to strike out at anything to attain the American dream . Congratulations to Phylicia Rashad and Audra MacDonald for their brilliant performances . This production works because it brings out that prejudice and taking advantage can occur within your own group . In addition , we see the hard work ethic shown to be a realistic solution to societal problems . John Stamos brings the right image as the representative of the community trying to get the family not to move in . His supposed outreach is immediately tempered by utter bigotry and he moves well with this excellent ensemble cast .
Marvelous Mating - The Mating Season	This picture is just too good to be true . Thelma Ritter received a well deserved supporting actress Oscar nomination as the common hamburger joint owner who gives up her business and moves to her son in Ohio-just as the son , played well by John Lund , has married a high class girl ( Gene Tierney . ) The best part of this is where Ritter masquerades as the maid for the bride and groom . She soon encounters her mother-in-law counterpart played to the hilt by Miriam Hopkins . Another memorable but brief performance is that of Cora Witherspoon as a stuffy old snob . This film is truly excellent . It shows the problems created when there is a marriage between upper class and the plain folk . It really becomes hilarious when Hopkins overhears Evelyn ( Thelma Ritter ) saying that she loves Lund . Thinking that the two are having a love affair , she tells her daughter which leads to a near break up of the marriage . It's interesting to see how this all plays out and especially when Tierney finds out the truth that Ritter is Lund's mother ! Then , we see reverse anger . She is ready to leave since she felt that Lund could not trust her if he told the truth . As if this isn't all enough , as the " maid , " Evelyn hears Tierney's ex-boyfriend claiming that the marriage will not last for 6 months . Evelyn herself winds up with the ex-boyfriend's father . ( Larry Keating ) This gem of a film should be more celebrated among movie circles .
Oliver ! Oh Oliver ! How Good You Are !	Sir Carol Reed , known primarily for directing British dramas of the 1940s and 1950s , hit the jackpot in this Oscar-winning 1968 musical based on " Oliver Twist , " by Charles Dickens . A poor boy begs for food at an orphanage . Escaping , he falls in with a band of thieves , led by an adept Ron Moody , who conveys his part as Fagin , so beautifully . He meets the Artful Dodger , skillfully played by Jack Wild . There is also Bill Sykes , the real vicious leader of the gang and his girlfriend , an impressive Shani Wallis . When Wallis belts out As Long As He Needs Me , you know she means it all the way . Defying Sykes costs her her life , but her sacrifice saves young Oliver . Oliver is really from a wealthy family . Abandoned by his mother out of shame , he will eventually find his way back to his home but not before much difficult maneuvering . The singing and dancing are delightful . Renditions of Consider Yourself Part of the Family are memorable . Just consider Oliver ! a wonderful film .
No Doubt About It . A Great Film	Father Flynn , in a sermon , states that doubt creates a bond . How right he is . This is a knockout film , one for the ages as Meryl Streep , Philip Seymour Hoffman and Amy Adams turn in monumental performances . Viola Davis , in a one scene stealer , is also quite effective here . What really went on in Father Flynn's office ? That remains to be seen . Streep , who was never better , and who has the ability to assume those great accents , takes on an authentic N . Y . one . In many scenes she sounds like the late Connie Gilchrist , a wonderful character supporting actress of the 1930s and 1940s . Streep pulls absolutely no punches as the stern , old-fashioned parochial principal of the 1950s . Bitter by the fact that she lost her husband in World War 11 and afraid to accept a changing American culture , she hides behind all this and is absolutely a brutal principal and person to deal with . She is the very old-fashioned principal who many a teacher suffered under . She goes after Father Flynn after a student allegedly drinks wine from a holy ceremony . Hoffman was made for the role of Father Flynn in the same priestly way as Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald earned their angelic wings in " Going My Way . " He will certainly come into conflict with Sister Aloysius ( Streep ) as he wants change and understanding . Amy Adams stars as the shy , nerd-like nun who catches Father Flynn in a questionable scene and immediately reports back to Sister Aloysius . There are flaming scenes here between Sister and the boy's mother . The latter is played by Viola Davis , who seems to be the prototype for blacks in society circa 1964 when the film takes place . She doesn't want to rock the boat , she fears her husband and her son will be graduating in June . This is definitely a contemporary film as it alludes to priest misconduct in recent and past years .
City for Conquest-Captures Mood of N . Y .	Terrific 1940 film where the great James Cagney does it again in giving a memorable performance . This time it's as a fighter who goes into boxing so that his brother , Arthur Kennedy , can fulfill a musical career as well as an escape for girl friend , Ann Sheridan , ditching him for a dancing career with Anthony Quinn , a real cad if there ever were . The film has a tremendous supporting cast and all do a fine job in showing what movie making should be . Future director , Elia Kazan , is in fine form as a mobster , a product of a rough childhood environment . In seeing Kazan here , I wonder what his acting career would have been like had he not chosen to go behind the camera . The aspect of N . Y . life is wonderfully shown by the upper class of musical life , life on the lower east side as well as the boxing center of sports . How they interact in this film is so well memorably accomplished . As a boxing magnate , I thought that the usual erudite Donald Crisp would be miscast . How wrong I was . He evoked much sympathy in trying to protect his fighter-Cagney . A truly memorable film . This is a heck of a movie classic .
Marie Antoinette - The Beheadings Were Never this Good	Outstanding classic starring Norma Shearer as the condemned queen . Naturally , critics will complain that in her scenes up against Tyrone Power , Miss Shearer looked more like his mother rather than his lover . However , Shearer turned in a spectacular performance as the ill-fated queen who couldn't wait as a princess of Austria-Hungary to be Queen of France . Had she only known what history had in store for her . Robert Morley was outstanding as her shy yet devoted husband Louis . He catches the simplicity of his role in a terrific way and received a well deserved supporting Oscar nomination for it . The scenery is elegant but the picture would have been even better had it been colorized . Joseph Schildkraut , who had won the supporting Oscar the year before for " The Life of Emile Zola , " turned in another very good performance as the Duke d'Orleans , a cousin to Louis who eventually voted for his demise . Shearer was never better in her condemnation scenes . Ironically , as her age showed in this film , this may have led to her not getting the plum role of Scarlett O'Hara in " Gone With the Wind , " which was made the following year . It should be noted that Norma Shearer received a best actress nomination for this film . One of the reasons that she may have lost the coveted Oscar was that William Randolph Hearst had wanted his lover , Marion Davies , to have the role . When she failed to get it , Hearst took it out on Shearer by condemning her performance in the papers . It didn't help either that Shearer had converted to Judaism when she married movie mogul Irving Thalberg . Hearst wasn't exactly a friend to the Jewish people .
Sister Act-This Class of Nuns Rates	Terrific Whoopi Goldberg vehicle where she portrays a lounge singer on the run from gangster boyfriend Harvey Keitel . It seems that she has witnessed his goons killing the chauffeur . Whoopi is sent to a convent to hide by the police until the case comes up in court . This " Some Like It Hot " idea soon expands into " Going My Way , " where Whoopi becomes Sister Mary Clarence . She meets up with crusty Conservative Maggie Smith has the head nun . The two clash as Sister Clarence breathes new life into the convent by taking over the chorus and really livening things up . As for Maggie Smith , she gives one of her best performances since her 2 Oscar winning performances years earlier . The ending , like the rest of the film , is just hilarious . It's an exercise in smart spiritual healing .
Gentleman's Agreement - A GREAT MOVIE AGREEMENT	The picture is absolutely outstanding . I know that director Elia Kazan didn't think much of it but was he wrong . From the beginning , when we hear the musical score of Alfred Newman , we know we're in for a treat . I'll never forget the music from the end of the film . Phil Green was the embodiment of the late Gregory Peck - a man who had a social conscience and fought for social justice . Peck was perfect for the part . It's amazing that he lost the Oscar that year . Ronald Colman was great in the Shakespearian classic A DOUBLE LIFE but it was Peck who got the viewer to think of how anti-semitism and all other forms of religious and racial prejudices play a role in our everyday lives . As Cathy , the late Dorothy McGuire was also quite effective . She was perfect for the part of a woman championing civil rights as long as it didn't adversely affect her . It is interesting to note how many people in this film were subsequently blacklisted - Revere , Garfield , Dekker and those others who came under such scrutiny . Anne Revere strived for perfection as the mother which she well achieved . Celeste Holm pulled no punches and that's why she probably won the coveted Oscar for best supporting actress . Equally sympathetic was Albert Dekker as the editor and John Garfield , who took the supporting role of Dave Goldman , because he believed in the picture . Too bad that writer Laura Z . Hobson did not live to see Sen . Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut ( of all places ) run for the vice presidency and receive a majority of the popular vote . Even Ms . Hobson would have to admit that we've come a long way baby . My rating for this film : Those viewers who knock this film must realize that it came out 2 years after World War 11 ended . An interesting side bar is that how many reviewers realize that Roy Roberts , the gentleman , who denied Green access to the hotel , played a very similar character 20 years later in the film Hotel ? In the latter , he denied access to a black couple seeking a hotel admission . Talk about type casting !
" In Her Shoes " Fits All	Cameron Diaz , congratulations , you finally found a wonderful film and you showed that you can actually turn in a very good performance . Along with Toni Collette , the two play sisters who just can't seem to be more opposite of each other . Collette is an attorney and Diaz can barely read . That's just the tip of the iceberg . Seems as though their mother did away with herself when they were small and dad remarried . His second wife , Sydelle , is a witch if ever there were . The younger Diaz , failing at everything she does , moves in with Collette and really messes up her life . She even sleeps with her boyfriend . It is while going through papers , Diaz discovers that she has a grandma-the wonderful Shirley MacLaine , whose supporting performance is one of her very best in years . Going to Florida to meet her grandma , Diaz finds herself . She works with the seniors there and reads poetry to a retired English professor . By now , Collette has found a new beau who loves her . Bothered by the disappearance of her sister , her coldness almost drives him away but all comes together nicely when Collette finds Diaz with Grandma Shirley . An entertaining an engaging film . Depth is shown here as the two girls come to grip , belatedly so , with a mother's suicide and the need to move on with their lives . Go out and enjoy this wonderful film .
Gary Cooper and Geraldine Fitzgerald Shine	" 10 North Frederick " recounts the story of a middle aged man , successful in business , who is pushed into the political arena by his domineering , obnoxious wife . Gary Cooper and Geraldine Fitzgerald are in fine form as the middle aged man and vicious wife . When he sees the dirt that politics brings , he begins an affair with his daughter's room mate . Diane Varsi , who was so good in " Peyton Place , " shines as the daughter . Suzy Parker is her friend who has an affair with Cooper . Fitzgerald pulls out all the stops in her vicious tirades . She is soon slapped down by her son who denounces her publicly for what she has done to her husband . A wonderful film detailing moral values and their decline in a society where they are most needed . Highly recommended film to all viewers .
This Movie Legend of Zorro Could Become Legendary	An excellent sequel to the Antonio Banderas-Catherine Zena Jones original of several years back . Both star again in this action packed adventure . With some historical distortions , the film deals with California becoming a state in 1850 and a secret group ready to foment civil war in the U . S . so that the latter can destroy itself . Zeta-Jones is made to aid the U . S . cause by divorcing her husband and pretending to be the lover of her culprit . Their dejected son proves 100 % that he is the chip off the old block . Antonio Banderas breathes new life into the title role . He is funny when he has to be . Even though the writing has taken historical license , just say so what ? Sit back and enjoy this entertaining film .
Desperate Hours-Time Dwindles Down to Powerhouse Film	Superb film regarding Fred March , Martha Scott as a married couple who are held hostage by Humphrey Bogart and his motley crew along with the couple's children . The tension is so thick and is beautifully realized by director William Wyler . This is a story of inner-strength held by March and yet how his acts to protect his family could be seen as cowardice by his young son . Both March and Bogart are at the top of their game performance wise in this excellent film . The film is aided by a wonderful supporting cast including Arthur Kennedy as a detective , Dewey Martin as Bogart's younger brother and several others . Gig Young plays the suitor to March's daughter . He feels that March doesn't like him and of course this is added on by the hostage situation . We see how detrimental being held hostage can be by what it does to the normally mild-mannered March . Just view his hostile actions towards his secretary . ( Helen Kleeb ) While we may know how the film will turn out , we can still applaud and wait with great anticipation for its wonderful climax . This was Hollywood at its best in film making .
Blackboard Jungle-Mary Poppins Today !	Having taught in the New York City school system for 32 years and now retired , I am quite qualified to comment on this ground-breaking film . When it came out , few people realized how bad some of our urban schools were . The truth is that the situation is even far worse today . This great film attempts to show the truth about our urban school centers . It depicts the complete lack of discipline as well as a totally inept and unsympathetic school administration . The latter will hide incidents to show that their school is a good one . Glenn Ford is terrific as the idealistic teacher . Having come from the military , he soon sees that the school is worse than many army situations he has encountered . Gang violence is prevalent . Student disruption is constant . Vic Morrow and his gang of thugs , ( yes , Mayor Bloomberg , they are thugs not Transit Workers ) do their best to make sure that no one learns anything and that mayhem is the general order of the day . The scene where Richard Kiley's records are destroyed in front of him by these recalcitrants is memorable . If our society would only realize what these schools have become and do something about it . Instead , teachers are routinely blamed . Teachers must be psychiatrists , psychologists , social workers , and parents for so many who resist learning and authority . The film was an omen for what was to come . Sadly , we have not learned from it . Yes , we try catch phrases like cooperative learning , etc . but the fact remains that teaching cannot be done until there is effective discipline . An for what this film tries to show . Nonetheless , the worst was yet to come .
Who are You Rebecca ?	Daphne Du Maurier's great book was turned into a phenomenal Oscar-winning film of 1940 . By chance , a meek , timid girl , Joan Fontaine , meets the elegant Laurence Olivier , a moody individual , haunted by a deep secret . She is at a resort as a companion to the wealthy Florence Bates . Bates is quite effective as a domineering matron who loses Fontaine to the infatuated Olivier . The two marry and go back to the estate of Manderley . She meets the entire staff and is certainly unaccustomed to having things done for her . As head of the staff , Judith Anderson etched an unforgettable eerie character-Mrs . Danvers , who was totally devoted , to Olivier's first wife , Rebecca . The unusual technique of never showing who Rebecca is , is quite effective . We soon learn that Rebecca's death is suspicious . Naturally , we have George Sanders , a cousin to Rebecca , to stir up things as well as plot with Mrs . Danvers . When finally , it appears that Olivier had killed his wife , the truth emerges that even shocks the devoted Danvers . Not able to get her way , Danvers literally turns up the heat and burns down the place in an exciting ending . Though " Rebecca " was voted best picture of the year , nominees Olivier , Fontaine and Anderson ( in a supporting role ) came up short . A clever mystery with great performances . " Rebecca , " even in death , you remain a forever mystery .
Hazel - When Maids Brought Love , Warmth and Comedy to the House	Oscar winner Shirley Booth surprised friends when she signed on to do the television series of " Hazel . " Many thought that the role was beneath the star of " Come Back , Little Sheba . " Remember , her blowzy wife had brought her the Oscar in 1952 as best actress . At times , Hazel could be confused but the love that she shared for the people that she worked for was memorable . Remember how she was always watching the weight of her employer , played by Don De Fore . Whitney Blake had just what it took to be the wife of DeFore . Bobby Buntrock was adorable as their son . Too bad that he was killed tragically at such a young age . Remember DeFore's boss ? He could be a crusty old codger , but eventually he would come around due to Hazel Burke . She often reminded him of his mother . Remember that snotty sister of DeFore ? She was always planning the social event of the season . A great show highlighting wonderful interpersonal relationships .
. . . And She Made House Calls Too	Outstanding television show where young Dr . Quinn gets her medical degree and gives up a life of luxury in New England and ventures forth to the wild west . The scenery and the stories were absolutely captivating . As the wonderful doctor , Jane Seymour etched an unforgettable character . Soon taking on a family when their mother is killed in an Indian attack , Dr . Quinn shows that she is a lovable person as well as a humanitarian . As Sully , the Indian guide , Joe Lando was terrific in this part . At first brooding because of the death of Abigail , his wife , he learns to love the good doctor and they soon wed as he takes on the responsibility of a family . With a terrific supporting cast led by Orson Bean and others , the show had different weekly stories . One was better than the other . A show depicting warm family values . Our current presidential candidates could easily learn from this show .
Paper Clips A Truly Great Fastener	One of the best documentaries in years regarding students and staff of Whitwell , Tennessee who embark upon a school project regarding the holocaust . The area is located in a homogeneous Protestant town where not one Jewish person resides . Kudos to Principal Linda Hooper and her assistant principal and 8th grade language arts teacher for devising this project . Over 29 million paper clips were collected , the latter representing the holocaust victims . We learn that paper clips came originally from Norway and was meant to unite . How appropriate . Holocaust survivors visit the town and relate their harrowing experiences to students , staff and town residents . Principal Hooper is certainly a hands-on administrator . She was directly involved in the project and shows her emotional vulnerability as she learned about what took place in Europe over 60 years ago . Through this project , the school was able to obtain a train car where victims were shipped to concentration camps . The ceremony was memorable when the car made its way to this rural Tennessee town . This magnificent documentary shows that we have the ability to learn tolerance and eventual acceptance of all people . It should definitely be shown in all public schools and the likes of Mel Gibson should be made to see it . Congratulations for a memorable experience . Thank you .
" Dr . Kildare " When Doctors Still Made House Calls	Truly outstanding television series with Richard Chamberlain and Raymond Massey in the lead roles . This was based on the motion picture with Lew Ayres , a conscientious objector during World War 11 and Lionel Barrymore . Each week we were treated to new episodes . The show depicted that doctors are real people as well with emotional feelings . I remember how each show would start off and then there would be that gorgeous music played . I can still hum it like it was yesterday , and we're talking about 45 years ! One of my favorite episodes was when a retarded man ( Sorrell Booke ) came into the emergency room with his brother . Both were of the Orthodox faith and after careful testing , it was revealed that the brother was terminal . When Booke was told of this by Kildare , the latter told him to be a mensch . ( Person ) Raymond Massey was excellent as Kildare's mentor . Too bad that as a lead doctor , he was continuously smoking on the show . Chamberlain , as we all know , went on to become the king of the mini-series .
Great to Sing in the Rain	Supposedly , the best musical ever made did not win the Golden Globe Award of 1952 for best musical or comedy . That honor went to " With A Song in My Heart , " a musical drama based on the life of singer Jane Froman . Nevertheless , " Singin ' in the Rain " deals with the advent of talking pictures and its ramifications on the silent stars of that time . We know that actor John Gilbert , a matinée idol of the silents , had his career ruined when talkies came in . Such shall be the fate of Lena LaMonte , hilariously played by the late Jean Hagen in a well-deserved performance which landed her a best supporting actress nomination . Our hero , Gene Kelly , plays opposite . Lena . To say that he despises her is to put it mildly . Gene really loves Debbie Reynolds who he meets in a very funny scene in this film . Donald O'Connor shines in this film . His rendition of " Make Me Laugh , " while he literally walks on walls is memorable and terrific . The guy was a real class act . The problem is what to do with Lena ? Her scratchy voice reminded me so much of Judy Holliday in her award winning " Born Yesterday . " The scene where it is shown that Debbie has been singing for Lena is a riot . Humiliated , Lena runs off stage ; hopefully , never to be heard from again . Let's make sure that this movie is always heard from again .
The Thorn Birds - The Church Wouldn't Be Happy With this Masterpiece	Wow ! Best describes this brilliant film . No wonder Richard Chamberlain was known as the king of mini-series . He etched one unforgettable character after another . This time , he is Father Ralph Di Bricissart , who is loved by the town's wealthy Mary Carson . Barbara Stanwyck turned in a brilliant performance as Miss Carson . Her love for Father Ralph had no bounds . When he spurned her , she decided to fix him but good , even if it meant hurting her own family . That's exactly what she did by leaving her fortune to Father Ralph , thereby creating an embarrassing situation for him as well as the church . That being resolved , years pass and we are now finding out that a niece of Carson is romantically involved with Father Ralph . Dane is the result . The Australian outback is beautifully realized here . Jean Simmons , as the sister-in-law of Mary Carson is wonderful as well as the gentleman who portrayed her husband . A story of heartbreak and of the human spirit , " The Thorn Birds " is well recommended .
Greatly Under-rated Film ; We'll Always Be Waiting	Shortly after making the blockbuster " Judgment at Nuremberg , " Judy Garland and Burt Lancaster again teamed in " A Child is Waiting . " Ms . Garland , again takes a non-singing role , is captivating as a very sympathetic worker in a home for mentally retarded children . She encounters Lancaster , a child psychologist , whose strict methods are in reality what a child in this situation needs so that he or she can function later in life . Garland takes an immediate interest in Reuben , whose parents left him at the institution and have never visited him . The father is an embittered worker and Gena Rowlands does well as the heartbroken mother . Frustrated with his deficiency and wondering where his parents are , the child acts out . Garland shows sympathy but her feelings run contrary to Lancaster's methods and the two conflict . It is not until the child runs away from the institution that the situations are resolved . A truly wonderful movie which was under rated by critics .
Great For New Teachers - A Teacher's Crime Rates	Has anyone noticed that Ashley Jones resembles a rather youthful Hillary Clinton ? Jones portrays a recently separated teacher who has won the teacher of the year award for going that extra mile for her social studies students . Problem is that by going that extra mile , she falls victim to a diabolic plot hatched by one of her excellent students along with his crooked uncle . New teachers should take note : Don't get overly involved . Nice to see that factual information is included in one of the teacher's lessons . I am referring to the April , 1949 date of the beginning of NATO . Nowadays , facts are deemphasized for more critical thinking . That's why our students do so poorly on history exams . The lack of basic factual information is not there . Yes , the author of this review is a retired social studies teacher . The movie is intriguing as you are shown how the teacher is set up . It is certainly worthwhile viewing .
Judged to Be Great	A superb film in every aspect is the 1961 version of Judgment at Nuremberg . If only the motion picture academy would have 2 categories for musicals and dramas , this brilliant film would have certainly won in the latter category . An all-star cast is shown in the story of the trials that occurred following World War 11 . We have Spencer Tracy , the head of the tribunal , playing the part with tremendous foresight . Max Schell , in an Oscar winning performance , is the defense attorney for the miserable judges who allowed their bigotry and loyalty to the Third Reich to get in the way of everything that is decent . Who can forget Burt Lancaster as one of the repenting judges ? Richard Widmark plays the prosecuting attorney as if he were a holocaust victim . He was superb . Phenomenal in Oscar nominated supporting roles are Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland , Christian victims of the Nazi regime . Their testimony during the trial is chilling and shows what hate caught up in a society gone insane could produce . Marlene Dietrich , a real life refugee from Nazi Germany , is perfect as the wife of the executed Nazi army official . Knowing the wrongs that have occurred , she is nevertheless dismayed by the pictures of holocaust victims shown by the Widmark character at the trial . Stanley Kramer did a masterful job in directing a film that should be shown to students of the Holocaust and to all .
Khrushchev Should Have Such A Back Ache	Those words were uttered by Molly Picon in this hilarious film . " Come Blow Your Horn " deals with a swinging bachelor Frank Sinatra and his kid brother , Tony Bill , who is trying to follow in his footsteps . Lee J . Cobb proved his adeptness at comedy in this one by his constant making reference to Sinatra as a bum for not being married . Note the surprise in his face when Sinatra ultimately says yes when Cobb again confronts him . He and Picon are the absolute best senior citizen couple in this hysterical film . The chemistry between these 2 characters , both of whom appeared on the Yiddish stage during their respective careers , is great . Absolutely amazing to me that Picon and especially Cobb were not nominated in the supporting category . Their portrayals of the typical Jewish couple dealing with their sons is hilarious . Sinatra , as the swinging bachelor , is great . The part was made for him . He is very well matched by Tony Bill , his kid brother , who is emulating his brother and getting into the latter's lifestyle very quickly . Picon is very funny in the scenes answering the telephones . No wonder she was the perfect Yenta in " Fiddler on the Roof " 8 years later . Lee J . Cobb produces a miracle here . Long regarded as an outstanding dramatic actor , he turns in an incredibly outrageous performance as the beleaguered father . Bill later went on to direct films . Look for Phyllis McGuire in a brief appearance as a buyer for Neiman-Marcus .
Wilson A Winner	Alexander Knox , a Democrat for all seasons , is positively brilliant in his portrayal of our nation's president . This opulent film was made in 1944 and the lost the best picture race to Going My Way . Knox lost to Bing Crosby . Is there any Oscar justice ? The award winning set decorations are just marvelous . You know you're in the White House after seeing this picture which begins with Wilson as president of Princeton University . Coaxed by the N . J . Democratic bosses to run for governor , Wilson soon shows them who is boss . He wins the presidency as we know because of the 1912 split in the Republican Party between former President Theodore Roosevelt and the incumbent President Taft . As president we see the legislation that is passed during his administrations . We see the untimely passing of his wife and his remarriage to Edith Bolling Galt , played by the recently departed , Geraldine Fitzgerald , strong in character , who rose to the challenge to guide this country during her husband's stroke . The stills showing the bond selling scenes during World War 1 are memorable . You even see a clip of actress Marie Dressler trying to rally support . The League of Nations was a project close to Mr . Wilson's heart . The film depicts his attempt to get the public to demand that the senate ratify the League and the disaster this caused in Wilson's health . . . and to the election of the Republican Warren Harding in 1920 . A film highly recommended to all history buffs et al .
A Call to Remember - Dial Up for This One	To have lived through the Holocaust would provide never ending nightmares for anyone . Here is the story of a holocaust survivor who remarries and begins a new life in America only to discover years later that a son from her first marriage has survived and is being sent to rejoin her . Could anyone ever imagine having to experience something like this ? Blythe Danner gives a wonderful , outstanding performance as the mother and is ably supported by a terrific cast featuring Joe Montegena as her understanding husband . The film not only depicts Danner's reaction to this miracle of the return of her son but how her " American " children feel about the sudden appearance of a long lost brother . Naturally , we will all shudder when fate steps in and provides a cruel trick to Danner . How she gets through this and that Bar Mitzva scene at the end are reasons in itself to watch this powerful film .
Great Film Fun Highlights Good Values Film	" Miracle on 34th Street " is a heart-warming tale of the spirit of the season-Christmas and other holidays too . Edmund Gwenn deserved his best supporting actor Oscar for his role of Kris Kringle , who had to go to court to justify and prove his very existence . Maureen O'Hara and the late John Payne shine as a couple brought together during this Holiday fanfare . O'Hara's daughter , played by an adorable Natalie Wood , is terrific as the little girl caught up in this holiday madness . The idea of cooperation of Macys and another department store to guide customers is one of the true holiday spirit . A wonderful film depicting American holiday tradition . It only lost the best picture of the year award as the memorable " Gentleman's Agreement " invoked an aura of much needed toleration following the Holocaust period among the socially conscious .
United 93 is Testimony to Profiles in Courage	Outstanding film by director Paul Greenglass which depicted that awful day - Sept . 11 , 2001 when America changed forever . With a cast of relative unknowns , Greenglass is admirably able to depict the events as seen by the Air-Traffic Controllers at various places while the evil plot of the day was unfolding . People viewing this masterpiece will be totally gripped by the action scenes as the dastardly plot came about . The tension is thick and well shown . You feel that you can identify with those passengers and attendants as they made those tragic cell phone calls to relatives to tell them how much they loved them . I was one who felt that it was too early to make such a movie . How wrong I was . This movie shall forever be in testament to the brave actions taken by those doomed souls on a day that will also live in infamy .
The Winner is This Wonderful The Oscar Film	Absolutely terrific film featuring Stephen Boyd in still another masterful performance . There are many similarities here to Boyd's work in comparison to his epic performance in " Ben-Hur . " In both films , he is a brute , ready to sacrifice anyone and anything in order to obtain his objective . Boyd showed the lust and grit that was needed for portraying Frankie Fane , a garment worker , who by fate falls into acting and an Oscar nomination . He is as ruthless as ever and his climb to the top comes about despite the people in his orbit , he will step on anyone . Equally good is his long-time pal Tony Bennett , in a straight dramatic role as Hymie Kelly . Kelly seems as confused but determined as ever . How can't he be with a father Joe Kelly and mother Sadie Rabinowitz ? Jill St . John is wonderful as the young tramp who dies tragically and there are wonderful turns by Milton Berle , as Frankie's long suffering agent as well as Eleanor Parker and Elke Sommer , the two women who made him only to be abused during his lust for recognition .
" Abe Lincoln in Illinois " Cinema Masterpiece	Raymond Massey earned his only Oscar nomination for " Abe Lincoln in Illinois . " Where was the academy fifteen years later when " East of Eden " debuted ? Massey was robbed of a supporting nomination but that's another story . Massey was Abe Lincoln . There is no doubt about that . His voice , his actions , his torment , his successes , tragedies et al-they were all so memorably delivered in a positively brilliant performance . We see Abe as a young man . Sadness pursues him with the early loss of his mother and later his wife-to-be Ann Rutledge . As a young lawyer , he meets the politically ambitious and cunning Mary Todd Lincoln . Ruth Gordon portrayed her in an absolutely brilliant performance . Look at your encyclopedia pictures of Mary Todd Lincoln . Her resemblance to Ruth Gordon is phenomenal . Todd , who at one time courted Lincoln's rival , Stephen Douglas , was a scheming , difficult woman . Gordon was sensational as she showed those traits . Who can forget the tantrum she threw when it appeared that Lincoln was losing the 1860 election when the first returns came in ? " Go home and tell your mother that I have been elected , " the memorable words spoken by Lincoln to his son when he became president-elect . A wonderful early biography of our nation's 16th president . Heartwarming and poignant , a tale for all the ages .
World War 1 Tearjerker as Wyman Shines Taking Care of Children	Remember Channel 9 in New York City ? So many times they would show the classic THE BLUE VEIL with Jane Wyman , Richard Carlson , Charles Laughton , Vivian Vance , Natalie Wood and Joan Blondell . It was part of what was known as THE MILLION DOLLAR MOVIE . Go know that this magnificent film would disappear . Jane Wyman is now past 90 years of age . It would be a tribute to her to show this outrageously good movie . While Wyman was nominated for best actress in it in 1951 , she lost to Vivien Leigh in A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE . Few people know that Wyman won the Golden Globe Award for best actress of the year for this remarkable film . The film pulls out every emotional stop imaginable in depicting the life of a woman who cares for other people's children . The film begins with a newly widowed World War 1 Wyman losing her child after giving birth . From that point on , the viewer is taken on an emotional roller-coaster , as the film shows every situation she encounters while caring for other people's children . Affectionately known as Lulu , Wyman is at her best . In tribute to the long career of Jane Wyman , this film should be released while she is still living . We should demand this . After all these years , I was able to obtain a copy and I saw this wonderful film the other day . The picture is even better after all these years . Wyman is better than terrific here . She always played the part of the victim in her pictures . Those sad-dreary eyes will get to you . After 56 years , my eyes filled up with tears . This is an unforgettable tear-jerker of the highest quality . They sure knew how to make pictures in those years . What a wonderful supporting cast . Wyman sacrifices her life to care for other people's children . How many women would do that in today's society ? The opportunity was there to marry for convenience . Please note the fabulous performance of Charles Laughton in a supporting role , as a lonely widower left with an infant . He is totally out of his usual domineering character here . His performance is marvelous and well understated . Natalie Wood is just fine as Stephanie . She will also tug at your heart when she refers to Lulu ( Wyman ) as her mother when her own mother , played by nominated supporting actress Joan Blondell fails to arrive at her communion .
Worthy Sequel to Going My WAy	Believe it or not , I liked The Bells of St . Mary's even better than Going My Way . Bing Crosby , once again was Father O'Malley , in a new parish , with new problems and in competition with the Sister , in a wonderful performance by Ingrid Bergman . There is the expansion of the school to contend with . Then , there is Patsy , a troubled child . When she does not pass her graduation exams , will that lead to further conflict between Crosby and Bergman ? Crosby and Bergman were nominated for Oscars but did not win and the picture was not proclaimed the best by the motion picture Academy , the award going to The Lost Weekend instead . When Bergman is suddenly transferred , she feels that this is being done due to the fact that O'Malley doesn't like her . It is only at the last minute that Bergman is informed that she has to leave as she has tuberculosis . The picture ends and we feel that we have just seen a great film , regardless of race and religion , we are left with such a positive , good feeling .
These Are Really Dames ! The Women	Highest rating for this superb version of the Clare Booth Luce film dealing with what gossip can do to happy people . 1939 was certainly a banner year for motion pictures . Amazing to me that " The Women " was not nominated for best picture . What a brilliant idea not to use men in the film but to refer to them constantly . What an all-star cast is prevalent is this grand production . The dialogue is snappy and absolutely first rate . The wonderful Norma Shearer is Mary Haines , whose marriage falls when she allows gossip by a manicurist to get the best of her . Joan Crawford is as viciously good as ever as Crystal Allen . Who can beat Roz Russell in the wonderful part of Sylvia Fowler . Mrs . Fowler , friends like her you never needed . A golden masterpiece of a treasure .
We're Off to See the Wizard-Go , Go , Go	. . . And to think , L . Frank Baum , the author of this classic , never lived to get the accolades that he deserved for writing such a masterpiece . The book was found by relatives go through his belongings following his death . To think , Shirley Temple couldn't get out of her contract to go to MGM . As a result , we got Judy as Dorothy . What a voice ! Singing Over the Rainbow , naturally , the best song of the year . To think , that Buddy Ebsen was allergic to his costume and had to bow out of the project . To think , Gale Sondergaard , having won an Oscar 3 years before , thought that the wicked witch part was beneath . Thanks Ms . Sondergaard . You made the biggest mistake of your illustrious career . As a result , we got Margaret Hamilton and the rest is history . To think that W . C . Fields and Mae West were first considered for the roles of the Wizard and Glinda . What comedy we would have had , but much less of a movie as a result . The film is super outstanding . It is primarily for children but adults can certainly learn regarding the human frailties . Poor Dorothy , caught in that Kansas tornado with Toto too ! Injured , she falls into a memorable dream and is transported to the land of Oz , filled with adventure and memories to last for a lifetime . A film to challenge our hearts and dare to dream your dreams that will come true . Some day I'll wish upon a star and wake up where the clouds are far behind me . Isn't it great to escape into a world of fantasy ? Trouble should only melt like lemon drops upon all , not only chimney tops . Why can't I fly beyond the rainbow ? See the film and get caught up in those magical moments .
Hell Hath No Fury Like A Scorned Olivia De Havilland	Olivia De Havilland would win her 2nd Oscar in 3 years for 1949's " The Heiress . " In this film she sacrificed her beauty to turn in a power-house performance as a woman victimized by her father , a nasty but truthful Ralph Richardson and gold-digger suitor , Morris , played well by Montgomery Clift . Richardson received a well deserved supporting Oscar nomination for his performance . Based on Henry James ' " Washington Square , " the film tells about Catherine , a plain looking woman , who is courted by Morris . When the two plan to get married , her father balks and in an emotionally charged scene , he warns Catherine that Morris is just out for her money and that if she married him , he would cut her off financially . When he makes good on the threat , Morris never shows up to take Catherine away . The disappointment and hurt on her face are memorable . When her father lies dying , Catherine sits across the street . She still harbors the resentment of being told the truth about her ugly-duckling look . With her father's death , Morris returns and supposedly expresses love for her again . Telling him to come back , the audience must have felt that Catherine is being the biggest fool ever . She has him come back only to extract bitter revenge and retreat to a life , ultimately that of a spinster . A well acted , well-crafted film .
Molly Brown-A True Survivor Never Sinks	Debbie Reynolds gives us everything in her rousing Oscar nominated performance for best actress in 1964's " The Unsinkable Molly Brown . " Raised in poverty , found after she was abandoned , Molly ( Debbie ) wants more out of life . We see the same desire for upward mobility as a George Eastman in " A Place in the Sun . " Naturally , for Reynolds , this desire is framed around this excellent musical . As she grows up , she meets her husband-to-be , an engaging Harve Presnell , whose great voice , as in his rendition I'll Never Say No Again is great . After they marry , Molly's accidental burning of the money she was hiding for safe-keeping is hilarious . In his anger , Johnny ( Presnell ) strikes gold purely by accident . This supposedly will lift the newlyweds to a new life filled with wealth . Unfortunately , it's not that simple . Uneducated and lacking polish , they are immediately rejected by Denver's socialite families . When they throw their own party , no one shows up with the exception of the faithful , kindly pastor . Her inability to move up socially will ultimately cause a separation from Johnny . Molly and her husband head off to Europe to become a cultured . They achieve this as she mingles with the elite of European society . Johnny wants to go home and when Molly refuses , the two part . Regarded well by her new friends , Molly decides to come home as her heart longs for John . History was apparently on Molly's side . She was on the Titanic and was credited for calming the hysterical women survivors during this disaster . Coming home , she is heralded by Denver's elite-including neighbor and arch enemy , Audrey Christie . ( Remember her as Natalie Wood's mother in " Splendor in the Grass ? " ) Naturally , Mrs . McGraw's ( Christie ) mother is Buttercup , a wonderful common Hermione Baddeley , who has become a good friend to the man who reared Molly - Ed Begley , in a gem of a performance with his full Irish brogue . The singing and dancing are great . The musical scene where the elite of Europe dance with the people of Denver is hilarious . A great film with a marvelous ensemble cast . A wonderful realization of social mobility in America . Did it really have to take the heroic efforts of Molly to establish herself among the elite of Denver ? Returning
Speed-Wonderful Bumpy Ride	If Bette Davis were alive when this marvelous action film was made , she would have certainly said to fasten your seat belts as we're in for a bumpy ride . What a wonderful bumpy ride it is . This is a fast paced , high action thriller . We have the usual lunatic mad bomber , this time played marvelously by Dennis Hopper , disgruntled and off his rocker , who plants bombs in elevators , buses and finally creates havoc on a train . Keanu Reeves is terrific as the cop who foils his plans at every turn along with Jeff Daniels . This is the latter's best film since he played the ill-fated son-in-law of Shirley MacLaine in the 1983 Oscar winner " Terms of Endearment . " Sandra Bullock turned in a fantastic performance as the woman on the bus who winds up having to drive it under such tense circumstances . If all action films were like this . Intelligently written , well acted , and a great story line to boot !
Delightful Talk with Day and Hudson	After a string of serious dramas , Rock Hudson broke out into comedy and showed his adeptness to it in 1959's " Pillow Talk . " As a swinging song writer , Rock was charming but nasty to the person that he shared a phone line with-Doris Day . The two really go at it as they accuse each other of monopolizing the phone . What they don't know is that they share a common friend , the ever great Tony Randall , a millionaire in this one , who can't seem to get Day to marry him . Doris is an interior decorator in this one and when she does the home of the wealthy Lee Patrick , son , Nick Adams , in a funny performance , gets drunk while with her at a local nightclub . As luck would have it , Hudson is in the next booth with his date , a lovely Julia Meade . He realizes that this is his enemy from the party line . Too woo her , he puts on a terrific Texas accent , which he may have learned from his role in " Giant , " and becomes Rex Stetson . You can imagine the hilarity when Day finds out who he really is . Along for the ride is Thelma Ritter , Day's maid , who portrays Alma , an alcoholic maid , ready to give good advice to all concerned . The dialogue is great . Randall hopes that Hudson will do great scoring when he loans him his weekend retreat in Connecticut . This was the only film that Doris Day was ever Oscar nominated for . Thelma Ritter received her 5th of 6 supporting nominations for this film . A classy movie , funny to watch , and a pleasure to view . You may even wish for cross-wires after seeing this great film .
The Nun's Story-Captivating and A Picture for Our Times	Audrey Hepburn was simply outstanding in 1959's " The Nun Story , " and should have received the best actress Oscar for it hands down . The first part of this outstanding film is devoted to what a woman must go through in the process of becoming a nun . Miss Hepburn enters the convent as Sister Luke and her calling is to aid others in the field of medicine . Her values conflict due to her intense dedication in the latter discipline as compared to what her religious obligations are . She received truly outstanding support from thespians Peggy Ashcroft and Dame Edith Evans . The latter turned in a positively riveting performance . Sent to Africa to help those less fortunate , Sister Luke meets up with Peter Finch , who portrays a dedicated physician . Unfortunately , a bout with tuberculosis sends her back to her native Belgium . This is just in time for the Nazi takeover of that country in the spring of 1940 . The ending of the film is absolutely superb . Unable to fulfill her obligations as a nun , Sister Luke is allowed to leave the convent . How she meticulously " loses " her convent life in the dressing scene is absolutely memorable . Her closing the door to this life as the picture ends will take your breath away . What is to become of her ? Will she aid the Belgian underground ? A phenomenal movie to be forever treasured .
Feeling Great With As Young As You Feel	You come away feeling great after seeing this 1951 gem . Notice that LaMar Trotti did the screenplay and co-starred Thelma Ritter and David Wayne . The three were together the following year in " With A Song in My Heart . " Note how Ritter acted almost in the way she did the following year in " Heart . " Notice again the references to Brooklyn in her early lines . This film is inspiring because in a comical way it covers some social issues that are pertinent today . A man , played by the wonderful Monty Woolley , protests when he is victimized by the mandatory age of retirement rule . He makes believe he is the head boss of the concern and gives a terrific speech calling for hard work , individual initiative and the end to forced retirements . The speech causes a huge success and leads to one of the boss's wives wanting to leave him to run off with Woolley . Constance Bennett is great as the woman whose marriage has lost its sparkle and husband , Albert Dekker , who is a constant worker . David Wayne and Jean Peters play the young lovers in this highly entertaining , enjoyable , feel-good movies of the early ' 50s . Notice a young Russ Tamblyn here as a teenage son of Dekker and Bennett's .
Courageous Heart-An Inspiration To Us All	A very fine holocaust film dealing with Irena Sendler's helping 2 , 500 Jewish children escape from the ghetto and face certain extermination . The film is quite a change for Anna Paquin , who shows she can act unlike her 1993 totally undeserved supporting Oscar win for " The Piano . " This excellent film shall serve as an inspiration to us all . Unfortunately , we could not discover what happened to many of the children after the war . Unfortunately , their parents must have perished . This is a film of great virtue , moral courage , the embodiment of a total triumph of the human spirit under such adversity . Marcia Gay Harden , a terrific actress , has the role of the mother . Despite the fact that her part is generally understated , Harden displays that rare virtue of a parent caught up in what is right in such an era of horror . Highly recommended .
Poignant Valley A Masterpiece	A Welch coal mining town ; impoverished as ever , but rich in family relations , is the theme for How Green Was My Valley , an outstanding picture . Those coal miners , suffering from black lung disease , are forever remembered with poverty etched on their faces . They work long days and have little for it . They work for an uncaring management . They go on strike with violence resulting . The cast is top-rate . Donald Crisp , as the patriarch , won a supporting Oscar for his performance . He is strict but understanding . His wife , astutely played by Irish theater actress , Sara Allgood , is superb . Her scenes with the striking workers , and with family are all memorably done . Allgood was nominated for best supporting actress and unfortunately lost to Mary Astor for " The Great Lie . " This was a travesty . Maureen O'Hara , as Anharyd , their loving daughter , who loves the town preacher , but yet never marries him . Instead , she marries into the family of the owner of the coal mine . The marriage is loveless and subject to criticism by the town gossips , who direct their attention to the kind wholesome preacher , admirably played by Walter Pigeon . " 37 years in the family , " Anharyd is constantly reminded of this head housekeeper , wonderfully realized by Ethel Griffies . Note her social snobbishness as she too looks down on the less fortunate . Speaking of social class distinction , the scenes where scholar Huw ( Roddy McDowall ) attend school are fantastically realized when he encounters children as well as a hostile teacher , all of whom despise Huw Morgan for being a member of coal miners . We're in an era of the picture where belonging to a union or just mentioning a union smacked of socialism . The whistle signifying an accident in the coal mine is forever haunting . How much can the Morgan family take ? The film is a tribute to coal miners and others working in hazardous industries . The warmth of family surrounded by poverty is another theme dealt well in this film . You will just burst out crying when Allgood , at the mine when her husband is killed , speaks out that her dead son , along with her husband , came to her . " My father never died , " says Huw . Such is also true of this magnificent film . It must be remembered that How Green Was My Valley was voted best picture of 1941 by the Motion Picture Academy . It beat out Citizen Kane , regarded by many as the best film ever made . To me , the academy made the right choice , politics aside . We all know family values and we can value this true American classic .
Communism and Socialism Were Never As Good As This	A definite film for history buffs and others . " Reds " tells the story of American journalist Jack Reed and Louise Bryant , a woman who gave up everything she had in America , and followed the Communist reporter Reid to the new Soviet Union . Excellent for its historic detail , the film also shows the rise of socialism in America as Paul Sorvino is quite effective in one scene depicting this . Then , of course , we have Communist sympathizers such as Eugene O'Neill played , in an Oscar nominated performance , by Jack Nicholson . Director Warren Beatty plays Jack Reed and Diane Keaton is Louise Bryant . They are perfect together . They are the " Bonnie and Clyde " goes Communist gang . Emma Goldman , a noted anarchist of the period , is played in a well-crafted performance by Maureen Stapleton . She soon comes disillusioned with life in the Soviet Union and says that she is getting out . Interestingly enough , perennial Oscar losers Warren Beatty and Maureen Stapleton won Oscars-Beatty for his fine directing . He did lose the acting award . Stapleton , as Goldman , surprisingly beat out the late Joan Hackett in " Only When I Laugh " for the supporting actress award . It looked like a big night for " Reds " but it lost the coveted best picture award to " Chariots of Fire . " There are wrenching scenes in this fine historical drama that depict Reed's illness and Bryant's devotion to her dying husband . The end of the movie says it all .
The Goldbergs - What Wonderful Memories of a Bygone Era	What a great show in the middle of the 20th century ! Not only did Gertrude Berg star , but she also wrote the material for the show . She was a wonderful actress and her sudden passing , just before Rosh Hashanah , in 1966 , was a terrible shock to all . The show depicted a typical Jewish family living in the Bronx in the 1950s . Molly may have been harried but she was always on the ball . " Yoo hoo , Mrs . Bloom , " was my favorite as the 2 women stuck their heads out to converse . The door bell of that apartment never stopped ringing . People came in and out and would sit down to dinner as if it were nothing to invite themselves in . Gertrude Berg ( Molly ) had a kind Jewish heart and that was usually reflected by the rest of the cast . Her husband , Jake , worked in the garment industry in Manhattan . When he would come home , in a bad mood , watch out . Remember , " Jake , your liver is on the table ? " The show was up-to-date . As many Jewish families moved from the Bronx in the middle and late 1950s , the Goldbergs moved as well to Forest Hills in Queens . The show was nostalgic and was a testimony to Jewish people of that era . Too bad we can't sit down with some chicken soup , gefilte fish et al and watch some reruns .
Loretta Young - " Thank You John "	In 1953 Loretta Young left films and ventured to television . Remember how she would come out on the screen in elegant gowns ? She would thank John , the man who introduced her . This television series was an anthology . Loretta tackled a different role each week . Most of the shows were dramas but Ms . Young had the ability to do comedy as well . She really did some fine acting here . I vividly remember the show where she played a woman dying of a brain tumor . I'll never forget when she met the priest by the gate and said that she wasn't Catholic but was dying . How about the one where the principal of a school visits her home at the end of summer vacation . She is the typical spinster teacher here . The principal tells her of his archaeological adventures that summer . When she comes back from making him tea in the kitchen , she discovers him dead . The whole town engages in vicious gossip on what must have been going on between the 2 . I'll also not forget when Walter Slezak appeared as Emil Kronstadt , a chemistry or physics teacher who told a child not to wear falsies . Still another memorable episode was where Loretta comforted her next door neighbor when the latter lost his wife in a hit and run accident . The opening music to the show was marvelous as Loretta waltzed in . She gave us some wonderful memories !
We All Loved Lucy	Memorable comedy show of the 1950s . How daring of Lucille Ball to go on television with her Cuban born husband , Desi Arnaz , in 1951 . CBS took a bold step and the dividends certainly paid off . Even though they didn't get along at all off the cameras , Vivian Vance and William Frawley were the perfect neighbors for Lucy and Desi . It was Ethel who was also a part of Lucy's hair-brained schemes . Lucy always wanted to break into show business . Lucy was jealous of Desi . One show was where Lucy thought that Desi was going to kill her . Naturally , the classic shows was where Lucy advertised a vitamin , stepped on grapes , got her head caught in a vase , met various stars , and would be told by Desi to start ' splaining . Fred Mertz ( Frawley ) did a great imitation of Jack Benny's cheapness . Remember Mrs . Trumbull , the landlady ? She was played by Elizabeth Patterson , a veteran actress who played just about everyone's mother in Hollywood . How can we forget the panic that ensued when Lucy told Desi that she was ready to give birth ? We sure loved Lucy .
It's A Wonderful Life for the Life of Reilly	William Bendix and Marjorie Reynolds provided the right chemistry for the television comedy hit , " The Life of Reilly . " Bendix was sort of an Archie Bunker without the bigotry in this show . Marjorie Reynolds , who left motion pictures , to pursue this show , was the perfect foil for Riley's trials and tribulations . Their wonderful children Babs and Junior always figured well in the various plots . The goal of the show was to show that you just can't win . What perfect casting for the next door neighbors Jim and Honeybee . Tom D'Andrea and Joan Blondell's sister , Gloria , fit the bill perfectly . James Gleason would sometimes appear as Riley's cantankerous but yet good natured dad .
There's No Picture Like This One	Ethel Merman and Dan Dailey - a perfect movie couple in the rousing There's No Business Like Show Business . The Donahues sing on the stage and raise a family along the way . As adults , Johnny Ray , who could really act as well as sing , chooses the priesthood . Mitzi Gaynor is on stage , but she soon weds and a child follows ( after the appropriate time ) The problem is Donald O'Connor . In trouble as a child , he is definitely the difficult one . He grows up and meets showgirl Marilyn Monroe , who is just perfect here . He gets into a car wreck before his big break on stage can take place . Admonished by Dailey , who slaps him across the pace , O'Connor disappears . Dailey hopelessly searches for him . The end when the family is reunited will make you shed plenty of tears . The chemistry between Merman and Dailey is perfect-far better than what I had in high school . Seriously , their musical talents are greatly depicted . Merman belts out the title song as no one else can . This is one great musical family and film .
La Strada A Road to Pure Excellence	Memorable super outstanding film of a strongman's cruelty towards a woman that he has purchased . Anthony Quinn gives a memorable brilliant performance as the Zampano , the strongman . He shows animal-like instincts rarely seen on the screen . Giulietta Masina's performance as the simpleton is picture-perfect . She utterly evokes sympathy as a simpleton beyond belief . She may be simple but she is tragically looking for love to a strongman who thinks of it as nothing to hurt her in any way that he can . Richard Basehart , in an engaging performance , plays the fool of the circus . Yet , is he really this ? The sadness seen on Masina's face is unbelievable . She cries out for compassion and for survival which fate has decided shall not be hers . Scenes of the tormented Quinn are beyond the realm of human understanding . When he returns after a year's absence only to learn of Masina's fate , he is wrought with destruction as a totally broken man . In 1954 the Motion Picture Academy would not allow actors in foreign films to be nominated in Acting categories . Had this been permitted , both Quinn and Masina would have certainly won Oscars . The film established Federica Fellini , Masina's husband , as a master director . A totally powerful film-never to be forgotten .
FBI STORY - Fasten Your Seat Belts-You're in For A Great Ride	Marvelous James Stewart , Vera Miles vehicle . What makes this historical film dealing with the FBI so good is the family element that is involved during a 35 year career as depicted by Stewart in the film . The film shows a history of the great investigatory agency . It deals with airplane bomb plots , killing off of Indians in Oklahoma for real estate gain , fighting organized crime , Nazis and Communists in that order . The human element is never far behind as Stewart weds Vera Miles . They raise 3 children as Miles ' heart goes out each time Stewart goes out on assignment . Look for a brief but memorable performance by Murray Hamilton . Years later , he appeared as Mr . Robinson in 1967's " The Graduate . " The film has nothing but praise for J . Edgar Hoover . He certainly brought the FBI up to par . True , this could be viewed as right-wing propaganda , especially with Stewart's real-life Republican views , but it's well done , historically informative , and the view of the family so well depicted .
Fronting For A Great Film	Woody Allen acts but does not direct this excellent depiction of the McCarthy Era blacklisting in " The Front . " He plays his typical neurotic way until he is asked to front for blacklisted writers . The money comes in and all is well for Allen . We meet the people that he is fronting for . We also meet Zero Mostel , in an excellent supporting role , as a blacklisted comedian , Hecky Green , who begs for work and throws himself out a window as a result . The scene where Allen is afraid to attend his funeral , since the FBI is taping who is entering the funeral parlor , is memorable . Allen is asked to appear before the House UnAmerican Activities Committee to name names . What he said in that scene will forever be etched in the minds of movie-goers . A marvelously , well-acted movie on one of the greatest tragedies in our nation's history . This movie dealt with how blacklisting ruined the lives of so many people in the entertainment industry . Walter Bernstein , who was blacklisted in real life , wrote the screenplay for this film . No wonder why it was so good . He wrote from personal experience and therefore from the heart .
Prime Time for Maggie Smith	Maggie Smith , in a totally memorable Oscar winning performance , shines in " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie . " As a popular teacher in an all girls school in Europe during the 1930s , Smith brilliantly etched an unforgettable spinster teacher who believes that she is in her prime until it is literally stolen from her by one of her students . Smith's portrayal of the teacher was memorable every step along the way . Veteran Celia Johnson was outstanding as the school principal whose jealousy of Brodie's popularity makes her determined to get rid of her . She will try anything in her power to accomplish that . There's no tenure so you would wonder why it was so hard to accomplish that . Nevertheless , Johnson's headmistress is mean and calculating . She is just waiting for the right moment to get rid of this teacher . Stilted in the picture is fellow teacher , Robert Stephens , who Brodie loved but did not marry . He generated no passion whatsoever on the screen . However , this is Smith's picture and she makes it that way by her dominant presence . Her Oscar win , extremely well deserved , was not anticipated as the picture was shown so early in the year . It was thought that the statue would go to either Jane Fonda for " They Shoot Horses , Don't They ? " or Liza Minnelli , " The Sterile Cuckoo . " It is Brodie's love of fascism which is her downfall . Telling her students to fight for Il Duce , one naive child runs away to join her brother who ironically is fighting for the opposite side . Fate intervenes and the child is killed when the train is bombed . Brodie's showing of Mussolini propaganda films falls right into the hands of Johnson , who drives her out with the aid of another pupil who steals Stephens away from her . A great , memorable film .
A Song for All Our Hearts	This rousing tribute to singer Jane Froman succeeds at every level and why not ? With a brilliant cast led by the great Susan Hayward , how can anything else be true ? Though Froman did the singing , Hayward's dubbing and movements of Froman were outstanding . She merited a well earned Oscar nomination for best actress in 1952 . The film begins with Froman , a co-ed from Missouri U , auditioning for radio . By accident , she meets a fellow-want-to-be in showbusiness , Don Ross , wonderfully played by David Wayne , a very under-rated actor for his time . Wayne is highly believable helping Froman to the top , loving her and then after marriage , turning on her as his career wanes . A sinking marriage is temporarily quieted by a tragic plane crash which occurs at the height of Froman's career in 1943 . Only 15 of the 39 passengers aboard survived . The crash and hospitalization allowed Froman to meet and fall in love with pilot , John Byrne , competently acted by Rory Calhoun , a cowboy favorite . Thelma Ritter is outstanding as the wisecracking nurse Clancy . Nominated for best supporting actress , Ritter certainly should have won for her ability to go from wise-cracking to a no-nonsense nurse , who tells a complaining hospitalized Froman that she stayed with her because she had guts . The musical numbers are fantastic . Hayward , in the rendition of Get Happy , with that gorgeous red dress , is phenomenal . The Blue Moon sequence is terrific and the dancing sequence , while singing the title song , will forever be memorable to all . The end of the film is a salute to our fighting men and nation . Our states are saluted in this grand film !
" Diary of A Lifetime "	No words are adequate enough to express the emotion that I feel each time I see this harrowing account of Jewish people hiding from Nazi terror in Holland . I read that Director George Stevens assembled his cast to live in those quarters for a certain amount of time so as to get the idea of what confinement might actually mean . Joseph Schildkraut gave a memorable performance . Where was his Oscar nomination ? Were Academy voters afraid that if he had been nominated , he might have defeated Charlton Heston in " Ben-Hur ? " Ed Wynn brought comic relief with a gem of a dramatic performance as the condemned dentist . His losing the Oscar for best supporting actor was a slap in the face , especially for his many years in show business . Similarly , Lou Jacobi gave a tremendous performance as Shelley Winters ' long suffering husband . ( Who remembers Hugh Griffith in " Ben-Hur ? " ) Few remember that he was the best supporting actor that year for the latter film . What a great musical score reaching its height as the " fugitives " are about to be rounded up . That farewell kiss between Richard Beymer and Millie Perkins was wonderful .
" Peyton Place Sizzles "	An all-star cast have a field day in this excellent adaptation of Grace Metalious ' novel . There is so much going on in this town and it is told well with wonderful acting and 5 acting Oscar nominations to boot . Constance MacKenzie settled in this town after her husband allegedly died and is raising a daughter , Alison , while the proprietor of a dress shop . Truth is that Alison is illegitimate . Constance is soon courted by the town's young new high principal , Michael Rossi played well by newcomer Lee Philips . The position of principal was supposed to go to veteran pedagogue Elsie Thornton . ( a wonderfully spinster-like performance by Mildred Dunnock who specialized in these roles . ) As is so true in life , a school board stepped in and used Thornton's age to thwart her appointment for the supposedly young , dynamic Rossi . Dunnock conveyed the right stuff in depicting her disappointment but her determination to continue her commitment to teaching . Alison's best friend , played by Hope Lange , comes from a dysfunctional family . Her emotionally wrought mother is victimized by a second husband , played with a fantastic sadistic quality by Arthur Kennedy . Alison is Diane Varsi and Lange's mom is Bette Field , who eventually kills herself . Town gossips and other vicious people reside in the town . Dr . Lucas Swain , a marvelous Lloyd Nolan , will come to the aid of Lange , when she is accused of killing her stepfather Kennedy . Lange's scenes on the witness stand are believable and Nolan is at his best in his condemnation scene of the town . Russ Tamblyn put away his dancing shoes and stars as the boyfriend of Selena Cross ( Lange ) . Victimized by an overbearing mother , Tamblyn showed he could do some fine dramatic acting . With all this , we have a fine Lana Turner performance as Constance MacKenzie . A sexually suppressed woman , afraid of a romantic involvement in her life , Turner turned in a powerhouse performance . Lana Turner was nominated for best actress and supporting nominations went to Tamblyn , Kennedy , Lange and Varsi . While no one won the Oscar , their performances are memorable . A truly wonderful rendition of town life with the problems of gossiping pursued .
The Last Angry Man-End of An Era	Remember when doctors made house calls and were totally dedicated to their patients ? Paul Muni sure was that and a lot more in " The Last Angry Man . " Working and living in a depressed neighborhood , Muni was the embodiment of what medicine is supposed to be all about . When he took the Hippocratic Oath , he meant it . Muni as the crusty but beloved doctor turned in a truly memorable performance . He received an Oscar nomination . Too bad it was the same year as Charlton Heston's winning portrayal of Judah Ben-Hur . They sure don't make doctors like that anymore . A definite requirement for new doctors and HMOs to watch . The film is absolutely terrific as it embodies the ideals of what it means to be a dedicated doctor caught up in a world of physicians in it for the precious dollar . Steadfast in his beliefs , Muni gave a brilliant performance . He would never compromise his ideals and would always say that so and so is my patient . Just before his untimely demise , he sees that even a violent criminal may yet have some good left in him . This film is a definite call for the positive in humanity . David Wayne is tremendous as the television producer . He hadn't had such a good part since playing opposite Susan Hayward in 1952's " With A Song in My Heart . " As Dr . Vogel , Luther Adler showed what the medical profession has come to , but yet shows what it means to be a doctor when his beloved friend is stricken .
Majority of A Fabulous One - Brooklyn Vs . the Orient a Memorable Film	Absolutely fabulous film showcasing the brilliant acting talents of Rosalind Russell , as a bitter Jewish widow , who lost a son to World War 11 , finding happiness and possible romance with a Japanese businessman , Alec Guiness , who also has suffered war losses . The film should certainly have been honored for promoting racial and religious understanding . After criticizing a nosy neighbor , Mae Questel , in a fine performance , for wanting to move out of the neighborhood when minorities move in , the daughter and son-in-law have to confront their own prejudices when it appears that romance might just well be blossoming . Ray Danton shows a tremendous maturity 6 years after his fine performance in " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " With a larger part here , Danton was able to show his versatility in moving from comedy to drama within this film . The film depicts cultural understanding as well as religious toleration .
Great Spy Caper , Superbly Done	Klein's Book Store ? Elsa Gowns ? What's going on in these 2 places of business ? Probably not much , unless you're part of a Nazi spy ring operating in New York City before World War 11 in this great picture . William Eythe , who died too young , is a terrific student who informs the FBI when he is asked to join a Nazi spy ring . He enters the world of counter espionage . Lloyd Nolan , as the head of the bureau , is fabulous . As for the spies , there is no one like Elsa , proprietor of Elsa Gowns , played by Swedish actress Signe Hasso . Her German accent is authentic all the way . She is really something , the devil in disguise of a woman . Not one of her counterparts even knows who Mr . Christopher is . They will not know until the end of this film and what a surprise that is . A frightening , unforgettable look at the trash known as Nazis operating in this country , whether it was through spy rings or German Bund of the 1930s .
This Series Takes No Back Stairs to Anything	Outstanding . Superlative . Out of this world . No other words seem adequate regarding this magnificent series . I am a retired social studies teacher . This series would have been so perfect for my grade 8 history students . It was so rich in history and personal emotions . As far as the Emmy awards go , Backstairs should have tied with Roots for the best mini-series of the season . The acting was outstanding . Robert Vaughn brought the perfect touch to Woodrow Wilson . Whoever thought that the character of Florence Harding , who died in 1924 , under mysterious conditions was so interesting ? Celeste Holm was simply memorable as Mrs . Harding . Eileen Heckart was memorable as Eleanor Roosevelt . Lee Grant brought the perfect touch to Grace Coolidge . Julie Harris set the tone as Nellie Taft . Actresses Olivia Cole and Leslie Uggams , in a totally non-singing role , were just fabulous as the mother and daughter who worked for so many years at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave . This is another Best Years Of Our Lives . We all realize the sacrifices that were made during the extremely informative period of history . We are also shown that the White House was a scene of constant tragedy mixed with a total triumph of the human spirit . We need more series of this quality .
Move Over , Darling-What's the Guy Supposed to do ?	Absolutely hysterical film dealing with a guy , James Garner , who remarries only to find out that very day that first wife , Doris Day , has survived a plane crash in the jungle and has come home to him . Polly Bergen is just sensational as the 2nd wife caught up in all the mayhem . James Garner , who costarred with Day later on in " The Thrill of It All , " is very good here as the victimized husband who may very well have an ax to grind himself . What was Day doing all those years on an island with Chuck Connors ? The picture also allowed a re-teaming of Day with Thelma Ritter from 1959's " Pillow Talk . " The always wonderful Ritter fits in beautifully in the mother-in-law role . Acting kudos to Edgar Buchanan as the harried judge and to Fred Clark , the hotel guy who must put up with the antics of Garner , Day and Bergen in the hotel . Day must have taken lessons from Loretta Young in giving an authentic Swedish accent in several scenes . Going Swedish gave Loretta a 1947 Oscar for " The Farmer's Daughter . " Too bad that Garner , Day , Bergen and Buchanan were not considered for Oscars .
Imitation of Life Just That - But An Excellent Imitation it is	and bravo to this great 1959 film dealing with 2 poverty stricken women who meet ; one becomes a famous actress , the other works for her . Successful in their lives , they are not successful with dealing with their respective daughters . Lana Turner was great as the actress and Juanita Moore , her maid , who is kind and beloved by all , only to be unable to deal with her daughter , terrifically played by Golden Globe supporting winner Susan Kohner . ( Kohner would lose the coveted Oscar to Shelley Winters for The Diary of Anne Frank . ) The daughter , who is light skinned , is ashamed of her black identity and tries to hide it at any cost . Who can forget the scene in school when she tried to hide from her mother in the classroom ? With her success , the actress who Ms . Turner portrays , can't handle her daughter , played effectively by Sandra Dee . Dee falls for Turner's boyfriend and Turner can't deal with her rebelliousness . The hysterical ending with the Moore character dying and the daughter running up to the coffin pulls out every emotional stop possible . Kohner and Moore were nominated for best supporting actress . They probably divided the Oscar ballots between them . The film , which calls for racial understanding , was quite an achievement for 1959 . The film producers were concerned how the picture would be viewed down south . It turned out that they did not have to worry .
A Hole in the Head Makes A Hole in One !	Hilarious comedy where Florida hotel owner Frank Sinatra , a widower , with a precocious young son , ( an adorable Eddie Hodges ) can't seem to get a handle on life . A compulsive gambler , he is about to lose everything . Edward G . Robinson steals the show as Sinatra's old brother , a clothing store owner in New York , who is forced to come to Florida to help his debt ridden brother out . Robinson's wife is played with genuine comedy ability by the wonderful Thelma Ritter . This was one of Robinson's few portrayals in comic pictures , and he succeeds beyond belief . Carolyn Jones portrays the girl after Sinatra , a nasty woman who will do just about anything . Eleanor Parker is simply marvelous in a supporting role as Mrs . Rogers , a widow who is a friend of Ritter , and therefore a likely match for Sinatra . The picture has everything going for it including the Oscar-winning song High Hopes sung by Sinatra and Hodges in a memorable scene . There are laughs by the minute with Robinson also trying to get away from his adult son , Julius , the latter spending his days using a hula hoop . When Mrs . Rogers is introduced to Sinatra , Robinson says : " I understand that your husband died and left you a couple of bucks ! " A simply great family film affair memorably played by all . You'll feel good after seeing this one .
Talk of the Town Worth Any Gossip	Superb film dealing with capital punishment but told in comic fashion . It deals with escapee Cary Grant seeking refuge in the home of Jean Arthur . Arthur , in turn , has rented the home to legal expert Colman who goes solely by the book . Before Colman realizes who Grant is , he forms a true friendship with him and does not exactly go by the letter of the law when he tries to exonerate his friend in this screwball comedy . In the interim , the president has nominated Colman to the Supreme Court . There is an absolute delicious sense of humor here . The dialogue is in top form as are the 3 actors . You are kept guessing who Arthur will wind up with at the end which is most satisfying . There is a great lesson to be learned here regarding mob rule . Those against capital punishment will truly relish this superior production of a film .
A Vip Movie !	Both Rock and Doris are caught up in the VIP madness . Trouble is that no one knows what VIP actually is . You see that Rock made it all up to get Edie Adams off his back . Unfortunately , his " crazy " boss , Tony Randall , doesn't know this and as a result the hilarity begins . Rock Hudson excelled in comedy roles when he would be imitating others so as to fool Doris Day . Remember Rex Stetson in another Rock and Doris film ? As Jerry Webster , the advertising Casanova in this film , Rock gave a totally memorable performance . Doris plays Carol Templeton , a devoted advertising executive who can no longer stand losing accounts to Jerry , since he knows how to wine , dine and bed prospective clients . The dialogue is crisp and riotous at best . Edie Adams as Rebel will make you laugh out loud with a darling southern accent . Jack Kruschen has his moments as the embittered chemist who can be bought . Interesting to note that both Adams and Kruschen appeared together the year before in " The Apartment . " As is the case with this film as well , they weren't in any scenes together . A romp in every sense of the word .
Three Came Home Is A Film for Our Times	In 1944's " Since You Went Away , " Claudette Colbert suffered at the home front . Now , 6 years later , she is a prisoner of war in Borneo . An excellent depiction of what these people went through in Japanese prison camps when their territory was occupied during World War 11 . Colbert gave still another excellent performance as a writer interned who braved Japanese savagery and survived . Sessue Hayakawa is marvelous as the Japanese commander torn between having a heart and dictating the traditional Japanese methods of brutality . His heart rendering performance truly reaches a climax at the film's end . Due to his long separation from his wife , the role of the husband for Colbert is not given the opportunity to fully express himself . Patric Knowles was unable to develop his part .
This Is No Secret-A Wonderful Film	This marvelous 1950 film deals with 3 women who gave up their baby boy for adoption . 5 years later , the child is involved in a plane crash that killed his parents . Each of the women believe that the boy is theirs . Patricia Neal , as one of the women , is a hard-nosed reporter . As with the others , the film goes back to show the situation that would lead them to give up the baby . Neal had divorced her husband only to learn that she was a reporter . A career woman , she could never care for a child or hold on to her marriage . Then there is Ruth Roman who went to prison for killing her boyfriend . The latter wanted her to have an abortion when she told him of her pregnancy . Eleanor Parker is a sweet woman who gave up an illegitimate child and is now happily married . You're rooting for Parker to be the mother . She can provide the boy with the proper upbringing . True , it will mean that she will have to tell her husband about her past , but she can provide the right nurturing environment . Of course , the 3 women will come to the mountain area where the boy is in the plane . Neal will have to use her paper connections to get to who the real mother is . As a reader , please connect to this film via your video store . It's well worth the trip . Naturally , each of the women
Add Classy to this Woman of Character : Excellent Documentary	The great entertainer Carol Burnett was highlighted in this wonderful documentary about her life . Burnett succeeded in all phases of her career because she was always willing to tackle something new and she possesses that down-to-earth charm . She is one of the people . She has no false illusions about herself . Dedicated to her craft , Burnett will always be remembered for the many outstanding characters she gave us during the period of her 11 year television show . She has coped with an amazing difficult life as a youngster and personal tragedies in her adult life . She knew how to work with people and had a marvelous supporting cast on her television show .
Sergeant York - A General for All Films	Superb biography of Alvin York , a drunkard in old Tennessee , who experiences a revelation and becomes a Lord fearing individual . His religious beliefs are put to the test when he drafted into the army with the outbreak of World War 1 . He faces a moral dilemma with his conscientious objector's beliefs , only to go to the military and become quite a war hero at the Battle of the Argonne Forest . No wonder that Gary Cooper received the best actor Oscar award for his genuine performance in totally capturing the spirit of Alvin York . Though ably supported by a wonderful cast , Cooper is literally a one-man show here . Am very surprised that Walter Brennan and Margaret Wycherly received Oscar nominations here . Their performances were not Oscar-worthy and in the case of Brennan , Donald Crisp was far better in his winning performance of " How Green Was My Valley . " Otherwise , this is a superb film capturing the human spirit . As for Gary Cooper , aw shucks , he was never better .
Pocketful of Wonderful Miracles	Glenn Ford and the late Hope Lange in a comedy with Bette Davis taking a supporting role . Interesting enough , this crowd pleaser works quite well . Dave The Dude ( Ford ) is a gangster on the verge of making a big deal . Dave is superstitious . He always must get an apple from that vagrant-looking Davis . Davis , as Apple Annie , was phenomenal in this film . She acts just like an old broken down bag-lady . She does it with a finesse . ( Is it really possible to have a refined bag-lady , you bet it is . ) Anyway , it appears that Davis has a daughter living abroad all these years . Ann-Margret is she and the latter thinks that her mother is high society . Trouble now is that Ann is getting engaged to a count and they're coming to New York to look mom over . Dave and his girlfriend , Lange , fix up Davis to make her look like a dowager . They even provide a husband for her-Thomas Mitchell ! As if this isn't funny enough , we have Peter Falk , in a truly worthy Oscar nominated supporting performance , as Dave's sidekick who can't fathom what is going on . Edward Everett Horton is the butler who can't take bad endings . Fortunately , for him , the film has anything but that kind of ending . It's up-beat down to the last laugh . When " the kids " sail away , Apple Annie resorts to her old ways by even announcing that her prices have gone up to her faithful friends . A romp and memorable film .
The Russell Girl is An Endearing Film	Outstanding film dealing with relationships , human tragedy and the rebounding of the human spirit . The film sports 2 outstanding performances by heroine Amber Tamblyn , a Macy's buyer , who has been accepted to Northwestern University , to pursue a medical profession only to discover that she has an aggressive form of leukemia and Jennifer Ehle , as Lorraine . 6 years earlier while babysitting for a one year old daughter , the Tamblyn character was distracted by the antics of the baby's two older brothers with tragedy ensuing . This tragedy has caused Lorraine to become an embittered , emotionally wrought woman who is doing an excellent job of alienating both her husband and sons . Upon receiving this terrible diagnosis , Tamblyn ( Sarah ) rushes home to her parents and brother who bring her the news of her Northwestern acceptance . Unable to tell them the terrible news , the movie becomes one of interpersonal relationships among the cast including Sarah's former boyfriend , who has returned home to tend to his stroke victim father . This film is definitely a triumph of the human spirit through perseverance and courage . The film shows how in adversity people can come together . I highly recommend it .
Remake of 1939's " The Women " Shines "	June Allyson tackles the Norma Shearer role of " The Women " in the 1956 remake of " The Opposite Sex . " The former film did not show any men , but the latter sure did . Allyson , a retired singer , is happily married to Leslie Nielsen . Vicious gossips led by Colleen Gray soon end that . A quickie divorce in Nevada throws Nielsen into the arms of vicious show-girl Joan Collins . Her room-mate was played by the late Carolyn Jones . Jones is wasted in her part . She could be vicious in films , but we don't see this here . Waiting for a divorce in Nevada for 6 weeks brings Allyson with a whole group of women . She is soon joined by Gray whose husband , the late Bill Goodwin , has been unfaithful . On the home front we have Joan Blondell , married and forever pregnant and Anne Sheridan in the pivotal role of Allyson's dear friend and writer . Sheridan tries to get Allyson to revoke the divorce . Before this can be done , Nielsen calls to say that he has wed Collins . Despondent , after a year , Allyson learns that Nielsen is unhappy . Outrageously , Collins in carrying on with Buck , a cowboy singer , who was discovered by Gray out in Nevada and brought back to N . Y . You have to see this one to see how Allyson gets Nielsen back . The women are clever and cunning in this one . Great fun , and it's set with a musical too .
The Pianist - Destruction Hits A Memorable Chord	Surprise Oscar winner Adrien Brody is magnificent in Roman Polanski's " The Pianist . " ( It was thought by the experts that Daniel Day Lewis would win the award for " Gangs of New York . " ) Polanski's win was a surprise since the conventional wisdom had Martin Scorsese for " Gangs " winning the directing award as well . This tremendous holocaust film deals with the destruction of a family . The scene where a family had its wheelchair bound member tossed from a window and then shot as they ran was eerie and never to be forgotten . As a marvelous piano player , Brody captured the role with depth and a strong conviction . The scene where the family is placed on a train for their ultimate destiny can and must never be forgotten as well . From that point on , the focus of the picture becomes one of survival as Brody is able to elude the Nazi barbarians . A strong film in the tradition of " Schindler's List . " Surely , a film for humanity .
Defiantly Great	A totally absorbing film showing great acting talents of Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier as escapees from a chain gang . Chained together , they must get along to survive and conquer the racial prejudices that divide them so . Both actors received best actor nominations . For both being nominated , David Niven was given a gift that year of the best actor award for Separate Tables . Comedienne Cara Williams shines as a woman they meet while on the lamb . While her part is brief , Williams is gritty and was nominated for best supporting actress as well as sheriff Theodore Bikel , in the supporting category as well . His relentlessness in trying to capture the two is memorable . The film is truly an excellent character study . Its ending will have you stand up and cheering .
Going in Style Really is	A terrific gem of a film . Three elderly men are so bored with their lives that they rob a bank and actually get away with it for a while . The trio are all masterfully played by Art Carney , Lee Strasberg and George Burns . With the robbery behind them , it's time for vacation in flashy Las Vegas . Coming back to face the ultimate music , 2 of our " heroes " pass on and leave the rest of the story and the loot to the survivor . A sad but extremely effective commentary on retirement and old age . If you're contemplating retirement , miss this film until you know how you're going to spend your days .
Mother Teresa is A Spiritual Mother for All Seasons	Marvelous film showcasing the excellent acting talent of Olivia Hussey . Hard to believe that it's over 35 years since her 1968 interpretation of " Romeo and Juliet . " This is an extremely inspiring story of the nun who looked for the most simplicity of life in aiding the impoverished . Her dedication to the suffering of mankind is definitely an inspiration to us all . Not only does the picture beautifully capture what she must endure working among the impoverished , it also shows the problems that she goes through within the Catholic church , accusations of corruption and trying to accomplish her goals in a society that is not accustomed to handle what she wants done . Hussey is simply magnificent in the part of this saintly woman . She has her down to every movement of her walking , talking , etc . Too bad that the film did not bring out that Mother Teresa came from an affluent Albanian family . A wonderful film of the human spirit .
Holocaust Never to Forget	One of the most outstanding television mini-series that was ever made . Obviously , this won the Emmy for best mini-series and was truly well deserved . The story deals with the Weiss Family of Germany . They thought that they were true Germans never believing that they would be caught up in the madness of Hitler's Nazi Germany . Despite the warnings of Dr . Weiss's patient , Dorf , who quickly rises in the Nazi hierarchy , the Weiss Family remains in Germany as Hitler seized power and the nightmare for the Jewish people begins . This series made stars of Michael Moriarty . ( Dorf ) He plays the character drawn into the Nazi party with a chilling unfeeling for humanity rarely seen in movies . Dorf would be the typical character who would have said that he was forced into doing what he did since he was caught up in this period of frenzy . His ambitious , evil wife also helped push him into this way of life . Meryl Streep and James Woods also became well known as a result of this masterpiece production . Nothing was hidden in making this grand production . You see the kosher butcher stores fall victim to Kristallnacht-the night of breaking glass . You see victims being marched off to the gas chambers . This was certainly movie making at its best . Even the mini-series of todays are lacking in contact , interest and boldness of production .
Required for All Teachers	Finally , a realistic picture about teaching . Richard Dreyfuss is memorable as a new teacher in Mr . Holland's Opus . He begins a 30 year career as a music teacher in a large high school . He comes across his principal , Mrs . Jacobs , who demands a month of lesson plans in advance on her desk in the morning . Any teacher can understand what that is . Then , there is an assistant principal , devilishly played by , William H . Macy , who takes an instant dislike to Mr . Holland . He can't wait to " rat " him out to Mrs . Jacobs . Seeing that traditional teaching methods are not working , Holland tries unorthodox ways which of course riles Macy . The irony that a music teacher would have a child who is deaf . Beethoven could best understand that frustration . When Mrs . Jacobs informs Holland of her retirement , she says something to him that all teachers would love to hear : " You were my favorite teacher . " Of course , Macy becomes the principal and as the years pass , the two still have a contentious relationship , as their hair turns gray . Holland works on that forever opus and is almost ready to give everything up and run away with a student until common sense prevails . After 30 years , there are budget cuts and the Music Department will be eliminated . Sounds familiar in today's climate ? Mr . Holland will be forced into retirement but not before a rousing tribute by his present and former pupils . One very special student appears and it's a delight to see how far she has come . Richard Dreyfuss , in a memorable Oscar nominated performance , is magnificent . He conveys the ideals of a teacher and what we have to go through . This is truly a welcomed film for its reality and emotions shown .
Wallenberg : A Hero for All Seasons	Super outstanding film dealing with the exploits of Swedish diplomat , Raoul Wallenberg . He saved a great number of Hungarian Jews marked for extermination during the Holocaust . Richard Chamberlain was never better in any of his mini-series . Proudly nicknamed the king of mini-series , Chamberlain etched an unforgettable portrayal of this hero for all times . The story begins as Chamberlain , a young Swedish college student from an affluent family , mocks Adolf Hitler . Truth be told , the world didn't know the horrors that this all-time modern madman would heap on modern civilization . How Chamberlain ( Wallenberg ) ran with Swedish documents and passed them out to Hungarian Jews was memorable . Instantaneously , the Hungarian Jews were Swedish citizens and therefore protected under Swedish authority . Remember the miracle when , at the end of the war , many Hungarian Jews lost their protection and were placed in a barn that the Nazis were ready to blow up . Who can forget their faces as they huddled together and chanted the " shema " to sanctify the al-mighty's name ? It would be left to Wallenberg to rescue them at the last minute from certain death . Needless to say , the world was a much poorer place when Wallenberg was arrested by the Soviets , imprisoned , and never heard from again . He is certainly a leading member of the righteous-those Christians who risked their lives to save Jews during the darkest period of history in this century . Chamberlain gave a phenomenal performance which will long be remembered .
Remember the Day - Dewey A Winner Here	A marvelous film in the genre of Miss Dove , Mr . Chips and every wonderful teacher you ever had . The role was just perfect for Claudette Colbert . She really worked magic with co-star John Payne . This picture really offers Americana circa 1916 in Indiana . The embodiment of the school structure at that time is so well done . The obedient student , the prim and proper schoolteachers who dedicated their lives to teaching and nothing else . Nora Trinell ( Colbert ) is a dedicated , wonderful teacher but she goes against what society thought of as a role for teachers when she finds love with Payne . The " crisis " that leads to his dismissal and his ultimate redemption on the part of the principal is beautifully done here . For me , the picture was so good because Trinell reminded me of my grade 5 teacher who inspired me in the field of social sciences . Colbert , as the teacher who found love and tragically lost it , has one of her best film roles here . A caring person to her students , especially Dewey , she certainly tells the truth when she says that each year a teacher finds a student who she can really love as her own . Those words will forever stay with me . As the typical spinster teacher , Anne Revere , was wonderful . Prone to be a gossip , she embodied what society thought was the role of a teacher in this period . The ending will tug at your heart . Nostalgic and so wonderfully realized .
and More for Classic Comedy Film	Billy Wilder was really at the top of his game with this screwball comedy hit of 1959 . When loser-musicians Joe and Jerry ( Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon ) witness the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre in Chicago , they look to leave town at once . While in freezing Chicago , they seek out an opportunity to join an all girls ' band that's headed towards Florida . Our 2 heroes soon adopt the names of Josephine and Daphne and that's when the hilarity really begins . The film has a top-notch cast including Marilyn Monroe in the part that was made for her-Sugar Kowalski - a love stricken loser who loves to hit the booze to drown out her problems . Joyce Jameson , a frequent artist under Wilder , is in rare form as Sweet Sue , the head of the band . Joey E . Brown as the millionaire who falls for Daphne is just divine and George Raft , as Spats , the guy who is the head of the gang and after Josephine and Daphne , is in perfect form . Pat O'Brien is simply memorable as the chief of police . After a wonderful existence in hiding out in Florida , the 2 come face to face with the gang when the latter shows up there for a salute to the Friends of the Italian Opera . The writing is near perfect along with the performances . Curtis ' imitation of Cary Grant is memorable . " Some Like It Hot " should have been nominated for best picture in 1959 . It would have lost anyway to " Ben-Hur " but this film is truly a tribute to comedy . Anway , wasn't this better than the nominated " Anatomy of A Murder ? "
Best Deception Ever	This is one of the best Perry Mason films ever made . There is no question about it . Who would ever think that the murderer turned out to be a Simon Wiesenthal like character ? Even though , he has his usual girl-flirting William R . Moses is excellent here . He certainly takes on a more serious tone in a movie dealing with the holocaust . The constant twists in the plot are wonderfully exercised . Teresa Wright gives a memorable performance as a holocaust victim . Her chilling experience at the Maidanek Concentration Camp is excellently shown . As always , there are so many people that you can accuse of the murder here ? There was deception all around here but deception in this film was never better .
Delicious Box of Chocolates	Oscar-winning film of 1994 with an amazing award winning performance by Tom Hanks . It's the story of a slow young man who just seems to be in the right place while monumental events are taking place in this nation's history . Hanks has never been better . His slowness is beautifully realized and then audiences know that he is far from the slow person that he is attempting to depict . Sally Field , as his mother , is equally superb and should have been rewarded with at least a supporting Oscar nomination . It was amazing that the Academy overlooked her brilliant performance . Gary Sinise's performance as the soldier who ultimately is crippled is also splendid . Life is certainly like a box of chocolates . You know what you're going to get . With " Forrest Gump , " you will get the best of the best chocolates .
The King and I : All About A Great Film	Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner lit up the screen with this 1956 great film as English teacher , Anna , who takes a position as tutor to the king of Siam's children and along the way finds adventure and love , be it ever so brief . A widow , accompanied by her son , around the time of the American Civil War , Anna soon finds cultural differences exist to a great deal between the two societies . Yul Brynner , as the king , does a magnificent job depicting those differences . The music and dancing are enchanting though Marnie Nixon sings for Miss Kerr . Look for brief appearances by Rita Moreno as a young lover caught among the kingdoms social mores . " Getting to Know You , " a lovely tuneful song sets the mood for this charming , romantic , endearing film . Great picture for children as well . Be brave young lovers , so eloquently done , in a masterful production producing yet another Oscar losing nomination for Deborah Kerr . 1956 was a big year for Brynner . Besides this great film , where he received the best actor Oscar , he also appeared in " The Ten Commandments , " and " Anastasia . "
Great Point	Emma and Didi shine in this memorable film looking at the world of ballet . Moira Shearer , Anton Walbrook et al of " The Red Shoes " of 1948 would have certainly been proud of it . The ballet sequences are marvelously staged and beautifully realized by the cast . Anne Bancroft and Shirley MacLaine received best actress nominations in their respective roles . It is when Leslie Browne , who was nominated for best supporting actress , becomes a ballerina , that her mother ( MacLaine ) looks back at the career she gave up for marriage and family . She meets her old friend and rival-Bancroft-who pursued her career at the expense of never marrying . Mikhail Baryshnikov , the great Russian ballet dancer , is fabulous here and was even nominated for best supporting actor . " The Turning Point " received 11 Oscar nominations . It walked away with no awards . Was Hollywood's lack of culture shown here ?
Four Stars for this Queen	True to life . Durning and Stapleton , the chemistry is perfect . Durning and Stapleton are phenomenal . A story for our times . Such comments are more than adequate for this fine story . Bea Asher is widowed at middle age . She sings of her loneliness and the deprivation brought about by her husband's passing . Bea is about to settle down to a grim widowhood , when a waitress , in a restaurant , tells her that you start living once your husband has died . Though this statement is shocking , Bea goes with the woman to the Stardust Ballroom , a carefree lounge where couples dance to their pleasure . While there , Bea meets postman Al Green and the two are a match made up in heaven . Bea dances up a storm , changes that gray hair to bright red and becomes a live-wire not quite almost as Stapleton depicted in Woody Allen's " Interiors . " Life has more meaning now , despite the anger conveyed by her pristine daughter and sister , Helen , shown in a memorable scene by Charlotte Rae . The ending may be considered a downer but the author really had nowhere else to go . Available on DVD , see this film . It will warm your heart and get those shoes out for some fine dancing !
This Prime is Ready for Prime Time	Excellent . Often hilarious and poignant comedy regarding a therapist who has a patient , newly divorced , who is now seeing the therapist's 23 year old son . Meryl Streep is in terrific form as the hysterical Jewish therapist who knows how to give advice to others , but can't take what's going on . Of course , there are ethical issues here . Streep should have immediately stopped with the patient when she realized what was occurring . Brian Greenberg is tops as the 23 year old love-smitten youth and Uma Thurman delivers a grand performance as his 37 year old lover and patient of Dr . Metzger ( Streep ) We have some crisp dialogue here . We get one-liners such as Greenberg saying to Thurman on a Friday night , " Would you like to start observing the sabbath ? " Greenberg also tries to reassure his mother , who has to see a therapist herself once she finds out what is going on , by saying , " Mom , we're not living in the Warsaw Ghetto . We're on the upper west side and there are plenty of us here . " Streep relents and in another funny scene Thurman meets our typical Jewish family . The best scenes really occur between Thurman and Streep when the former discusses with the latter about the relationship . It becomes more hilarious when Streep realizes that it's her son who is involved . This is a story of the coming of adulthood and of forming and maintaining true relationships . While the ending may annoy some people , it is appropriate . We have seen the final scene before in these types of films . This film should not be missed . I highly recommend it .
Seattle Rain Doesn't Damper this Firewall Thriller	Wonderful thriller . It reminds me of the old Frederic March film - " The Desperate Hours . " The only difference is that this film deals with a bank and modern technology . The action and acting are both first rate . A man , claiming to be a bank executive , turns out to be the head of the gang terrorizing Ford and his wife and children . Harrison Ford shows depth in his acting and Virginia Madsen is great as his wife forced to cope in this hostage situation . The gang's plan begins to go awry as the bank had been sold a week before and new technology was brought in . A high speed chase only brings more excitement in this action packed film . Alan Arkin plays an aging executive who is suspicious of Ford's erratic behavior . A must see film . Excellent summer fanfare .
Harry Truman : A President for All Seasons	Outstanding biography of our nation's 33rd president . While it was becoming apparent that Harry Truman was failing at everything he did , when it came to the presidency , he succeeded more than anyone could imagine . The documentary showed how Truman went into politics thanks to Boss Pendergast . It depicted the dilemma that Truman found himself in . Wanting to do right as the county commissioner but tied to the strings of this malevolent boss . Truman may have been a footnote in senate history had it not been for his work on showing corruption in defense in the 1940s . The work that he did on the committee certainly caught the eye of President Roosevelt . Though it is said that Roosevelt didn't think much of Sen . Truman , it is hard to believe that despite Roosevelt's failing health , that he didn't care who the Democratic bosses picked as his running mate in 1944 . We have to say thank the Lord for the bosses . Had Vice President Henry Wallace been renominated for V . P . , this country would have been in a lot of difficulty . What a tumultuous presidency Truman would have with the threatened railroad strike , use of the a-bomb to end World War 11 , Berlin blockade and Korea . When Truman left office in 1953 , his approval rating was 32 % . History has judged him a lot better than that .
When Did Your Heart Turn to Desire ?	Hollywood rarely has chosen musicals as its best picture Oscar winners . In 1958 , they did , honoring Gigi with 9 Academy Awards . How well deserved this picture was . The great musical numbers by such an appealing , endearing cast can never be forgotten . From the title song , that also copped the Oscar to The Night they Invented Champagne , the film literally sparkles with such performances from Leslie Caron in the title role , to Louis Jourdan , surprisingly very appealing in a musical , for this veteran dramatic actor . Of course , there is the unforgettable Maurice Chevalier as the man about town again courting his true love , a wonderful Hermione Gingold . Ah yes , he may not have remembered it that well , but are those twosome great . Gigi matures to our very eyes and what a pleasure it is to see this view . Gay Paris was never lovelier . O to return to those times . Magnifique !
Life at the Moulin Rouge	Jose Ferrer had won the Oscar , two years before Moulin Rouge , in 1950s Cyrano de Bergerac . How he lost here is beyond me . His loss is in itself proof that the Oscars are nothing more than a popularity contest . Gary Cooper ( High Noon ) received the accolade over Ferrer and this was an absolute travesty . Ferrer was superb in the role of artist Toulouse Lautrec . Crippled in his youth by a tragic accident , the film shows that money is not everything . Coming from a wealthy home , he is soon banished as the family is ashamed of him . He leads a life of sadness and despair at the famous Moulin Rouge in Paris . He paints there and his paintings are representative of his frustrations and failures in life . It is here that he meets a wayward woman fantastically played by Collette Marchand . Marchand was nominated for best supporting actress , lost , and was never heard from again . It is hard to fathom that Hollywood could not find challenging roles for a woman of her talent . Zsa Zsa Gabor is effective as one of the women of the Moulin Rouge . She is even there during the scene at Lautrec's deathbed . A heart-wrenching film of great suffering , so well played by Jose Ferrer . His genius is sorely missed in the motion picture industry .
Rhapsody in Greatness	The world was robbed with the untimely passing of George Gershwin in 1937 . We should not be deprived of seeing this magnificent biography of the great music writer . Robert Alda is just superb in the title role . He received marvelous support from Joan Leslie , as well as Rosemary DeCamp and Morris Carnovsky . As his friend , Oscar Levant also did well in this film . The music was phenomenal but how could it not be . Gershwin's writings were magnificent and had he lived longer , the world would have been a much richer place . His scoring of " Porgy and Bess " was terrific . Alda was so convincing as Gershwin , a man who literally had to write music as fast as he could as his destiny was an early demise .
Mr . Smith-Where are You ? Do We Need You Today ?	James Stewart was simply magnificent in this memorable classic of a dedicated young politician who is elected to Congress . He wants to do what is best for his constituents . He soon learns that in Washington this is not to be the case . Corruption , patronage et al are alive and well and functioning . Harry Carey , in a supporting role , is fabulous as the old style politician . The Stewart character represents what we need as leaders to run this great nation of ours . Some real scene stealing is done by Claude Rains as the other senator who has become corrupt . His temperament is perfect for the part . His seething by guilt and his denunciation of his fellow senator shows depth in acting . His outburst at the end of the film is totally memorable . Jean Arthur , as the secretary in the know , is truly fabulous as well . Newspapers can learn from this film . They should . Censorship still exists in 2006 . Remember that great filibuster scene ? Stewart acted his heart out . Though he lost the coveted Oscar here , the Academy rewarded him the following year for the comedy " The Philadelphia Story . " This film should be a definite pre-requisite for students in political science classes .
Living Out Loud-A Song in Her Heart	This is an absolutely outstanding film with Gail O'Grady as a music teacher , who leads the typical American life with her husband and 2 children , until a diagnosis of breast cancer sets all of their lives upside down . What makes this film so good is that it depicts the effects of the illness not only on the mother , but the ramifications to the family . It is a time when O'Grady begins to question her values and is told to go for it with a wonderful friend that she meets at a breast cancer group . It is also a time to reflect on her marriage and some very interesting points as well as sacrifices to be made . This film should serve as an inspiration to all those suffering from the dreaded disease . This is the type of film that Hollywood most desperately needs . O'Grady is phenomenal as she takes you all the way from disbelief , the chemotherapy sessions , the losing of hair and ultimate redemption as well as a new quest in life . She is literally supported by a great cast who are totally caught up in the disruption brought about in their lives . Not only does this film tells us that it's time to smell the roses , we have to get going with our lives and dream that impossible dream .
It Rained Full of Tears	Van Johnson and Jane Wyman starred in this 1956 film , " Miracle in the Rain . " Wyman stars as a typical plain Jane . She has a job and a wonderful friend , played with sympathy and understanding by the usually capable Eileen Heckart . In a chance meeting , Wyman meets soldier Van Johnson . The two are a match made in heaven . Fate shall determine an early entrance into the latter for them both . Wyman came from a dysfunctional home . Her father abandoned her mother when she was quite young . Look for Alan King and Barbara Nichols in a brief but memorable scenes as a couple who befriend Jane and Van . When Wyman receives word that Johnson has been killed in action , it is Heckart who uttered , " He was my friend , too . " Wyman never recovers from the shock of Johnson's death and with a bad cold , runs out in pouring rain to go to church for salvation . It is there that she collapses with a locket in her hand that had been Johnson's . Heckart finds Wyman collapsed in the street . She dies in her arms with Johnson's locket in her hands . As Wyman collapses , a further miracle occurs . After years away from the family , the father returns to the mother ( Josephine Hutchinson ) in a poignant scene . Miss Wyman was well typecast in tear-jerkers such as " The Blue Veil , " ( 1951 ) , " Magnificent Obsession , " ( 1954 ) , and " All that Heaven Allows , " ( 1956 ) . She certainly knew how to pour out those tears . " Miracle in the Rain " is an extremely sad movie . Nonetheless , it will evoke sympathy from you . Just make sure you have a box of tissues with you . Simply memorable .
Of Human Bondage-Bette Davis At Her Best	Outstanding Bette Davis film of 1934 . Davis gives one of the best performances imaginable , as Mildred the cockney ed , cocktail waitress , bored and frustrated with life , who unleashes utter havoc to Leslie Howard , who befriends her , in a memorable tirade . Davis sure proved that she was entitled to outstanding roles after this film . The venom that she let loose at a poor unsuspecting Howard was memorable . How she screamed that he made her sick and how much she hated him . How she tried to wipe away from her mouth any reminders of his touching her , this was truly an amazing display of acting . Ironically , Miss Davis was not nominated for a best actress Oscar here . When she failed to be nominated , she became a heavy write-in candidate . That practice is now barred by Academy rules . As the victimized suitor , Howard showed the right temperament . Again , he showed himself as an Ashley Wilkes-like character-subordinate and easily dominated .
Kindergarten Cop Goes to the Top of the Class	One of Arnold's best film roles ever . After seeing this , you might say to yourself that he could have stuck in out in films before becoming the governor of California . In this very funny film Arnold is forced to go under cover as a kindergarten teacher . He is actually looking for a drug dealer and believes that one of the kids in his class is the son of the guilty culprit . Naturally , he gets more than he beckoned for . There is romance with a female parent that brings unexpected results . Then , there is the matter of teaching . He is in a school with a maiden principal played memorably by Linda Hunt . She knows why he is there but expects him to be a 100 % teacher at all times . How he maintains order and does teaching to the bargain is hilarious and simply rewarding to the teaching profession . A must see film for young and old . I guarantee that the school system was never like this .
Enchanted is Everything and More	This is a heartwarming tale . It's Cinderella revisited or better yet , Cinderella comes to modern day New York . Of course , we have a wonderfully wicked stepmother ( Susan Sarandon ) who can't take that her step son will marry a girl prettier than her . Enraged when he finds the love of his dreams , she dresses up as the old witch and throws the unsuspecting girl down a river leading her to Manhattan . It really becomes a riot when the prince , a queen's subordinate , a chipmunk and the Queen herself all follow her to New York . In N . Y . the animated characters come alive as our girl meets widower Patrick Dempsey with a 6 year old girl . He is ready to marry again to the lovely Idina Menzel . The merriment caused by the singing and dancing are wonderful . Everyone in the cast does so well . The ending where the wicked Queen gets her is just fabulous . You wonder why Menzel's part wasn't larger , but you come away with such a positive feeling after seeing this film for the young and adults as well . A truly wonderful imaginative idea in motion picture making . Cinderella and Snow White , you've gone modern . Congratulations .
Be Witness to this Fine Prosecution	A gem of a 1957 film . How Tyrone Power wasn't nominated for best actor here was a major surprise . Charles Laughton was and deservedly so as the terrific defense attorney who brought comic relief into the film by fooling Elsa Lanchester , who received a supporting actress bid . Remember how he would smuggle liquor into the courtroom and manage to sneak a cigar when she wasn't around ? His performance was as always a masterful one . As Paul Vole , Power is a man accused of murder . He calmly assumes the role of being accused of a murder . He definitely receives sympathy from the audience during his outbursts in court when his wife Christine ( Dietrich ) testifies against him . The victim was veteran Norma Varden ( the housekeeper years later in " The Sound of Music . " ) Marlene Dietrich was his love interest who gets him off only to have quite a rude awakening afterwards . The film was terrific in every way possible . You want to sympathize with Power and then have utter contempt on him when it appears that he has pulled a fast one on the judicial system . Charles Laughton is absolutely magnificent as Sir Wifred , the defense attorney , who undertakes the case after recently suffering a coronary . He is a master in the court when he challenges just about everything that the prosecuting attorney states . Dietrich has never been better . She comes across as an uncaring wife , despite the fact that Vole has brought her out of the ruins of Nazi Germany in 1945 . Veteran pro , Una O'Connor , steals the scene she is in as a witness who was Varden's maid and apparent heir to the latter's fortune before Power stepped in . As his nurse , Elsa Lanchester , the real life Mrs . Charles Laughton , was also Oscar nominated in the supporting Oscar . A pain in Sir Wilfrid's rear end , she comes to realize that her patient will not be ready for that Bermuda vacation at the end of the trial . This best picture nominee of 1957 is well-worth seeing . Billy Wilder's expert direction must be viewed .
A Good Decision to Watch this Valley	Greer Garson , with a terrific Irish brogue , earned still another Oscar nomination . With the exception of 1940 , Miss Garson was nominated for best actress from 1939-1945 , a Hollywood record . The film depicts the old problem of wealth vs . poverty . A pretty and pert Greer goes to work for the family of Gregory Peck . They are lovely , unpretentious people . Her dad , played by the irascible Lionel Barrymore , is a hot head if ever there were . His hot-headedness will ultimately lead to his downfall as the film goes on . We see wealth and snobbery associated with it , especially by Peck's wife , brilliantly played by a young Jessica Tandy . In a change of pace , veteran movie mother , Gladys Cooper , comes off as a wonderfully , kind sort of matriarch married to the indomitable Donald Crisp . The ending is great . All I can say is that fairness triumphs over snobbery . Class distinctions just seem to go away .
Accidental Friendship - By No Accident is Great	Absolutely wonderful film with a standout performance by Chandra Wilson , as a homeless woman loving dogs . She is befriended a female police officer and the two develop a marvelous relationship . What makes the film so good is that despite all the adversity that has occurred in her life , the Wilson character , Yvonne , accepts responsibility for her resulting actions . Ben Vereen briefly appears as a fellow homeless person in the throws of confusion . The lady police officer , who has recently ended a relationship , learns from Yvonne . She is able to find love with a fellow officer . The film shows the work of a rehabilitation place working with these homeless women . It will serve as an inspiration to us all . You will be moved when Yvonne finally goes to the home and a routine physical exam reveals cancer . Devastated by the news , especially when she was making such progress , you will feel great as she overcomes this latest problem in her difficult life .
SINS - This Sins is Good for the Soul	Fabulous made for television movie of 1986 with Joan Collins starring as a woman who survived the Nazi horror in France only to come face to face with more brutality in the United States years later . With a terrific supporting cast , the story traces Ms . Collins from a young girl who loses a younger sister and her parents in the Nazi horror and finds her brother , very well played by Timothy Dalton in a catatonic state . In America , they find wealth along the way with all its glamor . Nevertheless , she makes enemies with a number of people who swear vengeance against her . Leading the pact is Steven Berkoff in another absolutely brilliant performance as her Nazi tormentor , who killed her mother and is sentenced to life in prison . Due to his connections , he is released from prison only to pursue Collins and Dalton , planning financial ruin for them both . His only opposition is when 2 of the conspirators want her death instead . For the ladies , there are plenty of gorgeous fashions as Collins and Dalton lead a fashion magazine . There is plenty of action along the way . Neil Dickson is highly effective as Hubert , who loved Collins after the war only to be usurped by his father , a rather engaging but vicious Jean Pierre Aumont . A very highly recommended mini-series . " Sins " was nominated for best mini-series of 1986 but lost the Emmy to " Peter The Great . " We really need to examine that .
Dead Ringer-Classic Bette At Her Best	Bette Davis is just fabulous here as the embittered sister who kills her recently widowed twin sister and assumes her identity . What makes this film so good is what Bette has to go through to keep this charade going . From the handwriting , to recognizing friends and rooms in the mansion , Bette has a field day . The irony here is great when Bette realizes what a witch her sister is but it's too late to do anything about it . Just seeing why Bette goes to the chair at the end is just unbelievable . Surrounded by an excellent supporting cast consisting of Peter Lawford as the playboy boy-friend of dead sister Margaret and Karl Malden as the man who loved Edith , the sister who has done the killing . This film has been tremendously under-rated . Not to be missed !
Tootsie Rolls !	Uproarious film with Dustin Hoffman , desperate for a job , who lands a part of a female in a soap opera that his girl-friend , Sandy , Teri Garr , was supposed to audition for . The laughs come a mile a minute . With the excellent director Sydney Pollack , who goes in front of the camera as Hoffman's agent , and a phenomenal cast , this film can't miss and it doesn't . Hoffman is positively brilliant in the role of Michael Dorsey who becomes Dorothy Michaels . All I can say is that Tony Curtis , ( " Some Like it Hot " - move over . ) Problem is that the role of Dorothy begins to interfere with Michael's personal life . Co-star in the soap opera , Jessica Lange , in a supporting Oscar performance , believes he is a lesbian . Dorothy meets her widowed father , the wonderful Charles Durning , a redneck , who begins to have designs on Dorothy for himself . Teri Garr is Michael's girl friend who doesn't know that Michael has gone drag and further believes that he is carrying on with Julie ( Lange ) Of course , there is Dabney Coleman as the director of the soap opera who mistreats Julie as well . It appears that Dorothy is able to solve the problems of others whether it be on the show or off camera . How she finally shows herself to be Michael is brilliant film-making . Tootsie received a well-deserved Oscar nomination for best picture . It lost to " Gandhi . " Hoffman was nominated for best actor . Did anyone think of nominating him for best actress ? Teri Garr was also nominated in the supporting actress division .
Where Jessica Visits , Murder Always Follows	Outstanding television series where retired English teacher , Jessica Fletcher , a mystery writer tries successfully to solve a murder each week . No matter where Angela Lansbury goes , there is always a murder . She is almost like Columbo in her pursuit for the culprit . The show was a field day for Angela Lansbury to further showcase her brilliant acting talent . Of course , as far as I'm concerned , there will never be another Angela as Mrs . Iselin in 1962's " The Manchurian Candidate . " Angela , as Mrs . Iselin , portrayed a monster of a woman , one of the worst female characters ever depicted on screen . The show " Murder , She Wrote " was further enhanced by having veteran performers as guest stars on the show . Regulars , such as William Windom , certainly added spice . You knew it was Sunday night when that familiar opening theme began the show . The theme sounded like an ice cream trucking coming along the block . As is the case with ice cream , the show was equally delicious .
Anne of Green Gables-Precocious , Obnoxious & Wonderful	Megan Follows gives a superb performance in the title role . She is ably supported by Colleen Dewhurst , who once again proves what an under-rated actress she was . Miss Follows is simply perfect as the orphaned Anne , a free spirit with tremendous intelligence and understanding of life , way beyond her age . Of course , there are comic overtones here as Anne gets into one predicament after another . She almost reminds me of a character in Roz Russell's " The Trouble With Angels . " The movie really depicts middle-aged women as cruel , uncaring individuals . While he may have been miscast , Richard Farnsworth gives a somber performance as the low-key brother of Dewhurst , whose kindness is forever remembered . The scenery is absolutely breathtaking . Megan Follows gets it so right as she matures into a beautifully played woman . The story is so good because it depicts how a girl can overcome adversity . Anne was brilliant from day one , she has such instinct , ambition , and time after time , she certainly proves her mettle to overcome the misfortunes in life .
Heartbreakingly Wonderful " Eddy Duchin Story Shines "	Eddy Duchin's music was so beautiful . He had a magic touch at the piano . Unfortunately , his real life was so tragic . Tyrone Power shines as Duchin . From his beginnings to success , Power evoked the right temperament in portraying this musician brilliantly . Kim Novak , just off an awful performance in the acclaimed " Picnic , " the year before , gives a wonderful supporting performance as Duchin's ill-fated first wife . Who can forget her fear of rain and thunder ? Who can forget that thunder scene in the hospital as her life ends ? Victoria Shaw , as Eddy's second wife , is also quite good . She brings Eddy back so that life is worth living for him and is able to reconcile him with his young son , whose birth Duchin blamed for the death of his first wife . We are fortunate to have had such a picture made and the legacy that Duchin left-his playing as well as his son , musician Peter Duchin .
Superb Explanation of The Wind	Outstanding documentary dealing with the trials and tribulations of making this 1939 monumental pictures . There were plenty of problems in production , casting , etc . Who knew that Paulette Goddard came so close to playing Scarlett O'Hara or that Jeffrey Lynn was so inadequate in the role of Ashley Wilkes ? Made at the time that Hitler and Mussolini were menacing Europe , there is plenty of backstage gossip . David O . Selznick was a brilliant producer . His on screen disagreements with famed director George Cukor led to the latter leaving the film . The writing of Margaret Mitchell's classic book for motion picture viewing was memorably discussed . It was wonderful seeing many of the cast members participate in this wonderful documentary . Hattie McDaniel's supporting Oscar's acceptance speech must serve as an inspiration to us all . Like so many in the memorable cast , she left us way too young .
Cindy Gets Her Man in Wonderful Production	This excellent version of Rogers and Hammerstein's Cinderella is a class act . This is a far better version than the 1957 original television production which was awful . Lesley Ann Warren and Stuart Damon are just wonderful and elegant as Cinderella and her prince respectively . Their voices ring true to happiness . Jo Van Fleet again proves her adeptness at being a difficult mother . This time , she does it in a comedic way . Her scene with the prince at the ball is a riot . Looking at herself in the mirror , she knows what she is . Celeste Holm should be everyone's fairy god-mother . She has always been a voice for toleration from her scenes in " Gentleman's Agreement , " and she shows it again in this fine production . Get to your video stores and have the kiddies see this wonderful movie . They'll yell for more .
Warm Remembrances for this Eternal Spring	Outstanding biography of the years detailing Franklin D . Roosevelt fight to regain the use of his limbs following an attack of polio . Branagh is perfect for the part that he has a down to a tee including that famous cigarette holder in FDR's mouth . He is well supported by TV star , Cynthia Nixon , who has the voice of Eleanor Roosevelt near to perfection . Overprotective mother is played with a certain sting by Jane Alexander , who copped an emmy for her supporting performance . Even better is Kathy Bates , who was also nominated in this category , for her strong-independent role as FDR's therapist . Stricken with polio at the height of his career , FDR comes to Warm Springs to recuperate . It is shown that while on this journey to the south , he really saw poverty at its worst and would begin to empathize with the poor and polio stricken people as well . He eventually invested his own money into this community . He saw first hand the improvements made by many thanks to the waters of this area . You will agree that happy days are here again when you see this biography . It's a moving tribute to a future American president who knew we had nothing to fear but fear itself . One can readily see triumph victorious in the face of adversity .
Goodbye , Mr . Chips-R . Donat Was Certainly Teacher of the Year	Outstanding film with Robert Donat in an Oscar winning performance as a beloved schoolteacher in England . Donat's Oscar win must have certainly been astonishing in a year where he vied for the award with Clark Gable , " Gone With the Wind , " Laurence Olivier , " Wuthering Heights , " Mickey Rooney , " Babes in Arms , " and James Stewart , " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington . " Though his Oscar was probably a surprise , it was well deserved because Mr . Donat captured the very essence of a well-liked teacher at the school for boys . He really represented the embodiment of what teaching is all about . Greer Garson played his stoic wife , who dies in childbirth . Though she received a best actress Oscar bid for this film as well , her performance was certainly no match for winner Vivien Leigh , " Gone With the Wind , " or fellow nominee , Bette Davis , " Dark Victory , " Who can forget Donat's perseverance and dedication despite the loss of his wife ? His spirit certainly depicted the stiff upper lip idea shown by Brits in times of emergency . With it all , Donat as Chips conveyed the idea of a brilliant , stern but compassionate educator .
It's A Big Wonderful Country	" The Big Country " is a rousing great western with a fabulous all-star cast . As always , Gregory Peck shines in still another film attesting to his social conscientiousness depicted on the screen during his long career . Carol Baker brings her usual sexy ways as the woman who meets Peck in the east and has him come home to the west to wed . It soon appears that Peck was not meant to be a westerner . Naturally , he meets ranch foreman Charlton Heston , a macho guy who is jealous of Baker's love for James ( Peck ) . Still another fine performance by Charles Bickford as her crusty father , who appears to be a fine gentleman but in reality is a bitter person locked in a dispute with a lower class Burl Ives . It is Ives who steals the film in his portrayal . He was awarded the Oscar for best supporting actor and it was well deserved . Jean Simmons is the western school marm , yet we never see her in a classroom setting . Seems that Peck has walked into the beginning of a range war between Bickford and Ives over water rights for cattle . Chuck Connors , who plays Ives ' son , sets things in motion by assaulting Peck . Bickford uses this as a pretext to declare " war " on the Hennessey's ( Ives and his sons . ) Things really start to escalate . In the meantime , Peck does prove his masculinity but it is too late for Baker , who has come to believe that he is a coward . The final showdown is obvious but handled very well . Another great asset to the film is the rousing musical score . Its upbeat tempo tells you that you're in for a grand western . It is a big country and wonderful one at that .
Dreamgirls in A Dream of A Film	From the beginning ensemble , you know you're in for a tremendous treat in this whirlwind ensemble loosely based on Diana Ross and the Supremes . The film deals with the rise of the girl singing group with the problems that success shall inevitably create . It is done along the backdrop of the history of the civil rights struggle of the 1960s along with the Detroit riots . Besides the singing , the acting is absolutely first-rate . Jamie Foxx has never been better since " Ray . " As the guy who discovers the girls , he shows a ruthlessness inside a calm demeanor . Eddie Murphy , as a drug-addicted singer , whose career declines as the habit worsens , is excellent in a supporting role . Special kudos go to Beyonce Knowles and Jennifer Hudson . Hudson's one scene-singing will positively knock you off your feet . The musical arrangements are magnificent along with the set designs . This is absolutely a terrific musical far better than the Oscar-winning " Chicago " of several years back . Miss Hudson , who portrays the hefty singer Effie , gives it everything in a heart-wrenching performance . Man , can she belt it out as she becomes a shoo-in for best supporting actress come Oscar time . The group begins to break up when they reach the pinnacle of success . A towering , superlative film which is not to be missed .
Gracie's Choice Should Be Your Choice Too	Outstanding film dealing with a 16 year old who tries to bring stability to a totally dysfunctional family . There is a truly outstanding performance by Anne Heche as the dysfunctional mother who neglects her children to lead a most disgusting life in pursuit of a good time . Heche is ably supported by Diane Ladd , a religious woman who can quote the bible but could not control her rebellious daughter . The film deals with how a sharp 16 year old has to learn to play the system to keep her brothers together . Bright , perceptive and unfortunately victimized by a sick mother , Kristen Bell gives a splendid performance . I enjoyed the part where she meets a black young man who becomes her boyfriend . Nothing is made of the inter-racial relationship nor the fact that the young man has a black father and white mother . This film shows that a court system can work to the advantage of its victims .
A Wind for All times .	The memorable " Gone With the Wind " captures the south at its time of degradation . Margaret Mitchell's outstanding novel was made into a memorable Oscar winning film in 1939 . Here we have the lovely Katie Scarlett O'Hara who will not allow the catastrophic civil war to wreck her life . We see her go through 3 husbands in record speed , while she still yearns for Ashley Wilkes , married to Melanie . ( Olivia De Havilland ) Despite fierce objections by Miss Mitchell , Leslie Howard was cast as Ashley . It was believed that Mitchell objected to Howard since the late actor was Jewish and she could not see him in that particular role . Whether anti-semitism played a part in her objection was unclear . Hattie McDaniel , was the beloved , sly mammy , whose strong will kept a family going despite one tragedy after another . Both McDaniel and DeHavilland were nominated for best supporting actress ; the former would win . Scarlett loves Ashley but he is taken with Melanie . She marries his brother who dies of measles in the army . Frank , her 2nd husband , dies for her honor . Rhett , the real man of her dreams , becomes husband # 3 . Despite a wonderful life with him and bearing him a child , Scarlett can never stop thinking of her precious Mr . Wilkes . There are fireworks from the actors as well as the great civil war scenes . Atlanta destroyed ; the wounded crying out in agony is memorable . We have carpetbaggers and scalawags ready to ravage an already ravaged south once the war ends . Melanie's death , in childbirth , makes it very convenient for Scarlett . She can now divorce Rhett and have Ashley . Surprise ! ! ! ! Ashley professes never loving Scarlett who runs through the fog back to Rhett . She now realizes that she always loved him . Confusing ? The confusion is worth it thanks to Vivien Leigh's forever memorable performance as Scarlett . She would win a well deserved Oscar . As Rhett walks out on her , Scarlett declares that she will think about how to get him back tomorrow . This is one film to always think about . A way of life gone with the wind is an outstanding tribute to a way of life long gone but whose memories are forever etched in our minds .
Carpetbaggers Can Roll In Anytime	Highest rating for this Harold Robbins epic film loosely based on the life of Howard Hughes . You can't keep up with Jonas Cord , played brilliantly by George Peppard . He is a 1920s jet-setting , ambitious and impossible person reaching for the top in memorable time with a variety of businesses and broads to keep him going . As Rena Marlowe , Carroll Baker gets the role of a lifetime that she was born to play . As the sultry sex-pot , Marlowe , Baker is absolutely brilliant as the woman who was destined for tragedy despite the men in her life , her carefree swinging from a Paris chandelier , and her ultimate road accident . Just when you thought you saw that character die with Marlowe's car crash , along comes Martha Hyer , another brassy blond on the way to replace her as a screen icon . Hyer sheds her usual high class lady as was the case with her Miss French in " Some Came Running , " and gives a marvelous performance as the tramp who loves Cord but must leave him when she realizes that all he wants her for is for him to pursue his wayward life . The film has everything . Greed is adeptly shown by Martin Balsam and Robert Cummings as 2 Hollywood moguls out for the all-mighty dollar . Elizabeth Ashley , as the wife of Jonas , is vulnerable , and what she has to put up with ! Alan Ladd shines as Cord's friend and eventual enemy who finally makes him come to terms with his reasons for his brutal behavior . The film even has insanity as its subject matter and even that is handled beautifully
When Andrew Came Home-Well Worth Waiting For	Marvelous true-story about a child taken by his father to get revenge on his ex-wife . It's the story of an adorable child who is brought back 5 years later as not only older but severely socially and mentally maladjusted from this horrible experience . The film deals with the attempts by his mother and stepfather to bring the child back to the normal world . What a rocky road they had before them . The child no longer spoke to them , accidentally sets fire to their house and there may be possible jealousy brewing with the baby brother who has been born in the interim . We have a fine acting performance by Park Overall as the distraught mother . Even though she rejects the idea of sending the boy to a school for troubled children , she was really looking for trouble in sending the child to a regular school . Obviously , he was way behind academically and socially . She finally takes him out and home schools him . After a bitter outburst by the child when he hears what his mother says , he finally talks and tells her of the abuse he had gone through . This because also deals with the bureaucratic red tape that the mother had to endure when she filed a missing person's report . This is a movie of rare quality that should not be missed for its psychological , sociological , and psychiatric implications .
An Apartment for All Seasons	for this hilarious comedy of a want-to-be executive who loans out his apartment to his bosses for their respective affairs . Jack Lemmon , as the good natured soul , turns in a fabulous performance as kindly guy who winds up with near pneumonia , an angry brother-in-law , and a girl , Fran Kubrick , played by the great Shirley Mac Laine , who tries to kill herself in the apartment over heel Fred Mac Murray . What a change of character for MacMurrayBilly Wilder hit it big , winning 3 Oscars , in this memorable film . There's plenty of relish added by neighbor , Jack Kruschen , as the doctor . Ray Walston shines as another boss asking buddy Boy for the keys to the apartment . Then there's Edie Adams , MacMurray's secretary and one-time lover , who turns the tables on her boss , when he fires her . We always knew there was a housing shortage in N . Y . but we never really knew the ramifications resulting . Go rent yourself an apartment and find out what really goes on .
Maytime is A Wonderful Time	This was by far Jeanette MacDonald's best film when teamed up with Nelson Eddy . An elderly woman , counseling young lovers , thinks back to her tragic love affair during the Napoleonic era . Both Nelson and Eddy are at their usual singing best and for a change , Eddy acts the part . He has often been criticized for poor acting in his other films with the wonderful MacDonald . John Barrymore was literally robbed of a best supporting Oscar nomination for his tyrannical role of a lover and husband of MacDonald . It was his inability to accept that MacDonald had found true love with Eddy that leads to tragedy . Too bad that this wonderful film wasn't in color since the set scenes of the Napoleonic era are beautifully realized .
