Watching Paint Dry . . .	. . . is riveting compared to this crud . I used to think Godard had it all wrapped up pseud-wise but this guy can give him cards and spades . In this so-called movie we follow a nebbish , a guy who has neither looks , charm or charisma and resembles nothing so much as a young Timothy Carey who has somehow lucked into a pretty , even at times beautiful girl who is accompanying him across the desert , a drive punctuated every ten minutes or so for screwing sessions - making love is definitely NOT the phrase to illustrate these couplings . They also eat , check out the scenery , quarrel , make up but it always comes back to coupling . After what seems like several decades but is only about 100 minutes they are run off the road by a gang of sub-humans , the guy is beaten with a baseball bat and raped by one of the animals as the girl , who has been stripped naked but is otherwise unmolested , is forced to watch . The gang drives off . The couple repair to a motel . The girl is stabbed to death . The next shot shows the man , naked and dead in the desert . Slow fade . If only Dumont had opened ( and closed ) with the last ten minutes he would have done us all a favour . Total rubbish and a waste of good film stock .
Dire Streets	There's only one comment on this title and it is by someone who , like my , loves French films , is contemptuous of the new wavelet and admires some of the same directors - Duvivier , Carne , Cayette , Tourneur etc . On the other hand we do on occasion see things differently usually when one of us is with disappointed and the other finds pleasure in a given title . This is both understandable and explainable inasmuch as one of us live in a France whose television provides access to a regular stream of the best French films of all vintages whilst the other lives in an England starved of French films . In the case of this title however we are in complete accord : This is dire , almost as bad as anything by Godard . Imagine a film crew penetrated the deepest jungles of Guyana , shot a documentary and left the equipment behind . The natives , cut off from civilization then stumbled on a routine rejected by the Marx Brothers in their first year in vaudeville and persuaded a group of failed burlesque comics to play in it . Multiply this by ten and you're still nowhere near the depths this plumbs .
The Big Disaster	I watched this piece of crap last night - it was given away with a newspaper a couple of days ago - and turned to this page expecting to find , if anything , widespread disdain but incredibly some viewers actually found SOMETHING to praise . Okay , you can see the thinking behind it , Mitchum had enjoyed some success playing Chandler's Phillip Marlowe a couple of years earlier in Farewell , My Lovely but although shot in color and tampering with Chandler's novel at least it was set in Marlowe's home turf , LA . To transplant Chandler's milieu to England is like transplanting Chekhov's dachas to New York , it's both ludicrous and unforgivable . I can't believe Michael Winner actually had the chuzpah to give himself a Screenplay credit when all he has done is to dilute and / or omit Chandler's inimitable style covering both narrative and dialogue . From the very first speech ( played in Voice-Over ) Winner blows it . Chandler concluded this first speech in the novel with the words ' I was well-dressed , clean-shaven and sober and I didn't care who knew it ' . Those last six words are crucial to establishing the character of Marlowe - the Big Sleep was the first novel in which Marlowe appeared - so what does Winner do ? Add some description of his own and OMIT those last six words . From then on it's downhill all the way . There's absolutely no chemistry between ANY of the characters in whatever combination . Equally ludicrous is the notion that in 1978 a bookstore like Geiger's would flourish in an English town . Consider : this is the kind of bookstore that purports to specialise in First Editions but is really supplying Pornography via a ' back room ' accessible only to known customers who leave clutching plain brown packages . A couple of scenes later Sarah Miles shows Marlowe the nude pictures of her sister and tells him that unless she pays the blackmailers what they demand the pictures will wind up in porno magazines . Have I made my point ? In 1978 ' porn ' was readily available , albeit on the ' top shelf ' of every newsagents in the land so how could a shop like Gieger's hope to make a dirty buck . There are also pathetic attempts to explain why Marlowe , an American , is working as a private detective in England - he came over in the war and forgot to go back . Virtually everyone is miscast . John Mills as the character based on Marlowe's Bernie Ohls ( Regis Toomey in the Bogie version ) ? I think not . Ohls was as cynical as Marlowe himself not a ' gentleman policeman ' as Mills plays him . Candy Clark as the psychotic younger sister has all the sex appeal of a stale courgette and only a bigger psychotic would be interested in seeing her naked . Equally laughable is Edward Fox as Joe Brodie . Brodie was a cheap grifter not the kind of Englishman who drives around the shires in flat cap , blazer , flannels and silk kerchief and can be found any Suday lunchtime in the Dog and Duck , Berkshire nursing a half of bitter . More ? Sorry , it was bad enough watching this drek so don't ask me to write about it as well . Minus ten stars .
Nixed Mutts	God knows enough people warned me and even if they hadn't it's now become a given that any time Hollywood remakes a great French movie the result goes right down the toilet . BUT , they were practically giving the video away at a remainder store and something inside me said NOTHING can be that bad , not when you've got names like Nora Ephron and Steve Martin attached . Alas ! It IS that bad , in fact it's WORSE than that bad , it has to be , no contest , THE worst Hollywood remake of a French classic and that INCLUDES Buddy , Buddy , which wanted some beating . It's not just that ' Le Pere Noel est une ordure ' is BRILLIANT and doesn't need and can't stand remaking , it's that , somehow , the Ephron sisters ( who claim a joint ' screenplay ' credit ) have contrived to copy the original French film and bleed all the colour out of it in both a literal and a metaphorical sense , as if , for perverse reasons known only to themselves , they had decided to repaint say Rembrandt's The Night Watch in water colour instead of oils . Bizarre . The only possible rating for this is MINUS 10 .
Those Stumbling Words . . .	. . . that sent me to the sick bag . The one burning question I would put to Julia Taylor-Stanley is how the hell do you get FINANCE for something this bad because if I couldn't produce at least half a dozen better scripts between now and , say , June I'll turn in my Writers ticket . For some reason either Taylor-Stanley herself or IMDb has seen fit to remove the other writing credit that appears on the film itself ' based on the novel " There's A Porpoise Close Behind Me " by Noel Langley . Langley was born in 1911 and has some fairly decent writing and directing credits ; Taylor-Stanley doesn't reveal her age on IMDb but based on this movie I'd say she went on to solid foods and began walking about three weeks ago . Since she takes ( at least on IMDb ) sole writing credit she must , by extension , take sole blame . It's difficult to know where to begin - yes , it's that bad . It has the same not-quite-right sense of period that obtained in ' Mrs Henderson Presents ' but without the gravitas of Judi Dench to compensate . Taylor-Stanley seems to have prepared both herself and the young members of the cast to recreate the ' feel ' of the thirties by reading vintage Noel Coward plays or getting the BFI to screen some of those unwatchable Ivor Novello films from the late twenties / early thirties . It's not really enough to deck everyone out in ' period ' frocks and punctuate the risible dialogue with a selection of ' silly ' vintage records , you need total immersion - and it CAN be done , make no mistake ; on the same day I saw this I saw Les Ames Grises which is set in 1916 and is TOTALLY convincing - but Taylor-Stanley and her cast need total immersion in the local swimming baths til they cry Uncle . A second question I would put to Taylor-Stanley is who or what was her target audience . I myself have a certain affection for the Brief Encounters , Quiet Weddings , Fallen Idols and Dear Octopi of this world and went along prepared to embrace this but alas it lacks completely the charm , warmth and artistry of the above and I wonder if Terence Stamp himself knew exactly what kind of Renaissance Boy he was supposed to be playing . Put this in the bin marked ' Revolver ' .
More Like A Sieve	Whoever saddled this piece of drek with a title like Riddle deserves some kind of Award ; there are dozens of riddles here like who conceived such a dire project , who funded it , who cast it , who persuaded Vanessa Redgrave to share even ONE scene with Vinnie Jones and so on . The most sane voice connected to the whole schmeer belongs to the person who decided - very , very wisely - that this was unreleasable and not even good enough to go straight to video / DVD which throws up yet one more riddle , why - if we rule out serious payola - did the Mail On Sunday get involved and deign to give it away . This has Golden Turkey written all over it and smacks of being shot in two days in somebody's garage and cobbled on to some library footage of London except somehow you KNOW that someone actually DID shoot this on location when it would have been kinder to shoot him / herself . Vinnie Jones and Julie Cox are not even cardboard cutouts more like tissue paper and I swear Pete Doherty and Kate Moss couldn't have done worse whilst Derek Jacobi is a grotesque joke and the plot moves with the speed of the Irish team sliding UP the Cresta Run . Apart from that . . .
Errancid	Benoit Magimal has a problem . He's a loser . He turns up at the hospital drunk on the night his son is born and his wife almost dies and that's just for starters . His wife , Laetitia Casta , has a problem of her own ; she is unable to leave him despite living a miserable life on or near the poverty line and reeling from disaster to disaster . Those are THEIR problems , OURS are sitting through this highly unoriginal drivel . Damien Odoul found success of a kind - the word ' pseud ' springs to mind - with his first film Le Soufflé and since then appears to have gone steadily downhill . A few weeks ago I had the misfortune to see how he humiliated the fine actor Pierre Richard in Le Deluge and failed to take a vow never to watch another movie which had the name Damien Odoul appended to it . I blame myself .
How The Quest Was Lost	I can't say I wasn't warned : Everybody and his Uncle Max told me not to waste time on this merde but I wouldn't be told , the lure of a dozen or so French actors playing cameos proved too strong . At a stretch and inasmuch as what passes for a plot involves writer-director-actor Laurent Baffie looking for his car keys this tends to qualify as a ' quest ' film but it's light years removed from the quest for the Grail , Flight , Meaning Of Life etc . Most of the cameos come up front and take the form of rejections - polite or otherwise - of Baffie's pitch but Gerard Depardieu and Alain Chabat appear in the main body of the film though both to no great effect . Chabat has the slightly longer part as a pet shop proprietor who sells Baffie a dog specially trained to locate missing car keys and that's the highlight . I used to think that it was impossible to sink lower than Ali G or the Carry On series but it is , it is .
What A Trial	Were I not so lion-hearted dross like this could turn me against French cinema completely . Somehow Christian Leigh has contrived to shoot something that is WORSE than Jean-Luc Godard or Peter Greenaway which is quite a trick . Leigh's idea of film-making is to let his camera linger on a given scene til it runs out of film . Take the scene in the hotel room . Beatrice Dalle is sitting and contriving to brood whilst remaining expressionless . Outside the window traffic passes . A chambermaid - played by Isabelle Huppert's daughter , Lolita Chammah - enters and proceeds to make the bed . From time to time she throws a glance at Dalle . Riveting . Or take the scene in ( presumably ) Dalle's apartment . This is all ultra-modern where even the curves seem angular and metallic . The style is IKEA 22nd century where bookcases are red metal blocks . Dalle begins packing about 3 , 000 books into , what else , large plastic containers . This is accompanied by what sounds like Michael Nyman aged five and just discovering dissonance . Elsewhere Leos Carax , Dominique Reymonde and Daniel Duval make cameo appearances . Watching this merde is a new way to grow old .
Dud Czech	I seem to be a lone dissenting voice in a chorus of approval . So be it . Whilst it seems clear that there is a strong satirical element at work here I have to confess that my knowledge of the political situation in what used to be called Czechoslovakia is non-existent so that all the barbs eluded me . On the other hand I had little problem with either Closely Observed Trains or The Firemen's Ball , both the work of Czech filmmakers and both satirical attacks on the political situation that prevailed at the time they were made . When I say I had no problem I don't wish to imply that I understood the satire but I do mean that the respective directors had included a sufficient ' entertainment ' element to make their films accessible to a non-Czech audience , something which Vera Chytilova has failed to do here - or at least as far as I am concerned . I rented this film on the strength of the favourable reviews I had read and I take no pleasure in disagreeing with the majority but , alas , I can find little if anything to praise .
Crock Of Bull	The NFT in London are currently holding an Almodovar season - what else would pseuds do - and the best you can give it is that at least it's not New Voices From The Rain Forest : Some Recent Films From Jivaro Directors , which is probably scheduled for Next year . Having failed to ' see ' anything in Almodovar's recent titles I thought perhaps his earlier titles would have something going for them . Alas , I have to conclude not much . His first film , screened last week , and this one from six years later are apparently based on the theory that if it's outrageous enough it will be good . T'ain't so , honey , t'ain't so . This time around we have a Black Widow spider of a lawyer who kills her partners at the moment of orgasm , an ex-matador who likes his girl friend to pretend to be a stiff every time HE gets stiff , a ' psychic ' virgin with a penchant for confessing to serial killing , etc , put them together and what do you get ? Bibbety-Bobbity-Poo or pretentious crap , whichever's the greater . If it's a choice between this and being force-fed ALL the Carry On titles whilst Elton John brays from a speaker system I know which I'd choose .
Lawd , Jim	There are Golden Turkeys and Platinum Turkeys and then there is Laughing Anne . I doubt if four leads have ever been more mis-matched in a movie . Wendell ' Mahogany ' Corey gets top-billing over Margaret Lockwood whose best days were behind her whilst even more bizarrely Forest Tucker and Ronald Shiner share third and fourth spot . The film has one minor distinction inasmuch as it is the only film based on his work in which Joseph Conrad appears as a character narrating his own story over drinks - the device , albeit much less crudely , had worked well some half a dozen years previously when Herbert Marshall portrayed Somerset Maugham in The Razor's Edge and actually interacted with his own fictional creations throughout as well as providing linking narration . The plot , acting , in fact just about everything in the movie will best be served by the application of a discreet veil . For connoisseurs of seriously bad movies only .
Nice Flute , Shame About The Magic	Kenneth Branagh could well have subtitled his second turkey in as many weeks and his third this year The Cranes Are Flying for yes , folks , our Ken has discovered a thing that you can mount the camera on and it will then climb in the air and allow you to shoot the film from the point of view of a cloud and that's his angle of choice for a good 30 per cent of the running time ; if this was a ploy to detract from his lack of ideas then it doesn't work and only draws attention to the pretentiousness on display . It's got to be a prime gobbler when Liz Smith pointedly excludes it from her CV and presumably asked for her name to be removed from the credits . Stephen Fry has the chutzpah to take a bow for the lyrics ; it's patently obvious that he has never heard of Cole Porter , Lorenz Hart , Frank Loesser , etc , let alone studied them , in fact if it comes to that he hasn't even bothered to study a Rhyming Dictionary and is clearly a paid-up member of the Kiss My Assonance School Of Lyric Writing . Branagh himself is clearly an advocate of the If It Ain't Broke , Break It , brigade for having set Shakespeare in Japan earlier in the year he now sets Mozart in the First World War but not the one you may have seen in the newsreels where the trenches were furnished with a melange of mud and rats ; you could EAT off the floors of these trenches and though he allows an occasional rifle shot for authenticity infantrymen topple over without so much as a scratch let alone any of that nasty blood . This doesn't leave a lot on the positive side ; okay , the singers Mime effectively enough , they are , after all , mostly trained opera singers but apart from that there's a two-hour gap where the film should be .
Heading South , Gone West	Here's a new twist ; an out-and-out sex film with an 18 rating and not even a topless shot . Maybe it's meant to appeal to intellectuals , who knows . As someone who has never seen ANYTHING at all in Charlotte Rampling I looked in amazement at her narrow beady eyes , thin lips and wondered how anyone can describe her as SEXY ! Karen Lane left her for dead as well as acting her off the screen but that's another story . There's probably some sort of novelty value in relating a story where White women in their forties and fifties take vacations to the Haiti of the 1970s specifically to pay Black men for sex , especially Brenda ( Lane ) who hails from Savannah , answers to 47 and so clearly has grown up in a Southern state where Black men were regularly lynched for LOOKING at White women so she is one liberated female . It's touches like this that make a boring film risible yet the pseuds are lining up to toss bouquets at it . I could tell them to Get A Life but do you think they'd listen . Save your dough on this one .
Tough Roe To Hoe	Having been concerned that Mike Leigh was ' borrowing ' liberally from Claude Chabrol's ' Une affaire de femmes ' , which won Isabelle Huppert a Best Actress gong at the Venice Film Festival , and having admired the bulk of Leigh's work , both stage and film , I tried to approach this as neutrally as possible but ultimately I found it disappointing . Vera is portrayed as a sort of cockney Mother Teresa , practically too good to live and Leigh spends a good 20 minutes or so limning her goodness and willingness to put herself out for others before the delayed revelation , almost thrown away and with no build-up , that she is , in fact , an abortionist . For some reason the period detail fails to ring true and it's almost unbelievable to depict a society ( 1950 ) in which EVERYONE is happy or at least content , not a protester or whinger in sight . As if that weren't enough the music - ideally the music in a film should be unobtrusive - practically cries out ' listen to these sombre cellos establishing gloom ' . The acting is certainly adequate but no more than that and Staunton , for all the hype surrounding her , is definitely not in the same league as Huppert . Okay , it's watchable - just , but don't miss Bowling For Dollars to catch this .
Forget It	This is a prime example of Lead Soufflé School Of Light Entertainment . How dire is it ? Let me count the ways . On second thought better not , wed be here all day . It's from that school of Realism where scrap metal dealers wear bow ties and carnations in the lapel whilst presiding over huge totally empty warehouses that would , in a film boasting even a scintilla of realism , be bursting with scrap metal . There's only one employee on view , Harold Lang , who trebles as receptionist , switchboard operator and chauffeur to say nothing of purveyor of smart , sophisticated dialogue . Sample : John McCallum to Lang . ' How does this ( indicating switchboard ) work ? Lang : ' Find out ' . This sets up an intriguing question . Was this film ghost-written by 1 ) Geoge Kaufman and Moss Hart , 2 ) Joseph L . Mankiewicz , or 3 ) Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett . Answers on a postcard , please , to : Do I Look As Though I Give A Big Rat's Ass . Amongst other delights this movie boasts one of the most improbable menage a trois on record with Thora Hird and Vida Hope vying for the attentions of a punch-drunk John Slater , proud owner of a bashed-in face that makes Lon Chaney look like Tom Cruise . The plot ? It is to laugh .
So Would The Audience If They'd Known	I didn't see this film under ideal circumstances because due to structural problems with the cinema the seats were facing the screen . I really should know better than to expect anything resembling entertainment from Truffaut but I keep bending over backwards to give him the benefit of the doubt . From frame # 1 this had all the hallmarks of a film made by a student at Film School - on his first day . The script resembled nothing so much as a Swiss cheese . Consider : Shot one ; Julie ( Moreau ) sits on a bed wearing black and about as much expression as a cheese dip . Then she makes a melodramatic attempt to defenestrate but is saved by Mama . Next she's packing a suitcase and lighting out for the train station . All these actions are jerky verging on the spastic and not only are we not told why but frankly we don't CARE . Soon she has singled out victim Number # 1 and pushed him off a balcony . Then on to number # 2 and so on . Then we start getting flashbacks in which her husband is shot on the steps of the church as the happy couple leave after the wedding ceremony . But here's the part that gives Me pause : How did she know there were five men involved in the shooting ( and four of them peripherally at best ) , ascertain their names , track them down . It would have helped to make it a tad more credible if we'd seen her working out as my maths teacher used to say . Eventually one of the victims - the third , I think - explains how it happened ; five bachelors used to meet regularly for a poker game ; by chance the apartment in question overlooked the church . There's a loaded rifle lying around in the apartment as there is , nothing odd there , one of them starts fooling around , focusing on the church spire , a second man intervenes and the gun goes off and so does the bridegroom . Hardly five evil men or even master criminals , just a stupid prank that went wrong . The victim explaining this to Moreau then tells how the five split up and vowed never to meet again which , if anything would make them even harder to trace . I'm quite prepared to believe that in his original novel William Irish aka Cornell Woolrich was a tad more plausible but as we know from Truffaut's infamous essay he's not really interested in well-made screenplays and boy , does it show . The acting ranges from wooden to incompetent , the writing and direction don't even make it to that level .
A Waste Of Money	Margaret Leighton fan Shelagh Delaney went to see Leighton in Terence Rattigan's Variation On A Theme and having done so declared that 1 ) the play was rubbish - by Rattigan's high standards she was right - and 2 ) that she could write better than Rattigan - by anyone's standards she was hopelessly wrong . So she went home and apparently assembled every cliché in the book - one-parent family constantly one-jump ahead of the landlord , sluttish mother one step up from a genuine whore , confused , neglected teenage daughter , plainer than Kansas and ripe to be seduced by the first man who gives her a second look , mother abandons girl for toyboy Jack-the-lad , girl becomes pregnant by , natch , black man who then abandons her , add one obligatory gay man and stir til indigestible . Delaney didn't write characters she wrote caricatures but maybe at the time - 1961 - when the young Turks were routing the Old Guard no one could tell the difference . Not one to let plausibility get in the way of a good cliché Delaney has mother and daughter ( Dora Bryan , urrrgh , and Rita Tushingham ) told to come up with the rent by tomorrow or else , doing a ' moonlight flit ' straight to a new flat that is waiting for them as if by magic ; days later Bryan informs Tushingham - who's still at school - that she's on her own as she , Mother , is moving in with Jack-the-lad , who doesn't want a kid along . No mention of how a school girl is supposed to pay the rent but that might involve Plotting , not Delaney's forte . This is an Alice-in-Wonderland world where people meet on the flimsiest of pretexts - Murray Melvin buys a pair of shoes off Tushingham - tries on the first pair she offers , doesn't bother to walk around in them to see how they feel - meets her again later as both of them are watching the Whit Walks - teenagers have nothing better to do with their time in Delaney's world - spend a day at the fair and before you can say ' well-made ' play Tushingham has invited him to live with her . Give me a BREAK . For the record Rattigan , who wrote something like 30 plays and 20 screenplays , is still being revived today . Delaney , if she's lucky , is stacking shelves in Safeway .
The Day They Called It A Film ?	When this opened in London - today - I attended the first performance and found myself alone . I had reservations just from the casting , I mean come on , Dennis Hopper , the epitome of hippie / rock playing Sinatra , the epitome of sophisticated cool ? What next , Eminem as Cliff Richard . I hoped at least for a generous amount of Sinatra singing but even that was 1 ) strictly rationed and 2 ) performed by a Sinatra imitator and then , to add insult to injury , the end credits roll over Elvis Presley's Tutti Frutti . What passes for a plot centres on the infamous Australian tour of 1974 when Sinatra spoke his mind as usual and wound up a virtual prisoner in his hotel room until honour had been satisfied . A sub-plot that threatens to hi-jack the movie involves the young Rock promoter who brought Sinatra to Australia and a girl who had fancied him since they were kids . Basically we're talking rubbish . I thought Baz Lurhman's Moulin Rouge was about as low as you could get but here that Australian has competition from another . Dire .
No-Go Novo	It's difficult to decide who or what is the target audience for this film . Jean-Pierre Limousin presumably had the chance to explore the problems of amnesia on a serious level and opted instead to use it as an excuse to make a soft-porn movie . Having seen , loved , admired and respected Se Souvenir des belles choses which explores memory loss - albeit as the result of Alzheimer's - in a profound and heartbreaking way , not least in the luminous performance of Isabelle Carre I find that Novo is an insult to Se Souvenirs . I have no problem with soft porn per se - and even if I had I'd virtually have to give up going to movies so prevalent is it today - but I do have a problem with writers / directors who attempt to respectablise it by cloaking it as here in the guise of medical research . The sad thing is that fine actresses like Julie Gayet - so wonderful in Clara et Moi - and Anna Mouglalis - who seems to have hit into a double play after last week's Le Deluge and now this - are wasting their time on dross like this .
Blueprint For Breathless	It has to be said that there are some wicked people in this world who would have you believe that after failing as an actor - two films in - and a director - one film , THIS , in 1931 - Jean Godard retired to lick his wounds and swear revenge on a film going public and after biding his time - revenge is , after all , a dish best served cold - he added a hyphenated ' Luc ' to his name and unleashed Brainless on an unsuspecting world . Revenge indeed . I don't know WHO starts these things but the facts are that Jean-Crap Godard was born in 1930 which leaves the possibility of a father grooming a son to set back the French film industry two decades . Be that as it may what we have here is a piece of cheese notable only for some historical location footage and Jean Gabin in a very early leading role . The only version extant appears to have suffered major cuts which don't make it easier to assess but it's reasonable to assume that even at best it was mediocre which still leaves it head and shoulders above Brainless .
Deadly Affairs	There's clearly a lot of mileage in the seven deadly sins as the several film versions testify . There was a half-decent version in 1952 , ten years earlier than this entry , one that had the advantage of talents like Michele Morgan going for it . It's hard to find anything to like here ; certainly not the Godard segment which is a bigger joke than his breakthrough movie Brainless . In that one he followed Jean-Paul Belmondo with a hand-held camera as he walked up the Champs Elysee and back down again . Anxious to show how far he has come on this time he follows Eddie Constantine as he Drives from the Billancourt studios into Paris proper . Some progress . Elsewhere we have the one about the group of students who pool their resources so that one of them can get laid by a top-of-the-range hooker , a bizarre piece about flies in the soup leading to Armageddon , a Biter Bit episode and other unimaginative segments . Basically it's a waste of sprocket holes .
There Goes Mr . Jordan	Neil Jordan is a graduate of the Ken Loach I-Hate-England school of film-making which means that like Loach he spurns no opportunity to explore its worst aspects in loving detail . This time around it's the sex industry that sleazes its way into his spotlight . The story is improbable-to-ridiculous , one leave it out , guv , after another . Why , for example does Michael Caine's Mr Big wait til Bob Hoskins gets out of the slammer before hiring a driver for Cathy Tyson's hooker - what did she do before , take a bus ? In turn why does Tyson wait until their initial antipathy has thawed before asking him to locate another hooker when 1 ) surely the world of London hookers is not that large , there's obviously some kind of network whereby one can locate another without charming a violent oak into doing the job and 2 ) for what she spent kitting out Hoskins with shirts , suit and topcoat in a trendy Men's Store she could have hired a private detective for a month but given how easy the hooker was to find he'd have taken about a day and a half tops . This leaves us with the acting ; for Hoskins it's the mixture as before , all contained violence and effing and blinding , sure he was phoning it in by that stage , Robbie Coltrane is totally unconvincing and Mike Tyson could have done as well as Cathy . Okay , it's twenty years old - a freebie with a newspaper , just as well I didn't spend more than the price of a paper I buy anyway on this pap - and maybe at the time it looked better but it's way past its sell-by date .
It's Always Foul Weather	It is , of course , possible that I watched a different film to the previous posters , it is equally possible that the previous posters have never seen a Real musical or , indeed a Real French film . Suffice it to say that were it not for Brigitte Rouan and Chirara Mastroianni this would have been a total disaster . If ever two young people deserved each other those people are Ludo Sagnier and Lou Garrel - and if he would hit on Ludo off-screen and keep away from Valeria I'd be a much happier bunny . Christophe Honore has a penchant for sleaze and chances are he figured that the problem with his Ma Mere was that it needed saccharine music and lyrics to disguise the sleaze ( Ma Mere , in case you missed it was the one where Lou Garrel got off with his ma , Isabelle Huppert and masturbated beside her corpse though on reflection I guess music and lyrics couldn't have done that much to save it ) so this time around he laces the down-market sex with interchangeable melodies having only a beat rather than a tune and lyrics as banal as those Demy wrote for Les Paraplueis de Cherbourg . On the other hand there are some nice location shots of Paris but even here Honore can't resist having Sagnier check out a movie at the Brady , a cinema where Catherine Breillat films play and where Deep Throat played for a couple of years . Go if you must .
Rhesus NEGATIVE ? In Spades	Seems I'm in the minority here but I'll take it on the chin and won't open a vein just yet . Carax clearly has his admirers and we can only guess at the reasons . Mabe youthful rebellion against a mainstream way of telling a story ; maybe disciples of the ' new'different-is - automatically-BETTER school . Who knows . I guess it's fair to say that I Endured this movie rather than Enjoyed it . Depending on your point of view Carax has an endearing and / or irritating habit of fading in the middle of a scene and then coming back to the same point . Why ? You tell me . In its favor it does feature two of the now loveliest ( in 1986 they were merely pretty ) French actresses in Julie Delpy and Juliette Binoche plus two all-time great actors in Michel Piccoli and Serge Reggiani ( albeit only a cameo for the latter ) but against this it throws in one of those leading men who seem to get cast inexplicably given they lack virtually every criteria for leading men , I'm thinking of the two Vincents , Cassell and Gallo , Benoit Magimal et al . In this case it's Denis Lavant ( a favorite of Carax ) who resembles nothing so much as a sullen Russ Tamblyn and is one anchovy short of a pizza given that he starts out by dumping Julie Delpy , who is herself one egg short of an omelette by being head-over-heels in love with this yob in the first place . Plot ? You don't want to know , believe me .
Is There REALLY A Market For This . . .	. . . other than Les Halles - the ' stomach of Paris ' had recently been razed to the ground and this . . . I hesitate to use the word film . . . was filmed in the space created . Fereira acknowledges no rules of logic ; time and again we are told we are in Washington DC or in Dakota , scene of the Little Big Horn aka Custer's Last Stand yet all the shop signs are in French and there is even the occasional street sign bearing the legend : Rue ; there are even more specific references to President Nixon - indeed his photograph is prominent , yet most of the principals are dressed for the nineteenth century , including Catherine Deneuve . Somehow , and God KNOWS how , Fereira is able to get fine actors to forget all their training and turn in performances that would be unacceptable in a Church hall and I myself am equally naive , having seen ONE Feriera piece of crap in the same season as this I knowingly and willingly subjected myself to a second using the logic that NOTHING could be worse than Dillinger Is Dead . Boy , Did I Get A Wrong Number .
Woodman , Woodman , DON'T Spare THESE Trees	Jacques Demy has one hell of a sense of humor ; he took Anouk Aimee to California and signed up a team of Sequoias to play opposite her , in support of Gary Redwood ( oops , sorry , Lockwood ) . This has to set some kind of record for the most wooden screen acting EVER . By comparison Lola , the earlier Demy film featuring Aimee as the same character , was a masterpiece to rank alongside Citizen Kane . Actually Lola was a pretty good ' small ' movie and it's nigh on impossible to believe that Model Shop is the work of the same man . Aimee is , of course , a fine actress and was well established at the time she made Lola but here it's a case of one filet mignon and a handful of low-grade hamburgers . Don't waste your time .
So Is Vaudeville	This is one for the Accatone set , those pseuds petrified in the Nouvelle Vague who haunt the movie theatre just off Boul ' Mich sharing eternal spliffs and wondering why no one does Jump Cuts anymore . Michel Piccoli - alone on screen for over half the running time - does nothing all at once . Piccoli , who once starred in a REAL movie called The Things Of Life , contemplates the things of life on a conveyor belt that has been looped so we get the same things over and over but probably a centimetre away from where they were first second and third time around . For no apparent reason other than to make some sort of left-handed sense of the title , whilst rummaging in a closet he stumbles across a package that when untied turns out to be a gun wrapped in a newspaper that carries an account of John Herbert Dillinger , famously arrested in a movie theatre in Chicago . Piccoli strips the gun , oils and cleans it , reassembles it and shoots his sleeping wife . Why ? Why not . It's THAT kind of movie . Having done so he goes for a swim , as you do , climbs on board a private yacht where they are just burying the cook at sea . Spotting a vacancy he puts himself forward for the job , is given a trial , no questions asked and sails away . Arrested development Godard fans will LOVE this one whilst those who like REAL movies will give it a wide berth .
Au Contraire , c'est ephemeral	It's difficult to believe that Tobbe-Grillet isn't taking the mickey here because he has made the ultimate movie FOR posers by making one ABOUT posers . Literally . He clearly saved a fortune on actors by just getting passers-by to stand perfectly still and expressionless . Even a DOG poses in the middle of the road . I note that after more than 20 years there are NO comments here and I can't believe that the usual pseuds / academics missed it but anything's possible . I can't believe I'm writing this but the movie ( if that's what it is ) opens with a guy ( turns out he was one of the founders of Cahiers du Cinema , surprise , surprise ) standing not only still but robot-like in a sterile room . Then there's a shot of a woman doing guess what ? That's right , you got it in one . More ? Why not . There's a really GREAT shot of an old guy sitting stock still on the waterfront while a dead fish lies on the dock ; a shot of a man and a woman standing equally still etcetera , etcetera and these shots are HELD for what seems like forever but is probably no more than forty or fifty seconds and there's even a shot of a group of people POSING in a square . Now what this all means your guess is as good as mine unless , of course , you're a pseud and / or academic in which case you've already awarded Robbe-Grillet the Golden Ego Massager . Otherwise come back the Carry On series , all is forgiven .
Never Gets Off The Ground	It's both unbelievable and inexplicable that this movie has just picked up a Best Film Golden Globe at the expense of the hundred times superior Million Dollar Baby . Essentially what we have here are two great performances , one in the first half , Cate Blanchett , and one in the second half , Alan Alda linked by some passable photography and journeyman acting with a miscast leading man striving to bring credibility to a role with which he seems totally out of synch . Jude Law is about as credible as Errol Flynn as Jim Carry would be but thankfully he has only one short scene in which to be laughed off the screen . Similarly Kate Beckinsale completely misses the spitfire in Ava Gardner and seems to have the impression she's playing June Allyson . At two hours plus it's like the Spruce Goose itself , too ponderous to really fly .
Which Witch ?	As is often the way if you try to be everything to everyone you wind up being nothing to no one . Assuming that we actually needed another take on this character - who , especially in France , has been as well documented on celluloid as Sherlock Holmes , Maigret , Raffles or even Tarzan - then we could have started with someone a tad more credible . Romain Duris is one of those actors ( Vincent Cassell and Benoit Magimal are others ) cursed or blessed depending on your point of view with a built-in insolent , arrogant expression that probably makes certain females roll over and play dead but makes me reach for the sick bag . The script does him no favours by jumping about like a Time Traveller and invoking echoes of The Maltese Falcon and The Da Vinci Code via a Masonic cum Knights of Templar outfit and crucifixes instead of black birds . On balance it's risible more than thrilling and / or scary which is the wrong response to this type of fare . As others have remarked here the viewer is constantly conscious of time passing non-fruitfully .
Oh ! Luna Rossa	I never heard of this film til it played as part of a Robert Mitchum retrospective at the National Film Theatre in London . Almost 60 years on the cast list looked tasty to say the least with seven names - in addition to top-billed Mitchum - in the public domain ; Charles McGraw , not long off The Killers , Barbara Bel Geddes , long before Dallas and arguably still better known as the daughter of Theatre Set Designer Norman , Walter Brennan , who needed no introduction , Frank Faylen , the sadistic male nurse in The Lost Weekend and the much nicer small-town mensch in It's A Wonderful Life , Robert Preston still a decade away from Harold Hill in The Music Man with Tom Tully and Phyllis Thaxter making up the numbers . Alas , most of them were wasting their time . I looked in vain for any ' signature ' scenes given that it was Robert Wise on bullhorn . By this time he'd made around a half dozen films and had still to find a style . The story is our old friend the range war and Mitchum must have thought it was barely a cut above the Hopalong Cassidy oaters on which he'd cut his teeth . There are no new twists - if you don't count the unbelievable scene when Mitchum accuses Preston of sleeping with Thaxter to gain information about her father's plans to move his cattle . This is perfectly true but how did Mitchum KNOW ? We've seen or heard nothing to indicate how he discovered it . On balance not a lot to be said for this .
Jamaica Out	I like to think that after shooting this drek Hitchcock left for the USA one jump ahead of a mob of discerning movie-goers handicapped by the huge amounts of tar and feathers they were carrying . It's the Romantic in me . Of course the truth is vastly different if unconvincing ; Hitch went on to become the idol of those who worship mediocrity and managed to dazzle Truffaut ( and if ever two over-inflated filmmakers deserved each other . . . ) . So , what of this , his last effort on British soil for a couple of decades . The glib answer is that Hitch had no gift for ' period ' pieces - witness Under Capricorn , the biggest turkey since the one Scrooge bought for Tiny Tim - but that implies that he had a gift for SOMETHING . Lots of folks out there think so but it's always proved elusive to these hard-to-please eyes . Charles Laughton hams his way through the lion's share and grudgingly allows the likes of Leslie Banks , Maureen O'Hara and the best actor in the movie , Bobby Newton , to get a look in . Oh , yes , it's about smugglers and set in a papier-mache Cornwall . Easily Pleased Enjoy .
Tooty Flutey	It's well documented - not least by the man himself - that Michael Caine finds it hard to say ' no ' to any offer that comes in over the transom and as if to illustrate this an English Daily newspaper is giving away no less than 14 ' Best Of Breeds ' that today would go straight to DVD . The good news is that readers are obliged to collect the other 13 from applicable outlets , the bad news is that this , the first , was actually inserted in the newspaper in question . How bad is it ? Let me count the ways . Several English actors who should know better but clearly have bills to pay are wheeled out to go through the motions of what may be best described as a Cool rather than Cold War episode - thriller is far too grand a description - in which Nigel Havers gets too pushy for his own good , ' falls ' off a roof and leaves father Caine to get at any truth that might be floating around . Dire .
When You Gotta Go You Gotta Go ( But Don't Ask Ozon The Way )	Once again my admiration for Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi led me to a movie I would have bet money would turn out to be merde . I don't know what it is about Ozon that makes him such a favorite of the Rent-A-Pseud crowd unless it's a penchant for making pretentious garbage masquerading as movies but whatever it is he's at it again . Tedeschi , as always , was worth it , but I wish she wasn't so gullible at selecting directors ; this is twice in two years she's worked with this guy and been the best thing in both films by a country mile . For those who like to know these things it's the second part of a threatened trilogy ( Under The Sand being the first ) and concerns a thirty year old gay photographer with terminal cancer . He has three months to live and it seems as if we spend twice that long watching this . Undoubtedly it will have its supporters but then Bowling For Dollars finds its audience .
Strung-Out Quartet	All About Eve has a lot to answer for , not least the idea - which wasn't exactly new but Mank gave it a great new coat of paint - of starting the action in the present then letting a voice-over narration introduce the principals . The difference , of course , is that ' Eve ' was scripted by a pro , Mank , whose name on the credits assured the viewer that Wit and Style would follow , whilst The Good Die Young was scripted by a couple of hacks I won't embarrass by naming . Seldom has a more disparate and incongruous cast been assembled in one movie . Top billing went to Mr . Mahogony aka Laurence Harvey and in an effort to give him some class the script had him married to Margaret Leighton , the only person remotely resembling an actor in the cast ; the fifties was a time when Hollywood actors on the skids came to England in an attempt to revive flagging careers and three of them were wheeled out for this caper movie in the shape of John Ireland , Richard Basehart and Gloria Graham . There's also a nice touch of irony at work in the fact that Joan Collins and Graham share the same screen though never meet . Collins aims for demure though in her case it's more like demure the merrier while Graham , who was born sleazy and shop-soiled , took the kind of role ( sluttish wife ) that Collins would eventually make her own . Other imitators have proved that the flashback technique with voice-over narrator can and does work but usually the back stories are not warmed over clichés as here , in fact a good alternate title would be Four Losers In Search Of A Cliché .
Black Joke	We all know of course that Orson was more or less reduced to turning tricks to finance his own movies and I thought he'd hit rock bottom with Ferry To Hong Kong but this has it beat a country mile . Normally I would have been aware of a Henry Hathaway-Tyrone Power entry from Fox but this one came out of Left field and having seen it I'm not surprised . They may have to come up with a new genre to describe this turkey ; an action film with virtually no action ? a romance with virtually no clinches ? The opening harks right back to Shakespeare with Power as the bastard son , seething with resentment and lighting out for Cathay , as thousands were in 1266 . His Robin Hood teams up with Little John in the shape of , wait for it , Jack Hawkins . Can you believe this . One minute they'r in the heart of Olde England , Power says , in effect , I've had it up to here with this burg , anyone for Cathay and the very next shot finds them up to here in camels . This I can understand if there are so many thrills awaiting us in the Orient that we can't afford to waste time getting there but for what WAS waiting it would have been more exciting to see them sleeping in a haystack in Ghent . Orson is , of course , always worth the price of admission but even watching him wipe the floor with the entire cast can't compensate for the lethargy surrounding it .
What A Turkey	A colourized version of this black and white film was given away with a tabloid newspaper on Sunday last which is how I came to see it and the best I can say about it is that luckily , because of a good relationship with my newsagent , I didn't have to buy the paper to get the DVD which is lucky because as it stands the movie is not worth the 80p cover price of the newspaper . It may well have been much better in black and white or maybe a la The Wizard Of Oz they could have shot the first four fifths in black and white and used colour to highlight Scrooge's change of heart . Buffs of vintage British films will have a field day ticking off names like Hattie Jacques , Anthony Wager ( uncredited ) , Patrick McNee , George Cole et al and it may well be that for the undemanding nostalgist that's enough . The more critical will note the austere ' coldness ' not to say gross miscasting of Hermione Baddeley's Mrs Cratchit , clearly under the impression she was still playing Ida in Brighton Rock , the fledgling Michael Horden as Marley's ghost clanking his chains and emoting like a cross between Donald Wolfit and Charles Laughton - surely had he read the script in toto and not just his own part he would have realized that there'd be turkey chez Cratchit come Christmas day and not prime ham - and Kathleen Harrison , so OTT they should have paid her in Air Miles instead of coin of the realm . Only Miles Malleson and Ernest Thesiger bear even passing resemblances to Dickens-type characters no one else seems committed enough to try . Mervyn Johns makes a brave and passable stab at capturing the misery - laced - with - human - warmth of Bob Cratchit and Alistair Sim gets Scrooge about three quarters right and reminds us how hopelessly inadequate that perennial cheeky chappie Tommy Steele must be as the current incarnation now playing the London Palladium . Sorry I couldn't find much to praise here but those are the breaks .
You Can't Go Home Again	My sole reason for seeing this - about which I knew nothing - was the name of Natascha Reignier on the marquee . This German-born , Belgian-raised actress caught my eye first in Le Pont des Arts and I figured I could stand a little more of her . It's one of those stories when you find yourself saying to and / or about the main character ' why did you do it ' usually when the ingénue in the old , dark house , throws on a negligee , grabs a candle and heads for the cellar / locked room at three in the morning against all the laws of logic , common sense and self-preservation . Here we wonder why Olivier ( Mathieu Demy ) , having shaken off the bonds , not to say tentacles of the close-knit life on Corsica , elects to return on vacation with pregnant French girlfriend ( Natasca Reignier ) in tow and , having done so , is apparently content to leave her to her own devices whilst he joins in boar hunts in which he is accepted only via the good word put in by Vincent , ( Thierry de Peretti ) . So from the first there are subtle layers of unease lacing the plot like sunbeams penetrating a dense forest . With at least two layers of tension - Olivier / Marianne , Olivier / hunters - working against him the last thing Olivier needs is to stop at a filling station and witness one of the boar hunters kill the cashier . Any moral qualms this would normally trigger are intensified because we are , remember , in Corsica where , as Damon Runyon might have said , the best you can get by interfering in things that don't concern you is the worst of it . In short , a broody piece with spectacular scenery and a highly watchable leading lady .
The Trouble With Cinderella	The more erudite among my readers will recognize my summary as the title of one of if not THE finest autobiographies of a musician , whether ' pop ' , jazz or classical , ever published and I am more than happy to acknowledge Artie Shaw as the author . The film is the latest in a mini-genre exploring the phenomena of female idolatry . Joseph L . Mankiewicsz got there early if not indeed first , back in 1950 with All About Eve , a couple of years ago we had La Role de sa vie and now backstage . There's a definite progression traceable between all three ; in ' Eve ' , Ann Baxter's Eve was not really as in love with Bette Davis ' Margo Channing as she was with Eve Harrington , the early ' hero-worship ' was merely a ruse to get close enough to Channing to oust her . In La Role de sa vie Karin Viard began by genuinely admiring Agnes Jaoui as an actress and welcoming the chance to work for her as secretary cum dogsbody but was strong enough to walk away and get a book out of it when the time was right but in Backstage Isild Le Besco is little more than a young girl besotted with a ' star ' pop singer in the shape of Emmanuells Seigner and takes little more than disappointment away from the encounter . We're asked to believe that Le Besco's mother could persuade a pop superstar to shoot a video in the garden and house located in an unremarkable suburb as a ' surprise ' for her daughter . If this puts a strain on our credibility it's nothing to the ease with which Le Besco succeeds where dozens of other wannabee groupies fail in becoming a gofor for Seigner . By fair the most interesting character is Noemie Lvosky in a role that has parallels with Thelma Ritter's ' Birdie ' in All About Eve . Lvosky is a writer herself ( Il Est plus facile pour une chameau . . . ' ) and recently directed her own first feature the excellent Les Sentiments and is spot-on as secretary-minder . Though light years short of either ' Eve ' or ' Role ' it's not as bad as it might have been .
Class Act ? You Tell Me	I not only knew the premise of this movie I also knew the joke - and I use the word loosely - at the core of it . I heard it as a teenager but compared to the versions on offer here what I heard was highly sanitized even involving as it did four incestuous couplings between a man and wife , the wife and her son , the son and his sister , the father and his daughter , all of which would take place in a legitimate theatre before a paying audience ; when asked the name of the act the husband / father - who was trying to sell it to a booking agent - replied ' The Four Sophisticates ' . Today it's known as the Aristocrats and anything goes , the grosser the better . Essentially in this movie a couple of dozen comedians , more than half of which are completely unknown to me - and I consider myself pretty well informed - take this basic premise and improvise around it adding people , animals , inanimate objects at will . On average about one in five is funny despite the grossness , the others are just gross . As usual Billy Wider said it better than most ; when speaking of the celebrated Ten Unfriendly Witnesses at the HUAC Hearings he said , quote , one had talent , the rest were just unfriendly , unquote . So , alas , is it here albeit with a strike rate just a tad higher .
Let's Talk Turkey	As one of the 38 or so people in the world who HAVEN'T read the book and haven't the least desire to do so I'm unable to make any comparisons between page and screen ; I did , however , suspect that any film which is as hyped as this has been would have its work cut out to live up to the hype and the early reviews did little or nothing to disabuse me but I went anyway because I like Jean Reno , Jean-Pierre Marielle and Audrey Tautou . Given the premise of male-female teaming up to accomplish something they could just as easily have called it the Da Vinci Co-Ed but that might imply even a scintilla of chemistry between Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou and thus run foul of the Trade Descriptions Act . I have no problem with the locations but one Louvre doesn't make a stunner and the best you can say for Ron Howard is that he knows which end of the camera to point at the action . I guess the extent of the mess this is can be gauged when a ham like Ian McKellen takes all the notices . With luck it'll get a substantial piece of its neg cost back in this first weekend but after that the word will surely be out and they'll be staying away in droves .
Flanc Verse	If you substitute a caserne for a desert island then what you have here is essentially The Admirable Chrighton in army fatigues ; a tale of role reversal when master and servant leave behind the status quo and find themselves in an alien world in which the master is ill equipped to survive and the servant is right at home . It's somewhat unusual to find Michel Simon - even as a young man carrying a lot of heft - as an ardent young swain but even in his salad days the acting chops were well in evidence . Renoir is one of those directors who tend to be over feted as opposed to overrated ( as in Hitchcock ) ; a man who made several exceptional films - La Grande Illusion , La Crime de Monsieur Lange , French Can Can - and a lot more average titles unlike Duvivier , Decoin , Carne ' etc who turned out consistently better than average movies across long careers . This is certainly enjoyable if you can get past the unfortunate background music which sounds as if someone has scored a madrigal for accordion though the vaguely Shakespearean music is perhaps apropos for the finale with the sets of lovers happily united .
Bowled Under	I think the kindest things to be said about this are 1 ) that it has been over-hyped and 2 ) it has dated badly . Watching in 2005 ( courtesy of a free DVD inserted into a newspaper ) a movie made in 1972 is , of course , fraught with built-in problems . This is true of any movie yet some - the Judy Garland vehicles Meet Me In St Louis and A Star Is Born for ironic example - wear their age well and make it easy for the 21st century viewer to appreciate what all the 20th century fuss was about and others , like this one fail , alas , to preserve whatever magic they possessed at the time . The score is serviceable certainly and Kander and Ebb have contrived to create words and music redolent of the tinny harshness that characterized Weill and Brecht who WERE actually writing words and music at the time that Cabaret is set . The overall success of replicating authentic 30s German music is negated by the insertion of Maybe This Time , written especially for both the movie and specifically Liza Minelli , a favourite performer of the composers , and both song and delivery reek of a much later decade and another country . The casting of Michael York doesn't help ; another honors graduate of the giant Redwood School of Acting he would have been okay playing against someone less flamboyant and manic than Minelli and with alternative casting the overall effect might have been less like a clash between a Dutch Elm on its last legs and a Mexican Jumping Bean . It IS watchable , but only just .
Reef Knot	Between 1923 and 1952 Maurice Gleize managed to direct twenty two films in France without distinguishing himself . This one , with a screenplay by top French scriptwriter Charles Spaak , had arguably the best cast he ever got to work with ( on other occasions he directed Fenandel , Charles Vanel and Marie Bell ) from co-stars Jean Gabin and Michele Morgan - hot on the heels of Quai des brumes that same year - to Saturnin Fabre , Gaston Modot and Julien Carrette but for all Gleize extracted from them it might as well have been John Lund and Maria Montez supported by Leo Gorcey and the Bowery Boys . The plot kicks off with a Fantastic Surprise : Jean Gabin has killed a man and is obliged to flee the country ( Okay , I lied about the surprise , but this movie needs all the help it can get ) , this time around he winds up in Australia about four blocks North of Rue Vavin on ligne 4 of the Metro where , in the fullness of time ( the best part of an hour ) he meets Michele Morgan who is also an assassin - a plot twist too far and too late - and they spend a half hour or so dodging the law . The sad thing is that every actor I've named is more than worth watching in anything as they are here but how much more worth watching they would have been in SOMETHING worth watching .
Writers Blocker	With a few exceptions such as French Connection II sequels don't have a high strike-rate in terms of success and this is no exception . Whilst it is indisputable that Sinatra COULD act when he put his mind to it - From Here To Eternity , The Manchurian Candidate - the fact remains that he put his mind to it all too infrequently and often - The Naked Runner , The Detective - the best he would do would be to check his ring-a-ding-ding persona with the Assistant Director before walking on set . Part of the problem was that his millions of fans , including myself , would ( and probably still will ) watch him in anything which albeit , as in my case , not uncritically , left him free to be self-indulgent and walk through too many movies . I for one and speaking as a lifelong fan never really found him believable as a private eye in either Tony Rome or this sequel ; it's just Sinatra perpetuating the image he had created since his ' comeback ' as the super-cool , super-hip Jack-the-lad , ogling the girls , tossing off the one-liners and having as much of a ball as possible whilst shooting a movie more or less on time and under budget . Any movie that begins with a blatant rip-off of Farewell , My Lovely with ax extra large man ( Mike Mazurski , Dan Blocker ) hiring a private detective ( Dick Powell , Frank Sinatra ) to find the girl friend who disappeared whilst he was in the slammer is clearly struggling and the fact that it then abandons the plot developments of the Chandler story in favour of something more inept doesn't help in the least . Okay , if it's a choice between this and Mr . Bean then fine but other than that it's really just for Sinatra completists .
All That Meat And No Potatoes	In some respects Clair Denis is like Catherine Breillat-lite , equally obsessed with sex yet reluctant to emulate Breillat with full-on encounters . At first viewing - and one of the problems is that most of us won't want a second - it's not always easy to decide if this is a wind-up or an attempt at real significance . Denis does herself no favors by casting Vincent Gallo in the lead . He bears too close a resemblance to Vincent Cassell to be credible as a sympathetic character and is as bereft of charisma as Cassell . So immediately we are in a situation where we don't really care and by extension are unable to empathize with our leading man so that by extension his dilemma - as a guinea-pig in a series of libido-enhancing experiments he has developed strong cannibalistic urges - tends to seem more risible than tragic . Unfortunately this antipathy then extends to Beatrice Dalle , a fellow guinea-pig who , unlike Gallo , is totally unable to control her urges and actually eats her way through a brace of lovers before our eyes . Although I bought the DVD unwittingly on the reputation of Clair Denis and the recommendation of a friend I have no plans to watch it again .
For Insomniacs Only	This is a mish-mosh that fits where it touches . Gig Young never really convinces as a cop of any kind let alone one flirting with corruption and Mala Powers was equally ill at ease as a hard-boiled ' dancer ' in a down-at-heels nite club . She had recently played Roxanne opposite Jose Ferrer's Cyrano de Bergerac and was much more at home in that kind of role . On the other hand Edward Arnold as a crooked attorney and Marie Windsor as his trophy wife ( although the term was unknown in 1953 ) are right at home here . Chill Wills as a sort of ' Clarence ' from It's A Wonderful Life is also something of a fish out of water . I suppose we should be grateful that this time around Republic honcho Herbert J Yates didn't cast his wife , Vera Raslston , as he was wont to do at the drop of a script . The level of ineptness is best summed up by the climax . Young has called for back-up to nail heavy William Tallman and this duly appears yet when Tallman takes off only Young gives chase - and he even stops to talk to his brother , who has been wounded by Tallman , before resuming the chase yet still manages to wind up on Tallman's heels . This Povert Row quickie was screened on British TV yesterday and it just about kept me awake .
Pardon My French	I'm guessing that at the time this film was made the Welsh Nationalists with their penchant for turning signposts around to confuse English tourists were more or less inactive but now that a national newspaper in England is giving away several vintage Ealing comedies dating from the forties / fifties it's possible to read Tibby Clarke's screenplay as a satire on those misguided , hot-headed Taffs . Like the same stable's Hue and Cry London bomb-sites are a feature of this feature and it does arguably serve a function as living history although it's reasonable to suppose that much of it was shot in the studio . It's not so much difficult as virtually impossible to accept that a world like this ever existed , not so much the whimsical ' plot ' as the lifestyles which are totally alien to anything we know today . If you're fairly undemanding and of a mind to time-travel to another galaxy then this may well hit the spot .
Young And Guilty	Though it's always been tough for me to work up a sweat about any Hitchcock movie this one - which was also a freebie with a National newspaper - had a couple of selling points for me ; it was a film adaptation of the volume of stories by Willie Maugham which featured the character Ashenden and it top-billed Johnny Gielgud and was shot at the time he was electrifying the West End stage in his night job as a Shakespearean actor . Alas , neither of these factors can overcome what is ostensibly a ' thriller ' yet which Hitch has seen fit to shoot with all the tempo of a heavily sedated sloth and there was more sexual chemistry between Moishe Dayan and Golda Meir than Gielgud and Madeleine Carroll can come up with . Robert Young as the inevitable guilty man weighs in with the only pretense to Style in the whole megillah . My advice is give this plenty of the back of your neck .
None So Blind , None So Bland	Travelling by train to Cornwall to shoot location footage Stewart Granger shared a carriage with director Leslie Arliss who asked casually what Granger thought of the script . Unaware that Arliss had a co-writer credit Granger replied succinctly ' crap ' . I have little time for Granger as an actor , finding him both smug and wooden but I can't fault his critical faculties , or at least not in this case . Someone involved in the writing had clearly been blown away by One-Way Passage and thought they could do just as well . Boy , did they get a wrong number and it wasn't Cornish Rhapsody . For the record One-Way Passage featured a doomed shipboard romance between two people returning by sea to America , she to die of an incurable disease , he to be executed . The perpetrators of Love Story give us a terminally ill Margaret Lockwood opting to spend her last few months in Cornwall where she meets soon-to-be-blind Stewart Granger neither , of course , revealing the truth to the other . Tom Walls and Patricia Roc are also along for the ride and acquit themselves as well as can be expected under the circumstances . It was probably designed as escapist fodder | ( it was produced in 1944 ) but ironically it is the audience who seek freedom .
Pay The Two Dollars	It may be just as well that Robert Aldrich is uncredited as director here because it would add little to his CV in terms of lustre . It's a ho-hum caper movie in an exotic-on-paper location , in this case a Singapore that makes no mention of Raffles hotel and was possibly inspired by and remains a poor-man's Macao , which was shot by Joe Von Sternberg around the same time . The slightly bizarre cast - Dan Duryea , Patrick Holt , Gene Hersholt , Reginald Denny , Arthur Shields , Nigel Bruce - contrive to seem as if they're acting in different films and the ' topical ' theme of Atomic power now seems terribly dated . Just about watchable as a Late , Late Show offering but that's about the best you can give it , unless , of course , you're a Strother Martin completist for he turns up yet again in an uncredited ' bit ' .
What A Carry On	Gerald Thomas directed five ho-hum films in the nineteen fifties before Carry On , Sergeant struck a chord with the brain-dead pre-Multiplexers of the day and this was one of them . Raymond Chandler famously said that the easiest murders to solve are the ones that someone tried too hard with and such is the case here . What we have is a sort of David Mamet scenario lacking Mamet's skill . In the early stages there is a throwaway moment that will prove crucial later . Having met at London airport as a favour to a friend a German actress previously unknown to him , John Mills attempts to light a cigarette in the car en route to London only to find his lighter doesn't work , whereupon the actress offers him a book of matches and tells him to keep them . These are two STRANGERS , remember so in order for this to work the actress must know in advance that 1 ) Mills smokes at all , 2 ) he will elect to smoke during the car journey , 3 ) that he owns a lighter and not matches of his own and 4 ) that his lighter will fail to work . If stuff like this doesn't bother you none of the rest will , like , for example , a scene towards the end with Mills in his flat talking to his fiancé . He takes a phone call which necessitates him keeping a rendez-vous but rejects the fiancé's offer to go with him . Instead he tosses her a bunch of keys saying ' these are the keys to my flat , let yourself in and wait for me there ' . Quite a trick when they are actually IN his flat at the time . On the credit side there are some nice nostalgic views of a long-vanished London that match the long-vanished logic .
Heavy Water-Lite	Twenty years after the end of the war they were still churning out stuff like this , more or less scraping the bottom of the barrel for ' unknown ' incidents to exploit . The events depicted here may well have been true but Anthony Mann does little or nothing to inject any life or excitement into things . For me the attraction was third-billed Michael Redgrave but he was totally wasted in a part even Richard Pascoe couldn't make more lifeless . For a film about heavy water there's a notable lack of chemistry between ANY one person and ANY one else ; an ' action ' film short on action , a thriller short on thrills in fact the whole thing is a snow job .
Just A Waste Of Time Travel	Perhaps as good a definition as any of the expression the triumph of hope over experience is people - and I am one myself - who persist in watching Hollywood remakes of decent French films in spite of tinseltown's abysmal track record in that department . In my case I persist on the theory that sooner or later the Law of Averages HAS to kick in and someone will get it right . Maybe it will . . . someday . This is definitely not it . The original stars Jean Reno and Christian Claviar ( who also co-wrote the original ) are as good as we expect them to be but the original premise has been negated by having them wind up in Chicago instead of France . The idea after all is that they are catapulted forward in time to meet their own descendants still in situ on the same land that has been in the family for 800 years , an impossibility with Chicago , New York or anywhere in the New World for that matter . Okay , it is still funny to see Reno throwing food to Claviar in a high-toned restaurant in Chi but one swallow doesn't make a banquet . Nice try , fellas but no cigar .
Answer : Not a lot	For non French-speakers the title translates as HowMuch Do You Love Me , ergo my summary . Normally I'm prepared to go a long way to avoid Monica Bellucci but against that I'm equally prepared to go as far again to see Gerard Depardieu so there you have the problem in a nutshell . Blier has been , of course , associated inextricably with Depardieu from the first and it would not be an exaggeration to say that Depardieu owes his career to Blier's Les Valseuses , but there is , surely a limit to how grateful one can be ; after all Gerry can be said to have paid Blier back with interest with his appearances in Get Out Your Handkerchiefs , Too Beautiful For You and so on . On the other hand this latest Blier entry toplined Bernard Campan , so good in Se Souvenirs des belles choses and it's he who kick-starts the plot , having won the lottery and inclined to ' buy ' hooker Bellucci . That should give you an idea of what to expect and frankly it doesn't get any better so I'm really not surprised that no one has chosen to write about something released in October , quickly withdrawn from the large salles and now reduced to two screens in Cinemas du quartier . A major disappointment .
Snow Joke	Once again I appear to have watched a different film from the majority of posters making it a contest between the hard to please and the easily pleased . I watched it as I watch any and every movie i . e . with the best of intentions and hoping to like more than I dislike . On paper it had plenty going for it beginning with the score . Given that it's a Berlin score we know going in that 1 ) there will be a healthy slug of his back catalogue melded to a handful of new material and 2 ) that there's absolutely no danger of us mistaking it for Porter sophistication , Hart wit , Arlen verve and that schmaltz and sentiment will be the order of the day . That's fine . No one's trying to put anything over on us , we know it's going to be The Sound Of Music without the nuns and the kids so let's sit back and let it unspool . Crosby is usually a good bet and when he's teamed with Astaire he's an even better bet . Fred couldn't make it this time around so after trying everyone else they finally settled for Danny Kaye which would also be fine but not , of course , Slyvia Fine , with whose words and music he is most comfortable . It was probably asking too much to expect Kaye to play it straight so we keep getting the Kays schtick whether we like it or not . Rosemary Clooney is adequate as one of the female leads but Vera Ellen has never quite convinced as leading lady material and nor does she here . For acting we have Dean Jagger who is so good he tends to overbalance things . Pleasant ? Sure . Engaging ? Well . . . Painless ? More or less .
See How They Fail	This was the first film by Jacques Audiard whose father Michel wrote more than 120 screenplays , mostly pedestrian though he did work , for instance on Les Tontons Flinguers . Jacques himself eased his way into directing via writing and won a minor writing credit on Toni Marshall's Venus Beaute though it's difficult to imagine exactly what he contributed given that the world of his four feature films - he followed this with Un heros tres discret , Sure mes levres and this years De battre mon couer s'est arrete - is light years away from that of Marshall . On balance it's not a world I care much about though usually there's at least something to admire - Manu Devos for example - in each one with the possible exception of the last . In this debut he got to work with Jean-Louis Trintignant and Jean Yanne and an elliptical plot that emerges like Kafka being proof-read by Faulkner . It takes a while but eventually we realize that Marx ( Trintignant ) is addicted to gambling but not , alas , to winning . To get out of the hole he reluctantly agrees to ' hit ' someone but finds he can't do it so a younger man , Johnny ( Matthieu Kassovitz ) with learning difficulties , who has attached himself to Marx , volunteers to deputise , thus do people bond . Somewhere along the line Johnny wastes an undercover cop Mickey ( Yvon Back ) which disturbs Michey's friend Simon Hirsch ( Jean Yanne ) so much that he sets out on an individual crusade to track down the killers . Would that it were as simple as I've described it here but it seems that Audiard doesn't do straightforward we're fed information via an eye-dropper whilst incidentally exploring the world of homo-eroticism . Bulle Ogier , a major selling-point for me has a blink-and-you'll miss it cameo and that's about it . I'm glad I saw it but wouldn't necessarily go back for seconds .
Waugh And Piece	I have to say I was disappointed by this , mostly because of the sloppy writing and one Glaring error in the plot . The one-liners were up to snuff as in this exchange between Scarlett and Woody : I think he may ask me to marry him . But your family are orthodox , would they accept a serial killer ? To explain my beef about the hole in the plot I'll need to state the premise . We begin with a funeral , a journalist , Joe Strombel has died and later a group of other journos reminisce about him ( this is Allen stealing from himself replicating as it does the opening of Broadway Danny Rose ) . Then we cut to a ferry crossing the Styx and here is Strombel himself in the shape of Ian McShane . He asks a fellow passenger , a young woman , how she died and she replies that she thinks she was poisoned by her boss , Peter Lyman , son of Lord Lyman . She claims to have proof that Lyman was , in fact , the notorious serial killer the Tarot Card Killer , whose victims are all prostitutes . McShane is frustrated because this is a scoop if ever he heard one but he can hardly write it from his present location . So , he jumps overboard . This is when we are introduced to one of the leads in the shape of student journo Scarlett Johannson who decides to check out a show by magician / illusionist Woody Allen . He picks her as a volunteer to be ' vanished ' to which end he places her in a cabinet . Once inside she is confronted by McShane , who needs a journo to write the scoop but most of all to check the facts . She persuades Woody to pose as her father and contrive to meet Lyman . The ploy is successful but she falls for Lyman ( Hugh Jackman ) natch . He goes away for the weekend on ' business ' and whilst dining with Allen they see him in town . Around this time another prostitute is murdered . NOW , here is the hole . It turns out that Lyman only killed this LAST victim and the real Tarot Card Killer was arrested soon after . SO , given that this last murder occurred several weeks after McShane died HOW could Lyman's secretary have ' proof ' that he killed ALL the victims when he hadn't even killed the one he wanted to kill , using the others as a smoke-screen . Ergo , what reason would he have to poison his secretary . The reason , of course , is that Allen needed to kick-start the plot but just opted for a sloppy way to do it . Not one of his best but still reasonably enjoyable .
Hard To Pin Down	This is arguably the worst movie Betty Grable ever made once she became a star . It is , of course , quite possible that in 1944 it would have filled a gap in a world hungry for escapist entertainment but today almost nothing earns any praise from Grable herself , who does what she can with a lacklustre script and score to the usually reliable Martha Raye , Joe E . Brown and Eugene Palette in support . B . S . Pulley , later to feature prominently in Guys and Dolls as Big Julie is also on hand albeit uncredited as is June Hutton who is featured with the Charlie Spivak orchestra . James V . Monaco and Mack Gordon have done much better work than this although they did turn in a complete score . This one is best forgotten .
Room At The Halls Of Residence	For some reason this Room At The Top clone has eluded me up to now , not that I missed much . The parallels are striking ; ' working class ' lad slightly out of his element when thrown into contact with a class above his own , involved with two women , one ' nice ' girl his own age and one older married woman . For Joe Lampton read Harry Brown ( Ian McShane ) and for local government read local university . There's even a nod to Joe Lampton marrying upwards via Harry's schoolfriend , also on campus who has snared Jeremy Brett's scion of a sweet tycoon . In referential terms Harry Brown is like a prototype of Jimmy Porter albeit some six years after Look Back In Anger , and even more bizarrely he comes off as a somewhat neutered Porter lacking the vitriolic pen of John Osborne to round him off . The cast is interesting to say the least , Paul Rogers unusually wooden , Johnny Briggs sporting a Welsh accent that fits where it touches , a barely recognizable John Hurt with the timbre already there but little hint of the fine actor he would become but all of these are dwarfed by the finest acting of all by the tragic Virginia Maskell . A curio at best .
Gaughin , Gaughin , Gone	Ralph Habib was not only an inept director he was also stupid , so stupid that he plays his only Ace in the very first reel thus leaving discriminating viewers no solid reason to keep watching . The Ace in question is Arletty who , in addition to being an Icon , was one of the finest actresses in French cinema . Habib wheels her out after roughly seven minutes , uses her in a couple of scenes during which she gets to change her dress and share the screen with three of the leading players , Martine Carol , Roger Livesey and Karl Boehm , then she's gone after five minutes . On the other hand five minutes of Arletty is worth five Years of Vanessa Paradis , Ludovine Sagnier or Monica Belucci and if you're prepared to sit it out Arletty does get the final scene to herself albeit one that has the feel of being tacked on as a clumsy epilogue . In case you're interested the eponymous stowaway is Martine Carol , best described as an unlucky actress and person if it comes to that . She drew critical plaudits in Continentals Wolf Farm during the Occupation but her good looks led to a series of soft-porn in the early fifties then Bardot happened and that was that . None of her three marriages - the middle one to Christian-Jacque - were happy and as early as 1947 she attempted suicide . If THIS movie had been made in that year we would perhaps understand why but it was , in fact , eleven years later . It's one of those movies with a bizarre cast list - Roger Livesey , for example , was a veteran of the Powell-Pressburger school , appearing in I Know Where I'm Going , The Life And Death Of Colonel Blimp and A Matter Of Life and Death , none of which was remotely like this mish-mosh . Serge Reggiani is the other star name but we never really get the feeling that he , Carol , Boehm and Livesey are in the same film . See it for Arletty .
Alien Corn or The Magnificent Hamberson	As sequels go this is probably as good as any and it's notable for the novel way they got around the lack of new material ; they devoted the second half of the sequel to the MAKING of the original , The Jolson Story . Quite a trick . Against the odds The Jolson Story , released in 1946 , cleaned up at a Box Office well into post-war hysteria where a movie that was set mostly BEFORE either The Great Depression or World War II provided a nostalgic look at a more innocent world . Naturally the Accountants running the movie business smelled ' sequel ' but what to add ? Simple ; after a quick once-over-lightly of Jolie's enforced retirement - nobody wanted him - from showbiz and his WWII tours of Army bases have a movie Producer show up and pitch a movie based on Jolie's life / career ( it had worked with George M Cohan in 1942 ) so it was worth a try . This sets the scene for one of the most fictitious things in the movie as Jolie - who in real life would have PAID top dollar to ANY studio in Hollywood to promote him - comes all over modest and queries who would want to see a has-been . He is , of course , over ridden and the movie goes ahead and what's more we , the audience watching the sequel get to SEE the original being made . Among the goofs perhaps the most glaring occurs with Jolie at home ( before the Hollywood Producer turns up ) listening to the radio , circa , and speaking of the song that is playing ( Harry Warren's I Only Have Eyes For You ) as ' new ' . Maybe someone should have told Jolie that the song was written for the 1934 Warner movie ' Dames ' starring Dick Powell , Joan Blondell and - wait for it - Ruby Keeler , then very much Mrs Al Jolson . By definition a shorter film than the original this one is fairly painless and Jolie fans will love it .
The Bhoys In The Band	As a biopic this one fits where it touches . Who knows the genesis ; what we DO know is that The Jolson Story had been produced the year before ( 1946 ) and had cleaned up despite having an actor portray Jolie so maybe the thinking was ' suppose we get Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey to play themselves . . . ' . Whatever , the movie is fine on Musical content yet blithely ignores the biggest name by far who was ever associated with either brother , Frank Sinatra , who sang with Tommy from 1940 to 1942 ( in fact Tommy's band is heard playing ' I'll Never Smile Again ' which was one of Sinatra's early hits with the band and Jimmy's two prime vocalists , Bob Eberle and Helen O'Connell appear as themselves and perform one of their hit records Green Eyes . There's an entirely superfluous ' romance ' between Janet Blair - who may be a fictional character but is alleged to have grown up as a neighbor of the brothers - and prime mahogany William Lundigan but the musical content is adequate and will please fans of both brothers .
Cluedo a la Clouzot	In common , I would guess , with anyone who had seen and admired the earlier work of Clouzot beginning with Le Corbeau and culminating in Les Diaboliques , I approached this with taste buds primed for major salivation only to be disappointed . This has to be a one-off , a thriller sans thrills . At times it resembles one of those creaky British B-pictures of the thirties and forties so that you almost expect Wilfrid Lawson to emerge out of a pea-souper and stare meaningfully at Kynaston Reeves . For reasons best known to himself Clouzot even finds work for Paul Carpenter , surely the most inept and wooden actor on either side of the Channel , matched only by Laurence Harvey and Alan Lake . Having bought it on DVD I shall , I suppose , watch it again on the off chance that there really is something I'm missing besides a few brain cells shed in the time it took to unspool .
Black And Veidt	Never underestimate the power of hype and the willingness of impressionable snobs to praise the mediocre . If people were easily pleased in 1940 it seems little has changed in almost 60 years . I accept that Powell and Pressburger completists will want to see and / or own this film but just because the team turned out a couple of half decent movies doesn't mean that every early effort was gold dust . The year before the same team had enjoyed a minor success - not , surely , that hard in wartime - with the Spy In Black and figured why not team Conrad Veidt and Valerie Hobson again and this time , improbable and unrealistic as it is , have them fall in love in between escaping from a spy ring . All sorts of people pop up here and it's amazing that the likes of Peter Bull , Leon Genn and Bernard Miles went on to appear in anything else let alone enjoy reasonable careers . For completists only .
Eastern ( Broken ) Promise	There's an outside chance that this looked promising at the pitch stage but any misgivings should have been heeded . It's fairly clear that someone involved , either the writers , who pitched it to a production company or a producer who subsequently hired writers , saw Regis Warniers Est-Ouest - a drama in which a French woman , Sandrine Bonnaire , married to a Russian doctor , Oleg Menshikov , accompanies him to Russia in 1946 against her better judgment , is terribly unhappy there and escapes - and Wolfgang Becker's Goodbye , Lenin - a comedy in which a dedicated Communist , Katrin Sals , living in East Germany , falls into a coma shortly before the ' Wall ' comes down , wakens some time afterward but cannot be told she is now in the WEST lest she suffers a heart attack - and decided a combination of the two would surely clean up at the Box Office ( both films were highly praised and garnered several nominations ) and then delivered a film that is neither funny or dramatic . Alternatively , someone concerned saw The Lives Of Others at the beginning of the year and dashed off Ratcliffe in about ten days . If ideas were all it took then I myself and probably half of you out there would be millionaires many times over but as we all know ideas need a little back-up , like talent , ability , competence . Iain Glen is a very fine stage actor but doesn't have the best record when it comes to picking films , similarly Catherine Tate is also a fine stage actress and an equally fine writer and comedienne - it was in fact her name that ' sold ' this movie to me - so the two leads tick all the boxes where talent , ability and competence are concerned . The two writers are something else , Bridget O'Connor and Peter Straughan have only one previous credit , Sixty Six , which again they wrote in tandem and which sunk without trace . The premise is simple : a dedicated communist living in 1960s Yorkshire , applies , without consulting his family - wife , brother-in-law , two daughters , for a teaching post in what was then ' East ' Germany . Having been offered the post - teaching English Literature - he proposes that they move en masse and meets surprisingly little or no resistance , no worries about leaving friends behind , changing schools , etc , in other words , unrealistic . The regime they encounter is strangely benign and although the Stasi is acknowledged - indeed both Mr Ratcliffe and his youngest daughter are soon on the payroll as it were - it is an equally benign outfit and no one is actually tortured / killed as a result of information obtained . There is absolutely zero chemistry between Glenn and Tate ( who becomes quite adept at escape ) so that we are unable to work up much of a sweat about their eventual reconciliation . This should have gone straight to video thence to oblivion .
That OLD Gang Of Mine	Offered recently as a ' freebie ' with a UK newspaper it was just about worth the price . The name ' Terence Rattigan ' on a screenplay usually guarantees quality that fails to date - witness his masterpiece ' The Way To The Stars ' which was released two years prior to Brighton Rock and still holds up magnificently - but this is one time it fails to deliver , though the blame may lie more with co-screenwriter Graham Greene , author of the original novel . Much of the problem lies with the mannered ' acting ' of Dickie Attenborough , a lifelong victim of overratedness , who spends the film labouring under the delusion that his idea of a fixed , blank , expressionless stare equates to menace . He is given one hilarious line to deliver during his meeting with rival gang-leader Colleoni to the effect that Colleoni thinks his ( Pinkie Brown ) gang is too small ; given that his ' gang ' consists of three members , frail Senior Citizen Spicer ( Wylie Watson ) who gives the impression that even in his heyday he would have been hard put to defeat a fiesty Girl Guide ; ' stock ' caricature Cubit ( Nigel Stock ) sporting the kind of joke ' villain ' moustache which was surely used by George Cole as the model for his GENUINE comic wide-boy Flash Harry in the St Trinian's series and later by Michael Palin in Monty Python and finally Dallow ( William Hartnell ) the closest approximation to a ' real ' gangster - though ' close ' is relative and is this case Hartnell is about as close to a real gangster as Hull is to Fairbanks , Alaska - albeit one with a penchant for the kind of suits sported by Nicely-Nicely Johnson in Guys and Dolls . Whilst Colleoni - in his novel Greene based the character not on an Italian but on real Brighton gangster Darby Sabeni who was in fact Maltese - lives in splendour at the Cosmopolitan ( read Metropole ) hotel Pinkie and his ' gang ' rough it in a sleazy rooming house that lacks even such basics as pillow cases . Totally lacking in charisma it's virtually impossible to imagine even someone as naive as Carol Marsh's Rose agreeing to date Pinkie on the basis of one five-minute conversation let alone marry him given that someone as attractive as Rose with a job in an upmarket restaurant would have no trouble attracting men from whom she could take her pick . Similarly Fred Hale ( Alan Wheatley ) who , as Kolly Kibber , has been sent by his newspaper to Brighton with a brief to visit popular spots and leave a card in each one to be redeemed by his newspaper to the tune of ten shillings ( 50p ) to anyone that finds them and challenges Kibber . If , as is implied , Hale has somehow ' crossed ' Pinkie in the past why would he not either refuse an assignment that would take him to Brighton or call in sick . I accept that at the time ( 1947 ) few , if any viewers would have questioned the risibility of a geriatric gangster ( more realistically Wylie Watson played Mr . Josser - who began the film by retiring at age 65 - the very next year ( 1948 ) in ' London Belongs To Me ' in which Attenborough also appeared as Percy Boon , a fellow tenant in the Lodging House in Dulcimer Street in which all the main characters live ) and would have accepted a blank stare as passable ' acting ' but almost 60 years on it just won't do .
Neechi Vo	Cedric Klapisch made one excellent movie ( Un air de famille ) and one very good one ( Chacun cherche son chat ) and then he decided he could write as well as Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri and turned out the very ho-hum L'Auberge Espanol . Alas , the popcorn brigade ate it up and he was moved to sequelize it with Les Poupees Russes which , it has to be said , is slightly better than L'Auberge but then how hard can that be . Audrey Tautou , arguably the most marquee-friendly name in the cast is again under-used and for reasons best known to himself Klapisch has elected to throw the movie to a guy who has the charisma of a fetid swamp , the grace of a panzer and the appeal of a year in a gulag . Incredibly Romain Duris , the poor man's Vincent Cassell , has contrived to win critical plaudits for his Joe Bonaparte in the recent rip-off of Cliff Odet's Golden Boy and seems to be in danger of replicating them in this walk-through . On the credit side there are some fine locations - London , Paris , St Petersburg - on offer and if that's not enough , Kelly Reilly but on balance vastly overrated and just about worth one viewing .
Pale Echo	Once again it appears that I watched a different film to the majority who have posted reviews here , including a very good friend of mine whose opinion I respect on the whole . The problem may be that I have just seen it for the first time just over 60 years after it was made and my overriding impression is that it has aged badly . It is , of course , easy to see the appeal it had at the time ; b after six years of war and one of post-war austerity a film depicting an exotic location - albeit shot at Pinewood - and utilising Technicolor - far from commonplace in British films then - would almost automatically appeal to that particular public and throw in an order of nuns relatively isolated with one virile man ( who unacountably , given that the Himalayan location is several thousand feet above sea level , wanders around in shorts and a shirt open to the waist ) and a winning formula needs only the most perfunctory stirring . I realise only too well that Michael Powell is something of a sacred cow but I'm afraid that for me he is merely a secular calf with a press agent .
Self Indulgence : 101	I don't know about you but I go to the cinema - and the theatre for that matter - primarily to be entertained . Okay , if you want to wrap a message INSIDE the entertainment that I'm free to pick up on or not then fine , no problem and even if you want to get me to think a little again no problem , providing you give me JUST a little help along the way , but when you allow the camera to linger forever on something meaningless like an expanse of ocean , or jump about in time for no apparent reason or let peripheral characters come and go with little or no explanation then that's when you start to lose both me and any good will I might have taken into the auditorium . I accept that Clair Denis is a respected filmmaker and an academics darling - she's the subject of a major article , largely on the strength of this movie , in the current edition of Sight and Sound and it's hard to get more precious than that - but that don't mean squat if you're not accessible , dirty word though that is in some circles . If you think Peter Greenaway ISN'T a joke then this film is for you ; take it , please .
Green For Inertia	As a movie buff weaned on the Hollywood classics of the thirties and forties via endless reruns on TV I absorbed by osmosis the ' classic ' style of film-making - Master Shot , Long Shot , Medium Shot , Close Shot , 2-Shot , Reverse Angle etc - without being able to put a name to them and this is perhaps why I find Rohmer ' amateur ' in terms of Style . I have reached the conclusion that 1 ) he doesn't ' know ' how to make fluid films , 2 ) he does know but has only contempt for this kind of ' professionalism ' or 3 ) can't afford multiple set-ups for each scene and so settles for the ' boring ' option . This particular movie - given away with a British newspaper - begins with a long shot in which two girls are talking in an office . A third girl enters the scene and has a telephone conversation . Rohmer shoots the WHOLE thing in what would be , in the Real film-making world , a Master Shot with a static camera . Time and time again we get something similar , not necessarily a Long Shot , sometimes he even gives us a Close Shot that lasts interminably . I'm guessing that his shooting ratio is one of the shortest of any director , about one-to-one , two-to-one at the outside . Filming like this means , of course , that you'd better have something really riveting to say or you're going to alienate anyone who has access to TV reruns and / or a video / DVD player . Arguably viewers born some ten or twenty years after Rohmer helped establish the short-live New Wavelet will accept these crude methods never having known Style but the rest of us are obliged to look at Content and all too often come up empty . This entry benefits from a fine central performance but that's about it .
Thanks For WHAT Exactly ?	I have , on occasion , praised Blier and probably I will do so again but not , I fear , this time . The box talks a good game throwing the names of Annie Girardot and Jean-Louis Trintignant around cavalierly , the implication clearly being they are featured players whereas in fact they merely provide cameos and arrive far too late to save what is at best an indulgence . True , Depardieu is on hand earlier and he is never bad despite being saddled with inept characterisation / dialogue etc . Charlotte Gainsbourg is never going to register on my personal radar but that's my problem not hers and she is in good company with the likes of Ludo Sagnier and Vanessa Paradis . Essentially what we have here is the sort of images we MIGHT see if we were able to see instead of just listen to a sea shell .
The Kink And I	Following a brief scene in Michael Redgrave's ( presumably ) London home during which he offers and she accepts the post of Governess to his orphaned nephew and niece Deborah Kerr journeys by stage coach to the large country estate which is to be her new home . As she alights from the coach and we get our first full-length view of her ( she was seated during the interview with Redgrave ) we realize that she is wearing what seems to be an identical costume to the one she wore as Anna Leonowens in The King And I , albeit a black and white version . Nor do the parallels end there ; in both films she is a Governess and in both films she comes up against a cold , violent autocratic male , the difference is that the ruler of Siam is very much alive whilst Peter Quint is very much dead . The film has just been re-released in England and having now seen it I'm bemused by the rave reviews it has garnered . It's okay but that's about it , in terms of suspense Les Diaboliques leaves it dead in the water . One sign that a film is not delivering what it aims to is if I start thinking practical thoughts . I started about ten minutes in wondering WHY Michael Redgrave bothered to keep up a house of what looks to have between 20 and 30 rooms standing in about 20 acres when , by his own admission ( in that initial interview ) he never goes there . He seems to maintain it solely for his orphaned nephew and niece which is stretching credulity somewhat , surely he could have sold it and bought them at least fifty more modest homes ; next is the problem of staff ; we HEAR about the staff but apart from Mrs Gosse and a VERY ( no more than ten / fifteen seconds ) fleeting appearance from a servant girl we SEE no one - and this in a house that would require a minimum of twenty ; WHERE do they buy the food from and WHO cooks it ? WHERE do they buy clothes . The house is isolated , natch , in order to give more credence to the faux ' horror ' but no one seems to have thought to give us even a token scene and / or word that would answer this burning question . There is , of course , the ' obligatory ' scene in which the ingenue , throwing all common sense to the winds , dons a nightie / negligee , arms herself with a candle and sets out to patrol the three a . m . corridors secure in the knowledge that sooner rather than later she will enjoy a rendezvous with those things that go ' bump ' in the night . Adequate , sure ; beautifully photographed , okay , if you insist but MASTERPIECE , you're kidding , right .
Room At The Bottom	This is , of course , an old warhorse so much so that the first film version dates back to 1912 . Marcel L'Herbier had a crack at it in 1930 and his version arguably eclipses those of Daquin and the most recent by Bruno Podalydes . This version , I fear , need trouble none of the others - though I haven't seen the Silent . Henri Aisner made only three films in nine years before slipping off the radar and if this is an example it's not difficult to see why . Whether he chose him or had him imposed by the front office his leading man , Serge Reggiani was just about as wrong as he could be and if that weren't bad enough Aisner relies on music to SUGGEST sinister goings on that never actually occur and it's not really enough to keep cutting to a master shot of the house in which lights go on like those on a Christmas tree . In sum there's nothing much wrong here that a little taste , style , class and or charm couldn't put right .
More Vine Than Sunset	First off I haven't seen any of the previous movies by Christopher Guest so he so he had neither anything to live up to / surpass nor did he have the capacity to disappoint by not living up to a given standard . As someone who was weaned on Hollywood movies when they were still about People and not chainsaws and / or cgi I enjoy movies about movies which , almost inevitably , are obliged to be critical . I can personally trace the trend as far back as Stand In and the original version of A Star Is Born ( though there may well be earlier examples ) and it peaked in 1950 with Billy Wilder's unsurpassed Sunset Boulevard - which arguably inspired Vincente Minnelli's The Bad And The Beautiful two years later . But Hollywood ' satire ' ? Surely that's a contradiction in terms and not unlike a satire on George Doubya , or to put it another way , some things are Beyond satire . There are a couple of good lines and Guest apparently has a well-drilled ensemble working with him but overall this is much , much more Vine Street than Sunset Boulevard .
Actually It's NOT As I Like It . . .	Shakespeare , that is . I'm not necessarily averse to updating the time period - strangely no one ever moves them BACK in time - or making a point ( Orson Welles ' Julius Caesar , for example , produced in the thirties when Mussollini was the current dictator in Italy , or a recent RSC production of The Merchant Of Venice set against the London Stock Exchange ) but here wunderkind ( in his own mind at least ) Branagh tampers just for the hell of it and after setting it in Japan shot the bulk of it in Sussex , England . Branagh clearly sees himself as the Jose Morinho of the Arts - oh , yes , I'm a special person , wrote my autobiography in the womb , don't you know - but has a tough time convincing me for one . Such is this guy's ego that he throws in an introductory paragraph explaining how Japan was opened up to trade in the 19th century ( No doubt Shakespeare was grateful and applauded from the grave ) and tops this with an entirely gratuitous section like something left over from a Run Run Shaw chop-socky effort from the 70s . He just about stops short of Title Cards informing us that the major characters are , in fact , mirror images of each other in case casting Brian Blessed as BOTH Dukes and two Black actors as the non-Royal brothers didn't get it over . On the plus side - and just about the ONLY thing there is the fine reading of Rosalind by Bryce Dallas Howard , yet another American actress who has mastered an English accent . Pity there was little or no chemistry between her and Orlando or that Kevin Klines ' Jacques was a little down in the mouth rather than melancholy . Branagh has never had much success directing actors and does nothing here to prove me wrong . On the other hand it's almost always good to see Shakespeare on the big screen - unless you let some prat like Baz Lurhman near it - so give it a and get out the DVD of Chimes At Midnight .
The Kosher Hearses	In a career that spanned seven decades and embraced seventy films it's hard to dispute that the 1930s was the most fruitful decade for Julien Duvivier but when it is set against such gems as Poil de Carotte , Pepe Le Moko , La Belle Equipe , Un Carnet du Bal , Le Fin du Jour , La Charrette Fantome and L'homme du jour The Golem is very small beer indeed . The story itself is , of course , a classic and is regularly revived especially in Jewish Theatre but it is , perhaps , a little too specialised for Gentile viewers . As ever Duvivier retains his mastery of the striking scene and the film has the advantage of being shot in Prague and the greater advantage of Harry Baur , one of the finest French actors of his generation and ironically the first French-Jewish actor to be killed by the Nazis . If his performance here fails to eclipse those he gave in L'Assinat du Pere Noel or Poil de Carotte it is , nevertheless impressive but overall the film , almost inevitably , disappoints .
Kosher Nostra	Audrey Tautou was just beginning to happen when she made this movie ; she'd appeared in a good half dozen films of which the best by far was Tonie Marshall's Venus Beaute in which she got to play alongside Nathalie Baye , Mathilde Seigner and Micheline Presle where she couldn't help picking up some strong tips on technique . She made God is Great back to back with Amelie and , as luck would have it , Amelie was first out of the gate and the rest as they say . . . So what of this ; well , it's patchy , quirky and the director has an annoying habit of cutting to Black in the middle of a scene and sometimes coming back to it a few seconds later as if the film had run out and they couldn't afford another complete Take so they just carried on after they reloaded . Eccentric is a good word to describe it though I accept that some viewers will opt for charming . It's one of those where if you're in the right mood you'll respond but if you're not there's a chance it could irritate you .
Thirty Love	If you're going to rip off - or , as Jilly Adair would say , pay homage to - On Connait le Chanson it would help an awful lot if you had the writing and acting talent of Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri and the directorial skills of Alain Resnais . Sadly that is not the case here so what we are left with are some very ho-hum and sound-alike recent French pop songs and a flimsy story of four thirty-somethings who began life as two couples until Laurent ( Julien Boisselier ) tires of partner Camille ( Melanie Doutey ) and falls in lust with Elodie ( Alexander Lamy ) who is ' with ' his best friend Francois ( Gilles Lellouche ) . Boisselier is a fine light comedian / romantic leading man whom I've had occasion to praise in the past ( Clara et Moi , Je m'en sens pas belle etc ) and he doesn't really do anything wrong here - or at least nothing worse than signing up for the project in the first place - and Lamy and Doutey are likewise easy to take but it's possibly too domestic to score with a non-French audience .
This One Fell Off A Lorre	I thought it was too good to be true when I found this DVD in a bin where everything was £1 - also in there were the Bette Davis version of Of Human Bondage , One-Eyed Jacks and the Judy Garland Show . So far I've watched Garland which was at least ten frames out of sync and when I watched this there was more sparkle on the print than in the script . I have a weakness for the ' Road ' pictures , especially the songs , and figured that with two thirds of the line up this would be half decent but it's hard to believe that I saw the same film as those who raved about it here . True , there are a couple of good one-liners and the private eye genre was ripe for sending up but the plot was little more than a re-hash of a dozen others of the same vintage - Ball Of Fire , The Secret Life Of Walter Mitty - the one where the mild-mannered unworldly innocent / dreamer gets involved with a gang of crooks who can't decide if they're meant to be tough of comical . A better print may have helped but even then I'd still have a hard time rating this anything more than ho hum .
You've Got To Draw The Line Somewhere	It's unbelievable that Pressburger won a Best Screenplay award for this although it was wartime I suppose and standards went out the window . Seen today it's a rambling , largely incoherent and unrealistic story of Six Nazis In Search Of A Neutral Country . The bizarre casting does little to help and it was clear that the actors with marquee value , Olivier , Massey , Howerd , were never On Call at the same time . Of these Olivier is by far the worst , an acting joke with an accent that would bring a blush to the cheek of Dick Van Dyke . Eric Portman as the Senior Nazi strikes his one note in frame # 1 and never deviates from or embellishes it throughout . It probably meant something to someone , somewhere back in 1941 but not to your jaded , cynical correspondent in 2008 .
Nice Work If You Can Get It	On the face of it this is every schoolboy fantasy in the world - to have women eager to pay you for sex . Of course those schoolboys think in terms of their peers rather than older dysfunctional women , indeed to a schoolboy 25 is ' old ' so that they would quickly become disabused by the lineup here , which includes a victim of Downs ' Syndrome who is also the youngest ' client ' on display . If none of the women are actually ugly and some not even plain there is still a moral question which must be addressed . Juhe is both husband and father as well as being jobless and stumbles into his new ' profession ' by chance although having done so he takes to it like a duck to water . The film is well made and largely sympathetic and unerotic but the question remains is this a job for a nice Finnish boy and the answer must be no .
. . . If You Must	I didn't see the first film , Meet The Parents , and it doesn't seem that I missed much . I figured that Streisand had to be worth a look and she is , in fact she and Hoffman steal whatever there is to steal . The success of Robert de Niro has always eluded me and he does nothing here to convince me he is anything more than a journeyman actor at best . If a performance consists of pulling faces then yes , he's a great actor but I like a little more than that if anybody asks you . Teri Polo is unbelievable as Stiller's fiancé , by which I mean that I can't believe what anybody let alone Stiller would see in someone so wooden and unprepossessing . Okay there are some gags and some situation comedy and it's okay to see once but that's it .
Gypsy Curse	When you're asking yourself pertinent questions as a film unspools before you it's usually a sign that something is sadly amiss . The first question I asked myself here is WHY , Quentin Reynolds . Okay , the film is going to be a flashback ergo Ray Milland needs someone to tell his story to but given that he is telling it to a fellow passenger on a flight to Paris it could have been any fictional creation . Given the date of the movie , 1947 , it may well be that Reynolds was familiar as a war correspondent but the fact that Milland is telling Reynolds and not Gregory Schmearcase adds nothing to the story . Next question ; as stated , Milland tells his story on a flight to Paris , again , WHY . The story he is relating took place in Germany and that is where his gypsy lover , Dietrich , is waiting for him . So why not a flight to Berlin , Frankfort , Stuttgart or whatever . Leading on from this , one minute he is on the plane - en route , remember , to Paris - in the next shot he is deep in the German countryside rendezvousing with Dietrich and her caravan . How did he get there ? At the beginning of the film , set in September , 1939 - war is declared even as we watch - Milland is a British agent , travelling with a colleague and intent on obtaining a formula from a German chemist . Milland and colleague are arrested , escape and don German uniforms . Having sunk the car in which they escaped , they separate after arranging a rendezvous near a signpost . Milland meets Dietrich , a gypsy , and travels in her caravan . When they reach the rendezvous Milland's colleague turns up in full Bavarian gear and riding a bicycle . How did he acquire these things . It's little things like that , plus the total lack of chemistry between Milland and Dietrich , the fact that director Mitchell Liesen is totally out of his element , being more at home with sophisticated comedy and elaborate sets that tended to mar any enjoyment the movie may have had
Pepe de Loco	Somehow the ' greatness ' of this movie has always eluded me . The last time I saw it on the big screen was about 5 or 6 years ago when a small art house devoted one day to a Jean Gabin trilogy and I felt strongly that the other two ( Quai des Brumes and Le jour se Leve ) left this one for dead . Three Jean Gabin films were released in 1938 ; this one , Quai des Brumes and Recif de corail , in which he was again teamed with Michel Morgan but even a screenplay by Charles Spaak couldn't do much for a hackneyed plot . The great Julien Carette on the other hand , who scores heavily here as Pecqueux , had nine films released that year and managed a better batting average than Gabin . It's hard to put one's finger on the problem ; possibly it helps if you've read the book , part of a cycle of nine novels by Emile Zola but given the ratio of the reading public to the cinema going public that's not really good enough , an adaptation of even the largest selling novel should be accessible to non-readers . In my case an aversion to the Simone Simons of this world probably didn't help ; the wide-eyed little-girl who expects hot-blooded men to roll over and play dead every time she looks cute will , I suppose , always be with us , witness Simon's natural successors Goldie Hawn and Vanessa Paradis but I was unable to detect even a tissue of sexual chemistry between Gabin and Simon though other viewers may disagree . Nor was I able to swallow easily Gabin's uncontrollable and inexplicable ' rages ' - apparently the novel offers a ' hereditary ' theory . On the other hand Gabin is always highly watchable , Fernand Ledoux , little known outside France , is an excellent actor and Julien Carrette is beyond praise . The film is now available in another trio format , a three-DVD package of Jean Renoir films and once again the other two , Le Crime de Monsiour Lange and La Grande Illusion , leave this one standing .
May Be Simonized	It's a brave man with a ego bigger than Texas who thinks he can write better than Neil Simon and neither of the Farrelly brothers is fit to change Simon's typewriter ribbon . Back in 1972 Simon adapted Bruce Jay Friedman for Elaine May to direct and the result was a ball but a quarter of a century later this woeful remake is embarrassingly non-funny , non-dark , non-much-of-anything except crude which has , of course , always been the Farrelly's strong suit . May's daughter , Jeannie Berlin was magnificent in the original as the wife married in too much haste by Charles Grodin and other than May herself - who played a similar part to perfection in A New Leaf - it's difficult to think who could equal let alone eclipse Berlin . On the other hand the Multiplex woods are going to be full of popcorn punters who never even heard of the original let alone saw it and they will no doubt enjoy this pale to the point of ashen imitation .
Spick and Spanish ? Not really	First-time director has a reasonable track record as a writer with Life Is A Long Tranquil River and Tatie Danielle among her credits and I suppose she takes a decent stab at it but ultimately it's a disappointment . Trivia-buffs will note that director Bob Swaim ( Le Balance ) makes an appearance and when you're reduced to saying things like that you know you're in trouble . Gad Elmalah , who , incredibly , is a ' name ' in France , plays the Spanish-born chauffeur to tycoon Francois Veber - a little too close to FranCIS Veber for comfort - Depardieu and the pair are not so much master-and-servant as buddies , as are their wives . Ramon's wife is also Spanish and has a yen to return to Spain so when he pretends not to understand English when driving a business acquaintance of Veber's to an appointment the man feels able to speak freely about stock-market activity and before you can say Dow Jones the chauffeur is rolling in the green stuff and has a villa in Spain . And that's about it . A few humorous moments , Sabine Azema with not much to do as Madame Veber but doing it professionally as you'd expect . Let's say pleasant and leave it at that .
Sassy ? Check . Brassy ? Check . Classy ? . . . Well , Two Out Of Three . . .	As a cameraman Bernard Knowles worked on some decent British films from the Silent Era through to Talkies but may have been misguided in taking on the role of Director and with only a handful of features to his credit , mostly unsatisfying - Easy Money for example - he saw out his career behind the camera on television series . Jassy came at the tail-end of the Gainsborough years and was the first time the outfit had utilised Technicolor . It's a bit of a dog's breakfast all round , never really convincing in ANY genre it flirts with . Basil Sydney , stepping into a role that James Mason could have phoned in , gave no indication that within the year he would be turning in a fine Claudius opposite Olivier's Hamlet , Margaret Lockwood DOES phone in her titular role and Patricia Roc and Dermot Walsh make no real attempt to offer anything other than cardboard cutouts . It was apparently savaged by the critics but popular with the masses at the time ; well , they HAD just been through a major war .
Drear Duet	As the previous poster has noted this bears all the hallmarks of a Theatrical two-hander and the lion's share of the 80 minute running time features two strangers , one of each sex , in a hut in the middle of WW11 . Actor-director Robert Hossein ( the man ) enjoyed something of a vogue around the time of the new wavelet without espousing the new waveleteers anti-film techniques . For four years he was married to the actress Marina Vlady ( the woman ) and in a similar way to Henri Decoin ( married for a while to Danielle Darrieux ) he featured her in his films - though hardly in the same league as Decoin-Darrieux . Here he tries for an enigmatic approach ; after meeting in the hut , falling instantly in love , consummating that love on a convenient bed the duo have to decide if they are both spies , if they are on the same side , if one or both is 1 ) English or 2 ) German . The main problem they face is getting the audience to care . Vlady made exactly one hundred films none of which were terribly distinguished , her sister Odile Versois also made films and Vlady married four times most notably to the ' wild ' man of Russian rock Vladimir Vysotsky . Worth a look .
Leaving The Bad Girls For Good	This is an early talkie from William Wellman who went on to make some excellent movies like Battleground . It's an out-an-out and unashamed meller with not a lot of originality in the one about the hooker who lucks into a good man who's prepared to help her escape justice after she murders a ' trick ' . Being a seaman he is obliged to leave her on an island in which she is the only white woman which makes her the lust object for the other white men , outlaws to a man , already holed up there . One of them , the gaoler-cum-executioner , is especially taken with her and steals the mail the seaman is writing to her , letting her think she is abandoned . The guy she ' murdered ' in New Orleans turns up on the island leaving her free to return to New Orleans which doesn't sit well with the executioner , who ' lends ' her a gun ( which is against the law of the island ) , knowing she is almost sure to shoot the guy she already shot again . I could go on but I'm sure if I did you'd be ahead of me . For the time ( 1931 ) this was fair entertainment even with no durable actors .
Daddy long-Scars	On the basis that Depardieu Senior is always watchable , Sylvie Testud is one of the finest of the younger generation of French actresses and it cost only five euros I bought this DVD knowing that the movie had bombed in the salles but little else . It seems clear that Jacob Berger , himself the son of a noted writer , is attempting to work through his own hang-ups via a movie and the consensus appears to be , fine , go right ahead BUT make sure you don't forget the movie part . Alas , it wasn't to be so what we have is a mish-mosh at best . It's possible that Berger was aiming for irony in making the leading character a Nobel prize-winner but a total failure at fatherhood ; the message seems to be why not aim at winning a prize for parenting and THEN think of competing for the Dynamite money . Contrary to what is on display here Guillaume Depardieu can actually act better than this , not much maybe but certainly a little , I know , because I've seen him but if this were his first film he'd probably never get another unless he financed it himself . Sylvie Testud is under used and given little to do except personify angst but as always she does it as well as it can be done . Other than that . . . well , what do you want for five euros .
Creaking Joint ( s )	For years I've heard this movie hyped out of all proportion so it was perhaps inevitable that I was less than smitten when I finally got around to seeing it . What stuck out like a sore thumb - if not a grazed knee - was Rohmer's ' new wave ' technique of ending a scene brusquely when it would no longer support the point he was trying to make . I lost count of the times he just cut almost on the tail end of dialogue and up came yet another cap to tell us it was now Wednesday the fourth of July or whatever . In my book this is just sloppy film making yet even as I write this I hear the laboured breathing of pseuds baying for blood . So be it ; I still maintain there's nothing wrong with professional writing , slickness if you will , where one scene grows out of another smoothly and as inexorably as Sophocles or one of those other three cats who were writing out of Athens in the 5th century BC . This beef being registered the principals were pleasant to look at and on the whole managed to deliver their lines without bumping into the furniture but other than that I came dangerously close to wasting my time .
Not One False Note . . .	. . . but several , in fact virtually every performance . Bresson is known if not celebrated for finding gifted amateurs and extracting believable performances out of them ( I myself recently raved in these very boards about his ' Au Hassard , Balthazar ' ) but his touch seems to have deserted him here . He's also nothing if not eccentric in terms of story telling and apparently thinks nothing of omitting details that would as it were oil the wheels of the plot structure . The message is that familiar and oft-misquoted money is the root of all evil and uses as a base a novella by Tolstoy tracing the progress of a forged banknote and its effect on those who come into contact with it . Virtually no one remains untarnished but the largest volte-face is that of Yvon Targe ( Christian Patey ) an ordinary if naive tanker driver who accepts forged notes as payment for a delivery and winds up in prison . It's stretching credibility to have us believe that his wife would leave him and he would ultimately murder an entire family on the strength of this . It's not QUITE as bad as Jean Gabin's psychotic outbursts in Le Bete Humaine but if anything worse because at least the Zola novel had prepared the ground by having his engine driver be part of a dysfunctional family but Bresson makes no provision at all before showing us a perfectly ordinary , honest , decent , family man turn into a serial killer from a standing start . It IS Bresson so it shouldn't be dismissed out of hand but it IS disappointing .
Bare-Faced In The Park	Movies that are pre-sold as ' classic ' , ' masterpiece ' , etc nearly always have a tough row to hoe to live up to the hype . I've seen only a handful of Bresson movies and the only one I am happy to concede is a masterpiece is Au Hasard , Balthazar , the others are just a heavy mixture of the static and the obscure . This is no exception . Throughout I had the feeling I was watching cyphers rather than real people . There seemed to be no real reason for 1 ) a popular prostitute to quit the profession and 2 ) accept the largesse of another woman . The fact that the prostitute is the least-likely looking hooker that ever came down the Pike is another factor as is her mother's acquiescence / acceptance . The air of unreality doesn't help much either if anybody asks you . Strange to think that when a far superior film , the Carne-Prevert Les Portes de la nuit , tried to mix fantasy with realism within months of this entry it was laughed off the screen and took several years to be acknowledged as the gem it is . This is one to see if you're a Bresson completist otherwise give it plenty of room .
Bad Blood	I've just been reading the previous comments and what emerges is 1 ) these people are easily pleased and 2 ) not only have they not read the novel which was the jumping-off point but they are clearly unfamiliar with Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series of ' police procedurals ' in which the 87th itself is the hero rather than any one individual cop . There is a regular team of well-drawn detectives , uniformed cops , medical examiners etc and the novels are clearly set in New York albeit a New York city with five fictitious boroughs clearly corresponding to Brooklyn , Queens , Richmond , Manhattan and The Bronx . Here Chabrol has taken perhaps the best known detective , Steve Carella and teamed him with a Bert Klinger , who is dark haired and in his thirties whereas McBain wrote a character named Bert KLING who was a blonde blue-eyed WASP ( the precinct comprised all the ethnic mixes that would be found in a Manhattan precinct house ) . This is bizarre to say the least ; if Chabrol was , as seems very possible , interested in the incest factor - which in the novel was merely the solution to a killing - all he had to do was develop his own plot around that theme but by crediting McBain , keeping McBain's title and ONE of McBain's regular cops he winds up with a hybrid that pleases no one . This is one of those movies when the audience gets the feeling that Donald Sutherland , Donald Pleasance and David Hemmings are acting in three different films and none of them is all that good . See it as a curio .
Nile Desperandum	Frank Borzage is widely revered as a master of romantic film-making in a career that ranged from the Silents through the early days of the Talkies . It's difficult - and would be unfair to do so - to judge this film which is incomplete but what appears to be the central love story involving Charles Farrell and Mary Duncan - in lieu of his regular co-star Janet Gaynor - is more or less intact and with the exception of a completely ludicrous piece of background music - Rimsky Korakhov's The Flight Of The Bumblebee laid over a sequence both sensual and sensuous - it tests high on the authenticity scale . If suitable allowances are made for the period and the incomplete footage this is well worth a look .
Not QUITE The Ticket	Alas , I have to disagree with the only other poster's academic quasi socio-economic reading and declare this a disappointment . On the other hand knowing that Ken Loach was one of the three directors involved I was prepared to be clubbed over the head with his Left-Wing fanaticism and I also knew that Valeria Bruni Tedeschi - my main , if not only , reason for seeing the movie was in the first segment so I reasoned I could always walk out if I started gagging on Loach's preaching . As it is I stayed for all three segments and although the best thing for me was the close ups of Bruni Tedeschi's lovely face the other two segments though labored weren't too hard to take . I can't see this one generating much revenue apart from the Rent-A-Pseuds among whom Iranian movies are currently flavor of the month .
Wings Ain't What They Used To Be	Unfortunately there are so many posted comments on this entry that to read them all would take more time than I can spare but it's a reasonably safe bet that some of them at least found the same glaring flaws as I did . To nutshell the plot a recently widowed young woman is taking the body of her husband from Berlin , where he died , to New York for burial . She is accompanied by her six year old daughter , Julia and by a fantastic coincidence she just happens to have designed the plane on which they are flying . Some three hours into the flight the mother ( Jodie Lawrence ) wakes from a nap to find the daughter ( who was sitting next to the window and so would have had to crawl OVER the mother ) has disappeared . A search of the plane fails to locate her and then documentary evidence reveals - or more accurately SUGGESTS - that not only was the child never on the plane but that her body is in the morgue in Berlin , i . e . a ' grieving ' widow is in denial . By another coincidence there is an ' air marshall ' aboard , sitting adjacent to Foster and he is charged by the captain with keeping Foster in what amounts to house arrest . I doubt if anyone was surprised when this same air marshall turns out to be a terrorist carrying not only explosives but a detonator , who plausibly convinces the captain that Foster is demanding $50 million and all the usual trimmings . It was , of course , the Air Marshall who had taken a sleeping child in full view of a plane full of passengers and hidden her in the hold . So many questions , so little time : WHY did Foster and the child board the plane a good TWO MINUTES before the other passengers , thus lending credence to the she-was-never-on-board statement . How did the terrorists KNOW that Foster would fall asleep conveniently and they HAD to have targeted Foster PRIOR to everything in order to ' fix ' the morgue officials in Berlin plus the Airline personnel responsible for passenger manifests . HOW did an Air Marshall get through the necessary vetting procedure , and so on . The he-she-was-never-there storyline was used to better affect in ' So Long At The Fair ' more than a half century ago ; that time around Jean Simmons travelled to the Paris Exposition with her brother who not only disappeared from his hotel but so did the room he was allegedly occupying . The answer on that occasion was that the young man had contracted typhus and rather than cause a panic the officials conspired to render him nonexistent . Would that Flightplan were half so plausible . For the record the acting is okay but I for one require more than competence from a cast .
Galling	I haven't seen the previous Asterix movies and nothing I saw in this one made me want to catch up with them though I can imagine that Christian Clavier would be light years better than Clovis Cornillac - who is far better at drama than comedy - as Asterix . In a cinema packed with French children it garnered very few laughs and no major , show-stopping laughs at all , which is comment in itself . I found it relied far too heavily on running gags that were not so much running as limping and on ' guest ' appearances . I didn't dislike it enough to walk out but nor did I enjoy it enough to contemplate borrowing let alone buying the DVD .
Mad Kraut Disease	This Casablanca-lite couldn't have opened at a worse time because the Original totally Brilliant Casablanca is still playing in its Digitally Remastered version so it's all too easy to compare the two . It's difficult to figure out why it's so DARK all the time ; Casablanca was nothing if not well-lit and the outdoor scenes looked as if the sun really did shine in daytime . With this one I kept thinking I was watching a third or fourth generation print that had been through the wringer one too many times . The references are everywhere , from Cate Blanchett and Toby McGuire coming on like Marlene Dietrich and John Lund in Wilder's A Foreign Affair - also set in post-war Berlin - to Cate Blanchett needing to get her husband and herself out of Berlin and running into old flame George Clooney and the audacious rip-off of the airport scene in Casablanca . I can see the attraction of attempting to make a forties film sixty years later and I for one would be sympathetic to such a notion but this is dire and deserves to disappear without trace .
The Hoke's On Us	Irving Berlin was the only one of the so-called ' Big Five ' ( Porter , Rodgers , Gershwin and Kern being the other four ) songwriters associated with Broadway who never had a biopic devoted to him . Not as such , perhaps , but time and again - Alexander's Ragtime Band , White Christmas , Easter Parade , etc - Hollywood mined his back catalogue and prevailed upon him to supply a couple of new numbers in each case so that arguably he was better off this way than he would have been in a kosher biopic . This , alas , is pretty dire whichever way you slice it ; you get the feeling that Merman and Dailey owed Fox a movie apiece to fulfill contractual obligations and whilst Dailey did make a couple more musicals Merman never made another , indeed , it's a wonder she made as many as she did , given the limitations of her one-trick pony appeal . Both Lamar Trotti and the Ephrons should have been ashamed to take the money let alone a writing credit for such a sloppy effort . Although Marilyn gets the showcase spots it's Donald O'Connor who comes off best in his own showcase A Man Chases A Girl . A huge disappointment .
The Shriek Of Araby	After reading several of the comments on this one my immediate reaction was they've got to be kidding ; to give them a break it appears that most of them hadn't seen the great Duvivier movie Pepe Le Moko which was released the previous year . We tend to think of Hollywood retreads of French Classics as something comparatively new but they were at it seventy years ago and they've yet to equal let alone eclipse even one French original . Adding insult to injury the credits nowhere mention that this in fact is virtually a scene-for-scene , shot-for-shot remake with the odd minor change here and there - like the ending . The only thing that Charles Boyer and Jean Gabin had in common was that both were French ; Gabin was , at times , a cross between Bogie and Cagney whilst Boyer is a cross between a second-rate baritone and Narcissus . Okay , it's well shot and some of the support is out of the right bottle but all of that applies to the original plus , of course , the definitive Pepe in Gabin . Like the man said , if it ain't broke . . .
An Air That Kills	This is only the second Hitchcock thirties film I've seen , the other being The Lady Vanishes ; both films deal with spies and music is a vital element ( from what I've read about The Man Who Knew Too Much , music features again ) so it's no wonder I tend to dismiss Hitchcock as something of a vastly overrated Johnny-One-Note . Here , as in TLV , we have to get round some fairly unrealistic stuff ; for reasons best known to himself , Robert Donat , a Candadian in England for a short visit , decides to go to a Music Hall where shots are fired at a performer on stage ; nothing much is made of this and as he leaves Donat is accosted by a well-dressed woman who asks if she can go home with him ; bizarrely and / or naively he agrees and once at his flat she confesses to firing the shots and speaks of a spy ring intent on removing state secrets abroad . She also asks for a map of Scotland which of course he has on hand , as you would . To lend credence to her story she indicates two men loitering in the street below , one of whom telephones the flat from the call-box on the corner . It is totally unrealistic to believe that the men would know either Donat's name ( Richard Hannay ) OR his telephone number ; he was chosen at random by the woman and they had no way of ascertaining his phone number . If you're prepared to swallow this - and I accept that thousands are - then you won't have a problem with the remainder of the film . Nice to see a young Peggy Ashcroft even if she was married unrealistically to John Laurie . Fans will love it .
The Little Louse On The Prairie	This is one for collectors ; when those personifications of Urban gangsters Cagney and Bogey are transplanted to an Oklahoma territory that is so far ahead of progress that it boasts an electric door-bell Cagney rings it long and hard on two separate occasions ) it shows that les freres Warner spared no expense on researching the period . Journeyman director Lloyd Bacon phones it in as do just about everyone from Cagney right on down to an uncredited Clem Bevans and the plot - you should excuse the expression - manages to hit every cliché withing shooting distance and some that should have been well out of range . Oklahoma crude would make an ideal subtitle for this snake oil but see it if you must .
Brighton Wreck	This is one they're going to love on the Festival circuit where apparently they find the chronicling of sleaze ' meaningful ' . With a title as lacking in imagination as London To Brighton there's not a great deal of point in looking for imagination in the film itself . The only possible target audience for this drek will be the lowlifes it celebrates , the pimps and prostitutes and perverts who take centre stage . This is exactly the kind of irresponsible crap that perpetuates the lifestyles it explores in such loving detail . Teenage thugs from sink estates hardly need lessons in how to be anti-social nor fledgling pimps lessons in how to pick up runaway girls sleeping rough and serve them up as the plate de jour for wealthy perverts . This is a film with no light , no virtue , no ' decent ' characters ; it's a film where people pay lip service to better natures : the vicious pimp who orders one of his ' girls ' to procure an eleven year old for the delectation of the old perv doesn't ' want ' to do it but 1 ) the order had been placed by a powerful man and 2 ) if he doesn't do it someone else will ; one step down the line the prostitute doesn't ' want ' to procure a young girl but she does albeit asking for more money from her pimp for doing so . The point NOT being made is that both the pimp and the prostitute have knowingly , by the way they have chosen to live their lives , put themselves in a position where they CAN be manipulated to do the morally dubious . There's nothing here we haven't seen before and nothing that won't be served up again , no doubt backed by more Lottery money . If sub-moronic hard men SHOUTING everything at the top of their voices and doling out casual violence to women and children is your thing then you'll love this but don't ask me to share your pleasure .
Dilute To Taste	On paper this might have seemed viable or even plausible ; two very different types of men thrown together by circumstance and embroiled in a ' caper ' , just the sort of thing in fact that Francis Veber does with one hand behind his back . Alas , this is a Francis Veber type film sans Francis Veber so that the result is more embarrassment than laffs . For me Michele Laroque was a major selling point but though prominent on the billing and publicity she has what amounts to a cameo as a bank official . Somehow Daniel Auteuil and Clovis Cornillac , neither naturally comic , fail to spark as a team so that Gerard Depardieu and Pierre Richard can rest easy . The plot won't stand scrutiny under a strong light so I won't subject it to one , suffice it to say that Cornillac is called upon to portray an aristocrat-cum-spy whilst Auteuil weighs in as an interpreter who seizes the chance to exploit the ' expenses ' aspect of a new assignment . For reasons best known to the Producers Tim Piggot-Smith , Jennifer Saunders and John Cleese are also on hand and probably wish they weren't . If you think Mr Bean is funny this'll kill you , otherwise do yourself a favor and watch Double Jeopardy .
It's Not Easy Being Green	I'm glad I got the chance to see this movie - courtesy of a very generous French guy who , knowing how much I love French films , especially those made by the Old Brigade , very kindly sends me copies of the rarer titles that appear on French TV and are unlikely to be shown in the UK - because it combined the writing of Jean Aurenche with the direction of Claude Autant-Lara , not perhaps in the same league as Jacques Prevert-Marcel Carne but neither a million miles away . Everyone can have an off day but Autant-Lara made 50 films beginning at the very start of the ' talkies ' and his is an honourable CV boasting as it does such gems as Ciboulette , Fric-Frac , Douce , Le Diable du corps , L'Auberge Rouge , Le Ble en herbe and La Traversee de Paris so perhaps we can forgive what might seem a lapse of taste , an appeal to the lowest common denominator which is what , alas , we have in The Green Mare . One of the two other posters has suggested that this film inspired Tom Jones ; if he means the FILM of Tom Jones - which was released approximately five years later - he may have a point but I wonder if he realizes that the novel Tom Jones on which Tony Richardson based his film was written some two hundred odd years ago . Like Tom Jones The Green Mare is set a few centuries back and somehow , especially when the setting is rustic rather than urban , we find it easier to accept lewd , coarse , or even vulgar behaviour than in our own times . I doubt if a badly miscast Bourvil would have given this a prominent position in his CV but no film collaboration between giants like Autant-Lara and Aurenche can be totally ignored so we buffs salvage what we can , shake our heads sadly and THEN remember all the really GREAT stuff that has gone before .
Bombay Duck	It's strange to see Clovis Cornillac in a selection of suits and ties , living in an ultra modern and pristine apartment and enjoying a lifestyle that includes a classy girlfriend , Alice Taglioni , and allows him to take expensive vacations seemingly at will . He's also saddled with a friend , Pascal Elbe , who has made hypochondria into an art form and , in one of the most tired devices known to hack writers , overhears a doctor talking about the cactus plant in his office and assumes the doctor is discussing him . Elbe is an expressive actor and had a hand in writing Pere et Fils , a vehicle for Philippe Noiret which also featured Charles Berling but Jean-Pierre Darroussin is completely wasted though Pierre Richard fares better as a sort of Maharishi left over from the sixties with few gullible Mia Farrows and / or Beatles left to con . The Writer-Director team of Gerard Bitton and Michel Munz are responsible for this which , sadly , fails to live up to their last movie , Ah ! Si j'etais riche , despite some lush location work in India and a couple of half-decent visual jokes .
The Strain In Maine Is Mainly Due To Jane	On paper this must have seemed a pretty good bet , after all Little Man Takes On The Big Guys is always good for a premise so Little GAL takes on the Big Guys must be worth twice the money ; cast Doris Day as the little Gal and you're rounding third while the ball's still climbing and how about that new guy Lemmon to co-star . Jeez ! What a GREAT idea ; he made his movie DEBUT in It Should Happen To You so Lemmon in a movie with Happen ( ed ) in the title is a lead-pipe cinch . If only . Somehow there's just no chemistry between Day and Lemmon although both are fine individually and Ernie Kovacs is really OTT as the cut-out cartoon heavy who has a completely unrealistic volte face in the last reel . The idea of an ordinary housewife capturing the hearts of the public was sound enough for Day to repeat it much more successfully in The Thrill Of It All a few years later . This is just about up to one viewing but that's it .
Scotch Mistral	Oh , dear , here we go again ; where everyone else apparently sees a monarch attired in velvet and ermine I see a gent naked as a jaybird but try saying the king has no clothes on here . On the other hand this one is easier to take than most of the Powell / Pressburger stuff that's been surfacing lately but perhaps perversely I note only sloppy writing . In the gimmicky opening sequence which illustrates the single-mindedness of the heroine she is shown emerging from school ( in 1945 that would have been around . 00 pm ) and instead of waiting for a bus like the other kids , charming a passing milkman into giving her a lift on his float , a float that is about two-thirds full of undelivered milk a good four hours or so after the average milk round is long finished . A tad later she is shown asking an elderly man for money in an inept attempt to establish her gold-digging credentials ; after a moment or so of deception it is revealed that the man is 1 ) her father and 2 ) a bank manager and 3 ) she is clearing her account at his bank . She then announces blithely that she is getting married the next day which is total news to her father , who is not invited to the wedding anymore than his wife and her mother , assuming this person is still living , we don't know as no mention is made of wife / mother and how distressed / angry she might be at missing a daughter's wedding . Once on the sleeper - the wedding is scheduled to take place on an island off the coast of Scotland - she unpacks a very expensive-looking wedding dress in silk / satin , fabrics almost unobtainable in 1945 . I'm sure that fans of the film will defend all of these charges but the point is I shouldn't be noticing things like this if the movie was even a fifth as enchanting / beguiling as the rave reviews would have it . I detected nil chemistry between Wendy Hiller as the social climber and Roger Livesy who causes her to settle for less . The location shooting was fine , especially for 1945 and the supporting cast was up to snuff but it's definitely over-hyped .
Six O'Clock Low	From my summary you are entitled to think I found this an inferior rip-off of Twelve O'Clock High and you'd be correct . Dirk Bogarde was no Gregory Peck and though he gives the battle fatigue resulting from leading 80 + missions his best shot he doesn't quite cut it . Of course , if you haven't seen Twelve O'Clock High ( released a couple of years earlier ) chances are you'll enjoy this take on life on a bomber station in World War Two . All the usual suspects are wheeled out from Brian Forbes to Sam Kydd and there's even William Sylvester and Bill Kerr to ensure a balance of nationalities . Unlike Twelve O'Clock High the film can't resist introducing the female element so Dinah Sheridan is trotted out as the target for a half-hearted rivalry between Bogarde and Sylvester . Check it out if you must then check out a real movie on the same subject , beginning with Twelve .
The Big Schlep	Those who had a problem figuring out who killed the chauffeur in The Big Sleep might as well not even bother checking this one out . It was sold - to me , at any rate - by the reviews comparing it to Chandler and Hammett ; okay , it has SOMETHING in common with Chandler ; it's set in California but that's about it . Essentially what we have her is Bugsy Malone - The Next Generation , given that Malone was a send-up of gangster / private eye / noir with kids and this is something similar with adolescents . Maybe it will have something for the target audience of today , i . e . the fifteen-to-twenty five year olds but to anyone who 1 ) remembers what Bogie was like or 2 ) has access to a DVD player and a good rental library it's really a case of why bother with pale imitations when you can have the real thing .
If It Ain't Broke . . .	I have nothing but the highest regard for Gerard Jugnot , Josie Balasko and Christian Clavier , all of whom are multi-talented and more than capable of directing a film like this so why they were content to put themselves in the hands of a guy whose directorial career peaked with Taxis 2 , 3 and 4 is anyone's guess . Unwisely the production company has left the names of Jean Aurenche and Pierre Bost , who wrote the great 1951 version where Fernandel , Julien Carrette and Francoise Rosay made , together with director Claude Autant-Lara , a minor masterpiece , and were I either Aurenche or Bost I would be very angry indeed to see my name linked to this tepid remake which not even the usually reliable Clavier can make much of ; Clavier is , of course , a fine writer , witness Les Visiteurs but let's face it , Christian , you're no Aurenche . There are several changes : a monkey has become a bear , a snowman has become a scarecrow ; a classic has become a bad joke .
Tenement Symphony	Hitchcock buffs often point out that his serious movies are laced with laughs and this one has a terrific laugh toward the end . Murder suspect Raymond Burr has been lured out of his apartment in order that Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter can dig up the flowerbed . Frustrated to find nothing Kelly enters his apartment in search of evidence . Stewart , watching from across the courtyard , sees Burr returning and unable to warn Kelly rings the police - after first looking up the number - explains that a man is assaulting a woman ( not true , though he IS about to ) and - wait for it - the police ARRIVE inside five minutes . I mean is this funny or not . I seem to be saying the same thing over and over ; namely that Hitchcock is vastly overrated . Why then do I watch his films . Well you might ask . The short answer is that I know a lot of people , some of them are even friends , who have , in my opinion , fallen for the hype , because by now the myth is self-perpetuating , and keep pressing dvds on me in the hope of converting me . They're something akin to those well-meaning folks who can't see an unattached person without attempted matchmaking . So far I'm holding out . Whilst I acknowledge a competent filmmaker that's as far as it goes . On the other hand any director would have his work cut out to coax even a mediocre , let alone a bad performance out of Jimmy Stewart just as any director would have his work cut out to elicit anything resembling acting from Grace Kelly . So now we have a stand-off . On the plus side we have Thelma Ritter , who enhances anything she appears in but then he spoils it again by casting ex-Forestry Commission employee Wendell Corey . Not as bad as To Catch A Thief but then what is .
The Film In Schtook	I could just as easily have summarized this review as Minority Report as it's a certain twelve-to-seven I'll be outnumbered by those lining up to genuflect at ANYTHING bearing the name Michael Powell and if I had a piece of the saliva concession I'd be one happy bunny . I am , of course , equally prone to anticipate new work by favourite directors but also , I hope , sufficiently objective to record when they disappoint ; a great admirer of Diane Kurys I was there when L'Anniversaire opened a couple of years back and I really needn't have bothered ; Nicole Garcia makes , as a rule , fine movies but Selon Charlie was ho-hum at best ; Marion Vernoux made an exquisite film in Rien a faire so I was there on the first day when her latest , A Boire opened : least said . . . On the other hand I've never really understood the fuss about Michael Powell , competent , sure , entertaining , on the whole , but DEIFICATION ? Gimme a break . It lost me from Frame # 1 when having been informed we are in Kiel in the middle of World War I the first thing we see is a newspaper Banner Headline in English which is compounded by people in a hotel , whom it is reasonable to assume are largely German , speaking not only English but using English idiomatic speech . The plot is set in motion when U-boat commander Conrad Veidt is given a mission to infiltrate English security in the Orkneys , a cue for us to cut to that locale . The next sequence is almost beyond parody . A young girl is leaving an inn to take up a post as a schoolteacher on a small island ; for the sake of exposition she is obliged to explain this to the landlady who is seeing her off and throw in the additional information that she has obtained both a passport and a Visa . At this juncture an elderly matron turns up in a chauffeur driven car and asks for a room . For no reason other than to move the plot forward she is immediately put in the picture about the schoolteacher which prompts her to offer to drive her to the ferry . En route - and in a time of War and ultra high security - the girl not only reveals that she has a passport but actually PRODUCES it , whereby she is chloroformed by the elderly party so that substitute , in the shape of Valerie Hobson , may take her place . In the fullness of one reel Hobson is installed in the schoolteacher's cottage and has rendez-voused with Veidt ; the plan is for a team of U-boats to assemble and sink half the British fleet at Scapa Flow with the help of a disgruntled Royal Navy Officer . Of course what transpires is the equivalent of ' it was all a dream ' ; the disgruntled Navy type , Sebastian Shaw is really a counter-spy as is Hobson and THEIR plan is to lure as many U-boats as possible into the area then drop a few dozen depth-charges where they will do the most good . It's not ALL bad , of course . Only about two thirds of it .
Selling The Sizzle , Not The Steak	Even if you haven't seen the ( until recently ) elusive La Fete Henriette from which George Axelrod ripped off his screenplay this is still pretty dire . There's nothing wrong with the basic premise - it did , after all , produce a masterpiece as written by Henri Jeanson and directed by Julien Duvivier - and nothing wrong with either Audrey Hepburn or William Holden , the problem starts when you get Hepburn and Holden to agree to star in an inept Hollywood remake of a French classic . Think about it : Hepburn plus Holden plus Paris how can it go wrong . Let me count the ways . On second thoughts don't , we'd be here all day . Suffice it to say Audrey looks as gorgeous as she ever did , Holden is as charming as he ever was but somewhere along the way . . .
The Fall Of Little Voice	Just about the only selling-point for this film was Richard Burton and his magnificent voice so to hear him attempting - and missing by a mile - a cockney accent and effectively strangling his outstanding timbre needed something really exceptional - like a non-hackneyed plot - to offset the disappointment . This is another effort that may well have seemed fine had you seen it in 1971 but withing a couple of years The Sweeney was doing everything seen here that much better so that to watch it for the first time today is to find it highly risible despite the normally reliable writing team of Clements and LeFrenais who were really better at small screen comedy than large screen drama . Burton is , of course , always worth seeing but is still only one step away from total embarrassment which , alas , is more than can be said for Donald Sinden , Ian McShane and Joss Ackland . One to avoid .
Johnny Wrong Note	I'm not really qualified to criticize this entry on grounds of accuracy as my knowledge of Hector Berlioz himself , the musical climate in which he was active and the period in general leaves much to be desired but the same , alas , can be said for this film in terms of the grounds on which I do feel more or less qualified to venture an opinion i . e . writing , acting , direction etc . Christian Jaques was more at home in other genres and whilst Jean-Louis Barrault was a fine actor - and would score heavily three years later in Les Enfants du paradis - he seems ill at ease in the main role . Neither Catherine Fonteney , Bernard Blier or Jules Berry are exactly chopped live but even then can do little to rescue this .
Hatchet Job	This might have made it under the wire as a passable comedy in 1950 but seen today ( yesterday , in fact , on British TV ) it is just this side of dire . Husband and wife team Richard Sale and Mary Loos ( neice of Anita ) came up with one of those ' train in trouble ' plots that enjoyed a mini vogue in the fifties ( see : It Happened To Jane ) that runs out of steam ( pun intended ) long before halfway . There's no real chemistry between Dan Dailey and Ann Baxter and Rory Calhoun who usually played the good guy phoned it in as the heavy attempting to prevent the inaugural run of a train in Colarado . In 1950 , of course , no one noticed Marilyn Monroe ( or Jack Elam , for that matter ) but now they're using her name to promote this piece of cheese . As one of Connie Gilchrist's ' ladies ' she just about registers . Will Wright ( coincidentally featured on the same channel two days earlier in the same slot as the killer in The Blue Dahlia ) is lumbered with a cross between a tough sheriff and a would-be comedian and fails to make a decent fist of either . Ironically Richard Sale went on to write a half-decent novel , The Oscar , an expose of the manipulations surrounding the annual Academy Award but this entry wouldn't have got within sniffing distance of a gong .
Deus ex Machina	This is one of those entries in which it is possible to read anything to support a point of view so that for academics ' teaching ' film it is manna from heaven . Made at the height of the Cold War when titles like The Iron Curtain were tumbling off the assembly lines an obvious reading is a metaphor for Light versus Might . In retrospect rather a lot is being made of Nancy Davis - Reagan to be - when at the time she was just another ungifted actress on the way down . The film loads the dice in electing to portray an ' Everyfamily ' almost too good to live who need virtually no coaxing to ' do better ' . James Whitmore , more at home as hard-bitten Sergeants ( Battle Cry ) epitomizes decency in the way Alan Ladd and Jack Lemon did and so is an excellent choice for the patriarch . Director Wellman was equally more at home in masculine situations but makes a decent enough fist of this offbeat entry .
High Planes Drifter	This is a victim of The Longest Day syndrome in that it attempts to fill too large a canvas with insufficient paint . Whilst it is definitely a tale worth the telling it might have been more suited to a multi-episode BBC treatment than trying to cram too much on to a big screen . All the usual suspects are wheeled out so much so that one can only wonder what Johnnie Mills and Dickie Attenborough were doing at the time that would justify their absence . Ironically both those guys were part of In Which We Serve which showed just how it is done in terms of blending civilian and service life . Here the Christopher Plummer / Susannah Yorke subplot is totally lacking in chemistry and embarrassing to watch . In its favour the flying sequences are well handled but despite a lot of worried faces and terse exchanges about the respective strengths of the RAF and Luftwaffe we're never quite convinced of the urgency and desperation that must have been felt at the time . On balance an honourable miss .
Could Leave You Cold	With the exception of Godard , of whom one was enough , I've seen fewer films by Rohmer than by any French director - this is about the third - and I can't honestly say that I'm in a hurry to see any more . If , as in the case here , I see a DVD in my library that carries a modest rental I'll give him another try but so far I've seen nothing that makes me want to dash out to Blockbuster and rent everything I can find by him . Those Rohmer films I HAVE seen are , to some extent , interchangeable but that's not the same as having a STYLE ; in Rohmer's case it merely means that the films are clearly shot with a minimum crew , next-to-no budget and a cast of unknowns all of whom appear to be addicted to Valium inasmuch as there are no violent outbursts , tempers are kept strictly under wraps and in lieu of histrionics we get philosophical discussions . This time around the leading female character indulges in a holiday romance that leaves her pregnant and ironically for a filmmaker who sets such great store on philosophy she refuses to dismiss it philosophically as just that , a holiday romance , as ninety nine out of a hundred would , but persists in viewing it as the love of her life . Despite affairs with two other men , both more than happy to settle down with her AND her daughter , she rejects them both until , in a scene worthy of Hollywood at its schmaltziest she boards a bus and takes a seat facing her long-lost love . WOW ! Okay , don't get me wrong , it's watchable but please don't tell me it's anything else .
Ev'ry Little Breeze . . .	. . . seems to whisper Puh-LEEZE . This is primarily a movie for the curious ; Abel Gance directing light Opera ! This I have to see . Ginette Leclerc , Cadaver Extraordinary To The House of French Cinema - known as ' the most murdered woman in France ' because of her proclivity for winding up dead in the bulk of her films , can she keep breathing in this one ? Let's check it out and see . Last but not least , for the fully paid-up student of irony Robert Le Vigan , whose life was anything but playing in light Opera . Yes , please , wheel it on . In the event this is mediocre in the extreme . The plot - girl's parents object to her interest in bohemian composer - needn't detain us , Grace Moore does Grace Moore as well as anyone so if you like that kind of voice and the kind of songs it sings you'll salvage something and there's always La Vigan . There aren't too many actors who go from playing Jesus Christ on celluloid to dedicated Fascist in oxygen and wind up dying in poverty in South America . La Vigan was a fine actor - completely wasted here , of course - who enhanced films as disparate as Quai des Brumes and Goupi Mains rouge and whose extreme politics cost him a key role in Les Enfants du Paradis and who , in spite of his Fascist beliefs could still get people like Julien Duvivier and Marcel Carne to testify on his behalf when he stood trial . Of course in 1939 the viewer would know only that Le Vigan had played the artist in Quai des Brumes and Jesus Christ in Golgotha . Louise did nothing to eclipse either film and remains a curio .
Strange Interlude	In 1939 Leslie Howard made a meal out of noble suffering and he did it equally well when the budget was a stick of gum as here or when it ran into the young millions as in Gone With The Wind . This is a movie you Want to like not least because it marked the English-speaking debut of Ingrid Bergman who was just as gorgeous at 24 as she remained until her death - trivia buffs may like to know that she played a classical pianist both in this , her first English-speaking film and Autumn Sonata her last film on the big screen which was , of course , shot in Swedish , her native language . With only seventy minutes to play with Gregory Ratoff is prodigal with time ; the film opens with violin maestro Howard playing a farewell gig at Carnegie Hall ; he then TELLS his audience that he is returning home to Sweden ; he is then SHOWN on board ship to Sweden in a scene that adds little to the story and then he Arrives in Sweden . Today , in fact for the last forty years or so , a director would cut from Carnegie Hall directly to Howard at home in Sweden but that's really a minor beef . What we have here is our old friend the ' woman's picture ' or ' weepie ' and it's strangely disjointed ; Ratoff at times seems to be anticipating the New Wave in his abrupt cuts . It's ironic that Bergman made her to all intents and purposes film debut as an adulteress who would play the part for real a decade later when she co-starred with Roberto Rossellini in Life Imitating Art . Perhaps in an effort to sugar the pill the adulterers are depicted as cultured , cultivated people , classical musicians in fact as if that somehow lessens the pain of those left behind and almost adding insult to injury they throw in a scene where Howard's young daughter ( Ann E Todd ) is so happy to see him when he makes a fleeting visit home that she dashes in front of a car and is badly injured . But relax , folks , this is 1939 ; we don't do infant mortality and lo and behold if in the final scene long-suffering and saintly wife Edna Best takes him back into the fold no questions asked . A few years ago 20th Century Fox reissued some of their classic films ( Laura comes to mind ) in truncated versions , a gimmick that failed to catch on and Intermezzo is reminiscent of one of these , its actual seventy minutes feeling more like forty and investing it with an air of Adultery-lite .
Judas Priest	At the beginning of this year I was fortunate enough to see several titles in a season of Danielle Darrieux films at one of a number of cinemas du quartier in Paris that takes these things seriously and among the titles I saw was Caprices , directed by journeyman Leo Johannon and my total enjoyment of the film predisposed me to looking favorably on other work by Johannon . Boy , did I get a wrong number . I suppose today the spectacle of a defrocked priest beating a newly ordained priest virtually to death with a large , heavy crucifix wouldn't even pass an audition for a Quentin Tarentino effort but back in 1954 it probably raised the odd eyebrow if not tonsure . Just who this film was aimed at is anybody's guess as is why Pierre Fresnay who'd worked with the best , deigned to appear in it . If the spoilt brats of the New Vavelet had rebelled against stuff like THIS instead of the Great movies they could never hope to equal then I could understand it and would even concede they had a point ; as it is I watched in a semi hypnotic state like a rabbit caught in the headlights of Joannon's ego . Luckily merde like this only surfaces about once a decade in French cinema whilst in Hollywood it has become the norm . See it for the experience then find out if Caprices is available on DVD .
Blow Out	I learned as a child - when I was taken to see them regularly by my parents - not to expect too much from British films so when I bought this DVD on the strength of Simone Signoret's star billing I was prepared to be disappointed and the film didn't let me down . Whoever cast Gordon Jackson as Signoret's ' love interest ' deserves some kind of ineptitude Award ; it's a bit like casting Alain Delon and Diana Dors as lovers . Lots of the usual suspects are wheeled out ; Jack Warner , John Slater , James Robertson Justice , Robert Beatty et al but Charlie Chrichton is just not an ' action ' director and this has to rank as one of the most woeful entries on Ealing's distinguished roster .
All ? Or Nothing At All ?	It's always arguably foolish to call anything All because you are no longer limiting yourself to a given area of investigation . When the ' all ' is a person you are on even more dangerous ground because you have implied full disclosure of private life and public career . In this case Michel Ciment either with or without guidance from director Luc Beraud makes no mention of such Mank films as No Way Out , The Late George Apley , Escape , The Honey Pot etc and most of those mentioned receive little more than the equivalent of station identification . For a moment I thought Ciment was even going to let Mank off the notorious rewriting Scott Fitzgerald episode on Three Comrades but even when he does bring it up he accepts at face value Mank's explanation that the novel and the screenplay require totally different disciplines followed by his assertion that Fitzgerald's screenplay was unfilmable with no evidence to back it up . This is at odds with Budd Schulberg's account - in his roman a clef The Disenchanted - of how Fitzgerald winged a very visual sequence involving a skier and an automobile at a story conference . It's true there are some tasty anecdotes - especially if you haven't heard them before - and for those who know of Mank but not too much about him it will fill in some gaps but more than that . . .
Dog Days	Arguably Jean Tarride set a precedent when he directed his father Abel , who took the role of Maigret in this fairly dismal movie . It's probably just as well that he didn't aspire to be a John Huston ( who , of course , memorably directed his own father , Walter , in both The Maltese Falcon , uncredited , and The Treasure of Sierra Madre ) . There have now been literally hundreds of both cinema and TV movies featuring Maigret but the very first two occurred in the same year , 1932 , and this was one of them . Perhaps fortunately the other was La Nuit de carrefour directed by Jean Renoir because had this been the only one the franchise may well have died there and then . Tarride begins reasonably well with some atmospheric shots but a ' stage ' drunk who turns out , sure enough , to be the first victim of a shadowy killer , sets the tone which is consistently lowered until it is more a question of enduring rather than enjoying what Tarride puts in front of us . Of interest only as a curio .
Sophie's Choice . . .	. . . yes , folks , she really is and it was a nice , albeit shrewdly cynical to have her playing the mother to the kind of daughter she herself played in her breakthrough debut Boum in 1980 . To be honest I never much cared for Marceau the surly teenage rebel , a part she was saddled with for several years but she has of late blossomed and not least behind the camera in Parlez-moi d'amour whilst proving herself quite a useful actress in recent years . As for this entry I doubt if it will do much if anything for anyone over forty and it would have had no appeal for me without Marceau but it should please its target audience without much trouble .
Fit To Be Thai'd	First I suppose I should declare an interest : I'm a dyed-in-the-wool Larry Hart fan and though I understood the reasons why Dick Rodgers finally decided to call time on Larry and throw in his lot with Oscar I've never really forgiven him . There's a paper waiting to be written on why the Rodgers and Hammerstein Broadway musicals - or at least the first four - seem so lacklustre when transferred to the screen - and , YES , I know that lots of posters claim to love them and even claim Classic status for them on these very Boards and all I can say is they're easily pleased . It's undeniable that Dick Rodgers only had to sit down at a keyboard to pour out glorious melodies but sure as shooting Oscar would schmaltz them to high cholesterol level . Actually that's incorrect because unlike Larry Hart , who would set a melody by Rodgers , Oscar wrote his schmaltzy frustrated-poet lyrics first and then Dick would set them so we have to conclude that Dick was incapable of writing a banal melody even when faced with banal lyrics . I've seen all the film adaptation with the exception of The Sound Of Music which I've made a point of avoiding as I avoid all formulaic movies - though I had a lot of fun imagining the story conferences : Let's see , singing nuns , that'll give us the Catholics ; young kids , there's your family audience ; Nazis , that'll draw the action buffs , but SAY , do you think we could work in a part for Lassie that way we've pretty much covered ALL the bases - and on balance I guess I'd say Carousel was the best of a bad bunch . This time around they begin by omitting I Have Dreamed , a strong ballad then assembling a cast who contrive to give the impression they're performing in different movies , God knows who came up with Martin Benson - a veteran of dozens of British Z movies and Short Ends king - for a major supporting role . Deborah Kerr's take on winsomeness is akin to being held hostage in the Hershey plant and force fed . One poster made the bizarre claim that Deborah Kerr was ' substituted ' for Gertie Lawrence who created the role on Broadway whilst the truth is , of course , that Gertie died in harness a short way into the run . The score is the usual competent stuff we've come to expect from the duo but there's the constant feeling that something's missing . Oh , yes , Larry Hart .
By George , He Hasn't Got It	I read most of the negative reviews and went to see it anyway . I'm lion-hearted . I didn't expect to get much out of the sporting element not being a grid-iron maven but I was hoping for something on the screwball comedy front . Alas . . . For me the main problem was that neither Clooney nor Zellwegger is actually cut out for screwball comedy ; okay , I realize that the days of Bill Powell , Carole Lombard , Cary Grant , Jean Arthur etc have gone forever but I figured if these guys are prepared to give it the old college try why not get behind them . Well , I guess the word I'm looking for is disappointment . On paper they had the makings of a half-decent movie and a smidgin of ' period ' never did anyone any harm . They do , in fact , manage to get something of the ' feel ' of the twenties but the thing is both Clooney and Zellwegger reek of the 90s so what you get is what might happen if a ' flapper ' went on a blind date with a rapper . Nice try but no cigar , hell , not even a cheroot .
Off-Key Pirandello	A man loses his memory whilst dressed in clothing totally unconnected to his everyday life . Now why does that sound familiar ? Oh , yes , Pirandello , Henry IV . Great play but this can't be it because there were no songs in Henry IV . What we have here is a road company Henry IV by a writer who wrote only one other screenplay more than twenty years later . This is the movie that really rang the bell for Tino Rossi , who'd been in films - all musicals - since the mid thirties . Of all the Continental films I've seen so far this , I guess , comes closest to meeting their manifesto which was to offer escapist entertainment . In a nutshell Rossi plays Jacques Martin , a popular singer who is appearing on stage in a piece of fluff called The Singing Vagabond and whilst in costume as a bum he suffers total amnesia , takes to the road and winds up on a barge with a pretty girl . Nature takes its course and things are looking good until someone recognizes him and he is returned to his other life . Not to worry though , this is escapist fodder turned out in the middle of the war so everything ends happily . Tino Rossi was something of a French Dick Powell , in other words a joke as a singer but where Powell redeemed himself by proving reasonably adept at dramatic acting and even directing Rossi remained a one-trick pony . This was one of five movies that Richard Pottier directed for Continental and the one that need detain us the least .
Three Blind Mice	After sitting through this film in total bemusement I turned to the eight comments posted here in search of anything that may help me make sense of it . There seems to be a consensus that Renoir suffered a touch of the Orson Welles ' inasmuch as a potential masterpiece was butchered by the studio . There may be grounds for asserting the studio did in fact cut the film extensively but I could detect no evidence whatsoever that this was a potential Magnificent Ambersons . I'm an admirer of Renoir but I had to work awfully hard to detect his hand in even one frame of this noir manque . By coincidence I saw it within 24 hours of another noir film set largely out of doors in daylight and made by a Frenchman albeit set in America but Jacques Tourneur's Build My Gallows High is light years ahead of this whilst compared to Renoir over the long haul Tourneur is very much second-string . Like Gallows the protagonist - respectively Robert Mitchum and Robert Ryan - begins his cinematic life betrothed to a wholesome Doris Day substitute but is soon seduced by a femme fatale - Jane Greer and Joan Bennett - but that's about as far as comparison will take us . Unlike Gallows Renoir never permits the noir world to fully intrude and eclipse the healthy environment in which the protagonist is discovered so that we're constantly reminded of ' normal ' life even as Ryan is drawn deeper and deeper into the whirlpool surrounding Bennett and her blind painter - a very crude metaphor for impotence - husband Charles Bickford . All three principals give it their best shot but the problem was they never knew which target - thriller , suspenser , drama , melodrama - they were aiming at .
Purrs For Effect	Not being a Hitchcock buff the selling point for me was Charles Vanel in a supporting role ; in that same year he also appeared in Clouzot's Les Diaboliques and it's a pity that ' Master ' Hitch didn't check that one out to see how the Big Boys do it . It is , on the whole , a reasonably albeit instantly forgettable romp and Hitch even manages to make the Riviera - the exteriors were shot on location in the South of France - look like Upper Sandusky on a wet Tuesday . Cary Grant , of course , would be hard pressed to turn in a bad performance and he is is as polished and urbane as always and keeps his end up ( sorry , but that's the level of the dialogue ) in several exchanges with Grace Kelly that pass for banter in the John Michael Hayes set , otherwise it's left to John Williams and Jesse Royce Landis to flesh out a weak storyline .
They Shoot Garbage , Don't They	Horace McCoy , arguably best known for his Depression novel They Shoot Horses , Don't They , subsequently adapted into an Oscar-winning film , is credited with the story and screenplay here and clearly phoned it in . The only possible reason anyone would want to spend time with it is the presence of Claudette Colbert in the lead role . One can only speculate what made her get involved in something so cliché-ridden ; money , a need to retain a career in front of the camera at what amounted to any price ? Who knows . Barry Sullivan was a generally reliable support in A-movies ( see , for example , Queen Bee ) who just as often got to play a lead in pieces of cheese like this . See it if you must but don't say I didn't warn you .
Translation : It'll Kill A Couple Of Hours	I was intrigued to see , in the pre-credit sequence , Yvan Attal , well-known in France as a triple-threat ( writer-director-actor ) but barely a blip on International radar screens , and figured with him on board this might be better than I figured . Alas ! Attal wound up with about seven or eight minutes of screen time and Sydney Pollack declined an acting credit which pretty well sums things up , in fact I'm writing this immediately after the screening before I forget it completely . Apart from her questionable choice to appear in that cinematic joke Moulin Rouge I don't have much against Nicole Kidman , she's more than passable eye-candy and not above turning in a fairly competent acting job from time to time but when you keep noticing her wayward accent you know that her acting isn't up to making you forget it . As thrillers go it's in trouble from the start by implying that you can wander around the UN Building after hours at will . Kidman at least had an excuse , flimsy though it was but what about the conspirators who just happened to choose the very moment that Kidman was there to whisper aloud their plans to assassinate a delegate ; how did THEY get in there after hours ? When questions like these raise their logical heads in the first few minutes then credibility goes right out the window and all you have left is the location and the acting . The undemanding will love it - don't take my word , just read most of the previous comments . I find it mildly amusing that many of these came from Greece given that the movie was Greek to me .
Fleur du mal	This is yet another Chinese movie to give ironists pause in that non-Violence viewers in the West are drawn to these films by the sumptuous settings which aspire to eclipse each previous film and this from a country known for its extreme poverty under Communism . This time around we get a story of sorts , a dynastic power struggle invoking the more lurid aspects of Hamlet - the poisoning ( attempted ) of a monarch , albeit a queen rather than a king , and actual mother-son incest that remained unconsummated in Denmark - and even aspects of Lear - a kingdom potentially divisible by three . Bizarrely the battle sequences are shot in semi-darkness perhaps the better to conceal the trickery but even in full daylight it would have been largely meaningless and impossible to tell who was doing what to who and why . This is probably , for me at least , the weakest of the recent spate of this genre .
Laughing Hyenas	This is one for the undemanding popcorn junkies at the Multiplex who wouldn't mind having their intelligence insulted even if they possessed any . Even if we overlook the closest thing to a hero - a dyed-in-the-wool-fully committed IRA terrorist recruited out of necessity ( making him a sort of Dirty One ) we're expected to swallow a heavy , the eponymous Jackal , who changes disguise at will with not even a telephone kiosk as a prop , he just does it off-screen , like it or lump it . Then there's the question of when he comes face to face with the IRA man in broad daylight , about twenty feet apart , both firing some half a dozen times - and , for good measure , so does a Russian major equally ' professional ' yet not one bullet finds its mark and the jackal disappears into thin air . Gimme a break . Okay , the movie would be over if logic prevailed but is it too much to ask for just a tad more realism . In my defense I came in late , switched on TV and it was just starting and after a heavy evening I was too lethargic to switch channels . That's my excuse for squandering time I'll never get back .
Stealing Heaven	It's a given that the best musicals , be they stage or screen , feature the best music , best lyrics and best books ; think of ( to confine ourselves to movies ) Meet Me In St Louis , A Star Is Born ( Garland version ) , Young At Heart , High Society . All with strong books , flesh-and-blood characters , great music , great lyrics . It's possible to get away with one weak element , usually the book , again think of the Astaire-Rogers series , barely a credible book between the lot of them but more than redeemed by the scores and , of course , the dancing . Astaire fared badly also with the book of Royal Wedding but again the score cancelled it out but when you have a weak book , weak music and weak lyrics - think Astaire in Second Chorus - then you don't even have a weak prayer . Yolanda And The Thief is weak in all three departments . Arthur Freed was arguably the worst lyricist Harry Warren was ever saddled with . But hold it a minute , isn't that the SAME Arthur Freed who produced all those classic MGM Musicals and ran , in fact , the Freed Unit ? You got it in one ; Freed is like the only boy on the block who owns a cricket bat , ball and set of stumps so even though not terribly gifted either he gets to play or no one does . To be fair to Freed he'd just worked with Warren on This Heart Of Mine heard in Ziegfeld Follies - this was Astaire's first MGM movie and actually shot before Yolanda though released after - and turned in a serviceable lyric albeit far inferior to Warren's melody but here he seems to be anticipating the ' modern ' musicals that make a virtue out of dreary , uninspired lyrics . The book is a joke and somehow Minnelli and Freed combine to make even Astaire's dancing seem pedestrian . What id did have ( apparently ) was lavish colour , hardly surprising given Minnelli's penchant for colour but the print I saw was washed out so I'll have to take it on trust . I'm glad I saw it but I'd pay good money to see Astaire in The Passing Of The Third Floor Back .
Souls At Sea	No doubt influenced by the success of Pygmalion producer / director Gaby Pascal followed up three years later with a second GBS polemic masquerading as a play , in this case that old chestnut God versus Mammon best out of three , Major Barbara . Wendy Hiller had scored a personal triumph as Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion so here she is again as the eponymous Salvation Army lass whose father happens conveniently to be a munitions manufacturer . One of the problems with Shaw in this vein is that he tended to animate cyphers rather than create flesh-and-blood characters and here a group of actors from stage and screen do what they can with what they are given to work with . There's little discernible chemistry between Hiller and Rex Harrison , Robert Morley pays homage to Charles Laughton , Emlyn Williams phones it in and it's left to stage actress Marie Lohr to provide a touch of class . Elsewhere Bobby Newton offers a prototype Bill Sikes ( possibly encouraged by Editor David Lean who also gets a co-director credit . Stanley Holloway gets a strangely long opening sequence for an uncredited role and in her film debut Deborah Kerr gives little indication of the durable career to come . A curio more than anything else .
Any Bonds Today ?	Essentially this is a visualisation of the old joke about the two strangers who meet in a bar . ' I'm a masochist ' , says one , ' I'm a sadist ' replies the other . ' Beat me ' , implores the masochist , ' No ' replies the sadist . You have to hand it to Willie Maugham for turning a nine-word joke into a 600 page novel but maybe transferring it to the screen was a joke too far . On the other hand I have just seen it for the first time ( and I've never seen any of the other versions ) some 70 years after its initial release so maybe it has lost something in the interim . I admire Bette Davis as much as anyone but I found her habit of staring straight at the camera as if her words were taped there and then breaking into what can only be described as defiant cockney somewhat disconcerting . Added to this I think the last thing a girl like Mildred Rogers would do would be to have a child out of wedlock knowing the father is long gone ; by nature a ' good-time ' girl Mildred would have not thought twice about aborting a fetus and getting on with letting the good times roll . I found myself constantly questioning the behaviour of both Howard and Davis , him for being the perennial chump and her for not aborting an unwanted child that can only shackle her as she shackled Carey . Maybe you had to be there .
Sleazy Does It , Maurice	I used to think that Isabelle Huppert became interested in sleaze in the late 90s , around the time she made School Of Flesh but now I see that as far back as 1980 she was inserting a toe into murky waters . Watching this film you get the impression that Pialet has seen Tennesee Williams ' A Streetcar Named Desire and focused on Stanley Kowalski and Stella DuBois at the expense of Blanche and decided to speculate on how Stella , a genteel daughter of a plantation owner , hooked up with Stanley , a Polish lorry driver who has been walking erect only since Tuesday . So , presumably using this speculation as a starting point Pialet takes up his scissors and a piece of thin cardboard and fashions Nelly ( Huppert ) an educated , middle class bored woman and allows her path to cross that of LouLou ( Gerard Depardieu ) a guy about one and a half steps up from an ape , lately out of the slammer whose only interests in life are sex and violence . The result is predictable ; the moth is attracted to the flame . And that's it . No fresh insights into the Human Condition ; no polemics , no point of view , just a trawl through a garbage can for its own sake . As ever Huppert and Depardieu are excellent as is Guy Marchand , whom Huppert leaves for Depardieu but sometimes excellence is not enough .
Will The Real Mika Please Stand Up	Both Huppert and Chabrol are prolific and last year they worked together yet again on a movie light years ahead of this one but when one is prolific one is playing the percentages and winds up with a high chaff to wheat ratio as both have done here . Perhaps most risible is the scene towards the end that appears to be Chabrol's version of the heroine walking the corridors of the Gothic castle at three in the morning wearing only a negligee and armed only with a candle in the full knowledge that there are murderers , maniacs , vampires , perm any one from three , on the loose . Chabrol's take on this is to have a young girl volunteer to drive the car of her hostess along a winding road at night in the full knowledge that the hostess has drugged her drink . Realistically all she had to do was let the hostess , Huppert , drive herself to the pharmacy to collect a prescription , or even , if it comes to that , let the chauvinistic husband ( Dutronc ) pick up his own prescription . This is but one in a series of plot holes that may well be symbolised by the cobweb shawl Huppert is knitting throughout . Children swapped at birth ( well , it was good enough for Shakespeare , Chabrol may argue ) , one of them the child of a forensic lab owner with a boyfriend working there , so convenient for testing possible toxins the spider-woman may be lacing the drinks with . More ? How about this : confronted by a strange girl who claims she may be his daughter Dutronc goes from ' you must be mad ' to ' come and play a little four-hand piano with me ' in minutes . The colors are of that strangely muted type that Chabrol seems to have made his own , the two young actors clearly came in a flat-pack from IKEA and there's a lack of interaction throughout . Isabelle Huppert's Mika runs the gamut from cold-blooded murderess to charming hostess hitting all the stops along the way whilst Jacques Dutronc appropriately turns in a Johnny-One-Note performance . Not one that either Chabrol or Huppert would want to feature prominently on their CVs .
Oh ! Henry	Okay , you really dig French movies ; you come across one written by Jean Aurenche and Hernri Jeanson , directed by Claude Autant-Lara and featuring - or so you're led to believe - Danielle Darrieux . What's not to like . Nothing , right , but this is where the expression ' too good to be true ' comes into play . Basically what we have here is a spin on our old friend ' droit de signeur ' , the same thing that got Chuck Heston in a lather in The War Lord , which was made around the same time as this entry . With names like the above involved , to say nothing of Pierre Brasseur , it can't be all bad and Jeanson throws in the odd tasty line the way he might toss a bone to a dog but the French have a saying ' to a good dog , a good bone ' ; in my book I'm a good audience ( dog ) so next time , Henri , make it a better bone .
Three For The Showdown	This was one of two TV versions made in the same year ( 2003 ) of the old Cocteau warhorse and the best we can give it is that is has three of the best French actors on board in the shape of Jeanne Moreau , Nicole Garcia and Francois Berleand . I suppose it's not too difficult to see the attraction in this story of a mother's incestuous love for a son who in turn is in love with a girl who , unknown to him , is his father's mistress and let's not forget the faithful Aunt , once herself in love with the father yet standing nobly aside in favour of her sister . The three actors named are more than up to snuff and the claustrophobic atmosphere is well captured but ultimately the film has nothing new to add to previous versions .
Ill Met , Period	even allowing for the fact that Ican take or leave Powell and Pressburger either as a team or working individually this is still pretty ho hum . It's not just that it's yet another true-life adventure torn from the annals of World War II - and boy , were they glad to get rid of it - it's more that it's exciting or engrossing enough to stand out from the others ; it's not even that apart from Bogard and a badly miscast Cyril Cusack the only British actors involved are definitely minor league in the shape of Michael Gough and Wolf Morris , it's more that no two actors - and that includes Marius Goring - are able to give the impression that they are in the same film or often in the same scene . All in all it's something of an unintentional Greek tragedy .
Hard Time	This is yet another example of a film that was probably impressive when released yet seems risible today . One really expects a little more class from Alun Owen and it's quite possible that the uncredited Jimmy Sangster contributed the lion's share of the Shooting Script given that it bears all the hallmarks of Hammer tat and Sangster and Hammer were made for each other . A lot of second-rate British actors turn in second rate performances here - for some reason neither Murray Melvin or Kenneth Cope are credited on the print I viewed and are probably thankful in retrospect whilst for reasons known only to themselves the producers saw fit to import a German actress , Margit Saad to walk through a gangster's moll role that Joan Collins could have phoned in - ironically Collins ' first husband , the dire Maxwell Reed has a small uncredited role . This is arguably the worst movie directed by Losey either in England or America , even The Sleeping Tiger leaves it dead in the water . Would-be hard man Stanley Baker weighs in with his usual would-be hard man performance and throws in a wayward accent that fits where it touches . If it's a choice between this or Carry On Cliché take the latter every time .
Sunday , Bloody Sunday	I don't know just how ill Truffaut was when he shot this , his last film , but I'd guess extremely . It's understandable that he'd want to throw a film to Fanny Ardant given that they were an item and had a child together and whilst I certainly have no quarrel with Ardant getting the lion's share of any movie I wish she could have found something better than this melange . It's almost as if Truffaut had a perverse desire to return to the clumsiness of his early black and white efforts which made little pretense to professionalism . Here we're asked to stomach the fact that a man ( Jean-Louis Trintignant ) wanted for murder would be able to hide out in his own Real Estate office almost indefinitely whilst his secretary ( Ardant ) is out solving the crime whilst the police fail even to stake out his office . It's the kind of no-brainer where in the last reel having seen no prior evidence of it Ardant can say to Trintignant with a straight face that she's been madly in love with him all along . See it for Ardant .
Seven Characters In Search Of A Plot	Okay , it's 1943 and presumably there's no indication of when the war will end , no sign of any breakthrough and D-Day is still a good twelve months away so why not shoot a little propaganda-lite ; a sort of visual blend of ' The Lady ' and ' Women's Companion ' magazines ; a little about food , a little about clothes , a little about men , etc . At the time it was probably a minor success ; the viewer is drawn gently into it via Lesley Howard's voice-over as he ' selects ' a group of women who have all ' joined up ' - in this case the A . T . S - and then permits us to follow them on their train journey to the camp where they will undergo basic training . As a time-capsule it is fascinating because for the viewer in 2007 it is like travelling to Atlantis or one of those lost civilizations that so beguiled Professor Fawcett . Was there EVER an England like this ? Clearly there was and Tony Blair couldn't rest until he'd obliterated all traces of it . The cast are all competent and although a handful - Joan Greenwood , Rosamund John , John Laurie , Lili Palmer , Jimmy Hanley - continued to work on stage and / or screen none of them really achieved what today we would call Super stardom . It's a modest effort , quintessentially English , worth watching on TV - which is where I saw it - but not worth searching for on DVD .
Serenade In Blue	It seems that once again I find myself out of step with the majority - of those I've read - in failing to succumb to the charm , style , skill that apparently has other posters rolling over and playing dead . Ironically I found what on paper must have seemed a stylish gimmick - having the camera Iris In / Iris Out on the label in the centre of the records somewhat negated by what seemed to be clumsy transitions . I found it difficult to believe that Grant and Dunne were really that much in love and Grant's heart didn't seem to be in the negative elements of the character's personality , as if the writers had decided they needed SOME kind of conflict so let's make him irresponsible - actually he did this character so much better in ' Holiday ' three years earlier and at times appeared to have mislaid the technique he brought to THAT character and , perhaps because the camera was turning and Stevens had yelled ' action ' he had to do the best he could from memory . In many ways it seems a much EARLIER film than one made in 1941 , something of Alice Adams vintage . I hate to be so negative about a film that has obviously been enjoyed by lots of people but you have to call ' em as you see ' em .
Slow Curtain	Eight years after shooting his last film for the big screen Renoir shot this for TV so whichever way you look at it it was his swansong and it's a shame he couldn't have gone out on a higher note . Renoir introduces each of the four segments talking directly to camera , a technique first employed by Somerset Maugham in 1948 when he introduced four of his short stories in the portmanteau movie Quartet . The first segment smacks of O'Henry ( who had , of course , had his own portmanteau in Full House ) , the second is a sketch that Renoir allows to go on too long and the third is a tad bizarre . Renoir shoots a static Jeanne Moreau as she stands centre stage and sings a maudlin song . Not a lot wrong here but we do find ourselves wondering what point if any he was trying to make . Obviously Renoir scholars and completists will want to see this but it really is unremarkable .
File This Under ' Ho Hum '	Seeing a film like this today it's difficult to know what the target audience was even at the time ; there is virtually no ' action ' and no sex . At one point Harry Palmer ( Michael Caine ) engages in a half-hearted fight with a heavy that is filmed in Long Shot so that the few blows that are struck lose any impact they may have had and the nearest thing to a sex object ( in the James Bond sense ) is about as sexy as Lily Tomlin and there's absolutely no chemistry between her and Caine . If this weren't enough there is the goddam MUSIC . I know John Barry is supposed to be the Man at this game but the stuff he provides here gives the impression it was not written ' to picture ' but that he merely provided a given amount of music - so many yards - specifically for this film but in sections , so many feet of ' tension ' , so many feet of ' chase ' , so many ' stings ' , etc for the Music Editor to cut in as best he could . You know a movie's in trouble when you find yourself listening to and laughing at music that is supposed to be dramatic instead of watching the film . Viewed today this is just an extended version of any ' Avengers ' episode .
One Angry Manion	This is yet another Hollywood entry that made a lot of noise in its day but now seems dated . It top-bills Jimmy Stewart as a small-town lawyer in North Michigan who is asked to defend serviceman Ben Gazzara on a murder rap . Seems Gazzara's wife , Lee Remick , got herself raped by one Barney Quill following which Gazzara went looking for Quill with his service revolver and put a bullet where it would do the most good . Neither of these three principals is exactly chopped liver and there is strong support - by Eve Arden especially - in the shape of George C . Scott , Murray Hamilton , Arthur O'Connell and John Qualen . Duke Ellington provided the score though we don't get enough of it and courtroom dramas really should be more dramatic , although , of course , maybe at the time it was .
The Occidental Tourist ( s )	As swan songs go this could have used a decent cygneture tune . The best bit is right at the beginning when , continuing the tradition , Bing and Bob are seen as vaudevillians singing , dancing and pattering their way through ' Teamwork ' , with a lyric from Sammy Cahn , who had replaced Johnny Burke as Jimmy Van Heusen's permanent partner roughly a decade earlier . Plots were never a strong point in the franchise and this is , if anything , worse than most and for some unknown reason Peter Sellars is given several minutes in which to be wincingly embarrassing and utter some of the worst lines in the script . They also jettisoned Lamour as sex object but wisely allowed her a cameo appearance plus a ballad ; her replacement , Joan Collins , failed to register and the best one can say about this product of the famous Rank ' Charm ' School is that she clearly flunked charm . Following the opening vaudeville routine the plot continues in the way of the rest of the franchise with Bing conning Bob - here given Jimmy Van Heusen's real name , Chester Babcock , as an ' inside ' joke - into the usual life-threatening stunts and for good measure we even get a laundry list of previous near-misses including the squid , human cannonball , etc but then it runs out of steam and quickly spirals into complete preposterousness . The banter is still intact albeit a little frayed around the edges but they could have signed off with something a little better than this .
Astaireway To Ho-Hum	Let's begin by saying that Fred Astaire is watchable in ANYTHING such is his charisma , vocal and dancing ability but having said that this vehicle needs all the help it can get . Maybe in 1940 Paulette Goddard was considered leading lady material but even Joan Fontaine ( who co-starred with Astaire in A Damsel In Distress ) was better than this . It's possible also that back in 1940 moviegoers wouldn't have questioned two middle-aged guys who keep deliberately flunking courses in order to stay in College and play in a band - BUT , did no one wonder about the OTHER band members ? Theoretically the band would change personnel every year given that the average College degree takes four years to obtain and presumably when the band was founded it contained members from Freshman , Sophomore , Junior and Senior Classes . On the plus side there is , of course , Artie Shaw , who ran one of the Greatest bands of the Swing era and far outclassed Benny Goodman as a clarinettist . It's one of the few pictures where Astaire has no real excuse to dance - by which I mean the storyline makes no mention of him as a hoofer as is often the case in his movies - so that the few dances have to be contrived and even then they pale by comparison to his hoofing in other films . If you're an Astaire completist you'll want to see this but there's not an awful lot to make you want to own it .
Tru Faux	I found this more interesting in my capacity as a student of irony than my capacity as a movie buff . It was pleasantly rewarding to see the iconoclast and arch advocate of the ' auteur ' school shooting a film about making a film that showed just how much of a team effort film making actually is yet even then he could not avoid a petulant ' voice-over ' comment that from now on films would no longer be made under the old rules that demanded scripts and studios but in the streets with ad libbing all round . Shrewdly the iconoclast is aware that movie buffs enjoy seeing films ABOUT films but even his giant ego doesn't run to supposing he could ever eclipse The Bad And The Beautiful or Sunset Boulevard and for an ' auteur ' he gave the lion's share of the writer credit to two other people . The film is worth seeing for the ' inside ' look at film making and for the performances of Valenina Cortese and the young Nathalie Baye in only her third film and the one that first got her noticed . I'm never going to fully embrace Truffaut but with this film and La Dernier Metro he has made something at least watchable .
Second Best	This bombed in France last year but one doesn't write off the likes of Alain Corneau and Daniel Auteuil lightly so when it surfaced at the French Film Festival in London I was present and correct . By a strange coincidence Phil Corneau - apparently no connection with Alain despite copping a prestigious French Award - made a short with the same title a few years ago but this is , of course , a remake of the Jean-Pierre Melville entry now just over forty years old . Daniel Auteuil is indisputably a superior actor to Lino Ventura , who created the role of ' Gu ' Minda for Melville but Ventura inhabited the role of Minda in a way that appears beyond Auteuil though honors are divided more or less evenly between Paul Meurisse and Michel Blanc in the role of the intrepid cop determined to bring Minda down . The third lead , Monica Belucci is , of course , a joke as an actress and there's a woeful lack of chemistry between her and Auteuil - or indeed anyone with whom she shares a scene . Jacques Dutronc is arguably the best actor on display or , more accurately , the actor who best adapts his style to this particular film . Corneau opted for a bizarre color , something between Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy and South Pacific and if , as seems probably , he did so inn order that the final sequence , over the end credits , could revert to a ' normal ' color and make the point that there is indeed a ' normal ' i . e . non-gangster world out there it seems an awful lot of trouble to make such a small point . Worth a look . Just .
La Ronde Squared	If you're shooting a valentine to Paris count me in , even if your name is Cedric Kaplish onlie begetter of the vastly overrated L'Aubere Espanol and , yes , even if your nominal lead is the even more overrated and under talented Romain Duris , for whom you seem to have a permanent hard-on . Alas , the best-laid schemes . . . Probably the strength of this is that Kaplish goes easy on the chocolate-box aspect and gives us more of the ordinary Paris , the one that I , a regular visitor from England , know from walking it's streets en route to one cinema du quartier or another . The film starts promisingly when Duris is told he has a strong chance of dying - something that acting-wise he does in every movie he makes - and then meanders into a labryinth of mini plots and myriad characters until in a blatant steal from Kieslowski's Three Colors : Red , several of them are spotted by Duris from the taxi taking him to hospital . People like Francois Cluzet and Karin Viard are under-used and it is left to Juliette Binoche , Fabrice Luchini and the like to add some class . Kaplish needs a strong script written by someone else to really shine which is why his finest achievement remains Un Air de famille , written by Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri and it didn't do any harm that the two writers also starred in it . Whilst I'm not prepared to dismiss Paris out of hand I was greatly disappointed .
Wearing The Rue With A Difference	The previous poster is incorrect in stating that this was the first Maigret movie , they had in fact been appearing for more or less a decade ; be that as it may I find a strong sense of irony in a film titled after a real street in Paris which is kick-started by the discovery of a body in that very same Rue Picpus . Should you find yourself in the vicinity - and it's near Nation if anybody asks you - and specifically outside the convent at number # 36 ( don't hold me to that , it's a couple of years since I was last there ) between the hours of 2 - 4p . m Monday through Friday and ask nicely the concierge will hand you a key that fits the gate in the courtyard adjacent to her office . If you then stroll down the tree-lined allee you find inside the gate and go through a second gate on your right you will be in a small private cemetery , probably no more than 100 graves tops ; above the last one on your right flies the Stars and Stripes for this is the last resting place of Lafayette , a well-liked aristocrat who survived the French Revolution and helped the Americans win their own for which a grateful new Nation awarded him a handsome cash sum and a few choice acres . Being an incurable Romantic , presumably a requirement for serving in bloody Revolutions he decided he would like to be buried in American soil so when he returned to La Belle France he took with him a large trunk full of the stuff and there he lies , in American soil in Paris , France . But that's not the irony I spoke of ; just above eye-level in the wall adjacent to Lafayette's tomb is a plaque stating that a few metres on the other side of the wall lie 1 , 500 headless torsos that once held the bluest blood in France . Think about it for a moment ; it's July , it's hot , and Madame Guillotine is working her socks off and that means STINK , Man . So , one fine night the guy that owned the estate on Rue Picpus woke up to find a hole in his wall and for several nights thereafter they kept bringing in these headless stiffs and throwing them into two pits in his yard . They don't put this in the Guide Books , but then they wouldn't , would they , nevertheless it's a fact and that's why I find it ironic that with 1 , 500 to choose from Maigret should confine himself to the odd two or three further up the street . That apart what can I tell you . It's a Maigret movie , it's Continental , it's Albert Prejean , who was never really comfortable with the role . It's entertaining . Go see .
The Best-Laid Scams . . .	This is a typical David Mamet ' caper ' movie which means that he found the plot concealed behind a spiral staircase and fleshed it out using a corkscrew in lieu of a pen . As is usual in Mamet movies his wife , , Rebecca Pigeon is on hand as a leading character , in this case the younger wife to Gene Hackmans ' old-time flimmer . Like Jean-Pierre Melvilles Un Flic it offers two set-pieces that bookend some so-so progression . As an actor Ricky Jay makes a great magician , Hackman and Danny De Vito don't really do mediocre but here they give it their best shot . A good movie to catch on television but not really worth buying on DVD .
The Grimy Half Dozen	Two names , one in front of and one behind the camera , imply a touch of Class that is largely absent here . Gregory Peck was one of the most underrated actors in the history of film and writer Harry Brown had a string of fine credits from A Walk In The Sun onwards . Sadly producer Jimmy Cagney was seemingly reluctant to shell out on a decent budget and may well have manipulated things - Brown , for example , had written Cagney's Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye , the previous year and leading lady ( no , I'm not making it up , that's what the billing says ) Barbara Payton , had appeared in it and was under contract to Cagney which may explain what she was doing , albeit ineptly , here . Peck himself was railroaded into this but even so he was too good an actor and too much a pro to give anything less than his best and the support is at least interesting ; Lon Chaney Jnr , Jeff Corey , Gig Young , Neville Brand , Ward Bond , Steve Brodie , all essentially wasted as was all-around director Gordon Douglas . A curio at best .
She Makes Every Second Count	It seems fairly clear that the night club owned by Ralph Fiennes and named The White Countess is meant to be seen as a sort of Rick's Bar East , from its cosmopolitan clientele ' , political overtones , the need for ' papers ' and last , but not least , a backdrop of war , in this case the Sino-Japanese variety . It's equally clear from the comments I've read - mostly from the USA - that not many people are fully conversant with the expression ' White ' Russian , which simply refers to members of the Russian aristocracy that came to an abrupt end in 1917 , after which date all Russians , whether or not active Revolutionists , were ' Red ' . So here we have ex-aristo Sophia ( Natasha Richardson ) roughing it with her titled family in Shanghai ; two of the family members are Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave both woefully underused especially Vanessa in a role that anyone just out of Acting School could have done standing on their head . Merchant-Ivory do themselves no favours by choosing to remind us of Casablanca ; whilst it's true that Natasha Richardson has inherited her all of her mother's heartbreaking beauty ( well , leave us not lose our heads , about 90 per cent of it ) it's equally true that the curiously wooden Fiennes is light years short of both Bogie's charisma and talent . There was more chemistry between Yassar Arafat and Golda Meir than between Fiennes and Richardson and when they ARE your love story then you got trouble , my friend , right here in River City . The best we can give this is an E for Effort .
Little Rocks , Big Gals	This is something of a contradiction in terms , a ' musical ' with only five songs , three of which are all that survive from a full Broadway score by Jule Styne and Leo Robin and two tacked on which were commissioned from Hoagy Carmichael and Harold Adamson . Even then the movie is dominated by Diamonds Are A Girls ' Best Friend , one of the survivors from Broadway - the other two being Bye , Bye , Baby and I'm Just A Little Girl From Little Rock ( which was the original title as performed by Margo Channing on Broadway but which was adapted to accommodate a duet between Monroe and Russell ) . It's interesting that Marilyn was billed second to Jane Russell , already an established star , though they get more or less equal screen time . Tommy Noonan - who would have much more gravitas the next year in the Judy Garland version of A Star Is Born - and Elliot Reed were barely noticeable as the respective love interests whilst Charles Coburn and Taylor Holmes weighed in with neat cameos all but eclipsed by Marcel Dalio as the judge . Pleasant but far from great .
Dead In The Water	One of the most interesting things about this effort is the presence of a Black man amongst the survivors because the Tallulah Bankhead character is playing a variation of Gene O'Neill's The Emperor Jones , as she gradually loses all vestiges of the civilised life she represents . Bankhead , in fact , is the main reason for watching this typically self-indulgent Hitchcock film , as he strives to illustrate yet again how clever he is . With a story by John Steinbeck , one of the school of thirties ' political ' writers , only the most naive would expect a lack of axis ( that's NOT a typo ) to grind and we're not disappointed - and before you start writing your letters to the editor let me say that I'm a Steinbeck buff . The one thing we can't do , of course , is to view this movie with 1944 eyes but could we do so our reaction may well be colored by our own experience of war ; how many loved ones had we lost , did we have a relative in a Concentration camp , etc . Probably the last thing we would have done would be to take it on face value , just another example of the Hollywood ' bomber-crew ' syndrome , a disparate group of people thrown together in a confined space waiting for atavism to rear its inevitable head . For the record Bankhead is outstanding and the support is mostly out of the right bottle .
My Future Just Passed	It would be easy to dismiss this as The Three Faces Of Eve with songs but it is , actually , a little more than that . Alan Lerner had a lifelong interest in ESP and toyed with the idea of basing a musical on it for years before finally getting around to it in the mid sixties more or less a full decade after My Fair Lady . The Broadway version failed to find its audience but was jam-packed with great numbers ( Lerner was again working with Burton Lane with whom he wrote one of the all-time great ballads , ' Too Late Now ' for the MGM movie Royal Wedding ) most of which the producers have seen fit to jettison leaving the leading man only three numbers but the film is , nevertheless , interesting if only for the chance to see and hear the great Montand working in English . Montand , who learned English late in life , made several films in the English language none of them really satisfactory and whilst at one level the antipathy of most of the posters here is understandable one can't help feeling they are lacking in sensitivity inasmuch as the charm and shining talent of the man are obvious even in a vehicle tailored to his co-star as is this . Streisand is certainly adequate and with Minnelli at the helm she is both costumed and photographed to full advantage but by 1970 sophisticated lyrics like those in What Did I Have were wasted on if not bewildering to an audience educated in punk rock . Despite what the nay-sayers think Montand was worth every dime of the ( for the time ) silly money that enticed him to cross the Atlantic . Maybe not one to buy ( unless you rate even minor Montand as I do ) but certainly one to rent .
Yvonne The Terrible Beauty	What can you say about a film by a leading director that flopped at the box office and whose leading lady was never heard from again ( shades of Les Portes de la nuit and Nathalie Nattier ) yet has drawn a half dozen sympathetic comments on this very board . For me the twin selling points were Patrice Leconte and Jean-Pierre Marielle and neither let me down . A friend in France whose judgment I value warned me against it and although I could see where she was coming from I'm still glad I saw it . In some respects Leconte has produced the ultimate valentine to lost love and shot it in a hazy , wistful , slightly unreal style the way we tend to remember lost time . The handful of linking scenes featuring the narrator looking back to 1958 are shot in stark , sombre tones contrasting wildly with the pastel palette of the flashbacks set in and around Lake Geneva . The dreamlike quality is present from the start ; in a dream there are no formal introductions or elaborate establishing of relationships , they are just there , you meet someone and instantly know them or know all you want or need to know to fall in love . As others have said on this board Leconte withholds information about all the three principals but even with a story as leisurely paced as this one we don't really care . The eroticism whilst more blatant than in say , The Hairdresser's Husband , is still light years short of being even soft porn but is in keeping with the dreamlike quality throughout . On balance a fine film which did not deserve its neglect .
Shaw Thing	When Irwin Shaw wrote a short story called ' The Girls In Their Summer Dresses ' and placed it with the New Yorker he probably had no idea it would become one of the most anthologized American short story of the 20th century and would possibly inspire Eric Rohmer to take it as the starting point of the last of his Six Moral Tales . There was a lot of Shaw himself - who was married when he wrote it - in the main character , a reasonably happily married man possessed of an uncontrollable urge to look at other women even when out with his wife . Rohmer has created a similar affliction in Frederic ( Bernard Verley ) , equally happily married to Helene ( Francoise Verley ) , who is already the mother of his first child and bears him another during the course of the film . Rohmer takes Shaw's premise towards , if not actually to , its logical conclusion , by having Frederic concentrate on just One girl , Chloe ( Zouzou - this was the name of James Stewart and Donna Reed's daughter in Capra's ' It's A Wonderful Life ' and French directors being as they are , enamored of Hollywood , it's not impossible that Rohmer cast the actress merely because of her name ) . When we meet her first Choloe is very much the bohemian sporting bulky sweaters and jeans but as the film progresses she graduates to the kind of chic clothes that epitomize French women , girls in summer dresses indeed . Nothing , of course , happens . In this kind of film nothing ever does . Chloe is frank in her intention to seduce Frederic and he comes that close to succumbing but that's all , folks . This is the kind of movie it's tough to promote , its target audience is the habitué of the small salle , semi art house which still , thankfully , flourishes in Paris but forget UCI type chains .
Nero , My God !	The trick with watching this is to close your eyes and just bask in one of the great Broadway scores , maybe not quite up there with Kiss Me , Kate , Guys and Dolls , Pal Joey etc but still very much in contention . Josh Logan has a bizarre track record of directing hit shows on Broadway then turning out off-centre Hollyood musicals like the grotesquely colored South Pacific and this one , produced with a touching concern for the Warner Brothers light bill . A subdued , autumn mood is great for something like Robin and Marian where we BEGIN with the characters in middle age but Camelot begins with a youthful Arthur and Guinevere and STILL Logan persists in muted tones . Richard Harris followed in the footsteps of James O'Neill ( The Count Of Monte Christo ) and Yul Brynner ( The King And I ) by buying the rights to a popular vehicle and touring it into the ground but he's light years away from Richard Burton , who created the role on Broadway and his singing is at best adequate . Franco Nero is , frankly , an embarrassment all round and God only knows what Venessa Redgrave saw in him . She herself is perfect for Guinevere and arguably the only major player not miscast . Still , the score - a model of melodic melody and literate lyrics - is still intact otherwise this is just Spamalot with a far superior score .
Swede Smell Of Success	It's quite possible that this movie wouldn't have got made if Jean-Pierre Darroussin hadn't agreed to play the lead . I'm basing this on the fact that writer-director Anne Novion lacks the profile of the leading female directors in France - Danielle Thompson , Toni Marshall , Anne Fontaine , Nicole Garcia , Ann Vernoux , Agnes Jaoui to name only a handful - and if that weren't sufficient handicap she's opted for one of those ' little ' films where nothing happens all at once . For the record Darrossin has established a routine of taking his daughter , Anais Demoustiet , to a different European location on each of her birthdays and this year it is Sweden and a tiny coastal village at that . Darroussin has an idea to combine the holiday with searching for Viking treasure so he has brought along a metal detector . The first hiccup occurs when they arrive at their rented house to find it occupied by two women friends . They get over this and make the best of pitching in ; daughter is coming up to that ' awkward ' age which means the inevitable encounter with teenage boys ; one of the women fancies Darroussin whilst the other stumbles across an ex-lover now happily married . And there you have it , nothing really wrong with it but I doubt you'll be killed in the rush in the unlikely event that it plays your local Multiplex .
Finding Neverland	The Symbolistas are going to have a field day with this one to say nothing of the Referentialist . From the Peter Pan reference in the title to the Tinker Bell-like fairy who makes initial contact with the heroine to the almost too numerous to mention Alice In Wonderland nods - the descent into an alternative world , keys , food and drink with magical properties etc to the nod to the Carne-Prevert Les Portes de la nuit ( both films take place just after a war and impose a fantasy onto post-war reality ) though Pan's labyrinth , unlike Portes , has been received almost ecstatically in some quarters whilst Portes initially bombed only to be ' reassessed ' into the masterpiece it is when neither Carne nor Prevert had enjoy vindication . There are plenty of good things here but leave us not lose our heads Mark Kermode style . Every competent , well-written , well-acted , well-made film isn't another Citizen Kane or Les Enfants du paradis , if it were then Kane and Enfants would soon be debased . This remains a good movie , a tad unusual to be sure but neither is that worthy in itself of elevation to All-Time Great status . See it by all means , enjoy it even , but keep in mind that it's only a movie , Ingrid .
Swishbuckler	This is , of course , a much-filmed story like Robin Hood etc and each generation will have its favourite version . In my case I found the best thing about it was the colour and I advise potential viewers to avoid travelling to the cinema by bus lest they drive a hole through the plot . Jean Marais is no Errol Flynn or even , nearer to home , Gerard Philippe , who made a memorable Fanfan La Tulipe and given Marais ' status as long-time lover of Jean Cocteau it may not be inappropriate to describe him as a swishbuckler . Bourvil is on hand to provide comic relief but the best you can give this is that it passes the time more or less painlessly .
40-Watt	There's a world of difference between Cornel Wilde's previous film , Roadhouse , and this one and it's not entirely due to the casting - Roadhouse boasted a great quartet in Wilde , Richard Widmark , Ida Lupino and Celeste Holm , whereas her we get Wilde , period , and Jean Negulesco handled Roadhouse better than Douglas Sirk handles Shockproof ( a meaningless title having nothing to do with the story . Considering they'd been married a good decade there's remarkably little chemistry between Wilde and Patricia Knight or indeed between anyone in the cast and anyone else . The protagonists meet in the first minute , she a parolee , he her parole officer and you can bet the farm he's going to fall for her despite his ' tough ' attitude . It's all fairly predictable but Sirk was a decent craftsman and is able to salvage something . . . not much , but a little . For Sirk completists only .
Peanut Brittle ( s )	It doesn't get any easier - me watching John Ford westerns and finding myself unable to genuflect along with a clear majority . A local shop that features used dvds is having a four-for-the-price-of-three month so , eager to give them a chance I bought all three of the ' cavalry ' westerns and now have only Rio Grande to watch . I accept that Ford is competent and knows which end of the viewfinder to look through but other than that I find his westerns pedestrian . There seems to be a rough sort of formula ; shoot in Monument Valley , inject some crude comedy via Victor McGlaglan , Ward Bond etc , use a favoured group of actors , Duke Wayne , Bond , Harry Carey , Ben Johnson etc and throw in some indians . So sue me .
The Bland Leading The Bland	This is a bit of a rum do and no mistake . For a start we have the solid mahogany Richard Todd leaving a trail of sawdust in his wake whilst Zachary Scott who can and does act Todd off the screen doesn't even appear until about reel # 6 and is woefully under extended . Ruth Roman might have done really well as the femme lead - if she wasn't in the same movie as Mercedes McCambridge - things are tough all over , it would seem . Plot-wise it's as hokey as they come ; we open with Todd on Death Row on account of a little matter of murdering his wife then , with no groundwork / back-story to help us he is awarded first a stay of execution and then a re-trial which leaves him a free man . Enter Ruth Roman , actress on vacation / convalescence who falls instantly into fascination with Todd . This leads nicely to the ' doubting ' scene , did he REALLY do it , will he do the same to Me , until all is resolved neatly with the real killer not only being unmasked but also paying the ultimate price . This is noir-lite with two excellent performances from Scott and McCambridge , a solid one from Roman and Todd having a laugh .
Portrait Of The Artist . . .	The problem with making a biopic of an artist is the temptation to compose every frame as a painting ; Vincente Minnelli already had this tendency so he was a logical choice to make Lust For Life , which I've yet to see . No one ever accused Maurice Pialet of either artistic or poetic tendencies given his predilection for the in-yer-face School of Film-making but he does succumb to the urge from time to time in this . . . well WHAT exactly is a good question . It chooses to record only the final weeks in the life of Vincent Van Gogh , from his arrival at Auvers until he killed himself a few weeks later . Jacques Dutronc is not a natural actor to portray a passionate , tortured artist and Kirk Douglas was a much more obvious choice - though not having seen Lust For Life I am unable to comment on how well he justified his casting - being cool and cerebral , the ideal qualities for his role in , for example , Merci pour le chocolate . To be fair to Pialat I doubt if he was interested in seducing the viewer with pretty compositions or logical storytelling and his period research is pretty nigh faultless as are the performances particularly Bernard Le Coq as Theo . On balance this is a movie that needs to find its audience with little or no help from the director .
Board Of The Flies	If you're a frustrated hybridologist who's always wondered what a cross between Lord Of The Flies and Bugsy Malone would look like eat your heart out because somebody just beat you to it . I checked this one out blindly on the strength of Carole Bouquet and Gerard Depardieu on the marquee but wouldn't you know it's that old razzle dazzle cause this is strictly a kid's movie any any adult , including the two heavy hitters . The premise is simple if unrealistic ; in what seems to be a remote European village and is definitely one for the picture postcards , the behaviour of the children is so problematical that EVERY adult in the joint takes it on the Jesse Owens leaving the kids to fend for themselves - and when I say every adult that includes non-parents and even people with absolutely no involvement with children . This leaves free rein for the aforementioned hybrid as the kids form naturally into two groups , would-be leaders / tyrants and theoretical victims . It all works out in the end but will anyone care .
That Laddie In Ermine	The first thing that struck me about this movie - which was one of several Ealing Comedies that are currently being given away with a National newspaper - was its similarity to Sascha Guitry's Le Roman d'un tricheur ; Guitry is writing his memoirs at a cafe table rather than a prison cell and one of the earliest is how he unwittingly wiped out his entire family , who ate poisoned mushrooms en masse after banishing him from the dining table as a punishment for some minor sin . Louis Mazzini ( Denis Price ) on the other hand sets out to eliminate the members of a family that stand between him and a title with the cold-blooded calculation of Richard , Duke of York - another work from which it borrows . On the whole it stands up reasonably well , much better than another recent giveaway , Brighton Rock , which has aged badly . It is replete with typically ' English ' touches such as Miles Malleson's hangman enquiring in all seriousness of the prison governor ( Clive Morton ) how he ( the hangman ) should address the titled victim when they meet formally just prior to the execution and then , having been told ' Your Grace ' , walking away repeating this to himself complete with the pertinent obsequious gestures . Denis Price captures the right note , a blend of impeccable manners and ruthless cunning but most of the parts played by Alec Guiness lack diversity with nothing , for example , coming even close the complete unrecognisable quality he brought to Fagin within a year of shooting this one . On balance a very passable effort but one that may not stand up to repeated viewings .
Crime Without Passion	The ' perfect crime ' novel , play , film became so ubiquitous that audiences tended to judge them on how credible the ' flaw ' that proved the murderer's undoing and in this case it would struggle to rate . Director Arthur Crabtree began behind the camera where he had credits on the like of Waterloo Road ; he never really made it as a director but this effort begins well enough , boldly even for the time , because we are not told where Eric Portman has been prior to his entering his ( we assume ) flat , discovering several business cards signed Love Always and decides to confront and kill the sender . Only then does Portman reveal to Dennis Price that he has been in America for six months thus leaving Price clear to bed Portman's wife , Greta Gynt . He cons Price into writing a letter to Gynt that we - seasoned viewers of ' perfect crime ' movies - spot as a suicide note , then coolly offs Price but before he can leave Gynt ( who has a key , comes in with new lover , Maxwell Reed . This gives Portman a chance to frame Price for the crime and the ' flaw ' comes when Gynt tells Portman she has loved him all along and begs him to clear Price without , of course , incriminating himself . HE AGREES . Yeah , you heard ; a man who has found incriminating evidence of one lover ( Price ) and has had it confirmed by Price himself , then sees and hears with his own eyes and ears how Gynt behaves with a second lover , BELIEVES he pathetic story . There is absolutely no chemistry between Gynt and any of the three men ( though to be fair we never see her with Price ) , Reed is as wooden as always and Jack Warner walks through the detective role , possibly mistaking it for the one he played in It Always Rains On Sunday that same year . On a Saturday night in 1947 at the local Odean this would have been perfectly acceptable . Sixty years on it leaves something to be desired .
Mills Bomb ? Not Really	It's doubtful if this propaganda short has seen the light of day since it's initial release but it was both interesting and informative to catch up with it as part of a mini-season of Jessie Matthews at the NFT . It's very much in the area of the Crown Film Unit , The Turners Of Prospect Road etc and seen today it tips its glove from Frame # 1 but it's also undeniable that its heart was in the right place and Matthews reveals a deft hand behind the camera . John Mills put in service time on film in all three branches of the Armed Forces and here he's seen in khaki as the soldier home for a brief leave in which he marries his sweetheart , Dulcie Gray and returns to duty . Matthews covers a lot of territory in two reels from the opening library shots of troopships arriving in port , reunions across the spectrum of class , rank , then in to Mills , telephoning his mum then walking down his bomb-damaged street , enjoying his first home-cooked meal as mother , Beatrice Varley supplies an economic back story of sweetheart Dulcie Gray , to whom he has stopped writing , believing erroneously that she had found another man . This sets up the reunion outside the factory where Gray is working , a resumption of the courtship culminating in the wedding with the anti climax of Mills returning to duty . Of course Mills and Gray are symbols and of course the whole thing is a metaphor and of course Noel Coward could do it better and did at least twice ( In Which We Serve and This Happy Breed , both of which featured Mills ) but there's a lovely wistful charm about the piece and a glimpse of what made England so great and a place where English people would want to live as well as a terrible reminder of how much Tony Blair has destroyed .
Playing With Fire	In Greek legend Prometheus stole fire from the Gods and laid it on Man . For this he was chained to a rock and each evening an eagle would peck out his liver . It may help to know that before watching this film . On the other hand . . . Clearly there's a metaphor in there somewhere and Marcel L'Herbier - who made the wonderful La Nuit Fantastique some twenty years later - has pounced on it and tells a tale of a financier who ' borrows ' rather than perhaps ' steals ' money from the Bourse and lays it on his clients . Naturally it all ends in tears because financiers nearly always have personal secretaries who are only human and often have a little larceny going for them in spots and if there's woman in the frame one shudders to think of what might happen . For 1921 this is a fine effort and worth catching up with .
Storm In A Stryofoam Cup	This will probably do well with its target audience and it certainly passes 90 minutes relatively painlessly . However if you don't do Referential then it may not be for you . Bill Goldman , a far better writer than the author of this series , created in Marathon Man a fairly bland , mild character who idolised his older brother and was sublimely unaware of said brother's involvement with the CIA until , inevitably , the brother got killed in the line of duty . Here the older brother becomes an uncle , similarly idolised and similarly killed in the line of duty ; 007 references also abound not least in the final reel when an Oriental guy hitherto never seen is charged by the heavy with guarding the premises and , confronted by our hero and seemingly for no apparent reason other than the cause of the ' in ' joke , throws his hat away ; Stephen Fry weighs in as the local ' Q ' headquartered in a concealed room in Hamley's ; elsewhere there are several what may be best described as James Bond-lite one-liners and let's not forget the millionaire madman and his plan to destroy and / or dominate . The director could use some serious lessons in shooting action and Damien Lewis seems bent on flaunting the Honors Degree he secured at the Dick Van Dyke School of Accents in fact I can't recall the last time I heard such a pathetic attempt at a foreign accent . . . wait , I tell a lie , it was Van Dyke himself in Mary Poppins lo those many moons ago . Bill Nighy acts like he has a fig up his ass but chances are these were his instructions from the director . As I said above the ninety minutes or so pass fairly painlessly and I suppose that's all you could ask of a summer movie .
Nixed Doubles	I sometimes get the feeling that the only reason people make films like this one is so that people like me , who like to go to the cinema at least once a week , will have an alternative to the cgi / slasher / American pie formulaic garbage that fuels the multiplexes . In other words fairly pleasant , fairly harmless movies , like Venus , Shameless , Junebug , Waitress etc that fill a gap but , like Chinese food , leave you craving something more substantial within the hour . Hunter and Hunsinger scored a mild success with Lawless Heart and return to the same general area and clearly figure that if outrageous coincidence was good enough for Shakespeare it's good enough for them thus we get a chain of events in which Bob Hoskins , on the strength of an meeting Shaun Eveans for an hour or two and taking a shine to his mother , Lesley Manville , offers Evans the use of a flat in London which leads to Evans finding work as a waiter and catching the eye of PR honcho Stockard Channing with whom he is soon doubling as a gigolo where he in turn catches the eye of a girl his own age who , surprise , surprise , turns out to be Channing's daughter ; Channing has never disclosed the name of the father and as Dorothy Parker said you could have knocked me down with a fender when he is finally revealed as Hoskins ' brother . With story lines like these you need decent thesping and on the whole that's what we get with the glaring exception of leading man Shaun Evans compared to whom an amoeba with Learning Difficulties would eclipse Errol Flynn in both charm and charisma . Luckily Evans is surrounded by Manville , Hoskins , Anthony Head and Amanda Ryan all of whom help to make the time pass pleasantly enough .
It Shouldn't Happen To A Vet	Whimsy is as good a word as any to describe this entry from Jacques Rouiffio , a fairly undistinguished Writer / Director with some 13 more or less mediocre ' domestic ' movies on his CV . Michels Serrault and Piccoli are two middle-aged and distinguished members of the Acadamie Francaise more than susceptible to the nubile charms of young females such as veterinary surgeon Juliette Binoche who confides over oysters that her brother-in-law has offed her sister . One reaction might be to ascertain that Binoche actually had a sister married or not and if so did she die in unorthodox circumstances but that would waste time and half the fun is in watching the two would-be suitors squabbling over the rights to Binoche whilst trying ineptly to help . It's not going to make anyone's top 100 Best Films list but it is entertaining .
Once Out Of The Well . . .	This was billed as a comedy-drama but the laughter that filled the NFT at a recent showing was less an appreciation of any humorous content in the script than a reaction to the risible construction . Time after time director Reed and screenrights Launder and Gilliat rework the classic anecdote of the penny dreadful writer who , in an effort to extract a rise from his editor , left his hero stranded in a deep well full of deadly snakes and refused to write the next episode til he got a rise ; finally , having exhausted all other avenues the editor caved in and the hack got his rise . The next episode began ' Once out of the well . . . ' . Consider : Within minutes of the opening Margaret Lockwood finds herself in a concentration camp where she is befriended by fellow prisoner Paul Henreid . He intimates that he knew one of the guards some years ago and said guard will help them escape . Cut to a searchlight raking the camp . A hand pulls a lever , the light is diminished for ten seconds . The light goes back on and sweeps the camp again , disclosing a hole in the barbed wire . Cut to : A boat en route to England with Lockwood and Henreid on board . No reference to any possible chase , cross-country flight , locating a boat etc . In the next shot they are coming ashore in full daylight on a beach crowded with holiday makers . Maybe in 1940 cinema-goers didn't ask awkward questions . Just as well . More ? Okay . Much later - by now Lockwood and her vitally-important scientist father have been kidnapped by German agents in England and taken to Berlin and British agent Rex Harrison , masquerading as a high-ranking Nazi , is contriving to get them back to England . Unknown to him he has been rumbled by none other than Henreid , long since revealed as a Nazi himself . Two English travellers , Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne , overhear Henreid talking on the telephone to his superiors and arranging to have Harrison , Lockwood and her father arrested at Munich . They contrive to warn Harrison and then THIS happens : Harrison returns to his compartment where Henreid reveals that the jig is up and calls for the two German guards who are accompanying them to come and arrest Harrison . Who should appear in the uniform of the two guards but Radford and Wayne , the two least likely middle-aged Englishmen to overpower two fully armed German officers . Again , no mention of HOW they did it , on a crowded train yet and NO ONE noticed . It's like this from start to finish plus it's also one of those films in which ordinary foreigners speak not only accent-free English but also use English constructions , so that Lockwood is Czeckoslovakian only because the script SAYS she is . One minute Harrison is in London thinking of a plan to get Lockwood out of Germany , the next he is in Berlin in full German army uniform masquerading as a high official . If you can forget all these glaring errors it's an enjoyable romp - and do try not to laugh at the station sign reading Munchen West - with a cast of well known English actors of the time , Felix Aylmer , Raymond Huntley , etc . Any similarity to The Lady Vanishes has to be intentional and Launder and Gilliat , who wrote TLV get extra mileage out of the Radford-Wayne characters who first appeared in TLV . In 1940 this was no doubt gripping ; in 2006 . . .
In German Yet	It's tempting to rate this just because one of the two people speaking is Billy Wilder but alas , the other one is Volker Schlondorff so I find myself paraphrasing the well-documented definition of golf as a good walk ruined ; substitute talk for walk and you'll see where I'm coming from . For reasons best known to himself Schlondorff , who , like Wilder , is fluent in English , conducts about 40 per cent of the interview in German and lacks the courtesy to provide subtitles thus alienating a good proportion of viewers at a stroke . Wilder , of course , is always good value as a raconteur with right-on-the-money views on film-making , Hollywood , ' guys with beards ' and so on . Most Wilder buffs have , of course , heard it all before but you can't have too much of a good thing .
On The Lam	On paper this has all the hallmarks of an excellent film ; the true story of a criminal who , for a time , was the Most Wanted man in France , who attempted an audacious mass prison break , who escaped himself and went on a Bonnie and Clyde type rampage for some eighteen months before perishing - as Clyde before him - in a hail of bullets . On the screen the inept direction reduces it to just another programmer and an anaemic one at that , a colour film with all the colour drained out so that what should be - and could and would be in the hands of a competent director - exciting sequences have about as much adrenalin as a poetry reading in a convent . There's a film waiting to be made about Mesrine and maybe we'll get it one day .
Bunker Hell	I put off seeing this film until it was the only game in town and although I've been known to nod off even in 90 minute fare I remained awake for all two and a half hours of this . Its strength is to remain detached from the actual combat it is recording so that we never actually SEE the Allies in action but only the effects of the shelling , bombing , etc . A good ninety per cent of the footage is devoted to the bunker in which Hitler holed up for the last days of the war and whether by design or accident the feeling is of rats scuttling through a maze in search of the cheese that is never going to be there ever again . The acting is of a uniformly high standard virtually all of it in the hands of actors completely unknown outside Germany - or at least in England - and if one must single out Bruno Ganz it is only because he has been saddled with trying to find something in Hitler that would indicate that once he WAS a human being . Although the bunker is well lit and the occupants DO from time to time venture to the surface for a breath of fresh ? air the lighting favours darker , solemn , even depressing hues and the symbolism at the end which depicts a day of glorious sunlight could be said to be a tad over the top but otherwise it's a fine film that depicts characters from the full spectrum of our preconceived image of the ' Nazi ' from the chilling Magda Goebbles calmly killing her own children in the finest tradition of Greek tragedy to Hitler himself contemptuous of the German civilians who have and must continue to suffer on the altar of his madness to the more rational even verging on the humane of some of his staff . It's difficult to say who is the typical audience for this film but other comments and responses show it is wider than we might imagine .
Early Autumn	Definitely not for the short attention-span set . This takes its own sweet time to get anywhere and even then you're not quite sure where it's taken you . It kicks off with a long opening sequence resembling nothing more than a pre-war black and white documentary on traditional wine-growing in Georgia and I may as well state my ignorance up front , I didn't even know that Georgia HAD a wine-growing industry but I'm guessing they don't export too much of it . The screening I attended was introduced by the director who advised us not to read the subtitles and , to a great extent , the film can be followed just by watching it . If it has a central character it is Nico , a teenager who gets a job in a wine-collective ( if that's the correct term ) and subsequently decides that one of the new barrels is undrinkable and ensures it will not be bottled by adding gelatin to the barrel . That's about it apart from a slight sub-plot involving a possessive bully and two giggling girls . I'm glad I saw it but I'm not sure I'd want to sit through it again .
Listener , I Imprisoned Him	In one sense this is two films in one , always difficult to pull off and more so when the contrast is so startling ; for two thirds of the running time we're comfortably ensconced in the thirties and living the privileged life vicariously largely via the Lasts ( James Wilby and Kristin Scott-Thomas ) who rattle around with their small son in a Gothic pile except when Brenda ( Scott-Thomas ) is up in Town banging her sponging lover ( Rupert Graves ) . The main problem here is that there is insufficient contrast between Wilby and Graves to convince us why Scott-Thomas elected him as a lover ( I'm speaking of course merely about external appearance and outward behaviour ; Beaver may well have been exceptional in bed but nothing about him hinted at excitement , in fact he and Wilby could easily have passed for brothers , and in those days Brenda would have no other yardstick ) . There's also a symbolic element which tends to be heavy-handed ; having encountered an eccentric named Dr Messenger ( geddit ) Wilby decides more or less on the spot to underwrite the Dr's expedition to South America and go along himself for the ride so that the heavy-handed point being made is that he is leaving a moral jungle for a tangible one . The last third of the film finds him in the jungle , stricken with fever , left alone by Messenger who is never able to get the help he went in search of , and ' saved ' by Tod ( German for ' death ' ) a white man gone native played by Alec Guinness , who cynically keeps him a prisoner in all but name . As we might expect with actors of this calibre the acting is first class as is the period feel and if you can accept the wrench from Shires to Jungle you may well enjoy it .
Eradicating Rita	This is one of those ' what if ' conceits that sometimes come off spectacularly and more often than not bomb . This time around we are asked to surmise ' what if ' Orson Welles couldn't get arrested in Hollywood in the late forties and in the wake of his separation and impending divorce from Rita Hayworth found himself playing the lead in a cheesy costume picture in Italy and on the side got involved in both murder and local politics . Like all ' what if's there's a modicum of truth here ; Welles did exile himself in Europe in 1948 where he did appear in some fairly dire movies and , of course , he was divorced from Rita Hayworth around that time . The film has him lining up an investor for his version of Othello to be shot in Italy when the current film is in the can whereas although he did write , direct and star in Othello it was actually made in Morocco in 1952 . Danny Huston really needs to do more than wield a cigar to come over as Welles and perhaps wisely he makes no attempt to reproduce that distinctive timbre though he might have had a stab at that impish twinkle in the eye that was so much a part of Welles . Pick of the rest is Anna Galieni , so great in The Hairdresser's Husband for Patrice Leconte . As a curio this is worth a look but that's about it .
Hearts And Flours	In the early nineteen forties Simone Signoret nominated Tino Rossi and Jacques Trenet as her favourite singers ; in 1949 she fell head-over-heels for Yves Montand and in 1951 she married him . Montand , of course , left both of them for dead which in Rossi's case wasn't that hard , probably even Vaughan Munroe , the Singing Sweat-Gland could have done so had he put his mind to it . Rossi belongs to the Johnny Mathis school of vocalists that sound as though they've had a metatarsal surgically removed from the wrist and are mentally singing in a Balenciaga cocktail number . Here , he plays Schubert and loses hands down . Marcel Pagnol has written one of his staples and in a conceit centred it on a real-life person albeit one thrust into a fictional situation . He cast his own wife Jacqueline as the miller's daughter who ' inspires ' Schubert but prefers bank-notes to those on a treble clef . Lots of lovely scenery lovingly shot , mill wheels abound as do meadows , flowers and brooks . As a romantic lead Rossi was about as effective as Louis de Funes who was probably a better singer because , let's face it , he couldn't be worse .
Chinese Checkers	As an actor Erich von Stroheim made some of his finest films in France . Sadly , this was not one of them and students of irony may well relish the fact that in that same year and with the same director ( Christian Jacque ) he made one of his finest , Les Disparus de St Agil . There was , in the 1930s , something of a vogue for films set in China - Frank Capra's The Bitter Tea Of General Yen , Lewis Milestone's The General Died at Dawn and perhaps the highest profile of them all by virtue of a Best Actress Oscar Sydney Franklin's The Good Earth . So Christian Jacque was merely following a trend and although he assembled a mouth-watering cast - Charles Vanel , Von Stroheim , Suzy Prim , Marcel Dalio and Simone Renant - for some reason he forget to hire a writer who knew his ass from third base , winding up with Oscar Paul Gilbert . There's a Boy's Own Paper element about the plot which has Charles Vanel - playing something of a cross between Pat O'Brien in Tropic Zone and Cary Grant in Only Angels Have Wings - trying to build a railroad in China under constant attack by bandits . It's a real joy to see the lovely Simone Renant who was woefully underused by the French cinema and she shares a great scene with Von Stroheim who punctuates the dialogue by slashes with his riding crop . Alas , that's about as good as it gets .
Endgame - The Prequel	I suppose it had to happen ; pseuds have been speculating for years about just WHERE those Beckett characters were BEFORE they climbed into dustbins and : or got themselves buried up to the neck . Wonder no more for here is an answer of sorts . You have to hand it to Isabelle Huppert ; for a major actress she seems to enjoy nothing more than punctuating mainstream movies with , for want of a better word , experimental fare . Here she is in a domestic situation living with husband Olivier Gourmet and their three children , two girls , one boy , and very happy with it thank you very much . Here's the twisteroo ; for reasons best known to themselves they have opted to live about twenty yards from a major motorway . Okay , it's been abandoned for some reason but bizarrely their house is located on the opposite side to everything they need - shops , schools , LIFE , so that every time they need anything they have to climb the barrier on their side , cross the motorway and then climb the barrier on the other side . Not that Huppert ever goes anywhere ; the kids do , presumably to school as does Gourmet , possibly to work but they practically define the word insular with no social life other than a radio . Comes the day when the motorway becomes reactivated and where the normal thing would be to move they merely invest in breezeblocks and insulation and - get this - wall themselves in , blocking up all windows and doors , in a word entombing themselves . Eventually , wondering who has the oxygen concession Huppert grabs a sledgehammer and applies it where it will do the most good . End of story . It's clearly a metaphor but don't look at me , I'm still trying to figure out the subtext of Bridgit Goes Hawaian .
A Town Called Malice	This is going to cause some bemusement in the Multiplexs inasmuch as it takes it time saying ultimately very little . World-class actress Laura Linney is outstanding as apparently the only person in Jindabyne with anything approaching a moral compass . Gabriel Byrne as her husband and leading Man Without A Conscience is fine at portraying macho bafflement that his actions - he is the one who ' finds ' the body and subsequently tethers it in the water so that he and his buddies can continue fishing and bonding in relative peace - but not quite so successful at hiding a sensitivity that would have prevented his character behaving callously . There's a nice touch in the killer's number plate ( and the director makes sure we get a good look at it ) which begins with the letters AB and lead us to think - as the killer clearly does - ' abbo ' short for his aboriginal victim . On the other hand Jindabyne comes across as something from Yoknapathawta County with Flem Snopes progeny speaking Strine instead of Delta and have we EVER seen so many dysfunctional families in such a small town before . After Lantana Ray Lawrence's new film DOES disappoint but only a little and should really be seen by discriminating viewers .
Don't Luc Now . . .	. . . but it's been done before . On the other hand what hasn't but so many posters seem to regard this as totally original that I have to question whether they are real movie buffs or maybe just like underwater stuff . It's not necessary to have actually SEEN every film ever made or even say a Tenth of all the films ever made but serious movie buffs should be AWARE of what has gone before and I refuse to believe that I'm the only person who has ever HEARD of if not actually seen ' Beyond The 12-Mile Reef , a Fox entry from the early fifties with a fairly starry cast-list for the time ; Robert Wagner , then just establishing himself as a handsome hunk if not actually an actor , played a young Greek conch fisherman who spent his days diving with his father , Gilbert Roland , for conches ( sponges ) and as the supply dwindled obliged to move into the much deeper waters of the title . Richard Boone was on hand as a rival fisherman with a comely daughter , Tery Moore , engaged to Peter Graves ( shortly before he appeared as the German ' plant ' in Billy Wilder's Stalag 17 ) until Wagner comes on the scene . As if that line up weren't enough J . Carroll Naish was along for the ride to steal every scene that wasn't nailed down and let's not forget Wagner's Greek mother who does a lot of cooking . Luc Besson has taken this plot and refined it slightly ; it's still about diving to great depths and there's still an attractive woman to complicate things although Besson is not completely without shame and dispenses with the rivalry between divers Jean Reno and Jean-Marc Barr almost as soon as it manifests itself . It has a tendency to be episodic rather than continuous and there are too many non sequiters - we have , for example , to imagine how Barr got to Peru and from there to Taormina and not worry too much about stealing a dolphin and releasing it into the sea . It's always good to see Jean Reno and it was interesting to catch Sergio Castellitto in an early performance but that's about it .
Bogey-Man	I'm somewhat bemused by the amount of praise lavished on this movie by previous posters . Maybe in 1955 it came off better than it does in 2006 . There's not much actually WRONG with it but when you see a name like Wyler on the credits you expect a little something extra . For me Freddie March has always been mannered , a graduate of the Paul Muni School Of Mannered Acting so I didn't expect too much from him and he didn't let me down . Bogie was excellent but then when wasn't he but even so he's just reprising his Duke Mantee , Mad Dog Earle , etc and offering nothing new and / or original to his portrayal of a hardened criminal with nothing to lose . There's a nice roster of Hollywood character actors embracing Ray Teal , Ray Collins , Whit Bissell , etc who turn up , say their lines and don't bump into the furniture . Despite a few ' outdoor ' scenes this is very much an adaptation of a stage play where the intention - I didn't see the play so I can only speculate - would have been to highlight the claustrophobia and the ' opening out ' has the adverse effect of diluting and neutralising the ' tension ' of a family trapped in their own home by three ruthless convicts . Watchable , sure , but not more than once .
Mr Bland Builds His Dreams	A previous poster said it all and succinctly ; Carne sans Prevert is like Rodgers without Hart . Of course no film that stars Jean Gabin , features Louis Seigner ( grandfather of Emmanuelle and Mathilde ) and is directed by Marcel Carne could ever be totally bad it's just that the potential for greatness has been missed . Another poster made the pertinent remark that when Georges Simenon abandons the subject of murder / crime his books - and by extension the films made from them - tend to be duller . What we have here is a protagonist ( Gabin ) around fifty or so , owner of a bar / restaurant / club and a cinema and an eye for the ladies . As is to be expected Carne frames his shots in an interesting way and the black and white photography makes for some reasonable light-and-shadow effects but there's not a lot more than that on offer .
Falling In Love Again	It's a proved fact that if something is repeated enough times the susceptible person will eventually accept it as fact . Not everyone is susceptible to manipulation and so it is that I find myself at odds with two things that I have heard - and seen on the printed page - repeated for most of my life , 1 ) Alfred Hitchcock is a ' master ' and 2 ) Vertigo is a classic . So far as the first statement goes I've watched enough of Hitchcock's films to judge him a reasonably competent filmmaker but certainly no more gifted than , say , Howard Hawks , George Cukor , Henry Hathaway etc . On the other hand I have no problem accepting that Billy Wilder and Orson Welles are both ' masters ' . I've now seen Vertigo twice over a period of five or six years and I still can't see what all the fuss is about . For one thing it's riddled with flaws . Hitchcock needs to establish that James Steward has a problem with heights so he has Stewart , a plain-clothes detective working out of Frisco , and a uniformed cop , chase a suspect across some rooftops . The suspect leaps between two buildings , the uniformed cop follows , Stewart is last and fails to gain a foothold on the adjacent roof ; he slips down the mansard roof and is left clinging to a gutter that is giving under his weight ; the uniform cop abandons the chase , allowing the suspect to get away , and attempts to haul Stewart up to safety but falls to his own death . Stewart is now hanging from a rapidly weakening gutter with no hand or footholds available and not a soul to help . Clearly in 30 seconds , 60 tops , he is bound to fall to his own death . Clearly we can't have this so Hitch just cuts the scene and Fades In several months later when we discover Stewart in the apartment of a friend , Barbara Bel Geddes , complete with cane and corset and now , he tells Geddes ( us the viewer ) retired from the police force . He's then contacted by an acquaintance he hasn't seen since college who has since married into money and is running a large family business on behalf of his wife . He interviews Stewart in his large , well-appointed office and voices his concerns about his wife's strange behaviour , asking Stewart , as a favor , to follow her . I don't know about you but I have been in the offices of several successful businessmen and in 99 per cent of cases their offices boast a picture of their wives and / or children if they are married . Not this kiddie . He tells Stewart he will be dining with his wife later that evening and suggests Stewart be in the restaurant to get a look at his wife . Detective Stewart never thinks to ascertain that it IS his wife or to see a picture or any kind of proof that the woman in the restaurant , Kim Novak , really is the guy's wife . For a society woman Novak cannot come up with one single friend and spends her days totally alone and seemingly obsessed with a long-dead relative . Stewart follows her to a hotel , sees her at the window of her room there , braces the owner , who takes him up to what is now an empty room . Again no explanation of how or where she disappeared to . Eventually Stewart falls for her , she insists on visiting a mission outside Frisco , climbs the bell tower and seemingly Brodies . Verdict : Accidental death . Some months later Stewart sees her ' double ' in the street and falls in love all over again . At this point Hitchcock makes us privvy to the scam . When she led him to the bell-tower the guy who hired Stewart was waiting at the top where he threw his REAL wife off the edge . He had merely hired Novak to pose as his wife ( she did something similar in Wilder's Kiss Me , Stupid , when she posed as the wife of Ray Walston ) . Here we encounter the second ' problem ' . A woman goes off a bell tower and soon the place is crawling with cops so how come no one noticed a man and a woman , one the husband of the dead woman the other his supposed wife , sneaking away . If you can buy these pathetic plot points then chances are you will think this is something more than a competent meller . Me , I'm going to check out The Apartment , Ace In The Hole , Sunset Boulevard again , see how the Big Boys do it .
Den And Now	This is one of those films that you feel might have been really good if only they'd taken a little more time and trouble . Matthew MacFadyen has , I suppose a following amongst the kind of teenage girl who fancies Jude Law , Ewan McGregor et al and they may well be disappointed when they find out they have to actually THINK if they want to follow this . MacFadyen is currently playing Prince Hal / Henry V in Henry IV Parts I and 2 at the National Theatre in London so a Kiwi accent shouldn't really be beyond him but either he or the director decided to trade on the fact that THIS particular Kiwi has been touring the world for the last 17 years and managed to acquire only an English accent out of all those available . No matter , that's a small beef and he does at least act well as does his co-star Emily Barclay . It's one of those meandering , labyrinthine plots liberally laced with red herrings and the kind of denouement reminiscent of those detective stories written in the 20s and 30s when the author , with no imagination to speak of , introduced a brand new character on the last page just so he / she could turn out to be the murderer . This isn't QUITE so bereft of ideas but it doesn't really play fair with the audience . In sum : fine acting , especially from the two leads , good camera-work , lousy plotting .
Singapore Slang	Victor Schlesinger , who also helmed the second movie in the franchise , Zanzibar , may well have directed all the Road films had he not died tragically young ( 51 ) after helming The Fleet's In . Had he done so the franchise may have had more variable scores inasmuch as Schertzinger was one of a handful of film directors ( another was Edmund Goulding ) who also composed notable songs for their films - and Schertzinger went out in style given that the songs he wrote , with lyricist Johnny Mercer , for The Fleet's In , were some of the finest in the history of the movie musical . In 1939 no one was thinking franchise , in fact no one was thinking beyond a one-off entry pairing Hope and Crosby - who often cross-talked their way to their respective Sound Stages on the Paramount lot , and throwing Dorothy Lamour into the mix as love interest . The one-off aspect accounts for the fact that for the only time in the franchise Bing is given a solid background - in all the others both the boys are just THERE , usually performers of some kind doubling as flimmers but with no history whatsoever - as the Fifth in a dynastic line of ship owners but even then he has already teamed up with Hope from frame 1 and significantly Hope has no background . Schertzinger supplied the music for two of the five numbers - with series lyricist Johnny Burke - the duet Captain Custard and Lamour's solo The Moon And The Willow Tree but the standout ballad proved to be Too Romantic with music by James V . Monaco , then just coming to the end of a partnership with Burke . Anthony Quinn and Jerry Colonna , who would both feature in later ' roads ' ( Morocco and Rio respectively ) were on hand and the banter between Hope and Crosby was in place but the ' realistic ' aspect - Crosby is the despair of his family by preferring work to play , not a million miles away from William Holden's David Larrabee in Billy Wilder's Sabrina Fair , also a Paramount release - tends to impair the free-flowing zanyness of the rest of the franchise . Overall a modest entertainment that paved the way for several superior entries .
The Sound Of Silents	I've always had a problem with the accolades heaped upon this fine movie because that's all I see , a FINE , well-made , well-sung , well-danced film as opposed to a ' classic ' , ' all-time great ' , ' best musical ever made ' notices that hand around its neck like an albatross constantly threatening to choke the life out of it . It's also difficult for me to think of anyone more overrated than Comden and Green , who are right up there with Hitchcock as far as misplaced plaudits are concerned . Their schtick was New York and the bulk of the Books and lyrics they wrote seldom ventured West of Central Park , this Hollywood-spoof being one exception . Producer Arthur Freed clearly wanted to kill two birds with one stone by raiding his own back catalogue of mediocre lyrics ( you don't believe me ? try listening to Cole Porter , Frank Loesser , Larry Hart , Johnny Mercer , etc ) written largely with Nacio Herb Brown and then blatantly ' stealing ' Porter's Be A Clown melody and cobbling on new lyrics . The satire is okay but even in 1952 was hardly new , Debbie Reynolds is competent at best , Jean Hagen and Donald O'Connor excellent which leaves Gene Kelly showing yet again how many light years behind Fred Astaire we was lagging . Pleasant rather than memorable .
Silent Night	Any film based on this subject matter is , by definition , destined to wind up as something of a Curate's egg . The Christmas ' truce ' of 1914 has been well documented and even mentioned in passing in several films set in the same period but until now it has never been the centrepiece of a complete film . Given that almost everyone knows ABOUT the truce , albeit vaguely but very few are in possession of any concrete facts the writer-director probably felt it safe to graft his own fictions onto a factual situation probably figuring that 91 years after the event any actual survivors would be well over one hundred years old and hardly in a position to let out a squawk at the odd anomaly . With so many targets - the church , the generals , the propagandists etc - to aim at the scattergun approach is not a bad option on the grounds that SOMETHING is bound to be hit or , to put it another way , some ' ideas ' are bound to find favor with SOME viewers . When shooting a film in which three languages figure prominently it's a good idea if the director is reasonably fluent in all three lest any ' message ' gets lost in the shuffle . Alas , THIS director is fluent in only one of the three which is all too apparent . The only reason I can think of for top-billing the non-actress Diane Kruger and allowing her to demonstrate that she's also a non-singer and even , ludicrously , a non-MIMER , was to secure finance ; to the best of my knowledge feminine lieder singers were conspicuous by their absence at the truce as were , if it comes to that , celebrity Male lieder singers although , in the interests of fairness , SINGING on both sides did feature strongly . For an ' anti-war ' tract the horrors of trench warfare are strangely absent and what we get is an almost anti-septic environment which is probably no worse than a camping expedition when the weather turned nasty . On the other hand it is a genuine pleasure to see Suzanne Flon in what may have been her last film sharing the screen with Michel Serrault . One is left with the awkward question What Was It All For ; okay the rank-and-file demonstrated that common humanity has it over political machinations every time but lessons WEREN'T learned and within 24 hours half the participants had either killed each other , been killed by their own Generals or shipped out in disgrace . Those who wish to see a message here will do so others will just wonder what it hopes to achieve .
The Spy Who Came Out From The Heat	This was shown late last night on TV and having watched it and then read the first page of comments here I'm slightly bewildered by what seems exaggerated praise . By permitting a middle-aged , non-athletic WAlter Matthau to take on both the CIA and FBI and make monkeys out of both is stretching credibility to the limit ; it's like the Bourne Identity without the fx but the difference is that in the case of Bourne you were in no doubt that his masters were seriously angry and he was often seconds away from termination whereas here , Matthau seems moments away from only a custard pie in the face . Whilst it's undeniable that the film is intended as a comedy drama it never seems to fire up fully in either genre but is pleasant to watch because of Matthau who again co-stars with Glenda Jackson which makes it possible that the whole raison d'etre for this was the success of House Calls . As late TV movies go this is certainly watchable but that's all .
Three-Quarter Tome	As a great admirer of Julien Duvivier and now , at last , having seen The Great Waltz some 60 plus years after it was made I can't help wishing that Duvuvuer had been tempted to Hollywood by something a little more substantial . I don't , of course , know the circumstances but given the horror stories about Hollywood moguls that we were weaned on it's not difficult to imagine a discussion in which the reasoning is ' we're doing a movie about an Austrian waltz king set in Vienna and up to here in schmaltz so why don't we get that French guy who did those things about tough guys in Africa ( La Bandera , Pepe Le Moko ) and the Popular Front ( La Belle Equipe ) . Great idea , boss , let's get a cable off toot sweet . I wasn't there at the time but with hindsight it's ludicrous that Duvivier followed his masterpiece ( just one of his masterpieces actually ) Un Carnet du bal with this dross although there is a kind of left-handed logic given that Un Carnet du bal concerned a woman's treasured memories of her first ball where the prevailing mood would have been three-quarter time . Sixty-odd years later trying to look past the wooden Gravet and the ' stage ' Austrian accents ( ah , Shhsstrrowss ) personified by Sig Ruman in the opening scene we're able to salvage the sure-footed direction and directorial touches of Duvivier and see what today looks hokey - the ride in the Vienna woods in which every sound is a musical note contributing to the instant composition Tales Of The Vienna Woods - as the magical sequence it must have seemed to a world hungry for escapism with a major conflict waiting in the wings . Likewise the quicksilver crochets and quavers that dance over an inept bank clerk's ledger in the opening scene - indeed the economy which in that same scene delineates Strauss as a frustrated musician trapped in a world of finance . Known to me more as the wife of another great writer , Clifford Odets , than an actress , Luise Rainer has little to do in the emoting stakes but Duvivier does use her effectively in the scene at the Opera House when he shows us how insignificant is a mere wife against ART , personified in this case by the mighty Opera House , the performers and , of course , Composers . I'm glad I saw it - and indeed now own it thanks to a generous French friend , but I'll be watching both Un Carnet du bal and the film Duvivier made immediately after The Great Waltz , La Fin du jour , much more than returning to this .
Emperor Gavotte	In some ways this resembles Billy Wilder's The Emperor Waltz ; period setting , well-known crooner in the lead , light on songs and a general awkward feel . People like Dick Powell , Arthur Treacher , Charlie Butterworth and Edward Everett Horton just don't ' do ' tights and it takes a while to get over this . Claude Rains played both Napolean and Julius Caesar in his distinguished career and he does tend to steal the film , putty nose and all . Marion Davies is probably known today , if at all , solely as the mistress of William Randolph Hearst who was pilloried in Citizen Kane but she shows herself as a more than adequate actress . Frank Borzage began his career around 1913 and turned out several fine movies including Three Comrades and The Mortal Storm and he manages to extract several laughs along the way in what is essentially a large screen soap .
Petits Fours	With Valerie Lemercier's third film as a triple-threat ( writer-director-actress ) , Palais Royal still filling the salles in Paris where it has now racked up well over one million admissions it's interesting to turn to her first effort where she was content to give the writing credit to Sacha Guitry and confine her own efforts to acting and directing . Perhaps the most curious aspect is that Guitry died exactly forty years before the film was made in 1997 so we can only assume she has been remarkably faithful to the original which bears all the hallmarks of a stage rather than a screen play ( Guitry of course wrote for both mediums ) inasmuch as the action is confined more or less to a suite in a luxury hotel in which the eponymous quartet - Lemercier herself , Sandrine Kiberlain , Sergio Castellito and Andre Dussollier , exchange soufflé-light banter and explore the possibilities of l'amour whilst various hotel employees raise and lower eyebrows as and when called upon to do so . For a first effort it's not at all bad whilst falling short of memorable . Certainly watchable .
My Bet Noir . . .	. . . or one of them is the movement that pseuds insist on promoting to upper-case as The New Wave and I dismiss as the lower-case new wavelet but in life we can seldom pigeon-hole everything and Jacques Demy is a case in point ; he is part of the hiccup only inasmuch as his early features were made just as the vague in question was retreating back into the ocean of mediocrity from whence it came . True , he made these early movies for a stick of gum and mostly on location but he possessed more flair for actual film-making than for intellectualising on celluloid . Nor was he above subtlety ; there is , for example , a nice touch in this film when Claude Mann and Jeanne Moreau share a pint bottle of whiskey and the brand is Black and White reflecting the motif of the entire film ; Moreau , the car , the beach are all white , Mann , the croupiers and virtually every other male are dressed in black . Plot-wise it's stripped to the bone ; Mann is a straight-up guy , Moreau is Gamblers-in-yer-face . They meet . End of . On the other hand if you want to talk Theme how much time do you have . Nice makes a nice location , Michel Legrand weighs in with a pleasant jazz-inflected score and it's fine for one viewing and just for the record another of my bete noirs is wagering against the red at roulette .
Hot Air	It is a truth universally acknowledged that a man who hosts a talk show in the media must be a son of a bitch . In subsequent years ( ) half a century ago we were treated to hatchet jobs on a radio ( The Great Man ) and TV ( A Face In The Crowd ) host , both of whom bore a striking resemblance to the real Arthur Godfrey and both adapted from respectively a novel ( The Great Man ) and a short story ( Your Arkansas Traveller ) by two fine writers , Al Morgan and Budd Schulberg , both of whom adapted their original works for the screen . We never got to see Herb Fuller , the radio personality , because he was killed off-screen at the start of The Great Man and Jose Ferrer ( who also directed the movie ) was assigned to do a memorial tribute during which time he discovered just how big a son of a bitch the late Herb Fuller actually was . Lonesome Rhodes on the other hand was very much alive in the person of Andy Griffith in Gadg's A Face In The Crowd and turned out to be just as obnoxious as Fuller , hardly surprising since , as noted , both were based on Arthur Godfrey , who worked in both radio and television . It was a while before someone opened this same can of peas again and Talk Radio is essentially The Great Man / A Face In The Crowd with the f-word . This doesn't necessarily make it bad , merely repetitive and though the screenplay is good as far as it goes no one is seriously going to compare it with the top-drawer Morgan and Schulberg or if they do they risk being laughed out of Pretentious School . In Talk Radio's favor is the fact that its target audience would have barely been around at the time the two superior films were released and if you haven't seen - or possibly even heard of - either then Talk Radio talks a good game . Worth catching as a freebie with a newspaper but not shelling out for on DVD .
The Dating Game	A pre-credit introduction by Fabian of the ' Yard ' attempts to sell this as an expose of vice with special reference to human trafficking - very relevant today - but it quickly segues into just another girl-in-jeopardy thriller in which vice is only peripheral . The first fifth shows how easy it is for an innocent and naive girl to be recruited and groomed though one would have to question how any girl falsely accused of stealing a few francs from the till would be so scared to return to France and face a few francs fine . Having framed the pigeon ( Odile Versois ) Herbert Lom and Brenda de Banzie need a work permit for her and that's where taxi driver Eddie Constantine comes in . Also ' befriended ' by Lom he is persuaded to go through a marriage of convenience with Versois who is then whisked away . Then , in a completely unexplained and inexplicable turnabout Constantine begins to worry about Versois and attempts to track her down . From then on it's just another guy looking for a girl and building to a climax straight out of Hue and Cry except for kids read cabbies . Enjoyable tosh with sightings of Lana Morris , Joan Collins and Michael Caine .
Kid Stuff	I shudder to think what the ' academics ' will talk this one up . Consider : a determined group of ' little ' people triumph over a gang of bullies aided no little by ' cracking ' a code . I can hear them now in Film ' schools ' the length and breadth of the land ' explaining ' how to ' read ' this as a metaphor for an England who had just won - with a little help from their friends - a major war against Germany aided by their cracking of the ' Enigma ' code . I doubt whether screenwriter Tibby Clarke had anything more meaningful than a paycheque in mind when he dreamed up this yarn in which a group of unsophisticated teenagers without an ' O ' level between them , uncover a plot involving a weekly comic book for boys which villains use to communicate details of proposed robberies . Alistair Sim is top-billed but as the writer of the serial he has only two scenes whilst Harry Fowler as the leader of the boys appears in virtually every one . It's all a tad gung-ho but given that it was shot in 1946 that's to be expected . Though it's an Ealing film it's meant to be serious so do try not to laugh .
Bad Timing	Despite assembling all the staples - nightclub / casino setting , cops , crooks and conmen , low-key dialogue , would-be anti-hero - this entry somehow winds up as less than the sum of its parts . Clearly an admirer of Abe Lincoln ( you can fool some of the people all of the time . . ) Dick Powell had wisely abandoned his ' singing ' career by the mid-forties in favour of thrillers verging on noir and although he did well enough in Murder , My Sweet , here he gives the impression - as do the rest of the cast - that he is acting under water . First-time director Robert Rossen was clearly looking ahead to his follow-up film released that same year which is perhaps why this one seems to boast too much body and not enough soul .
Country Matters	No writer would invent a character like Garrison Keillor , one one hand a sophisticate who writes for the ultimate sophisticated magazine The New Yorker and on the other the down-home writer and MC of A Prairie Home Companion , two hours of gospel / country music and hokey commercials . True to form Keillor has written a movie equally eccentric . It begins with Kevin Kline in voice-over spouting sub-Chandler dialogue for all the world like a preface to a latter-day Blue Dahlia and / or Big Sleep then it quickly segues into quasi-documentary mode as we witness from both back stage and out front the last show at the Fitzgerald Theatre . From here on in we have something of a Howard Hawks-lite movie because what is emphasizes is the professionalism of th performers who segue effortlessly from backstage gossip to polished performance in a matter of seconds . I have to confess that gospel music doesn't fire my hymn book and in fact friends in America tape just the Lake Woebegone monologues for me and ignore the rest . I checked out the movie hoping for at least one and maybe two monologues but perversely writer Keillor has chosen to omit what is arguably - and certainly overseas - the best-known part of the PHC . Even so it was entertaining enough although one viewing was enough .
Teach Me Tonight , Blackbeard	Having tried his hand successfully at most other genres Jacques Tourneur , son of the great Maurice , moved to swashbucklers in 1950 via the Burt Lancaster vehicle The Flame And The Arrow . Having enjoyed a huge international success with Flame he followed it with a fictionalized account of Anne Boney , a lady pirate who became Anne Providence for the movie . Shot in the old ( and best ) three-stripe Technicolor Tourneur gets the movie off with a bang as Anne's ship captures another and quickly disposes of the crew via the traditional plank . Quickly establishing a major plot point Tourneur has her balk at dishing out the same treatment to Pierre La Rochelle ( Louis Jourdan ) and inviting him to join her crew . From there on it's pretty formulaic , we know Peters is going to fall for Jourdan and that he will either have a wife / fiancée or be a spy and as things turn out he is guilty on both counts . Herbert Marshall is the pick of the supporting cast as might be expected whilst James Robertson Justice is a joke as a pirate with a voice half a tone higher than Tiny Tim and a Scottish accent that would bring a blush to the cheek of Dick Van Dyke . With Tourneur at the helm it can't be ALL bad but a little more good would be nice .
In The Immortal Words Of Pontius Pilate . . .	. . . what is truth ? We could add Does It Matter / Who Cares etc . This is a reasonably entertaining film but further than that I'm not prepared to go . I'll usually go to ANY movie about showbiz however peripheral but classics like Mank's All About Eve and Wilder's Sunset Boulevard have made it tough for the competition . In this case I detected absolutely no charisma in either Colin Firth or Kevin Bacon , who are both , I hasten to add , fine actors and they act WELL here but it's impossible to believe that they were , even for one moment , superstars in the mold of Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis who they are clearly modeled on . With the exception of Jerry Colonna , who was not part of a double act , and Oliver Hardy , who was not playing a charmer , I can't think of one partner in a well-known double act who has worn a moustache as Colin Firth does here and he completely misses the easy charm of Dean Martin . Of course they are not MEANT to be Martin and Lewis otherwise the death of the girl would attract serious litigation but there WAS a girl who died after a ' party ' with another well-known comedian , Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle , several years before the events depicted here ; of such melanges are stories / screenplays woven . Egoyan keeps the action interesting by weaving back and forth and playing with time and the ultimate ' truth ' if something of a cop out is at least semi plausible . Pleasant ? Yes . Entertaining ? Yes . Significant ? You've got to be kidding .
Catherine Wheels ( And Deals )	Up to now Catherine Breillat has been unashamedly up-front in a series of modern day medium-core pornographic movies . It seems a little late in the day to seek respectability by setting the graphic couplings in a period setting but that essentially is what she's done . For French film buffs it's a joy to see people like Yolande Moreau and Michael Lonsdale in anything and Ann Parillaud and Amira Casar are not exactly chopped liver if anybody asks you . Breillat protégé Roxanne Mesquida is also on hand to take care of most of the sexual content and it has to be said that Breillat has shot a seriously sumptuous movie . Whether it is , however , anything more than a chocolate-box with soft-core centres is moot .
Endgame	Those with a penchant for French cinema will be inclined to seek this one out because it's one of two films that Jean-Pierre Aumont shot in the same year , i . e . it arguably marks his first appearance on screen . There's actually more to it than that , not a great deal perhaps , but certainly a little . For reasons now lost to us it opens and closes with music sequences having little to do with the main thrust of the plot which is essentially an early example of positive PR : a writer's book is not so much walking as crawling off the shelves so he hits upon a scheme involving him ostensibly killing someone thus generating free publicity and then , in the fullness of time the victim will turn up safe and sound . It's a nice touch to have the three plotters draw lots to determine who will be killer and who killed . Like all the best laid schemes it is doomed to gang alay but along the way it does its best to entertain and is certainly worth a look .
How I Got Sidetracked	It's fair to say that had I not found Rois et Reine so rich , complex and ultimately enjoyable I may not have taken the trouble ( to say nothing of the three hours needed ) to watch this earlier work by Arnaud Desplechin toplining the same two very fine actors ( Manu Devos and Mathieu Almaric ) . The fact that this time around the duo were supported by the likes of Jeanne Balibar , Denis Podalydes , Marion Cotillard and Chiara Mastroianni merely sweetened the pot but it has to be said that Desplechin doesn't make it easy . Almaric plays a University lecturer named Paul Dedaulus , a name surely not chosen at random . Daedalus , in Greek mythology was the father of Icarus , who flew too near the sun , but apart from that Daedalus was on straight commission from King Minos of Crete for whom he created among other things , the maze and the Minotaur in the centre of it . I'm betting twelve to seven that Desplechin had that very same maze in mind when he dreamed up this labyrinthine storyline of a man who is constantly taking wrong turnings in his attempt to move forward in his life . As a vacillator this guy can leave Hamlet dead in the water ; should he stay with Devos - with whom he has been in an on / off relationship for ten years - or should he attempt to make and / or get a firm commitment from one of the three other girls with whom he is involved . At the end of three hours your guess is as good as mine but it is also fair to say that along the way we have been treated to some very fine acting indeed though whether it has any point is moot . Those , like me , who enjoy watching French actors - without question some of the finest in the world - in their early careers will find this enthralling for that reason alone . Those will little or no interest in French actors , fine or otherwise , may well be bemused , bored or both .
Ames And The Man	This clearly grew out of Michael Palin's Ripping Yarns series on television and I suspect that most of the adverse comments on IMDb might have been more positive had the film been kept to Ripping Yarns length , but of course feature films need to weigh in at around ninety minutes and that may have been the problem . As it is it's certainly likable with some fine performances on offer . It's difficult to believe that Palin was not familiar with the case of the Vicar of Stiffkey whose interpretation of ' saving ' fallen women was to save them for himself . Where the chap from Stiffkey was self-motivated Palin has his clergyman acting on orders from the Bishop although when required to provide more than spiritual comfort he is not averse to so doing . Maggie Smith tends to overact as the well-heeled Lady Ames who's quite happy to shell out for the mission so long as Palin is prepared to adopt the missionary position whenever she feels the urge . Michael Horden contributes a scene-stealing turn as a butler badly in need of sat-nav and Trevor Howard sends himself up . Not a world-beater by any means but as newspaper freebies go this is one of the better ones .
Cream Soda Fountain	Rome was flavor of the month in fifties Hollywood ; Paramount wound up with a mega hit sleeper on its hands when the romantic chemistry between Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday proved both a commercial and critical success . Hollywood minds are , of course , geared to spin-off potential ; if One romance in black and white could rake in the dough think how much more could be made out of THREE in Technicolor . More than half a century later the response is pretty much ho hum but in the first half of the fifties a combination of the finest male singer of the twentieth century singing ( albeit uncredited ) a catchy title song over a series of tourist views of Rome predisposed audiences to like whatever came next however hackneyed . The sextet was interesting , Louis Jourdan wasn't even Italian but then neither was Clifton Webb , though Jourdan did personify the handsome Leading Man . Maggie MacNamara was the most interesting of the females but made only five films in total and in one of those she was uncredited ; Jean Peters was arguably best known for becoming Mrs Howard Hughes in 1957 and retiring from the screen until the 70s and Dorothy McGuire was the best actress by a country mile . With a side trip to Venice thrown in this RomCom - a chick flick before the term was coined - couldn't miss and still has a novelty value for the easily pleased .
Wrong Note Rag	For 1950 this was probably about as close as you were going to get to a film celebrating jazz . It's a curious hybrid for all that with just about everyone wrong for their respective parts ; it was an open secret that it was based - albeit loosely - on the short life of cornettist Bix Beiderbecke so right away they get it wrong by hiring Harry James to ghost the TRUMPET for lead Kirk Douglas , in a style about as far removed from that of Bix as you could get . Hoagy Carmichael , who had known , played with and befriended Bix was woefully underused and just about got away with the role of narrator . Doris Day more or less played herself a few years earlier when she really was a band singer . Kirk Douglas turns in his usual intense angst-ridden performance but the producers chickened out of having his mentor , Art Hazzard , played by a real Black actor and went with Juan Hernandez a native of Puerto Rico and even then the two are not allowed to embrace as two men as close as this surely would have . I guess the best you can give it is a near miss and leave it at that .
Coronation Chick ( en )	Terence Rattigan's ' Coronation ' ( it was commissioned to mark the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953 ) play was something of a disappointment when staged initially ( later than intended ) with Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh in the two leading roles yet it re-surfaced twice more ; once ( here ) as a film , adapted by Rattigan himself , and once in 1963 as a Musical with a ' Book ' by Harry Kurnitz and music and lyrics by Noel Coward ( the last ' score ' he would compose for the theatre ) . Each time the title was changed ; Rattigan himself coined the most felicitous ( The Sleeping Prince ) for his original play ; this was changed to The Prince And The Showgirl for the film and finally The Girl Who Came To Supper for the stage musical ( incidentally one of Coward's witty numbers ' Long Live The King - If he Can ' had to be cut from the original show as it dealt humorously with assassination and opened in the wake of Kennedy's in Texas ) . Much has been made of Olivier the ' great ' actor , a quality which has always eluded me and here again he does little more than employ one of his ' funny ' voices ( at which , it must be said , he was quite adept ) and look stiff and so uncharismatic that it's difficult to imagine ANYONE falling in love with him . Rattigan - whether at the urging of his Producer or not - has opted to ' open ' out his original play so that now we get to ' see ' the procession en route to the abbey and scenes of the abbey itself . I've often failed to see what all the fuss was about regarding Marilyn Monroe but I have to say that here she is quite believable and competent as the Showgirl half of the title and though far from his best work Rattigan's lines and craftsmanship are always in evidence .
Boy ! Did YOU Get A W ( r ) ong Number	Time and again films that are over-hyped tend to disappoint and so it is here . Whilst there is lots to admire in the set ups , use of light and shadow , ' feel ' , competent acting , we tend to admire them as separate even disparate units that seem unable to cohere and form a wholly satisfying experience . It may well be that the dialogue loses a lot in translation yet a friend of mine who is fluent in the language was also disappointed . There were moments when I found myself dozing and I attended an early afternoon screening after a full night's sleep . Whilst I am not prepared to dismiss it out of hand I do think potential viewers should be prepared for disappointment and see it in the spirit of harvesting a few good moments rather than a fully realised feelgood experience .
A Kingdom For A Hearse	This gives a new meaning to the expression something for everyone ; you've got Androcles And The Lion - Balian spares the life of a man he thinks is a slave and much later the man , who was , of course , a master and not a slave , returns the favour ; you've got The Man In The Iron Mask via Baldwin who wears a silver mask to conceal his leprosy and then , for good measure , you've got The Alamo , with a small and heavily outnumbered band defending - what is it if not a mission - against impossible odds . Ridley Scott knows how to frame a shot and the early scenes in France work best because the landscape has more to offer , once we get to the Holy Land it's just like Robin Of Sherwood with sand . In terms of scripting it's political correctness on speed with virtually every Christian portrayed as a waste of space so that one would not have been surprised to see on the credits Written , Produced and Directed by Osama Bin Laden and it lacked only Mel-I-hate-Poms-Gibson in his best Let's Trash The English mode to round it off . The acting was competent , no more , the battle scenes were par for the course though at times it was difficult to tell who was doing what to who without a programme . On balance no better and no worse than a dozen similar movies .
Barkley Bandwagon	Even those of us who are too young to have seen those great Astaire / Rogers black and white musicals the first time around - and let's face it , even one who was only ten in 1935 , the year Top Hat was released , would now be eighty one and unlikely to be active on this or indeed any other board - will still feel a frisson at the very opening frames of this movie - over which the credits are supered - a shot of the four most iconic dancing feet in movie musicals doing what they did so well that they helped millions to find momentary relief from the Great Depression . Cynics may argue that MGM opened with this shot - which slowly pans up to reveal Fred and Giner in full spate - knowing full well that what followed was at best a pedestrian script from the vastly overrated Comden and Green ( thank God they didn't lumber Fred with some of their equally pedestrian lyrics ) who would recycle it yet again four years later in The Bandwagon , once more teaming Astaire with Oscar Levant . In common with , I guess , the majority of musical buffs who are active on these boards I first saw the original Astaire / Rogers movies many years later on TV by which time I'd already seen Fred dancing with other partners from the mediocre ( Jane Powell , Vera Ellen ) to the outstanding ( Rita Hayworth , Cyd Charisse ) so that the glaring flaws of those black and white gems - the ridiculous depiction of Venice ( Top Hat ) , the pristine engine room of an ocean-going liner ( Shall We Dance ) etc to say nothing of the remote coldness of Rogers stood out more than if I had watched them as a child of the Depression seeking only escape from soup kitchens and bread lines but what was undeniable was the charm and style of Astaire , the gorgeous songs and the greatest and most stylish pair of male feet ever to grace the musical screen . Harry Warren was , no question , a great composer but he fell just a tad short of Porter , Kern and Gershwin if not necessarily Berlin and although he delivers a fine score here , to which Ira Gershwin fashioned some deft lyrics the movie failed to deliver a ' standard ' to rank alongside The Way You Look Tonight ( Swingtime ) , Cheek To Cheek ( Top Hat ) , Change Partners ( Carefree ) etc in fact the classiest number on display by a country mile is They Can't Take That Away From Me which Ira wrote originally , with brother George , for Shall We Dance . In the early / mid forties MGM had a penchant for self-contained ' classical ' moments in popular musicals , often employing the likes of Jose Iturbi to ham his way though a flashy classical piece that had little or nothing to do with the rest of the film ( and like those Lena Horne numbers could be edited out when the film played the Deep South ) ; one had hoped that by 1949 the powers that be had matured a little but no , here we get Oscar Levant - who is playing a composer of ' show ' tunes - giving his rendition of The Sabre Dance and Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto Number # 1 in D Flat whilst his ' character ' has never displayed either an interest in or aptitude for the classics . Maybe they were deliberately attempting an ' old fashioned ' feel or trying to cram the quart of Astaire-Rogers into the pint pot of Anchors Aweigh but whatever the intention the result is mild embarrassment . No film that stars Astaire and allows him to dance can be dismissed entirely and when he is allowed to do what he did better than anyone else the film comes alive and is worth watching but on balance there are not enough Astaire magic moments .
Skating On Thin ice	In a long and distinguished career that spanned 40 years and 150 films Fernandel directed only three , none more than mildly successful despite screenplays by luminaries such as Jean Aurenche and Sacha Guitry ( the third film , Simplet , was written by his brother-in-law Jean Manse ) . Two of those films were made for Continental and I'm taking an educated guess that the German-run company who had some difficulty signing quality personnel ' persuaded ' him to work for them by allowing him to direct ( Fernandel had been working consistently in movies since 1930 and was an established vedette when Continental was formed in October , 1940 ) . They'd also found it tough to sign Jean Aurenche and it may be that the promise of Fernandel as star swayed the writer ( although he had already supplied dialogue for another Continental release Defense d'aimer , the previous year ) . As is to be expected Aurenche provided a sound adaptation of a novel by Jean de Letraz which Letraz had already adapted into a play but Fernandel's direction is that of a Journeyman rather than an innovator but even the 80 minutes running time seems padded by allowing ' money ' sequences to run just a tad too long . Fernandel himself is in good form as the eponymous character who is employed by a private bank as a collector and spare-time inventor whose latest effort is motorised roller skates-and even as he is demonstrating them to colleagues we can see the gag in the next reel , which is one of those that runs past its sell-by date . There's also a trio of comical gangsters to say nothing of Paulette Dubost who , for good measure , gets to sing a duet with Fernandel ( who also performs two solo numbers ) . So , yes , all the ingredients are there yet somehow director Fernandel manages to snatch a suet pudding from the jaws of a soufflé ' .
Bedtime Story	I have to agree with most of the other posters that despite a wonderful score this movie is a disappointment . Okay , they lost three of the numbers during the transition from Broadway to Hollywood - one of them , alas , A New Town Is A Blue Town - but at least they didn't hire another songwriting team to supplement Richard Adler and Jerry Ross . This is a movie in which one gorgeous number follows another - I'm Not At All In Love , Hey There , I'll Never Be Jealous Again , Steam Heat , Hernando's Hideaway , Once A Year Day , etc , but leading man Raitt in particular seems to just ' walk through ' them and as for any chemistry between him and Doris Day forget it . On the other hand this is a rare opportunity to see Carol Haney strut her stuff ; one of the great ironies of show business is that Haney got sick during the Broadway run and her understudy , Shirley MacLaine , went on for her and built a career based on mugging and playing allegedly ' lovable ' kooks whilst Haney was forgotten . Those of a cynical nature might find it singular that a pajama factory is staffed almost entirely with Broadway-standard singers and dancers or that a young and attractive girl ( Haney ) would be seriously involved with a ham three times her age ( Foy ) but if you put your logical questions on Hold and just wallow in one of the last REALLY melodic , witty and literate Broadway scores chances are you'll enjoy yourself .
Cool Yul	I've only just caught up with this one so any ' cutting edge ' element it may have had at the time - it was made three years after those Russian tanks cut a swathe through Hungary - is long diluted and there is more interest in the cast - from Ron Howard in only his second film , to Gerard Oury who would direct the first of many fine movies the following year , to Ann Jackson , a fine stage actress who was sparing with he film work , to E . G . Marshall , another stage actor , one of the 12 Angry Men and starring on TV in The Defenders at the time this was shot , to Anouk Aimee , a fine French actress yet to go supernova with Un Homme et une femme to Jason Robards who'd made a film in 1946 and waited 13 years to do another , filling the years between with standout Broadway performances in The Iceman Cometh and Long Day's Journey Into Night . As has been noted George Tabori's screenplay owes more than a little to Maupassant's Boule de suif , which also formed the basis of Stagecoach and viewed today it's a pleasant enough diversion but little more .
Cop Out	I don't think that anyone who admires and respects Melville approaches this , his last film , more than probably aware of the negative notices and general feeling of disappointment , prepared to add another voice to the chorus of condemnation . One approaches - or should approach - it in search of positives and hoping against all the evidence to find something worthwhile . The opening augurs well , a brilliant set piece involving a small crew , a bank , an off-season seaside town , raw , blustery weather , and muted pastel photography . For reasons never made clear the leader of the gang , Richard Crenna , is a minor American actor who is dubbed . Melville of course made no secret of his admiration for Hollywood gangster movies so maybe he hired Crenna - when there were dozens of equally talented French actors available - as a form of indulgence . Almost inevitably the heist goes wrong leaving one of the gang badly wounded and then the eponymous character , Edouard the cop ( Alain Delon ) appears in what at first seems to be a parallel story emphasizing the boring routine of police work . If you're a candidate for Mensa you will eventually work out that Delon and Crenna are friends and that they share a girl friend , Catherine Deneuve , though it remains ambiguous whether or not any of the three realize the full extent of the twisted relationship . Melville also indulges his love of American Jazz by having Delon play an acceptable piano in the club owned by Crenna . The second set piece involving a train , a helicopter , and a courier is great on paper but almost risible in practice with little or no attempt to disguise the models involved . On balance this is a film that all Melville admirers will want to see . . . . Once .
L'Infant Paradis	As a rule I have a hard time watching Vanessa Paradis but on the other hand I've only seen the stuff she did in the last decade . In this , her debut effort at the age of 17 , she had yet to hone her nauseating Goldie Hawn schtick and was halfway believable as a screwed-up wild child . Director Brisseau cast 60 year old Bruno Cremer as the older teacher who has an affair with her ( but was careful to cast 42 year old Ludmila Mikael as Cremer's wife ) and just about stopped short of having Cremer say to Paradis ' let's get together and compare taboos ' . There may well be an acceptable side to 60 making out with 17 and Brisseau might have been the guy to tap into it if he didn't have a penchant for sleaze - this , after all , is the guy who was arrested for sexually harassing an actress on a subsequent film , Chose Secrets , also steeped in unhealthy sex . If you work at it you can just about work up a sympathetic approach to the story and if all else fails there's always Mikael who could have done with more screen time . Overall this is interesting rather than entertaining .
Village Voices	Before watching even one frame of this film it is as well to remind ourselves that it was made in 1942 , more or less the exact middle of the war , a war for which no one at the time could predict an outcome and one that could certainly have gone either way . It brings together a mixture of established Stage - Leslie Banks , Marie Lohr , Elizabeth Allan - and Screen actors and those at the start of their careers - Thora Hird , Patricia Hayes , Harry Fowler etc , drops them in a picture postcard village and imagines what might happen should the Germans invade . Perhaps wisely it doesn't examine too closely just how SIXTY of the enemy were able to parachute into England undetected to find both English Army uniforms and transport awaiting them plus a leader , Basil Sydney whose flawless English extends even to native speech-patterns ( I say , that's extremely nice of you ) . After three reels or so they are inevitably rumbled and equally inevitably the villagers find they have become hostages and Cavalcanti has a little fun in showing how each successive attempt to alert the outside world comes to naught . Eventually , of course , Good triumphs over Evil and everyone lives to fight another day . Invaluable as a period piece which captures an England that might as well HAVE been lost to the Germans as to Tony Blain and his ilk .
Key Largo	On paper this had the makings of a winner ; co-scripted ( with her ex - Collier Young ) by that most intelligent of actresses ( who was also no slouch as a director ) Ida Lupino , directed by Don Seigel at just about the time he started making a noise ( Riot In Cell Block 11 was made back-to-back with this entry ) , with major acting credits split equally between Lupino , Dean Jagger , Dorothy Malone , Howard Duff and Steve Cochran , all well known at the time , it should have turned out far better than it did . Watching it today the pace appears to be well off and coupled to that is that uneasy feeling that some of the cast are playing in different films . Lupino always delivers and trivia buffs will note that she had already played a pianist-singer in Jean Negulesco's 1948 entry Roadhouse and in both movies her character was named Lily ( or , in this case , Lili ) Stevens and Marlowe respectively and as an actress she would offer one of her greatest portrayals as Marion , the wife of actor Charley Castle in Clifford Odets ' The Big Knife two years later . On the other hand even cast as a domesticated wife Dorothy Malone can't help vamping as if still auditioning for the Lupino femme fatale role . It's watchable certainly but certainly no more .
Who's Sorry Now	There's a lovely irony at work here inasmuch as the bulk of the action takes place in the thirties / forties , an age when movies were made for the masses rather than a ' target ' audience but even a target audience is no longer sufficient so that today movies like this are what I choose to call Festival Fodder , where the director has one eye on the viewfinder and the other on the Golden Palm , Silver Bear , Bronze Ego Massager or whatever and whilst these films are certainly good for one viewing and attract lots of puffery from ' Arts ' programmes and Sunday supplements they seldom stand up to a second viewing a few years later ( hands up anyone who can sit through The English Patient again ) . Joe Wright , current critical flavor of the month , has turned out a decent enough movie and some of the trendiest names in the business - Knightley , McAvoy - are on hand to lend gravitas to the project but significantly the best acting by a country mile is contributed by Vanessa Redgrave at the very end of the movie - in another irony the character she plays is very similar to the one played by her father , Michael , in The Go-Between , i . e . youth grown old and bitter and filled with remorse for lives damaged in earlier decades - and as virtually all of it is shot in close up she has only her face , eyes , and voice to work with . Can you stand more irony ? You can , swell ; in the Dunkirk segment there's a brief clip from the Marcel Carne / Jacques Prevert Quai des Brumes , featuring Michele Morgan and Jean Gabin ( this is mistakenly referred to as Recif de Corail by IMDb ; Quai des Brumes was released in 1938 whilst Jean Gremillon's Recif de Corail was interrupted by the war and had not been completed by the time of Dunkirk ) a far , far superior film than Atonement and one that was made with both the director's eyes on entertaining the masses , come to think of it , Mr . Wright , THAT's how you make classics , by default rather than design .
Little Boy Lost	Damian Lewis is a fine actor but someone should really tell him that he doesn't do accents . After his hilarious attempt at Russian in Stormbreaker he fares only marginally better with American - what we get is not so much Mid-Atlantic as about fifty miles from England Atlantic - and is in danger of becoming a latter-day Sean Connery with his roots eternally showing . That said he turns in a fairly decent performance here helped by the director shooting 90 per cent of the film with Lewis's head and shoulders filling the frame . The support hardly gets a look-in but nevertheless each one is more than competent . So what's it about ? Glad you asked because it's about what YOU , the viewer WANT it to be about . It's evident from Frame # 1 that Keane isn't playing with a full deck as he ostensibly lurks around PATH looking for a daughter who may or may not exist . An early clue - Keane makes a phone call and asks for a woman who isn't or doesn't want to be available to speak to him - that perhaps he has lost custody to an estranged / divorced wife leads nowhere and doesn't surface again . Gradually the film veers onto another course and seems to be about connecting and we are reminded of The Woodsman in the scenes when Keane befriends a girl who is the same age as his missing daughter if , of course , he HAS a daughter . It's not exactly a Saturday night movie but it is worth seeing .
Room For Improvement	Puffin Asquith turned out three films in 1941 and one of the others was Quiet Wedding which was , like this one , an adaptation of a stage play - in fact Puffin made something of a speciality of this and adapted several Rattigan plays for the screen most notably the masterpiece The Browning Version - and here the origins definitely show . It's the kind of play that no one writes any more - like Esther McCracken's Quiet Wedding - the typical ' Home Counties ' romantic comedy with mandatory French Windows and parlour maids but now tarted up with a ' topical ' plot reflecting the war , then in its third year . Sixteen year old George Cole reprised his stage role to good effect and worked well with mentor Alistair Sim , Leslie Banks and John Mills . As in the play - which I haven't seen but it is a reasonable assumption - most of the cast are doubling as Red Herrings ( it's the one about the inventor working on vital war work as several Nazi ' agents ' prepare to kidnap him ) and now we know where James Bond acquired his taste for excruciating puns as Leslie Banks remarks - after seeing off two villains by unleashing , with the help of Cole , a huge millstone , which crushes them ' killed two birds with one stone ' . On the whole it's fairly harmless though I doubt anyone will be dashing out to buy the DVD should one exist .
You Can't Go Home Again	With the possible exception of the London Film Festival we don't get too many Norwegian films in England so Reprise is something of a rarity . The reviews I saw were mixed and probably ran on a between three and seven i . e . no one really hated it whilst no one really loved it . Being lion-hearted I went anyway and found it interesting to say the least . It's definitely not for the Multiplex crowd and even the Art Houses may have a tough time putting bums on seats but it has something to say on the nature of creativity and the alternatives and if at times it resembles something cobbled together in someone's garage over a long weekend rather than reeking of professional gloss that's not necessarily a bad thing given the theme . The downside is that it is full of references to Norwegian topography - apparently Oslo has a West Side and an East Side and never the twain shall meet without awkwardness - and Norwegian culture - several writers are cited and non-Norwegians may have difficulty deciding if they are kosher or fictitious - but that to one side this is a reasonable first film .
School Of Thought	With the obvious exception of yet another Masterclass in Acting from Isabelle Huppert there isn't too much to enjoy here , at least on the surface . Huppert plays a real character , Madame Maintenon , initially the mistress and then the wife of Louis the Fourteenth who took it into her head to found a school - the Saint Cyr of the titles - to ' improve ' some 250 young girls selected from around one thousand applicants . One of the first tasks was to iron out provincial accents and aim for an Gallic equivalent of Received English and this is where the native French speakers have a bonus inasmuch as they can follow the progress from Regional to National accents whilst to those obliged to rely on subtitles the accents sound pretty much the same . There's other stuff going on here , not least the secular / religion conflict but it tends to be obtuse and there are too many ' five years later ' captions and not enough straightforward storytelling . Huppert fans will like it anyway but the rest may find it hard going .
Harry All In	Unlike the majority of Hollywood ' stars ' who saw England as a chance to revive a flagging career Richard Widmark crossed the pond when he was still a top box-office attraction ( and would continue so for the next decade ) . Director Dassin had his own reasons as one of the discretion is the best part of valour Americans such as Carl Foreman and Joseph Losey who became long-time UK residents , whilst the two above-the-title females , Googie Withers and Gene Tierney had done their best work in the previous decade . Even Hugh ' Redwood ' Marlowe , as wooden as always in support had two A-list films either on release or just about to be in All About Eve and 12 O'Clock High . Students or irony will relish the fact that Widmark's Harry Fabian - small-time hustler living on his wits - was the template for Tony Curtis ' Sydney Falco in The Sweet Smell of Suucess some five years or so later yet Curtis gets all the kudos whilst Widmark , the better actor by far , is ignored . The plot sees Widmark's Harry Fabian chasing the big score and almost finding it in the seedy world of wrestling only to have it turn to ashes . On the whole it's a slightly bizarre melange with Widmark supported by the likes of Herbert Lom and Francis L . Sullivan , two of the most unrealistic underworld types ever put on film . As curios go it's well worth a look .
Mane Attraction	Although clearly listed on the credits as one of three co-directors you have to click ' more ' on the IMDb credits to find the name of Michael Powell . Surprisingly he had turned out some twenty-some films already and this was hot on the heels of The Spy In Black . Produced in 1939 and released two months after War broke out this is , inevitably , a bit of a flag-waver and does indeed at one point take a proper gander at goose-stepping Nazis . Clearly Ralph Richardson and Merle Oberon were there just for their marquee value given that the film is virtually all documentary . As the first British film completed and released in wartime it will always have a curiosity value and it does capture a Utopian England that the Blairites have all but destroyed . Nostalgia buffs will have a field day .
Falaubert's Pair At It	On paper Huppert plus Chabrol is an unbeatable parlay but several times it has run out of gas and this , alas , is no exception . Bizarrely Chabrol has opted to film a novel whose essence is tedium - Emma's ennui with the minutiae of day-to-day life is the key to her subsequent actions - by speeding up the pre-marriage sequences so that instead of the stately courtship that would be more apropos we get a scene with Charles Bovary asking her father for Emma's hand ; an intermediate scene with Charles watching for the signal ( the opening of a shutter ) that will signify Emma's agreement and then ( all this in less barely one minute of screen time ) we cut to the wedding feast . True , Chabrol slows it down later - as well he might with two and a half hours to play with - but the contrast tends to be off-putting . In its favour are the fine sense of period , costumes , decor , etc and though woefully miscast Huppert doesn't do mediocre and remains watchable in anything but overall one is left with the impression of a fine opportunity squandered .
A Shadow Of Its Former Self . . . ?	. . . yes and no is the answer . The franchise relies on the rapport between Loy and Powell and that remains firmly intact . The world that Nick and Nora inhabit is as unreal as the Carvel of Andy Hardy and if you want to resist that rather than surrender to it why bother to see the movies . The topicality is reinforced when journeyman director Woody Van Dyke is given his military title of ' Major ' in the opening credits though apart from that there are no references to the war . Arguably the longest shadow of all is thrown by Stella Adler , arguably , on the evidence of this performance , the weakest actor in the Adler dynasty - Jacob , Luther - but was inextricably linked with the Group Theater and went on to become a Player as well as a thorn in the side of Fox in her capacity as ' coach ' to Marilyn Monroe . The unreal reel world of Nick and Nora is typified by Sam Levene , a police officer ( Lieutenant ) who allows all and sundry to be present whilst ' interviewing ' suspects and is happy to play Second Banana to Nick . The name Harry Kurnitz almost always guarantees a fine script , one of the wittiest man around - a sort of backstage Oscar Levant - Kurnitz also penned detective stories under a John Doe and he's not afraid to throw in a gag about the Super Chief that would have gone right over the heads in Peoria and Dubuque . In sum a pleasant enough entry in the franchise .
Strasbourg Goose	Guerin makes Erich Rohmer look like Speedy Gonzales and elevates watching paint dry to a new level . As a travelogue it's interesting and shows downtown Strasbourg from several angles none of which is designed to put potential visitors off . It's semi-referential on several levels recalling among other Before Sunrise / Sunset in both of which two young people explored a city . Here , of course , though there are two young people involved they are not together inasmuch as one is more or less stalking the other in the ( as it turns out ) mistaken belief that she is someone he knows . For reasons best known to Guerin he has split his non-action over three days in which nothing happens all at once . Nice pictures shame about lack of plot .
Guilt On The Gingerbread	This is Scorcese anxious to prove he can do more than make movies about sub-humans like de Niro and Pesci competing to see who can say the f-word the most times in between killing and maiming other animals like themselves and on that level it more or less succeeds . Somewhere along the way he's clearly seen a Max Ophuls movie so we get lots of shots with the camera circling the action and making elegant swoops and fluid movements . Not bad as far as it goes , too bad Ophuls did it first . Joanne Woodward's voice-over narration hits the right note for Edith Wharton which is not always replicated by the actors . There's absolutely no chemistry between the two leads , Daniel Day-Lewis and Michelles Pfeiffer though Pfeiffer scores as someone who might easily captivate a man even as uptight as Day-Lewis . There are lots of stunning visuals all out of the right bottle and the pace is more or less right but ultimately it's shadow at the expense of substance .
Race Against Time	American born Bonar Colleano carved out a more or less successful career in British films - even , improbably , starring opposite Vivien Leigh in A Streetcar Named Desire on the London stage . Despite that prestigious credit he wasn't really leading man material and despite his top billing here it is more of an ensemble piece . Basil Dearden may well have had a bee about Race in his bonnet as he explored the subject again in Sapphire and utilised Earl Cameron - the token black man in this movie - yet again . If anything this is yet another reminder that Ealing did more than churn out comedies . Susan Shaw , who married Colleano , tried her hand at a ' good ' girl for a change , having established herself as more or less the opposite in such films as It Always Rains On Sunday . Max Adrian is hopelessly miscast as an acrobat turned burglar and the best performance comes from Renee Asherson . Today its main interest is in its location shooting in a long-vanished London .
Beat Me Daddy , Eight To The Bar	Jalil Lespert is the latest French actor to have eyes for directing and to his credit far from something feel-good he's opted for a downbeat storyline which he tells in the style of a jazz riff and perhaps in an effort to ensure we appreciate this he signed veteran jazz musician Archie Shepp and gives him a substantial role in the final sequence . Basically Lespert takes four disparate people , a hooker , a cab-driver , a semi-society girl and a jazz musician and allows their paths to cross albeit briefly . With not much more than that it's all in the wrists and by and large it's a reasonable first effort though a little more lightness wouldn't have gone amiss .
Cold Comfort Farm	It's not really enough to TELL us it's 1941 , put the women in turbans and show the odd uniform if there's no FEEL of the period ; frankly Foyle's War ( a series on English TV ) had more feel for the times and that was far from spot-on in period detail . As it stands Lands Girls could easily be an extra long episode of Heartbeat , or Peak Practice ( two other series on English TV , the former set in the 1960s ) . Probably on paper and / or at the pitching stage this passed muster ; a little-explored facet of the second world war with fat parts for women , sign here , Mr . Producer and order a second roller : on screen , however , it's a different story . The acting is fine - as it should be with people like Tome Georgeson in the cast - as it's reasonably well photographed but it's impossible that these people are actually living in 1941 and you can practically see the mobile phones come out in between takes . For the easily pleased .
From Russia With Affection	I've heard of swings and roundabouts but this is ridiculous ; what Julien Duvivier gained by having a near perfect Anna in Vivien Leigh he lost by being saddled with Keiron Moore as Vronsky . His presence can probably be explained by his status as a contract artist with Korda and though he did appear in one or two decent films - Mine Own Exectutioner , A Man About The House - they were good in spite of and not because of Moore ; here he is given leading man status and a leading man who theoretically epitomizes passion yet Moore plays it like an under-rehearsed ill-prepared understudy in The Chocalate Soldier obliged to go on at half an hour's notice in a role for which he has no empathy . When fifty per cent of your leading characters is this bad there's not a lot even a genius like Duvivier can do but even so he manages to make a fairly decent fist of it and include some tasty set-ups . As is to be expected Ralph Richardson walks away with the acting honours leaving Leigh to slug it out with Martita Hunt for whatever scraps he left on the table . Trivia buffs will be fascinated to see Leigh caressing Jeremy Spenser playing her son some thirteen years before she would throw him the key to her bedroom in The Roman Spring Of Mrs . Stone . All Duvivier fans will want to see this but probably once will be enough .
Little Boxes	One of the hallmarks of a superior screenplay is the way it deals with ' awkward ' questions whilst one of the hallmarks of a good movie is that ' awkward ' questions don't begin to raise their quizzical heads until long after you reach home . So : Having established in the first minute of screen time that Olivia de Havilland is perfectly able to walk , albeit slowly , with the aid of a walking stick and further established inside another minute - via an exchange of dialogue with her son , about to leave her alone in the house for several days - that she will be able to dispense with the walking stick in just a few weeks , why , we wonder , has she seen fit to install an elevator that would not be out of place in a four-star hotel , in a modest-sized house in which the only stairs on view are straight and number no more than twenty treads at the outside . Why not install a stairlift ? Okay , let that one go for a moment ; after eleven minutes screen time the power fails leaving her suspended some six or seven feet above the ground . Eventually she presses the alarm button which rings , not , as we might suppose , in the local police station / doctor's surgery etc but in an alley at the side of the house which depends on 1 ) someone passing by at the exact time the alarm sounds and 2 ) no noise from traffic on the large highway that runs in front of the house . Okay , let THAT one go , too . When a passing wino ( Jeff Corey ) stumbles into the kitchen deHavilland , who can't see who it is , launches into what SHE thinks is logical exposition : A few months ago she broke her hip and had the elevator installed until it mended . This is where it falls down . To design , build and install such an elevator would take about three times as long as it would for the hip to heal so immediately the whole premise is out the window . When you're thinking this whilst WATCHING the film you know they're in trouble . Having said that it's certainly watchable ; deHavilland , clearly anxious to put Melanie Wilks behind her , reveals a backbone ( if not a hipbone ) and Corey and Ann Sothern turn in fine support . Worth a look .
The Dwight Stuff	This snuck into London this week virtually unheralded and playing at only one cinema . By chance I stumbled on a paragraph that mentioned the star was Brenda Blethyn so on that basis I checked it out . It's yet another of those ' indie ' productions that is fine to see once but probably won't stand repeat viewings . Blethyn plays a stand-up comedian who apparently made a minor name for herself in seventies Britain prior to emigrating and is now trying to reestablish herself in Sydney . For good measure she is divorced - from a Country singer who moonlights as a Security Guard , just as Blethyn moonlights as a canteen worker - and struggling to retain control of her two sons , one of whom is brain-damaged and the other a virgin . One of the problems is that the film can't decide whether to concentrate on Blethyn's attempts to make a living on the club scene , though the material that we actually hear - incredibly and unbelievably credited to Jo Brand - makes this highly unlikely , or the burgeoning love affair between the non brain-damaged son and a new girlfriend , played well by Emma Booth . Basically this one has ' feelgood ' written all over it and it that's what you like then you'll like Clubland aka Introducing The Dwights .
A Clash Of Symbols	There may be those who would describe this as Rules Of The Game Lite dealing as it does with the mores of French society in the 1930s but one crucial difference is that Renoir made his film AT THE TIME whereas Bunuel was working a quarter of a century later . It's never really explained - unless , of course , I missed an explanation - why an intelligent , sophisticated Parisienne Celestine ( Jeanne Moreau ) would choose to bury herself in the French countryside in a menial position . Whatever the reason the fact that she does so gives Bunuel the chance to take his customary jaundiced view of the bourgeois household that serves as a microcosm for France as a whole and the world at large . The household is like a fruitcakes convention boasting a frigid wife , a priapic husband a fetishist grandfather and a brutal predator / murderer gamekeeper / handyman . Symbols abound not least the snails suckling on the bare legs of the murdered child , followed closely by the garbage thrown consistently into the grounds of the house by a retired army officer and academics and pseuds could get hours of mileage out of that one given the Petain / Vichy government waiting in the wings to dish up garbage by the plateful to a humbled nation . Moreau , as is to be expected , turns in a fine performance as do all the principals but I doubt if even the most devoted Bunuel buffs would want to return to it again and again .
The Way To The Stairs	In a perfect world of course and as it applies to film there would be a definitive film in one genre and no one would bother trying to equal it and leave well enough alone . Alas , we don't live in a perfect world though we DO have a definitive Air Force British movie covering the second world war in the shape of Rattigan's The Way To The Stars which focused more on life on the ground than in the air . Angels One Five stupidly attempts to do the same thing and falls light years short making it more a way to the stairs - even the naughty stair - than to the stars . On the other hand there may well be those who remain ignorant of Rattigan's masterpiece and they will find this highly acceptable despite John Gregson's spot-on impression of a silver birch . Shot in the early fifties there was still enough of England left to capture on film and it must be films like this that inspired the New Left to obliterate it , sadly , where Hitler failed , Tony Blair virtually succeeded .
New Gun In Town	Knowing of writer-director Richard Wilson's connection with Orson Welles I was curious to see if any of the maestro's magic had rubbed off but alas . . . What Wilson serves up is a rehash of Johnny Concho , a Sinatra vehicle from 1957 . In that movie Sinatra , by virtue of his gunman brother , ' ruled ' the town until William Conrad showed up having outgunned Sinatra's brother and the town is stuck with another gunman . Wilson's twist is to have citizen Pat Hingle send for gunfighter Yul Brynner to take care of George Segal ; Brynner opts to spare Segal and Hingle and the townsfolk live to regret sending for Brynner . There are reasonable performances but definitely no Wellesian touches and in the end it is just another ho hum Western .
It's All In The Game	I've heard of sport as a metaphor for life but this is ridiculous ; there's literally barely a frame in which two or more of the principals are not rowing , jogging , playing squash , golf , canoing or mountain climbing . It's all in the interests of our old friend the company ' bonding ' session and anyone who saw the play Neville's Island will know what to expect . For reasons best known to himself and / or the director Benoit Magimal is sporting red hair this time around ; Jean-Pierre Cassel is wheeled on possibly to bring a touch of class to the marquee but the two females , Marion Cotillard and Melanie Doutey both turn in ho-hum performances . If you like sport and / or power games then this is right down your rue but if not you may be sorry you went .
Hoarse Whispers	This is the type of film I tend to avoid in the hype of initial release and I haven't felt particularly deprived to miss out on it . It's now been shown on English television and I didn't find it sufficiently mediocre to switch off . Most of the elements are in place , stunning visuals , sentiment , dime-store philosophy plus the obligatory change of attitude in a principal character . Robert Redford - who also helmed - and Kristin Scott Thomas are more or less believable as the mis-matched couple thrown together for a short time in what could be construed as a romantic setting . Dianne Wiest and Chris Cooper weigh in with strong support but Scarlett Johannson was no better as a child than she is as an adult . Interesting rather than memorable .
Touch And Gauguin	I find I can't relate to the comments I've just been reading on this movie . I have to say that I've just watched it for the first time some fifty one years after it was initially released and that may be a factor . The one thing you can usually count on with Minnelli is a movie bathed , if not drenched in colour and I would have supposed that the subject matter here cried out for just such a director but unless the print I saw was suspect I found the colours verging on the drab rather than the sensuous with lots of grays where one expected bright yellows , similarly the acting of both Douglas and Quinn seemed subdued rather than visceral , in short the film was ( to me ) a disappointment .
Hope Springs . . .	It's interesting to speculate whether or not Anthony Hope had any idea what he was doing when he penned The Prisoner Of Zenda and had a lookalike commoner stand in for nobility as an emergency measure . The plot surfaced again in the eighties via Moon Over Parador when it was Actor / Dictator rather than Commoner / King and here , at the start of the forties it segued into Entertainer / Titled Businessman with Don Ameche pitting himself against Ronald Coleman and Richard Dreyfus ( Zenda was filmed again in the fifties but Stewart Granger barely qualified as an actor so it needn't detain us here ) . This version starts explosively with Carmen Miranda in full spate and in fact the opening Production number - in which she is soon joined by Ameche - ensures that there is no spoken dialogue for virtually the first reel . Having established Ameche as a cabaret star we then meet his other self , the businessman with a cash-flow problem , who checks out the nightclub with wife Alice Faye . Faye is under used in this film with no solos and only two duets whilst Carmen Miranda gets the lion's share of music . It's a pleasant enough concoction and it's nice to be reminded once again of REALLY glorious Technicolor .
Some Argentines Full Of Beans Do It	This is a toughie to dope . It's difficult to figure out its target audience . Set in a spa town in Argentina the principal characters either live in a hotel or are visiting it for a Medical Conference . One of the doctors , an ENT man who resembles Arthur Miller ( the late Arthur Miller as Miller's death has just been announced ) has a penchant for frottage and naturally his target is an adolescent girl knee-deep in religious instruction classes - and incidentally a member of one of the most unprepossessing classes in screen history , it's almost as if there were a second convention being staged , a Plain Jane convention - who decides she has been chosen to save him . Things take a predictable twist when the girl's divorced mother is also drawn to the doc . If ambiguity is In this season then this is right where it's at cutting edge wise .
Great Scott , Lesser ( Much ) Clayton	This is the kind of film - Billy Wilder's The Private Life Of Sherlock Holmes is another - in which the Opening Credits montage is actually better than the film itself . The Wilder film was , of course , butchered and a whole central sequence jettisoned but so far as I know that didn't apply to Clayton's movie . It's flawed from the outset when the credits state unequivocally from the ' novel ' by Scott Fitzgerald and if Francis Ford Coppola - who gets a sole writer credit - and Jack Clayton are unable to distinguish between a novel and a novella then they may just be the wrong creative team to be entrusted with one of the few authentic literary masterpieces of the twentieth century . The second - of three - adaptations , released in 1949 and featuring Alan Ladd as Gatsby has been cited as the finest version but until I am able to see for myself I can't comment . What is beyond dispute is that this is something of a Curate's egg - West or East , take your pick - with some aspects , like the aforementioned credit sequence which shows in succession all the key components ; the Gatsby residence , the ' death ' car , the pool where it all ends in tears , the lavishly appointed interior of Gatsby's mansion , the possessions , the portraits of Daisy etc , being more or less on the money whilst others - the casting of non-acting joke Mia Farrow as Daisy , for example , falling woefully short of adequate . Daisy needs to be an amalgam of Ava Gardner and Audrey Hepburn , a combination of the virginal and the carnal that would captivate just about any heterosexual male and render believable if not necessarily rational the lengths to which Gatsby was prepared to go to win her love . So many elements of the novel - the conflict between East and West , the equation of the green light at the end of Daisy's dock with money , the satire on Horatio Alger etc - are ignored , possibly on the grounds that these concepts are difficult to pictorialise but perhaps the greatest omission is the last magnificent paragraph of the book in which Nick speaks eloquently of boats and currents . Sam Waterston as Nick and Scott Wilson as Wilson ( a part played in the Alan Ladd version by Howard Da Sylva who appears as Wolfsheim this time around ) turn in the best performances with Redford just about adequate as Gatsby which is not really good enough for someone described as ' Great ' .
Run Of The Mill	What we have here is essentially a debatable point : Is it better to see ANYTHING by Welles , even a travesty or should we resist the temptation to tamper and merely speculate on what might have been . There are , of course , precedents for offering uncompleted works by acknowledged masters - Scott Fitzgerald's The Last Tycoon springs to mind - and this , no doubt , influenced the decision in this case . I write as one who admires Welles enormously and with sadness because of what has been done to a project so dear to his heart and upon which he lavished so much care and attention . The only pluses on view are what amounts to little more than a handful of shots bearing the maestro's unmistakable signature , the sound is an atrocious hybrid and the whole has been strung out with extraneous footage of the running of the bulls and Panza's repititious soliciting of the crowd . In appearance the two leads could not be bettered and if only someone had spent five minutes matching sound to picture we WOULD be talking of a very near miss . As it is we are left with the impression that the footage was turned over to a devoted fan of Welles who had zero knowledge / experience of film-making , someone like Jean Luc Godard for example .
Driving Miss Dizzy	At least Mike Leigh didn't rip THIS one off a better director as he did with his last film , Vera Drake . On the other hand , there's not much of a plot to speak of , more a series of vignettes that could just as easily have been called Scenes From An Unrealistic Life . Sally Hawkins has little to do other than mimic the Felicity Kendall School of Acting which may be defined as Help , I'm Locked In A Chocolate Factory And Am Trying Desperately To Cute My Way Out . As an antidote to Poppys rampant joie de vivre Leight throws in Eddie Marson as a driving instructor with serious personal issues and had the film been a little better no one would have noticed that although her driving lessons cost £22 . 50 a throw Poppy always pays in notes and receives no change which is difficult given that English currency has not had a one pound note for several years and NEVER had a note to the value of fifty pence ; Poppy would therefore have to tender $25 in notes and receive , say , two one pound coins plus one fifty pence coin in change or actually tender £20 in notes plus £2 . 50 in coins . Like I said , build a better mousetrap , Mike , and we wouldn't notice this . Okay , it's worth a look but don't buy coke and candy in the foyer , you'll already o . d . on the screen .
The Trouble With Harry	I haven't read one single word of the Harry Potter saga ; I did see the first film and thought it okay but not much more . On the other hand I get withdrawal symptoms if I don't see at least one movie a week and this week - the new films open here on Fridays - the pickings were pretty lean so I figured this couldn't be that bad and I was right . It's not that bad but then neither is it extra special , at least not to one who has never read the books and therefore needs help in figuring out the back story . By far the best elements for me were those satirizing the English Education system because it's quite a trick to satirize something that doesn't exist thanks to Tony Blair . On the other hand I have no doubt at all that Potter buffs will find much to enjoy and applaud here so far be it for me to rain on their parade .
There's No Business Like Snow Business	As far as sequels go - which , on average is not very far at all - this isn't bad . The fantastic success of Les Bronzes was reason enough to get Splendid together to write and perform in a sequel and turn Patrice Leconte loose to ' direct ' them . Like the first one it's essentially a series of sketches rather than a conventional Beginning , Middle , End kind of plot but let's face it , the people performing the sketches are some of the best in the business and as other posters have remarked virtually all of them went on to enjoy long careers - Michel Blanc for example is starring in a great new film Je Vais trouve tres beau even as I write and Josie Balasko wrote and starred in a play that finished its run earlier this year - not least Leconte who now has a string of successes to his name . Like its predecessor it's punchlines have entered the language which speaks for itself . It is , however , tarnished with a dirty word " Entertainment " pseuds beware .
Oh ! Mr . Porter . . . .	. . . what have they done to your wonderful Broadway show ? Answer ; about what you'd expect from a Hollywood that had a congenital aversion to transposing Broadway musicals to the screen untampered with so that , for example , a family from Oshkosh , Wisconsin , who went to NY on vacation and saw , for example , The Pajama Game , on Broadway could return home secure in the knowledge that the movie version they saw at their local movie theatre a couple of years later would NOT be the show they saw on Broadway . Frank Sinatra appeared in Five movie versions of Broadway musicals during his career and NONE of them was wholly satisfactory , mostly because of meaningless tampering . Higher and Higher , for example , retained only ONE number from the Rodgers and Hart Broadway show and that one , Disgustingly Rich , was a minor number ; on the other hand the film did give Sinatra two ' hits ' in A Lovely Way To Spend An Evening and I Couldn't Sleep A Wink Last Night . On The Town also jettisoned a sizable portion of the Broadway score , including Lonely Town , and added stuff that was one step above total garbage . Guys and Dolls was by far the most faithful to the Broadway original but even then they jettisoned the ' big ' ballad , I've Never Been In Love Before ( as well as A Bushel And A Peck ) but they DID prevail on the original composer , Frank Loesser , to supply new material ( Adelaide , A Woman In Love ) ; Pal Joey suffered a bad case of both jettisoning and interpolating disparate songs by the same writers ( Rodgers and Hart ) so that Happy Hunting Horn , Do It The Hard Way , In Our Little Den Of Iniquity , What Is A Man , Plant You Now , Dig You Later , all went out the window and were replaced - if that's the word - by There's A Small Hotel , I Didn't Know What Time It Was , My Funny Valentine and The Lady Is A Tramp . Which brings us to Can-Can . Cole Porter went to great pains to replicate the Sound of Parisian Music Hall circa 1890 - a fact I mentioned in my review of the execrable Moulin Rouge , which made absolutely NO concession to its time frame - so it is ironic that Fox elected to discard such Porter gems as Allez-vous en , I Am In Love , Never Give Anything Away , Ev'ry Man Is A Stupid Man , Never , Never Be An Artist , all of which had the FEEL of the period , in favour of You Do Something To Me , Just One Of Those Things , Let's Do It , which are totally out of place in the context of the story and time . They also ' created ' a part for Sinatra that didn't exist in the show and he was allowed to PLAY the Sinatra for which he is best known , hip , cool , ring-a-ding ding ( at one point Louis Jourdan even SAYS ring-a-ding ding - in 1896 , yet - when describing the Sinatra character to Shirley MacLaine ) . I write as a lifetime admirer of both Sinatra AND Cole Porter so I was doubly disappointed with this travesty . Ironically the BEST Screen musical in which Sinatra ever appeared was High Society , also the work of Cole Porter and DOUBLY ironically it was so successful that it became s Stage musical with - you've guessed it - several EXTRA Porter numbers interpolated . Can-Can had the potential to be an outstanding film musical instead it is little more than mediocre .
Swings And Roundabouts	This is possibly the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical I like best or , to put it another way , the one I dislike least . When it comes to Rodgers and Hart versus Rodgers and Hammerstein it Larry Hart , no contest , as far as I'm concerned . There's no question that Rodgers was directly affected by his lyricists , with Larry he was sassy , bright and had balls , with Oscar he trades all those for a more lyrical quality that was also portentous . Film-wise it doesn't help that Sinatra walked after a couple of days shooting thus opening the way for the bland , insipid Gordon McCrea , who , it must be said , does give it the old college try but Soliloquy had been in Sinatra's repertoire since the show opened on Broadway and he recorded it twice , once for Columbia in the forties and again for Reprise in the 60s so right from the off McCrae was on a hiding to nothing . Other negatives are the missing numbers - You're A Queer One , Julie Jordan etc but there are positives ; although there is a healthy amount of sentiment it's not quite as schmaltzy as it might have been and there are detachable songs - both If I Loved You and When The Children Are Asleep , for instance , could be sung by any shy lovers and any young parents - and they get the best out of production numbers like June Is Bustin ' Out All Over and This Was A Real Nice Clambake . Overall it's pleasant and enjoyable but Oh , What It Could Have Been .
Journeys End . . .	. . . in lover's meetings so the man said . I've never fully understood the appeal of this film although I accept that's it's held in high esteem . It may have something to do with the leading man ; having seen him dozens of times on both stage and screen any special talent he may and is indeed alleged to possess has always eluded me and he has always struck me as something of an AmDram bull in a professional Actor China Shop ; the complete dog's breakfast he made of Andrew Crocker-Harris in the remake of The Browning Version should have been sufficient to convince his followers that he wasn't fit to ' prompt ' for Micheale Redgrave , who played the ' Crock ' definitively . Be that as it may if we want to see Audrey - and we do - we have to endure Finney as well ; so be it . It wasn't necessarily a good idea to cut her loose from Givenchy or shoot the movie in a ' swinging sixties ' style because nothing ' dates ' faster than ' now , Man ' . Ozon's 5 x 2 owes something to it's examination of a 12-year marriage out of sequence but what we take away are the images of Audrey , effortlessly out-acting and definitively out-charming Finney in a series of now-vintage cars .
No Way , Jose	Richard Berry is a fine actor who has directed six films to date , one of which , Moi Cesar , was a popular success and a fine study of childhood . A couple of years ago on the Paris stage I saw him play the Lino Ventura role in L'Emmerdeur opposite Patrick Timsit and I'm happy to say that both actors appear in the remake , now in the cutting room with writer Francis Veber once more at the helm . La Boite Noir is something of a disappointment ; it's not so much that the premise is hardly new - victim of amnesia needs to solve the odd mystery or two before he can move on - Mank's Somewhere In The Night in 1948 is a good example of the genre - as that Berry fails to find anything new to explore and there are many finer actors around than Jose Garcia . Marion Cotillard turns in one of the best performances and this might well be reissued in the wake of her clean sweep of Best Actress Awards for La Mome . Interesting but flawed just about covers it .
Love Locked Out	One sign that a film has failed to hook and hold the viewer is if ' awkward ' questions keep niggling away as you watch and prevent you from surrendering to whatever charm or other qualities it may possess . Or , to put it another way , sloppy writing . Let me show you what I mean . Scene # 1 . Two guys are talking more awkwardly than easily . One , a rugged , truckdriver type the other a handsome actor type . They both appear to be in their thirties but the truckdriver looks about ten years older than the actor . It gradually emerges that the actor fathered a child some years ago , the child is handicapped in some way and the truckdriver and ( presumably ) his wife have raised him as their own but now the truckdriver is turning him over to the actor , perhaps by mutual consent , perhaps reluctantly , it is never explained . We assume that the actor abandoned the mother sometime before the birth and that the truckdriver then married her or , alternatively the truckdriver is the brother of the abandoned mother and has brought up the child with his own wife so that the child has had access to neither biological parent . Cut to a train en route to Berlin where the boy will undergo tests / treatment at a clinic specialising in disablement . The actor keeps losing the boy ; first on the train , a sleeper , he wakes up to find the boy in the dining car , next , at the hospital itself , whilst the actor is talking the boy slips away and explores other areas . Finally and most serious of all the boy disappears from a sports stadium , takes a tram and winds up in the depot , the last passenger . Incredibly , having realised the boy is lost the actor chooses this moment to reveal his back story to Charlotte Rampling rather than search for a severely handicapped boy who is alone in a strange city . But long before this point other questions have surfaced : Where , for instance , does the actor / father get the money to 1 ) travel to Berlin , 2 ) take an expensive-looking suite at a hotel , 3 ) presumably pay for his son to have treatment plus a room in the hospital , 4 ) hire a car and drive to Norway . Apart from the money aspect what about the TIME he is spending away from his family and his job . At one point fairly early on he tells his son that he works with white goods - refrigerators , cookers , etc - making sure they work , which sounds like a repairman . He also reveals that he has a wife and an infant which begs the question how does his wife - possibly several years younger given she has had a child of her own less than a year ago - feel about taking on a fifteen year old handicapped boy , this is important because towards the end of the film the father asks the boy to come and live with him . The film leaves you strangely unmoved , verging on indifferent or , as a good friend of mine might put it , refusing to be manipulated . It misses the ' heart ' of the similar movie The Eighth Day by a mile . Non-actress Charlotte Rampling has little to do but look noble , which is just as well , in a role that could be played by any semi-competent actress . Similarly Kim Rossi Stuart has little to do but look handsome and slightly bemused . Apparently they made a lot of fuss about this one at Venice and whilst I can't quite see why I do concede that it was better than Vera Drake - which apparently beat it out of first prize - but then how hard is that .
Another Part Of The Forest	With titles such as Ciboulette , Fric-Frac , Douce , Le Diable au corps , Lauberge Rouge and La Traversee de Paris punctuating a very tasty CV we were perhaps entitled to expect more from Claude Autant-Lara than this suet pudding snatched from the jaws of a soufflé ' but on the other hand he did shoot it in his 60th year at a time when he had , to all intents and purposes denied the Holocaust so if the requisite allowances are made it could be worse . Plot-wise it's fairly straightforward ; we're in Occupied Brittany in the middle of the war where a newly married ( three months ) bride missing her German officer husband , turns up to be near him . She is fluent in French which always helps , of course , and sent to live with widow Francoise Rosay so now all we need is something to HAPPEN and the script duly obliges in the shape of Rosay's son , a Resistance member , who parachutes in from England to guide the English bombers to a prime target ; so now we have two young people thrown together and nature waiting in the wings to take its course before ensuring that it all ends in tears . Worth a look , certainly , but if I sold it higher than that you'd call me misguided and / or a liar and you'd be right .
Duet Manque	this is like no other John Ford movie I've ever seen . Whilst it's true the plot resembles that of The Searchers it has none of the ' feel ' of a typical Ford movie , western or otherwise . The best sequence by far is one long two-shot of Stewart and Widmark shot from the waist up as they sit , talk and throw in almost an impossible amount of ' business ' so that throughout one or the other is doing something with hands or face , punctuating about ten pages of dialogue . Elsewhere we hover between comedy , farce and drama and Ford seems comfortable with none of these . Jimmy Stewart and Richard Widmark are far from a natural partnership but both are consummate actors and keep us watching .
Doesn't Deserve To Get The Bird	This is exactly the kind of Boy's Own Paper yarn that I'd walk a mile for a camel to take me away from . On the other hand most Boy's Own Paper yarns don't come complete with Ralph Richardson , an actor who automatically enhances any film he cares to grace with his presence . The English scenes are reasonably lavish , the actors portraying the English upper crust are reasonably wooden and June Duprez is beyond inadequate as the nearest thing to a leading lady . John Clemensts as Harry Faversham , coward turned hero is barely up to it and there are lots of extras playing Fuzzy Wuzzies which complement the fuzzy wuzziness of the whole enchilada . See it for Richardson .
Find The Lady	I've been looking at the first few comments on this and it seems clear that they are the work of 1 ) the easily satisfied and / or 2 ) people who are not regular movie-goers or readers of mainstream fiction and thus have no knowledge of The Prestige , The Princess Bride or Carter The Great , all three of which touch on / explore the same themes as The Illusionist . Even an unsophisticated kid watching a movie in the forties or fifties knew that if one of the two leads was killed off halfway through it had to be a scam ( though they would have said ' trick ' or ' ruse ' in those days ) so how anyone in the 2Ist century can accept the death at face value is beyond me . Much has been made of the setting but for me this was a major disappointment ; we tend to associate Vienna , especially fin-de-siecle Vienna with opulence and glamor yet this whole film was shot with a touching concern for the light bill so that even the few scenes in daylight were somehow gloomy . Apart from the illusion factor the most interesting thing was the cat-and-mouse between Norton and Giametti with the latter turning in the best performance by a mile . All too often Sewell was reduced to chewing the scenery like an anorexic Charles Laughton whilst Biehl is a graduate of the Scarlett Johannson School of Empty Chocolate-Box acting and failed miserably to generate even a spark of chemistry with Norton . This isn't the same as saying that the thing isn't watchable because it is , just about , but beware : You may wind up disillusioned .
They're Playing Our Song	It's a good twenty years since the Musical They'r Playing Our Song was produced on Broadway so most of the target audience for Music and Lyrics are unlikely to know it but Writer-Director Marc Lawrence would have been in his mid-twenties at the time and may well have seen the Show , a lightly-disguised story of the working and personal relationship between composer Marvin Hamlish and lyricist Careole Bayer Sager , kept it in the back of his mind until now and re-launched it as Music and Lyrics . They're Playing Our Song had a Book by Neil Simon , a tough act to follow and Lawreence's script doesn't even get close . On the other hand his two leads , Hugh Grant and Drew Barrymore , know how to react when someone calls ' Action ' so we wind up with a pleasant feel-good movie that's more than adequate if you only want to spend an hour or so being mildly amused . There are , of course , lots of movies like this around , films you don't mind seeing once and forget as you leave the theatre and this is no better or worse than most of them .
A Handful Of Dust	It's difficult to believe that this collection of tired clichés and cardboard characters was written by Robert Rossen but there you go . Having signed Julie Garfield from the Group Theatre Warners thrust him into one tough - guy - who - never - had - a - chance vehicle after another after it paid off handsomely in his debut Four Daughters . Not one to balk at hedging their bets the freres Warner teamed him once again with Priscilla Lane in this slice of hokum rather than slice of life opus . If Howard Hawks had a knack for coming in at the tail-end of a genre and making the definitive example ( see : Only Angels Have Wings ) Lewis Seiler just came in at the tail-end of a genre and added nothing . Garfield gets out of stir at the beginning only to be informed by the warden that he had been wrongfully convicted ; he then gets a series of bad breaks punctuated by false hopes until it all ends in smiles . Along the way he is helped by several people who behave unrealistically , somehow acquires a camera whilst not having change of a match and . . . well that's about as credible as it gets . Always nice to see Garfield and Lane but don't raise your hopes .
Math Hypnosis	It's probably symbolic - and certainly ironic - that before frame one we spend what seems like ten minutes just listing all the production companies involved in the making of this movie . So when we get underway and find ourselves involved in a labyrinthine plot we half expect a Cretan maiden to turn up at any moment and lead us Theseus-like through the maze . At one level the film seems intent on cashing in on the recent spate of math-based movies , Proof , etc , whilst on another it seems to be replicating an inferior episode of Inspector Morse whilst on yet a third it appears aspire to Carry On Sleuthing . Elijah Wood and John Hurt go together like Sinatra and Moog Synthesiser , Anna Massey has been and gone in the first reel and Dominic Pinon wanders in from Amelie to muddy the waters . Strangely enough there are long stretches that are actually watchable but I have a feeling they'll be running down the Mile End Road to give this one the slip .
Oil Be Dammned	This is the first time I've seen Daniel Day Lewis on screen ; usually he appears in films that are hyped to death and it doesn't help that one of these , Gangs Of New York , teamed him with Scorcese , another pseud's favourite and equally over-hyped as an individual . I can't say I fell asleep or didn't enjoy it but neither am I available for dancing in the street , to paraphrase Sandy Woollcott . It was well made , indubitably and well acted but it is just a movie , Ingrid . The date of the source novel , Oil , by Upton Sinclair , was contemporaneous with McTeague , filmed famously by Erich Von Stroheim as Greed and when we throw in James Dean's Jett Rink in Giant we remember once again that nobody writes in a vacuum , be it novel or screenplay . See it , by all means , but don't lose your head .
Castle In The Air	Not for the first time - and surely neither for the last - I find myself apparently watching a different film to other posters here . I have to say from the outset that I tend to find Ford as overrated as Hitchcock on the whole ; this is not to say that either man is less than competent and more than a Journeyman yet whatever it is that has gained both iconic status continues to elude me . Fort Apache is and was marketed as a ' Western ' yet well over half the screen time is allowed to elapse before anything remotely resembling ' action ' occurs . The director seems to be abnormally concerned with day-to-day life on a military outpost in Arizona and the personality clash of a new commander whose military experience was gleaned from the War Between The States rather than that between US cavalry and native American Indian , and the hardened veteran Indian fighters . Given their two radically opposed acting styles it's not surprising that there is a total lack of chemistry between Ford regular John Wayne and Henry Fonda . Monument Valley is photographed well and several Ford regulars - Ward Bond , Victor McGlaglan - do what is expected of them but that's about it .
We Never Clothed	On paper this is a movie nostaligists can wallow in , Nostalgia is , after all , its raison d'etre and not just common or garden Nostalgia but Show biz Nostalgia , arguably the most potent of all and , as if that were not enough they've thrown in Judi Dench as not so much the icing but the fairy on top of the cake complete with magic wand but , alas , batteries aren't included . So why doesn't it work . Let me count the ways . Possibly one large factor is the time period ; 60 years ago is not quite far enough away to mess with unless you can get it spot on because there are still lots of people around who were there - Judi Dench herself was alive , albeit an infant - and others , marginally younger who have seen newsreels and feature films of the period , sufficient to be able to discern wheat from chaff . On the other hand it's not quite recent enough either , like the fifties / sixties and the overall result is a mixed grill without the steak . The producers seem to think it's enough to lay on a dozen vintage cars - as in the opening funeral scene - vaguely period costumes and then let everyone act in a ' modern ' style . Not least of the embarrassments is the male playing the second lead who attempts to sing a standard like All The Things You Are in one of the current styles which largely means singing like a girl , presumably acceptable to kids today but he's supposed to be singing in an era of baritones with deep-brown voices like Crosby , Dick Haymes , Billy Eckstine , etc . On the plus side Judi Dench almost cancels all this out by sheer force of charisma and acting ability but even she can't quite convince us that we're in the middle of the second world war and not a Second Unit . A nice try but ultimately no cigar .
When Irish Eyes Are Smiling . . .	. . . it's twelve to seven the eyes in question belong to William Irish , aka Cornell Woollrich and the smile will be ironic because this plot is PURE Woollrich / Irish - in fact Moreau starred in a GENUINE Irish plot some years later , The Bride Wore Black . If you like serendipitous coincidence then this will be right down your rue ; Julien and his bosse's wife are an item and conspire to kill said boss and make it look like suicide . The plot goes like clockwork til , having left the building for the weekend Julien ( Maurice Ronet ) gets in his car , starts the engine then spots a glaring clue he omitted to take care of . Leaving the engine running he goes back to the building , gets in the elevator only to have it switched off by the janitor , who's leaving for the weekend . Trapped in the elevator Julien has no idea that a tearaway , Louis , and his girlfriend , Veronique , have ' borrowed ' the car and will subsequently kill two German tourists in a motel , using Julien's gun - conveniently left in the car . Meanwhile Moreau spots Veronique in the car but , not seeing Louis behind the wheel , assumes Julien is stepping out on her . When the janitor turns on the elevator so that the police can search Julien's office , he seizes his chance to escape not realizing he is wanted for a double murder of which he is completely innocent . Nice plot , nice atmos , nice score a la Miles Davis . Improbable , okay , but entertaining with it .
Comfort Zone	Journeyman director Lance Comfort never did much that wasn't ephemeral and here he turns in another ho-hum melodrama from a novel by Vera Caspary , which the author set in the New England of 1913 , on the eve of one war and which now finds itself in Old England in 1945 , at the end of another . Margatet Lockwood is clearly hiding a secret or why else would she refuse vehemently to have her photograph taken and Barry K Barnes is equally clearly something more than the artist he purports to be . Alas , it's hard to work up much of a sweat about any of this and though we do stick around for the revelation that Bedelia ( Lockwood ) is a serial rich husband killer and Barnes is really an insurance investigator it's hard to care one way or the other . The whole thing is done well enough with all departments - script , photography , directing , acting being up to snuff but it really does lack that ' little something extra ' that Ellen Terry spoke of . Worth a look but that's all .
Stelli By Starlight	Jean Stelli was yet one more journeyman director who racked up a creditable number of domestic films but never really made a noise Internationally . Here he teams up with a similar journeyman screenwriter in the shape of Francoise Giroud whose most prestigious credit was as ' third ' writer on Jacques Becker's Antoine et Antoinette . The mediocre of course are always at their best and so it is here ; run-of-the-mill melodrama with no surprises , no new ' angle ' , just a plodding story doing its damnedest to get from A to B without scaring the horses . For me at least one name jumped out of the credits , that of the wonderful Suzanne Flon and she at least didn't disappoint , but then when did she ever . Jean Moreau was also on hand a good decade ahead of the new wavelet with which she is unaccountably associated whilst top billing goes to Annabella , so hopelessly outclassed by Arletty in Hotel du Nord , who compensated for the humiliation by marrying Tyrone Power ( let's see you eclipse THAT , Arletty ) and was now newly divorced and back in France . Of its type it's no worse than several , as good as many but BETTER than none .
Girl Talk	Essentially this is Saturday Night And Sunday Morning in color , with a few more ' birds ' and a cockney accent . Albert Finney's Arthur Seaton worked in a large cycle factory ( Raleigh ) in Nottingham , dressed well and concentrated all his energies on Friday and Saturday night when he would go down the pub and pull a different bird every week . Along the way he became involved with married women as well as single til he reluctantly ' settled down ' via marriage . Caine's Alfie Elkins also works indirectly in transport - for bicycles read limos - lives for the moment and sees his own Saturday night turn into a colder and lonelier Sunday morning than Seaton's ( who at least had a wife to go home to when his carousing was done ) . It's difficult to fault Caine's performance though with a script like the one he had to work with he'd have had to be seriously inept to screw it up . I'd guess it had a far greater impact at the time that it does today - I caught it on BBC TV last week , some forty years on - and though it kept me watching til the small hours I doubt if I'd rush to see it again .
The Worst Of Times	Charles Dickens once began a novel with ' It was the best of times , it was the worst of times ' and to these Western eyes the latter obtains here . It's a nice touch - though not exactly revolutionary - to have three sets of lovers in three time zones played by the same two actors , Chang Chen and Shu Qi but the third episode is SO out of kilter with the other two ( and they don't exactly complement each other ) that it totally negates all that has gone before and almost brutalizes the eye . In their different ways the first episode ( 1966 ) and the second ( 19ll ) have lots going for them stylistically . The first episode is almost a definition of oriental inscrutability and it is very difficult for a Western eye to comprehend that ANYTHING at all is going on between the man and the girl . Of course the very concept of a girl both working and participating in a snooker hall is alien to Europenas - or at least the English - especially in 1966 which was smack dab in the centre of the ' swinging sixties ' when girls were far more preoccupied with the pill , sexual freedom and the drug culture than something as ' old fashioned ' as snooker - but if we go along with it as normal in Taiwan there still remains the problem of the all-but-invisible nuances between the couple . The second part is much more stately and comes complete with the equivalent of Title Cards and an off-screen piano accompaniment and has been shot in a manner suggesting an old daguerrotype . By contrast the last segment is in-yer-face and seems to wallow in the worst excesses of modern culture where it is almost impossible to find even one character with whom we can empathize let alone SYMpathize . Those guys and gals who ' teach ' film at universities will be creaming in their pants but the rest of us will wonder what all the fuss is about .
Plate Glass	This movie rounded off a week of Michael Powell movies on British TV and it will be hugely enjoyed by anyone who likes 1 ) War films and 2 ) Michael Powell films but since I am unable to work up much of a sweat about either I endured it rather than enjoyed it . This is not the same as saying it was badly made because this would be patently untrue ; it's well shot and well acted if you consider the usual job lot of English ' war film ' actors phoning it in good acting . Among those wheeled out were Peter Finch as the German captain of the Graf Spae , Anthony Quayle , Ian Hunter , Lionel Murton , Bernard Lee amongst those on ' our ' side . It does , of course , depict an actual event from the early days of World War Two in which three British warships lined up against the famous German ' pocket ' battleship in Montevideo . As I said those who like this sort of thing will like it ; then there are those like me . . .
Spellbound	Daniel Taradash was dab hand at fashioning screenplays from other media , be it a novel - From Here To Eternity - or a play - Bell Book And Candle . John Van Druten had been an established playwright since the early thirties when he had a huge success with Young Woodly . In the fifties he dramatised Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye To Berlin as I Am A Camera , this was subsequently filmed under the same title and later became the basis if Cabaret . In Bell Book And Candle Van Druten turned out a charming , sophisticated drama centering on witches and warlocks in Manhattan and Rex Harrison scored a personal triumph as the mortal lead who winds up with a witch . Columbia signed up a great cast for the movie version and for once non-actress Kim Novak landed a part she could handle , the witch who is not really at home among mortals . Also on hand were Jimmy Stewart , Jack Lemmon , Ernie Kovaks , Elsa Lanchester and Hermione Gingold . With a cast like that and more than a soupcon of charm it really couldn't miss and still stands up today .
Scarface - Lite	Looking at this entry in the 21st century it's easy to see how well it fitted into the Warner ' House ' style of social realism . Although it carries a disclaimer it was apparently no secret to anyone and his Uncle Max that Eduardo Cianelli's Johnny Vanning was heavily based on ' Lucky ' Luciano and also contained elements of an actual recent event . It is , of course , a Bette Davis movie as was virtually everything she appeared in after Of Human Bondage through approximately All About Eve but Bogie is on hand yet again - they would eventually make a half dozen movies together - this time playing the ' good ' guy in the shape of a District Attorney loosely based on Thomas E . Dewey , who is committed to nailing Vanning . His third wife-to-be Mayo Methet is also along for the ride as one of the ' hostesses ' albeit slightly long in the tooth as Vanning points out when he ' acquires ' them along with the ' club ' where they work . It's all fairly predictable ; Davis is the chippie with a case of the smarts who's far too shrewd to testify against Vanning until , of course , her kid sister - who thinks Davis works in a dress shop - turns up unexpectedly and is sucked into Vanning's web and ends up with a tag on her toe thus triggering Davis ' volte-face for which she pays with a cross carved on her face . Worth a look but not much more .
Lost Soul Music	The Sundance Festival doesn't have a great track record in rewarding films that I , personally , want to see and a second strike against this entry was its Country / Soul music background - I'm one hundred per cent with Buddy Rich on this subject who , when about to undergo open heart surgery was asked if he was allergic to anything replied , ' yes , Country music ' - so I was prepared for the worst especially the the UK reviews stressed the longeurs but it could have been worse . What it does have going for it is great acting particularly from the two leads Rip Torn and Dina Kurzon but helmer Ira Sachs seems to delight in doing everything exquisitely slowly so that at times it's like watching an Andy Warhol film with people instead of buildings . Ironically the kind of people who could theoretically take most from it are unlikely to see it ; I mean those scores of middle-aged or downright old men , all completely unprepossessing who go to Russia - or the Phillipines - to virtually ' buy ' a pretty wife thirty years younger than themselves then take her back to Kokomo or Leicester where , natch , she is going to be exposed to guys good-looking guys her own age : The trick , fellas , is NOT to bring them back but for YOU to settle in Moscow / Manila where she won't be tempted to stray . At least Kurzon is honest enough to admit that she lives better than anyone she knows - presumably she means her friends in Russia given that she knows many people in Rip Torn's circle who live as well if not better than she does - so she has no reason to complain but against this she apparently feels that she does have reason to pick up men in bars and sleep with her elderly lover's son . This is a movie with no answers and even the questions are only half questions ; Alan James ( Rip Torn ) sees her only as a trophy - and the biggest question is WHY did he go to the trouble to import a girl from Russia when , as we see time and again , his fame / wealth make it easy for him to find young female company - with the inevitable result that she feels alienated and isolated , she also appears to be intelligent enough to realize that casual pick-ups are only demeaning and not long-term solutions . She also seems too intelligent to delude herself that her lover's son - who is , as he confesses , going through a bad patch in his marriage - will be prepared to go to the mat for her with a father whom he has never really liked . So that's it : Life's a bitch and then you die in twelve reels .
Non Vintage	The English critics have more or less blasted this new release unanimously but I went anyway . I'm lion-hearted . And you know , it wasn't too bad . Sure , it owes something to Avanti and Ridley Scott is no Billy Wilder and Russell Crowe is definitely no Jack Lemmon but Marion Cotillard , soon to be seen as Edith Piaf , is more than a match for Juliet Mills . In their wisdom IMDb omit five actors from the initial cast list so that you have to click ' more ' to find out that Marion Cotillard , Abbie Cornish , Isabelle Candelier , Didier Bourdon and Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi are also part of the ensemble ; leading lady and love-interest Cotillard is arguably the largest omission but Candelier and Bourdon offer huge support throughout , Abbie Cornish is the Californian who turns up looking for her father whilst Bruni-Tedeschi is an avocat . It seems to be a truth universally acknowledged that Russell Crowe doesn't do Charm and / or light comedy but hey , he gives it the old college try and with support like that mentioned it's not such a big deal . It's basically a feel gooder with some great scenery punctuated by some Judge and Andy Hardy lessons in life with Finney in the Lewis Stone role and Crowe as Mickey Rooney but the two hours really do fly by .
Class Act	It's always amusing when minor talents convince themselves that not only are they Major and not Bush leaguers but actually superior to the Old Masters . Noel Coward had his share of flops ( Sirocco , anyone ) but these were far outweighed by his triumphs and two things he did as well as anyone and better than most was 1 ) constructing a solid play and 2 ) lacing it with brittle dialogue , twin gifts sadly denied to Stephan Elliott and Sheridan Jobbins though they may be the only ones unaware of this . They have a combined total - including television - of eleven writing credits against literally dozens by Coward but they haven't allowed that to prevent them taking a Coward original and contriving to bleed all the Style and Wit out of it . Hands up , for example , anyone who has ever encountered the word ' plonker ' in the Collected Works of Noel Coward . As if to deliberately antagonise viewers Elliott sprinkles Coward and Porter numbers throughout then proceeds to contrast them with garbage like Car Wash and Sex Bomb , a trick he no doubt picked up from fellow Australian Baz Luhrman via the latter's execrable Moulin Rouge . On the credit side there is some very passable period shooting , the costumes are mostly authentic and there is Kristin Scott Thomas to look at and listen to . If you've never seen a Coward play or film you might even enjoy this , if you have . . . be warned .
Dire Streets	Russian-born Victor Trivas directed only five movies but had a writer credit on about a dozen including Welle's The Stranger and Preminger's Where The Sidewalk Ends . He also worked as an Art Director and that shows in his set-ups in this early Sound film , a Gallic counterpart to Wellman's Wild Boys Of The Road or even Dead End . For 1933 Trivas lays some very tasty camera-work on the viewer beginning with the opening credits which are supered over a long-tracking shot over cobbled and rain-washed cobbled streets , a precursor of noir if ever there was one . Elsewhere he lets his camera roam up and down stairwells in a manner that Max Ophuls would go on to refine . This is really a case of Style leaving Content dead in the water for the story of poor kids going astray was old chapeau even then . Definitely worth a look .
Dan , In Real Life . . .	. . . would NEVER have a family like this , Mom , Pop , Siblings , Nephews , Neices and not a single dysfunction between them . This is The Waltons and Little House On The Prairie combined . That being said the central storyline involving Binoche and Carrell comes off thanks to the writing and acting . Probably if you go on the wrong day you could find it a tad cloying overall but again the core is sound and there are just enough one-lines sprinkled throughout to take the edge off the hokey family . Juliette Binoche does this kind of thing sparingly having got her feet wet in Danielle Thompson's Dacalage Horaire opposite Jean Reno and it's great to see her letting her hair down . Not a world-beater but a pleasant diversion .
Waxing Lyrical	Long before Sigmund Freud stamped his gravitas on it Edgar Allan Poe had more or less patented the idea that the greatest terrors are the ones locked behind the eyelids eclipsing anything more tangible . In 1914 with some dozen films under his belt Maurice Tourneur picked up this ball and ran with it . In just a tad over one reel he sets the scene ; a group of well-heeled friends , a wager culminating in one of the party spending the night in a wax museum . Wagers like this only work , of course , if the subject is highly imaginative as flights of fancy fail to get cleared for takeoff in the dull and pragmatic . Once alone with the exhibits the imagination projects the repressed fears onto the screen of the mind and makes for a fitting - and no doubt shocking in 1914 - climax . Even at this early date Tourneur was well on the way to the maestro he would become .
Battle ( Of The Sexes ) Cry	It's probably too late to address the legalities now but at the time there may well have been an infringement of the Trade Descriptions Act in a movie titled BATTLE Cry that runs two and a half hours and contains barely twenty minutes of actual combat but that's not the same as saying it's a bad movie , indeed , I scored it a . Scenarist Leon Uris , who was adapting his own novel ( there's a lovely story about Uris , whose novel was turned down by just about every major publisher in turn , snarling at the last one ' when this is published and becomes a best-seller I'm gonna shove the 100 , 000th copy up your ass ) cleverly anticipates the Hollywood bomber-crew syndrome by having his narrator Mac ( James Whitmore ) reel off the various ' types ' as the recruits are en route to Boot Camp . The film is mainly concerned with the people behind the soldiers and their women and in that respect it is similar to From Here To Eternity with the basic difference that Eternity was primarily about the peace-time army ending as it did with the attack on Pearl Harbor whilst Battle Cry begins with America already well into the War . There are fine performances from Van Heflin ( as we would expect ) , James Whitmore and John Lupton whilst Dorothy Malone is wasted and completely eclipses her love interest Tab Hunter who even back then was known to be gay - it was probably some kind of ' in ' joke pairing him with the feral Malone when his ' girl back home ' , Mona Freeman , was much nearer the mark . Top-billed Raymond Massey also draws only a five-minute appearance but these cavils aside this is a respectable Peyton Place type entertainment but don't mention it seriously in the same breath as ' Attack ' .
Room Service	With a standing ovation at Cannes and the kind of reviews the cast could have written themselves this is a re-affirmation that audiences don't WANT cgi , s & v or mindless pap but are looking for throwbacks to simpler times when one went to the movies to be ENTERTAINED not preached / sermonised at or in search of a social conscience . The idea of flat / apartment sharing is hardly new , George Stevens dabbled in it 60 years ago with Jean Arthur moving in with Charles Coburn in war-time DC where space was at a premium . Here we have David ( writer-director Emmanuel Mouret ) who plays a mean French Horn and also teaches the same , sharing with Anne , Frederique Bel ( also currently appearing in Camping ) who falls loosely into the lovable kook category . Then Ariane Ascaride ( the best thing in the film ) decides that offspring Julia ( Fanny Valette ) might benefit from French Horn lessons and you should be able to guess the rest . Just to complicate matters Mouret throws in a second guy Julien ( Danny Brilliant ) and after that it's a case of perm any two from four . If light-as-air soufflé's are your thing you're almost certain to enjoy this but don't analyse it away .
Now It Can Be Tolled . . .	. . . and , like the man said , never ask for whom it tolls . This is alleged to be the 10th version of Les Liasons Dangerouse and I haven't seen any of the previous nine . The main thing I took away from this version was elegance , stateliness , formality . Not unusual of course in a film emanating from the Eastern hemisphere . What it is , in fact , is a Comedy of Manners in top-to-bottom writing and no worse for that . Like most occidentals Asian names don't exactly trip off my tongue so I won't attempt to name the actors who I thought were uniformly excellent . I did find it singular to say the least that the leading man whose prowess at martial arts had been amply demonstrated would turn his back on an opponent who might have been down but was far from out . Although I'm woefully ignorant of Eastern mores I do know enough to realize that Honour is prized above most things and a man who has just spoken about the shame his family suffered at the hands of the leading man is not going to give up until he draws his last breath . It's just about feasible that the leading man wished to die / be killed but in that case why has he just kicked seven kinds of s out of his opponent instead of succumbing gracefully to the first blow . Overall it's a chocolate-box of a movie like Marivaux in Mandarin .
( Big ) Cat And Mouse	If this isn't quite top drawer Veber it IS still Veber and that means it's almost certainly throw two mis-matched males together in the cause of laughter . This time around it's Jean Reno - later to feature opposite Depardieu in Veber's Tais-toi - and Patrick Bruehl . The former is an anthropologist who is taking a Shaman from the Rain-Forest on a world tour to raise awareness and the latter is a nebbish in hock to the mob who could use a vacation to Anywhere until the heat is off . When the Shaman takes a shine to the nebbish , lays a ' magic ' charm on him and charges him with ' finding ' his - the Shaman - soul Bruehl goes along for the ride fully intending to catch the next plane back to Charles de Gaul . Things , of course , don't work like that and next thing he knows this Clark Kent turns into Superman and throws a couple of hard men literally across the room . He still has eyes to flee the scene however but eventually stays to defeat the heavy and win the girl . With this added to my DVD collection I lack only Le Jouet for a complete set of movies both written and directed by Veber ( the latest , La Doublure , is not yet available on DVD ) and though this one will be reprised less often than the other five it WILL be reprised .
The Fez Is Familiar	Whenever I'm discussing films with friends , family , colleagues , acquaintances etc and the ' Road ' franchise is mentioned it is always Morocco that seems to be emblematic of the series . Chronologically it was the third out of seven but the first one acknowledged by the Front Office to BE part of a franchise . Singapore was intended as a one-off and Zanzibar was a last-minute reworking of a project designed for other talents but by 1942 the Paramount movers and shakers had conceded that Hope , Crosby and Lamour plus wacky situations and three or four songs equalled big Box Office . Having experimented with featuring Hope and Crosby as performers in ' Zanzibar ' the studio discarded it this time around in favour of having them stow away on a liner that was subsequently sunk and being cast adrift on a makeshift raft . They did , however , retain the idea of Crosby consistently exploiting Hope so that this time around he actually sells him into slavery which serves to kickstart what little plot there is . As always patrons came to see the gags , both verbal and sight , the ' in ' jokes , put-downs and ultimately the songs by Johnny Burke and Jimmy Van Heusen which were always very good to excellent . Morocco contains arguably the most durable of them all in Moonlight Becomes You but also yields a ballad for Lamour , Constantly , the upbeat Crosby solo Ho Hum and the great title song performed as a duet . Ho hum ? Yes and no but on balance more ho than hum .
Highly Strung	Though light on excitement this multi-directed ( five helmers in all were involved and that was before Hughes added his own once-over-lightly ) is strangely satisfying albeit it is more Detective Story than Kiss Of Death . If Ryan walks away with it and Mitchum allows him to do so it is rich in supporting players such as William Conrad and Ray Collins sweating his way through a de-clawed xerox of his ' Boss ' Jim Gettys in Orson's Citizen Kane . The times they are a changin ' and dinosaur Robert Ryan is a definite liability to the more white-collar mob with eyes to take over the nameless city . Mitchum's incorruptible cop is the white knight attempting to slay the dragon and that's about it plot-wise . Ryan appears to have been frightened by Widmark's Tommy Udo in Kiss Of Death even to the climactic murder in the precinct house . Overall worth a look .
Past The Dead Wood Stage	This must have been like a breath of fresh air in 1953 . There hadn't been an ' Original ' screen musical for several years , instead there had been several ' bio-pics ' of composers / performers and Day had even featured in one ( I'll See You In My Dreams , the biopic of lyricist Gus Kahn ) herself . So this Annie Get Your Gun-lite ( a love-hate relationship between two sharp-shooters , ' challenge ' duet ( Anything You Can Do , I Can Do Without You ) pushed all the right buttons . If you're prepared to suspend disbelief and respond to a fine score then you'll enjoy this one . Allyn McLerie shows what she might have been had things turned out differently and her Broadway background showed - she was , for a time , married to Adolph Green , and appeared in several shows including Where's Charley - and makes a fine second lead . Howard Keel points up the links to Annie Get Your Gun and apart from bursting into Higher Than A Hawk for no discernible reason , proves a decent enough foil for Day . Sammy Fain was an excellent composer though the Oscar-winning Secret Love is much inferior to his earlier I'll Be Seeing You , from a Revue , Right This Way , in 1938 . Overall all this is a pleasant romp .
Back Home In Indiana	Nobody ever accused Hollywood of being slow to cash in on success and just as Jolson Sings Again followed The Jolson Story as night follows day so On Moonlight Bay was succeeded by By The Light Of The Silvery Moon a couple of years later . It's more or less the mixture as before except that this time they get much more mileage out of Billy Gray misinterpreting an innocent note . On one hand these two movies are a great antidote to the in-yer-face and let-it-all-hang-out fodder of today's Hollywood whilst on the other there's a double helping of saccharine on offer but then again at least it isn't sugar . if you're feeling nostalgic this one pushes the right buttons .
Viktor Victorious	I caught this at a screening forming part of a mini retrospective of Jessie Matthews ' thirties movies . There were roughly one hundred and twenty people present and I'd guess the majority were in their forties and fifties with about a half dozen girl couples in their twenties . The film was released in 1935 so even if you saw it as a ten year old you'd be eighty two today and if you speculate that at least one or more of the girl couples were lesbian attracted by the cross-dressing theme that still leaves a reasonable multi-generational audience . In my case I was there to see what all the fuss was about and despite being old enough to know better - after all I've seen enough really dire British films of the period , witness Climbing High , Night Train To Munich , etc - I thought I'd give it a chance , never having actually seen Jessie Matthews in a musical and especially not when teamed with then-husband Sonny Hale . I have to say it was relatively painless and if nothing else it shows that not all British films were as bad as Climbing High ( also starring Matthews in a virtually non-singing / dancing role ) and some of them could make a half-decent fist of ' production ' numbers . True , the plot IS a little shaky - for example Martita Hunt sends Matthews to deliver some clothes to a Princess who has made it clear that they must be in her hands inside the hour ; the stage-struck Matthews ' borrows ' the clothes to attend an audition and is not only hopelessly late but , after being doused with water from a passing cab whilst wearing the clothes , abandons all attempts to deliver them . Cut to a worried Martita Hunt asking a colleague to check the hospitals lest Matthews has met with an accident . That's the last we see or hear of Hunt , who , presumably never does discover what became of Matthews and / or the clothes - but this was the Depression when audiences weren't too critical so long as they were given a few laughs and a song and dance or two and Victor Savile delivers those in spades . Though there were plans mooted to co-star Matthews with Fred Astaire this never happened and it may have been just hype - she did appear briefly in a Broadway-bound show written by Vernon Duke and called The Lady Comes Across but that's as close as she came to non-domestic fame - I doubt if even her most fervent fan saw her as a threat to Ginger but in her own modest way she gave good value as a singer-dancer as she illustrates here . The score is surprisingly tuneful and at least one number , Ev'rything's In Rhythm With My Heart , had a fairly long shelf-life . Hale proved to be an adequate comedian and if Griffith Jones was a tad wooden probably no one noticed at the time . In sum : I'm pleased I finally got a chance to see what all the fuss was about .
Unhappy Hookers	Since her breakthrough role in Amelie it has been Audrey Tautou's fate to be compared to her namesake Audrey Hepburn and Pierre Salvadori has taken this seriously enough to come up with his own take of Breakfast At Tiffaney's ; that was the one , you may remember where Hepburn played a hooker in all but name , making a living out of letting rich men wine and dine her whilst keeping one eye out for a millionaire to marry , only to fall for George Peppard's gigolo . Salvadori has made one basic change inasmuch as whilst THIS Audrey actually sleeps with men three times her age Gad Elmahleh begins as a waiter who gets to sleep with Tautou after she mistakes him for a playboy but drops him like a hot potato once he's squandered his savings on baubles , champagne , etc . Only then does he become the plaything of a rich older woman . For good measure Salvadori throws in a scooter ride in case anyone needs reminding of Roman Holiday where Hepburn rode behind Gregory Peck . Alas , Gad Elmaleh is to Gregory Peck what George Bush is to Einstein . This is one of those films that tries to have it both ways ; both the principals are living lives that are morally dubious but because they are doing so on the Riviera in outrageously opulent hotels and get to wear designer labels we're supposed to find them delightful , enchanting and root for them to get it on . Both the leads are competent actors and contrive to look clean and wholesome and the movie has box office written all over it but as Brooks Atkinson said in 1940 in his review of Pal Joey , can you draw sweet water from a foul well . My guess is that the public will say yes , but let's not forget it was the public who elected Blair and Bush .
Historical Walkabout	According to the IMDb cast list Sacha Guitry plays one role , a schoolmaster , in this movie . According to my eyes he plays at least three other roles . What can I tell you . Pedants will question the fact that 1 ) a math teacher decides to regale his class with a history lesson and 2 ) that a class in any school anywhere on earth would last so long . My advice ? Don't listen to them , enjoy Guitry doing what he does best , entertain . As I've had occasion to note elsewhere for a man of the theatre Guitry was very cinematic and like another man of the theatre , Noel Coward , he was also patriotic which was quite a trick given his Russian roots . Here he unspools some droll anecdotes stretching back a couple of hundred years or so and wraps it up neatly . More I cannot wish you .
Airs And Disgraces	This is yet another over lauded movie that was received apparently ecstatically on its release and has gone on to achieve semi-cult status . The problem then is that seeing it for the first time almost half a century after the initial release one has to imagine what all the fuss was about . It does benefit from some fine acting ; both Alec Guiness and John Mills were well respected leading actors and if Mills is unable to quite discard his main acting ' technique ' - the thing he does with his tongue - the way Sean Connery can never quite discard his Scotch accent so be it . The plot such as it is is that old chestnut about the clash of personalities , the old and new , the kind of thing Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald used to do in cassocks . This time its kilts instead of cassocks and a slightly different kind of music ; other than that . . .
At Swim Three Birds	In the areas where they overlap this fine movie is light years ahead of 2004s Innocence , which gave the impression of a rheumy eye and heavy breathing ogling young girls . Here the effect is much more realistic and really gets inside the heads of the three protagonists as they fumble their way through an adolescence riddled with pitfalls . The three principals , all unknown to me give very sure-footed performances , the kind , in fact , that may be so natural that it will be difficult for them to replicate this quality of acting in other films so I wouldn't be too surprised if they are not heard from again . It would be nice if this could get away from the Art Houses and into the Multiplexes where there's just an outside chance it might ' speak ' to the bubblegum crowd it isn't aimed at .
Pop Pap	This is another case of Hollywood Arrogance presuming to eclipse French Style . The original , Mon Pere ce heros , was one of the most charming films of 1991 so naturally the accountants in Hollywood thought they could hire Depardieu and phone the rest in . They did , however , take the precaution of hiring Francis Veber to write an English version albeit one utilising virtually every word of the original . Depardieu brings his Gallic charm and Katherine Heigl shows all the promise that is now paying off . The thing is that when the French make a sort of Lolita-lite they get away with it because the ' dirty French postcard ' thinking works in their favour ; here the Hollywood idea of lightweight subtlety is to have Depardieu ( totally unaware that his daughter has let it be known he is actually her lover ) , prevailed upon to play and song ' something French ' , launch into a spirited version of Thank Heaven For Little Girls . See the original .
ID Hi , ID Ho	Julien Duvivier arguably made a star out of Jean Gabin via La Bandera in 1934 - they had worked together previously when Gabin appeared in a small role in Maria Chapeldaine and would do so again profitably in La Belle Epoque , Pepe Le Moko and Voice les temps des assassins - and in 1944 when both found themselves in America they teamed up yet again for this philosophical moralist entry in which Gabin is literally minutes away from the guillotine on June 14 , 1940 when , in the wake of Paris falling to the German invaders , the prison is bombed by the Luftwaffe allowing Gabin to escape . Hitching a ride toward Bordeaux with a group of French soldiers he has further luck when the jeep is strafed and he emerges unharmed . At this point , discretion being the better part of valour , he steals the uniform and identity of a dead sergeant as a means to an end but as a result of various twists of fate he winds up as part of a company shipped to Africa where he rises through the ranks until he becomes a Lieutenant having acquired along the way the love , admiration and respect of the men in his outfit . The phrase ' motley crew ' has seldom been better employed as Gabin finds himself in close proximity with people like John Qualen ( in arguably his biggest role ) , Richard Whorf , Milburn Stone , Allen Joslyn , Peter Van Eyck and Charles McGraw . Digression : Large oaks from little acorns grow ; in the fullness of time , the very next year , in fact , Richard Whorf turned from acting to directing with the Jerome Kern biopic Til The Clouds Roll By , and in the next decade he directed 18 episodes of Gunsmoke in which his old army buddy Milburn Stone had a featured role ) . In a mostly male cast Ellen Drew has a cameo as the fiancée of the dead man whose identity has been assumed by Gabin . In a time of war the morality must have been intriguing ; Gabin is an orphan , a loner , a self-confessed murderer , who undergoes redemption after finding human warmth via his platoon ; the real sergeant was a decorated hero but Gabin ultimately enhances the name of the dead man via his own valor , a point made by his defense counsel when he is exposed and stands trial . Two years later in England Basil Dearden would take the basic premise of one man stealing another's identity in the midst of a war and put spin on it in The Captive Heart , in which Michael Redgrave , having stolen an identity , is obliged to write letters to the dead man's wife back in England , the twist is that in this case the dead man WAS a bastard rather than a hero , and the wife who was initially bemused by his change of heart , falls in love with the man she thinks is her husband . This is a valuable movie in Duvivier's oeuvre and a DVD version is long overdue .
Splacing The Mainbrice	Even as late as 1968 Hollywood couldn't help buying Broadway musical hit shows and tampering with them . In this case they inexplicably jettisoned what was arguably the best ballad in the score , The Music That Makes Me Dance as well as several lesser numbers . That said the film itself delivers from the two leads down to the support and on to production values . Barbra Streisand is assured in her movie debut and Kay Medford is outstanding as the epitome of the Jewish mother and if Frank Faylen is 1 ) wasted and 2 ) barely recognizable he is at least competent leaving Walter Pigeon to complete the main casting and compete for acting honours . Virtually the only jarring note is the truncated ( for a major musical ) score and it's as good an example as any of the Hollywood late-blooming musical .
Khurds And Whey	This is one of those films that you feel that if you haven't seen them make you feel slightly inadequate . I finally caught up with it some 67 years after its initial release but can't say I'm now a better person . The major selling points were the ' special ' effects which are still fairly passable and must have been really impressive in 1940 . The casting is , of course , all over the place ; on paper all the lead characters are native to Bagdad yet top-billed Conrad Veidt was German , nominal ' star ' Sabu was Indian , the romantic lead , John Justin was English and the Djinn , Rex Ingram was a Black American but probably nobody minded at the time and just revelled in the fairytale plot , the technicolour and the special effects . Pleasant enough .
Into The Woods	Hats off to Julian Fellowes for reminding the cognoscenti what a fine novelist Nigel Balchin was and for arguably introducing him to a new audience , although this is unlikely to attract the popcorn crowd . Balchin was one of three English writers all active in the thirties , forties , and fifties who all had ' day ' jobs - Nevil Shute was an engineer in the aircraft industry , Norman Collins was a publisher turned television executive and Balchin was a scientist - and were adapted successfully for the screen - Collins with ' London Belongs To Me ' , Shute with ' A Town Like Alice ' , ' No Highway ' and ' On The Beach ' and Balchin - who also wrote the occasional screenplay himself - with ' The Small Back Room ' and ' Mine Own Exectutioner ' - and are largely forgotten today . Fellowes has seen fit to ' update ' Balchin's ' A Way Through The Wood ' - which was also adapted for the stage some forty years ago - which doesn't quite come off if one knows and admires the original which is ironic given that Balchin kept ' up to date ' with innovations - The Small Back Room , for instance , featured German bombs concealed in thermos flasks - yet it seems grossly intrusive to pepper this screenplay with computers , laptops , Eurostar , etc . It may be this uneasiness that drew my critical faculties to other incongruities like the cleaning lady who lives in a splendid detached house that would probably fetch something like three quarters of a million in this day and age , or Emily Watson preparing an elaborate meal that would cater a small dinner party for just two people . Further , the chemistry or lack of it appears all wrong ; there's nothing about either Tom Wilkinson or Rupert Everett that would attract any woman though to be fair Watson herself is hardly Miss Sex Appeal 2005 . With all this out of the way it remains a fairly decent film and one that should find its audience ; anyone capable of holding two thoughts simultaneously . At its core is how we define ' love ' and what we will do to find it and / or retain it . Having presumably known what she was doing when she married Manning ( Wilkinson ) , a dry , undemonstrative man and unimaginative lover , Watson should have been prepared to stick it out and not play moth to verett's flame but once she did so , not once , but thrice , Manning should have said , fine , enough's enough , the decree absolute is in the post but love , of course , doesn't work like that and THIS is what the film is about . The acting is splendid and Fellowes ' writing and direction not that far behind .
The Lady From Shanghai	The dirty raincoat brigade are in for a tough time with this one because they're gonna have to sit through the thick end of two hours screen time before we get to the sex scenes that have been hyped by the PR outfits in an effort to ' sell ' a movie set in Asia sixty years ago and centering on a political situation virtually unknown in the West . Fortunatelty Ang Lee has a keen eye for period detail and is able to coax fine performances from more or less the entire cast . Beautifully shot , lit , written , acted , this is almost certainly going to be there when the Oscar nominations come around and unlike Atonement which blatantly courted them this one will secure them because it deserves to .
Gasser	I usually find that British films of this vintage don't stand up too well - indeed in some cases they fell down even on release - but this is an exception . It's not too difficult too imagine how fresh it must have seemed back in the early fifties to palates jaded by war and austerity and the social history alone is worth the price of admission , for example John Gregson's barrister who has just over one hundred pounds in the bank yet lives in a delightful mews flat . William Rose's screenplay manages to wring sufficient changes on the rapidly changing fortunes in the race to the line to keep us interested and there's a nice contrast between the English Rose of Dinah Sheridan and the sophistication of Kay Kendall . Kenny More turns in his patented bounder with charm and though John Gregson could only do wooden he is not too hard to take in this company . A pleasant diversion .
Cabaret And Cabarus	By the time Continental Films was launched in October , 1940 , Fernandel had been making films for a decade and had been a leading vedette for over half that time which made him a desirable asset for the German-run company . Honco Alfred Greven wooed Fernandel in two ways ; he agreed to give his brother-in-law , Jean Manse , a so-so writer , writing credits on a couple of films and he also agreed to let Fernandel direct himself in two out of three titles . This one , however , was directed by Maurice Glieze , very much a ' who-he ? ' figure in the annals of French cinema . The plot allows Fernandel to play Fernandel and sing a couple of songs , elsewhere people are falling over themselves to get close to Daisy Cabarus or , more accurately , her inheritance . No better or worse than the majority of domestic fodder in the War years .
Reader , I Dazzled Him	There's more than a little touch of Pirandello in the night about this entry in which a young woman , Constance , is not only reading a book entitled The Reader , to her husband in bed but also projects herself on to the eponymous character , Marie , and acts out either her own ( Constance ) fantasies or those of the fictional Marie or a combination of both . Given the task of carrying the film Miou-Miou is more than up to it and freshness is added by both the location , Arles , albeit little more than the picturesque narrow streets traversed by Marie between gigs , and the supporting cast , relatively unknown outside France though certainly well respected - especially Brigitte Catillon and Patrick Chesnais - within it . It's unquestionably a film that will divide opinion between those who will surrender to its whimsy , offbeat charm and dialogue and those who will denounce it as soft-porn with a press agent . As for me , I love Brigitte Catillon in anything .
Die-cast	What can I tell you ? Saturday afternoon and I set out for a couple of hours at the Open Air Theatre in Regent's Park but halfway there the weather changes and it starts to rain . So , what's playing at the Multiplex today ; Die Hard 4 . 0 whatever that means . How bad can it be and it IS raining . Actually it could have been worse , much worse in fact . It's all about suspending your disbelief and watching the good guy kick the bad guy's ass , just like Roy Rogers , Gene Autry et al used to do way back when except this is the computer age and instead of the cattle baron who wanted to build an empire enclosed by barbed wire or the crooked banker / mayor we now have certified ding dongs who want nothing less than to control the world . Honcho Bruce Willis has a nice line in dry humor and manages to kill about fifty times his bodyweight without getting a hair out of place which is easy for him given that he's bald . For a rainy Saturday afternoon it's just the ticket .
Re : Volver	Recently I've checked out a couple of early Almodavar films which the NFT are screening in conjunction with the release of this , his latest , and I found them slightly pathetic . With Volver , however , I gladly add my voice to the majority who have found things to praise here , not least Penelope Cruz , building on the fine performance she delivered in Non ti Muovere . She bears , of course , a strong physical resemblance to Sophia Loren - they could in fact , theoretically be mother and daughter - and like Loren , started out as merely something sexy in a sweater , but just as Loren before her in such vehicles as Two Women and Sunflower , Cruz is evolving into a fine actress . The plot is serviceable if slightly risible - would it , for example , be possible for a film crew to be on location in the area and no one know about it ? Would the Assistant Director say something as ludicrous as ' We have a day off tomorrow , but we'd like to hold the Wrap party here next week ? What Production Company would shut down filming for an entire day within one week of completing shooting ? - but the performances , uniformly excellent , keep it flowing along and more or less succeed in papering over the cracks in the storyline .
Her Jungle Love	For me at least this is a chance to get a glimpse of the Great Arletty in a strictly bread-and-butter movie , possibly the French equivalent of the quota quickie , ephemera whose only purpose was to fill the cinemas for a week or so and then be consigned to the vaults . Chronologically it came smack-dab in the middle of the four Classics she made for Marcel Carne ' , two pre-war ( Hotel du Nord , Le Jour se leve ) and two shot in the war itself ( Les Visiteurs du soir , Les Enfants du paradis ) , though Les Enfants was actually released just after the war , the last three written by Jacques Prevert who was unavailable for Hotel du Nord though pinch-hitters Jean Aurenche and Henri Jeanson did very nicely thank you in his absence . I may be easy to please but I liked this confection which showcased Arletty as a vedette of the Music Hall wearing glamorous outfits and performing stock conjuring tricks whilst not averse to throwing in a little singing ( Je crois que c'est arrive ) on the side . Naturally she has her admirers and one of them , milquetoast bookseller Jean Tissier ( in one of eight films he made in 1942 ) tests high on self-awareness and figures he stands more of a chance if he does a little work on his image . Accordingly he snaps up any and every piece of exotica he can lay his hands on and transforms a friends apartment into a prototype Theme Park whilst putting himself away as an intrepid explorer who knows Borneo like the back of his Place Vendome . This goes down well with Arletty but lest things go too well she lets it be known that she would love nothing more than to take a trip to Borneo so long as this big , strong man is there to protect her . Before being too harsh with this we should try to remember that it was produced in occupied France and was intended solely as a diversion in wartime . On those terms it succeeds admirably .
Full House	Claude Berri is a director who often seems on the verge of becoming a name outside France but somehow doesn't quite make it . His films are interesting - One Leaves , The Other Stays - to excellent - Lucie Aubrac with very little dross . Now he's taken a popular French novel and cast Audrey Tautou in a lead for which she's almost but not quite suited . She plays a gifted anorexic artist who has elected to work as a cleaner to her mother's disappointment . She becomes friendly with an eccentric aristocrat , Laurent Stocker , who lives in an immense apartment which he shares more or less unaccountably with a surly chef , Guillaume Canet . When he realizes that Camille ( Tautou ) is ill Philbert ( Stocker ) takes her to live in his apartment and nurses her back to health , this allows for the Benedict and Beatrice element between Tautou and womanizer Canet who also has an elderly grandmother in hospital . Against the odds the three form a bond and bring the grandmother into the menage when she leaves hospital and that's about it . Stocker , who generates all of the action tends to become low man on his own totem pole so that his own development as an actor who finds his own romance takes something of a back seat to Tautou and Canet . Never less than interesting it doesn't quite make it to the next level .
River Of No Return	This is arguably Kevin Costner's best film in a long time - I haven't seen too much of his recent work because it was so obviously second-rate / embarrassing but here he's back on track despite a storyline that stretches credibility to breaking point - what are the odds for example that Brooks and Smith would randomly select Atwood's estranged husband and his lawyer as victims or that Atwood would trace Mr Smith to the very fleabag in which the escaped con she put away and who has sworn vengeance is holed up . What carries the viewer along is the understated playing and the novelty of Upright Citizen as Serial Killer when as a rule Serial Killers are dysfunctional loners and almost never Man Of The Year . If it does find itself spinning too many plates in the face of logic - the main strand , Mr . Brook ' Jekyll and Hyde existence is supplemented by 1 ) Mr . Smith witnessing one of his killings and blackmailing him to carry out another to which Smith will be privy , 2 ) Atwood's personal problems with a divorce settlement , 3 ) Atwood's life being threatened by the escaped con and 3 ) Mr . Brooks ' daughter apparently bent on replicating her father's sideline - it manages on the whole to keep this kind of logic at bay leaving us to enjoy some fine acting .
Little Things Mean A Lot	For someone like me who unashamedly loves French cinema it is great to see Robert Lynen given a chance to carry a film . Lynen had already given an outstanding performance in Duvivier's second ( and sound ) version of Poil de Carotte and by 1944 he would be dead , a victim - like Harry Baur who played his screen father in Poil - of the Nazis so this is a rare chance to see what he so easily might have become . Given that the story is adapted from a work by Alphonse Daudet there are no surprises but lots to savour like uncredited fine work by Jean Tissier and Robert Le Vigan but genuine French film buffs should be prepared to roll over and play dead when the great Arletty turns up in the late stages and steals the whole thing effortlessly with one hand tied behind her back .
Down To Cases	This has been called Billy Wilder's last Great film which seems a little unfair on three of the four - Avanti , The Front Page , Fedora - that followed it although I wouldn't argue that his last film , Buddy , Buddy , was also his worst . No one admires Wilder more than I do but I still find it difficult to work up much of a sweat about this entry . It is , of course , a racing certainty that the missing footage , something like one hour of screen time , would have enhanced my own enjoyment and complemented the things I had no quarrel with , i . e . the period ' feel ' the attention to detail though against this I found it hard to accept Colin Blakely's ' bumbling ' and slightly inept Watson though on the whole Robert Stephens caught the darker facets of Holmes ' psyche admirably . Maybe it was the Boy's Own Paper element of submersibles and midgets to say nothing of Stanley Holloway's wayward Scottish accent clearly perfected at the Dick Van Dyke School Of Regional Accents that did for me . On the other hand no film in which Wilder had a hand however small is unrewarding ( even Buddy , Buddy ) and this is no exception .
( Bad ) Dream Weaver	Had this been made in the old days it would have been firmly labelled a ' woman's picture ' and possibly rated as a one , two , three or even four handkerchief weepie . Although someone old-fashioned in content it does benefit from excellent performances from the thee leads and whilst it's true that Sigourney Weaver gets the lion's share both emotion and emoting-wise both David Staithairn and Julianne Moore both support and match her . The story has married couple Stathairn and Weaver opting out of urban life for the joys of the country , which tend to sour a little when Weaver , working as a nurse in a local school , ruffles a few feathers and winds up in the slammer on a morals charge . This would be bad enough at any time but it comes right on top of Moore's daughter drowning whilst in the care of Weaver . You can take it from there yourselves so suffice it to say it's a fine example of the genre .
Sheep's Eyes May Safely Glaze	There probably aren't too many films from 1913 floating around and the chances of comparable vintage by genuine talents is even more remote which makes this early film from Maurice Tourneur well worth seeking out . In the nothing-new-under-the-sun department the shots of the girl surrounded by goats would be replicated more than half a century later in Manon des source but Tourneur displays a deft touch throughout in terms of composition and for a lot of the time he is able to extract ' natural ' performances although the tendency to ' emote ' is never quite curbed . The story is mild melodrama ; the wife of the postmaster succumbs to the charms of the local squire , not the wisest thing with a jealous husband but the local shepherdess steps in to shoulder the blame . Hokey , maybe , but it was 1913 .
Varnishing The Lady	As someone who has always found Hitchcock to be vastly overrated I have to confess I enjoyed this early effort . I was drawn by Micheal Redgrave , being a great fan of his ; he'd done a small , uncredited role in a vehicle for fellow stage actor John Gielgud but this was his first real film and he went in at the deep end , from uncredited bit part to leading man . The screenplay by newcomers Frank Launder and Sydney Gilliatt made up in one-liners what it lacked in plausibility and its anti-PC comments that would have probably passed without comment at the time are joyfully refreshing in this restrictive age . Redgrave and his leading lady Margaret Lockwood are both on form and Redgrave was arguably the best leading man she would ever have in films . The pace of the film makes it easy to overlook the glaring flaws - would the Foreign Office seriously employ a middle-aged spinster as a serious spy ; would vital information be exchanged musically rather than other well-tried methods ; would someone obsessed with folk songs , one step away from a Morris Dancer be 1 ) interested in a pretty girl , 2 ) attract a pretty girl and 3 ) be useful with his fists when necessary and finally would a middle-aged lady cum spy 4 ) leave the train in the first place while armed Nazis are just yards away and 5 ) manage to get clean away on foot - to say nothing of the model village in the opening montage . Seventy years on it still entertains .
Gleesome Threesome	This is Josie Balasko in her ' Ma Vies est un enfer ' mode or wearing what some viewers will choose to call her ' vulgar ' hat . A once-over-lightly of the plot will explain why . Alain Chabat and Ticky Holgado are estate agents and neither can keep it in his trousers ; Holgado even makes a pass at his own daughter - he hasn't seen her since she was twelve when his wife kicked him out - and Chabat is even banging the baby sitter . Despite everything - including the one affair to which he confessed , after being found out - his wife , Victoria Abril , still loves him passionately but he is always too bushed to respond to her amorous advances . Enter writer-director Balasko as a cigar-smoking lesbian ; she calls at the house in Chabat's absence to ask for water for her car's radiator , stays to fix a blocked sink - oh , you HAVE got dirty minds - and seduce Abril . Subsequently she moves in , The Dyke Who Came To Dinner if you will and this , naturally , arouses Chabat's jealousy ; NOW he wants his wife . For a while they co-exist with Abril sharing her favours with both of them . Chabat is still not a happy bunny and finally Balasko tells him her price for walking away from Abril : He , Chabat , will impregnate Balasko , who , at forty , has taken to biological clock-watching . Ultimately , when she almost gives birth in the street , it is Chabat holding her hand and comforting her and turning into the doting father . If a friend saw this movie by chance and told me the outline , omitting to mention the underlying warmth of Balasko , who's about as convincing as a butch lesbian as Arnie would be as a ballerina , and the sympathetic way it deals with alternative lifestyles I'd probably have avoided it like anything by Godard but knowing Balasko's fine track record as well as that of fellow director-actor Chabat to say nothing of Ticky Holgado I snapped up the DVD and I'm glad I did .
Sweet Talk	Screened on late-night TV recently this one kept me watching til the small hours . The writers tip their glove by naming the protagonist Danny Roman and then SHOWING him to be the ' noblest Roman of them all ' but I can live with that late at night . It adheres to classic formulae in that it begins by catching Roman at work - he's a highly skilled hostage negotiator - and showing us just how good and well respected he is and then taking it to the next level by having him framed not only for the murder of his partner but also of embezzling from the police pension fund . Unable to get anybody to agree with his contention that he is innocent he resorts to taking hostages of his own - something he is more than equipped to do via his specialized knowledge - and then demanding a second negotiator , the equally skilled Chris Sabien , be seconded to the Case . What we have is a mixture of Talk and Action , a Cat-and-Mouse game and a Mystery to be solved and actors of the calibre of Kevin Spacey and Samuel T Jackson who between them elevate a fairly pedestrian script to a higher level . Well worth watching .
Diamond Geezers	It's a miserable day here in London and among the week's new releases only two are even worth considering , Clint Eastwood's Changeling and Michael Radford's Flawless . In the end the weather tips it ; Changeling is a long haul and ' serious ' I'll catch it later ; Flawless is lighter , Radford directed Il Postino and the excellent French actor Lambert Wilson has a supporting role . For a miserable London day it's definitely out of the right bottle ; a ' heist ' entry with an improbable pairing in Demi Moore and Michael Caine . There's also an element of ' locked door ' mystery about it as we try to figure out how a lone and aged janitor ( Caine ) managed to steal literally millions of pounds worth of diamonds virtually undetected . For one thing the logistics are awesome , it would need a fleet of trucks just to handle the bulk . All is revealed of course and for good measure Moore hits on the solution by chance . Everyone manages to get out their lines without bumping into the furniture which is more or less all that is required of them and it's all as polished as one of its diamonds .
M'aide Dedee . . .	. . . I WANT to like you but you don't make it easy . To be fair to all concerned they were working in a genre - poetic realism - which had just about run out of gas by 1948 , even the co-founders , Jacques Prevert and Marcel Carne had called it a day after their mega flop of 1946 Les Portes de la nuit ( hailed today as the masterpiece it is ) so that shots of misty harbors and the odd ' cluttered ' set a la Von Sternberg seem at times like hat of the most ancient kind . Yves Allegret was a fine journeyman director and there's not much wrong with actors like Bernard Blier , Marcel Dalio and Allegret's then wife , Simone Signoret who between them make this watchable and enjoyable if not , alas , memorable .
Marcel Wave	Adapting Proust for the screen is akin to training a dog to walk on two legs , what matters is not how well you succeed but that you attempt it at all . To make it even more difficult Ruiz has elected to concentrate on the last volume of the magnum opus where all the characters of the first six volumes come together in his imagination as the narrator lies on his deathbed . Ruiz does what he can and offers some opulent settings , stunning camera work and first rate performances which is what you would expect when you are employing Manu Beart , Catherine Deneuve Pascal Greggory and John Malkovich buy even the supporting players are excellent and though it is a great help if one has read In Search Of Lost Time it is possible to enjoy this as a one-off .
In Dutch	I hope Martin McDonagh is cutting Harold Pinter in for a piece of the gate on this . Not content with ripping-off Pinter's two-hander The Dumb-Waiter ( in case you didn't see it that's the one where two hit man are killing time - sorry about that - whilst waiting to learn their next assignment which turns out to be for one to snuff the other ) and extending it he also ' borrows ' the Pinter style of dialogue . This doesn't make it a bad film but it does make it unoriginal . I don't know what it is with Irish writers and rip-offs : It's not so long since one of them wrote something called Dancing At Lughnasa which featured a dysfunctional family living in the Depression with a son walking out of the action to spout linking narrative and then returning to the action . Nothing wrong with that IF Tennessee Williams hadn't done the same thing years earlier in The Glass Menagerie . Anyway back to Bruges where Colin Farrell is being as un PC as it's possible to be - and I have absolutely no problem with that . If nothing else we get some great scenery and that with the fairly decent acting makes it worth seeing even if McDonagh is only The Caretaker for Pinter .
Spanish Fly-By-Night	Lots of positive reports about this one coupled with ' his best for ages ' squibs perhaps oversold this one . There are several pluses ; the location shooting that stops just short of being a valentine to Barcelona , the really fine performance from Rebecca Hall , the not bad performances from Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz but against this we must balance the wooden performance that teeters on the edge of being embarrassing from Scarlett Johanson and the woeful lack of the one-liners that tend to define a Woody Allen movie . The arabesque performed by the several lovers both old and new is mildly interesting but ultimately says nothing new nor does it add anything to the sum of knowledge on the subject . On the other hand it is certainly a pleasant diversion .
If You Want To Get A Head	The title of this film can be translated as bringing things to a head and although he had fourteen further films in him purists would argue that Henri Decoin's career had already come to a head by the mid-fifties . He was certainly at his peak in the late thirties and early forties and still capable of turning out quality product into the fifties but then he was still - on occasion - working with his ex-wife Danielle Darrieux in that decade . Purists may also argue that Decoin was not really at home dealing with gun-runners which is just about all the plot in this case . Raymond Pellegrin is an unsatisfactory protagonist and Peter Van Eyck a bit on the cardboard side of oak as the principal heavy . Heavy hitters Charles Vanel and Lino Ventura don't appear for about four reels and the film shows its age in the sequence where Ventura's flics are tape recording Vanel's statement in another room and subsequently ' edit ' the tape so that when they play it back to Van Eyck over the telephone it sends a totally false message . I'm a great admirer of Decoin , especially in the films he made with Darrieux , some of the finest in French cinema , and not prepared to write him off totally whilst conceding that this effort is far from his best .
What A Life	Maupassant scholars and pedants will find ample grist for their respective mills in this entry given that Astruc has opted to take the source material merely as a guide and instead of starting at A and proceeding inexorably to Z he has reserved the right to take a bowl of alphabet soup , select a letter at random , explore it , exhaust it and then select another and so on . It's not unlike taking War and Peace as your starting point and ending up with The Red Badge Of Courage ; they have war in common but not a great deal else . Arguably the photography gets the lion's share of the plaudits . Muted colour and time after time a grouping that suggests Renoir or other Impressionists . Somewhat bizarrely the music at times - notably the opening which is a sort of reverse Sound Of Music with a young girl running through a meadow but AWAY from the camera rather than towards it - seems to fight the lyricism sounding almost martial rather than melodic . Maria Schell was tailor made for the role of the young , idealistic girl who believes naively that if a man says he loves her he must mean it and lives to be disabused of her belief and abused in most other ways . There's a nice twist on the cuckolded husband who traditionally takes a weapon to his wife's lover ; here , disturbing a tryst in a portable bathing hut the wronged spouse simply wheels it to the cliff-top and sends it to where it will do the most good . All this is roughly half of what Maupassant wrote and Astruc has chosen to end it there and omit the story of the heroine's son . As it stands it is a fine piece of story telling .
Rough Passage	This is probably mid-range Bogie in that it is not really in the same league as The Maltese Falcon , The Big Sleep , etc but still several notches above some of his early Warner Bros fodder . In one respect it anticipates one element of The Manchurian Candidate inasmuch as in both movies a Major in the United States Army having recommended a subordinate for the Congressional Medal of Honor is then assigned to track him down . The connection is flimsy at best , for one thing they were different wars and for another the strong political element of the latter was completely absent in the former . Bogie has a nice line in throwaways as when club-owner Morris Carnovsky asks Bogie if he minds if he watches him shoot craps and Bogie comes back with ' sure , if you can stand it ' , or , of course , the even gaudier patter when Bogie is throwing fire-bombs in Carnovsky's office ' how do you like yourself , medium rare ? ' but in between the pace tends to sag and the wooden acting of Lisabeth Scott does little to help . As a Bogie vehicle and an example of noir it's certainly worth watching but not working up a sweat about .
Serrault + Chapeau = De Trop	If this movie were ever shown in English-speaking countries they could do worse that call it Tailor and Cutter , which pretty much sums up the plot ; Charles Aznavour is a tailor in a French provincial town and the only citizen to suspect hatter Michel Serrault of serial murder . As usual Chabrol is good at depicting French Provincial life though it could be argued that he lets him camera wander down the same narrow , cobblestoned street once too often . Despite his major billing Aznavour is restricted to a Supporting role at best and spends ninety five per cent of his screen time openly ' shadowing ' Serrault and being taunted for his pains . Even if you don't know the storyline going in it soon becomes apparent that 1 ) Serrault has a secret and 2 ) Aznavour has a pretty shrewd idea what it is so that what pleasure there is to be had comes from observing the cat and mouse game which Serrault enjoys as much as killing and it is significant that when Aznavour falls ill and dies Serrault loses his own zest for life and throws in the towel . Certainly worth watching but not vintage Chabrol .
Six Characters In Search Of Themselves	If your attention-span is severely traumatized by Police Academy then best give this one a miss . Keeping track of all the separate threads is like keeping track of individual strands of spaghetti after it's doused in sauce . On the other hand if you make the effort you may decide it's worth it . In one sense it revolves around Camille ( Jeanne Balibar ) a French actress back on French soil for the first time in three years via a European tour of Pirandello's As You Desire Me . Camille is , in fact , the first thing we see as a pin-spot picks her out of the darkness reinforcing the theatrical quality we are in for . Ostensibly an item with Ugo ( Sergio Castellitto ) the director of the play and leading actor opposite her , Camille has it in mind to look up her ex-lover , a Professor of Philosophy who , in the interim has married and become a devoted husband . Neither is Ugo as open as he might be about his quest for a lost manuscript by Goldoni and the young girl Dominique who is ' helping ' him in this quest . The plot thickens when we learn that Dominique's brother , Arthur , is not only enamored of the Professor's wife but has eyes also for an expensive ring she wears . Rivette and his two screenwriters - both , incidentally , actors themselves - keep the balls spinning and throw in a series of set-pieces as well as ringing the changes on duets , trios and quartets a la opera bouffe and all is resolved a la Shakespeare when le tout ensemble come together in the empty theater and dance off into the night as a haunting lyric performed by Peggy Lee implies that this is not the end of anything . Jeanne Balibar is the main attraction , Castellitto , so warm in Mostly Martha , turns down the heat on his natural charm but still turns in a solid performance . At two and a half hours it's clearly not for everyone but if you're one of those it IS for then this is for you ( and let's face it , could Pirandello himself have put it better ) .
Dying On Velvet	Although he had several scenes in the film and was referred to - by surname at least - several times IMDb in their wisdom fail to credit the actor who played artist Charles Dana Gibson who inspired both a look and a cocktail - a Gibson is a martini with an onion instead of an olive . This apart Charles Brackett , Billy Wilder's ex-writing partner , turns in a reasonable script based very much on real events . Ray Milland , as architect Stanford White walks away with the acting honours , Farley Granger mistakes looking petulant for acting and Joan Collins barely registered as Evelyn Nesbitt , an innocent caught between two powerful men , one with scruples , one with demons . Pleasant diversion but there is still a film to be made of this star-crossed trio .
Oh ! Noah	The way I figure it Noah Baumbach went to see Gene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night and figured it was a comedy . I can just hear him saying ' Shoot ! That guy O'Neill wouldn't know a dysfunctional family if one bit him on the ass ; I got me a REAL prime example , one that'll make the Tyrones look like the Waltons ' . And darned if he hasn't . An early exchange between the two sisters - Margot has just returned after a long estrangement for Pauline's wedding - sets the tone ; Pauline mentions a guy she used to go with and Margot says ' wasn't that the guy that raped you ? ' ' No , that was dad ' , replies Pauline . Like the man said , where do we go from here . There are a few laughs strewn amongst the torn , bleeding lives Baumbach wheels out for us and the acting is certainly out of the right bottle but it's less of a follow-up to his last success than a small squid and a huge wail .
Plane And Fancy	Often when I come to post a comment on something like this - A French film made in the 30s , 40s or 50s - I find only one previous comment by dbmonteuil and nine we are in accord , especially in the case of Julien Duvivier , but he doesn't seem to think too much of this one which is sad because I quite enjoyed it . Of course dbmonteuil is French and lives in France whereas I answer to neither and I must respect his greater knowledge and access to a wider range of French cinema than myself . Nevertheless I repeat that I found this Edwardian-set tale of a young girl , Chiffon , ill at ease in the restrictive society in which she lives extremely enjoyable . Autant-Lara has an eye for period detail - her uncle by marriage , for example , is a pioneer aviator thus we are treated to several scenes of early flight and if you throw in the odd vintage car , the period dress , the lavish settings - how did they manage it under the Occupation we ask ourselves - the result is something for everyone ( or perhaps ALMOST everyone . The plot is light enough with Chiffon reluctant to accept her mother's choice of potential husband in favour of the ' uncle ' with whom she is in love did she but know it but as I keep saying it's all in the telling and this tale is told very deftly .
A Plague On Both Your Houses	I've heard better sales pitches than one promoting a movie made by a bush league French director with a 99 per cent Japanese cast but the result is surprisingly pleasing . It's our old friend the mixed-race love story and may not have been possible had not the much higher profile Marlon Brando not broken the ground with Sayonara several years previously . Whilst Brando played a genuine bigoted Southerner - possibly in order to intensify his conversion - Carroll Baker plays a seemingly non-racist denizen of Tennessee who on a trip to Washington meets , falls for and marries Japanese diplomat James Shigeta around 1935 . They move to Japan but are posted back to Washington shortly before Pearl Harbor and when he is deported she elects to go with him rather than stay in the US . This gives us a chance to see the war from the Japanes point of view almost forty years before Clint Eastwood showed us again and it is an interesting if not even rewarding experience . Baker was never much of an actress but she is well up to the demands made on her here and Shigeta is excellent .
The Unhappy Hooker	This film calls to mind the celebrated Brooks Atkinson quote in his review of the first production of Pal Joey in 1940 . Acknowledging that the Rodgers and Hart score was up to snuff likewise the acting he then drew attention to the fact that the entire cast were low-lifes , heels and / or worse and asked ' Can you draw sweet water from a foul well ? ' It's a question we may well ask of this movie ; ostensibly it's a sumptuous , sophisticated , feel-good chick flick but the only problem is that he's a gigolo and she's a hooker-lite . Truman Capote wrote a novella that was close to Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye To Berlin in which a gay writer ( Isherwood / Capote ) ' observed ' a hooker ( Sally Bowles / Holly Golightly ) albeit ' quirky ' and / or ' fascinating ' but still a hooker . George Axelrod , working presumably with helmer Blake Edwards has fashioned a screenplay in which a gay ' observer ' has become a heterosexual gigolo and the hooker is actually WORSE than a real hooker because she willingly and knowingly accepts cash from men on the tacit understanding that sex is on the menu and then skips out on them via the powder room - having first extracted another fifty dollars for the alleged purpose . At least the gigolo ( George Peppard , aka Mr Mahogany ) delivers though even here one could argue that Patricia Neal isn't exactly chopped liver - in reality he'd be humping someone who looked like Marjorie Main - whilst the hooker remains a hooker who isn't . It's obvious that a lot of viewers have chosen to ignore the sordidness and enjoy the surface which is , of course , glamor personified . It IS enjoyable , especially when Hepburn is on the screen and if Peppard IS wooden , so what . They wear elegant clothes , mix with elegant people and inhabit a Manhattan with nary a mugger or bag lady to its name . If it's escapism you want look no further and DON'T look beneath the surface veneer .
High Society , Low Morals	This was one of several more or less ho-hum features that Robert Wise directed between The Set-Up and Somebody Up There Likes Me . In some ways it's a prototype of Dial M For Murder with a would-be murder victim wife ( Valentina Cortese ) turning to family friend ( William Lundigan ) when she suspects her husband ( Richard Basehart ) is attempting to administer poison where it will do the most good . Blended to this is the ' Captive Heart ' element in which a desperate person steals the identity of a dead person in wartime ( a gimmick also used by novelist Cornell Woolrich / William Irish to great effect ) . Cortese is effective as the protagonist who , in stealing the identity of a fellow inmate of Belsen , puts herself in line for a fortune which Richard Basehart has schemed to make his own . Although a decent enough actor Basehart lacked charisma as did the third lead William Lundigan whose range extended from A to about F . Despite this Wise turned in a fairly gripping semi-noir that's certainly worth a look .
Family Jules	My summary doesn't work in French where the ' s ' in Jules is silent and if it comes to that Mady Berry is not , to the best of my knowledge , related to Jules ; both made lots of films but Jules had the good fortune to work for directors like Carne and Renoir which more or less guaranteed international distribution . Maurice Leblanc , who created the character of Arsene Lupin was born in Rouen and a good friend of mine , who has done much to increase my knowledge of and pleasure in French films lives just outside and that's it family-wise . Until I saw this film I had supposed that only Sacha Guitry was experimenting with opening credit titles in the thirties but this movie proves me wrong ; the titles are inventive as are some of the shots . In terms of that character I've seen only the last addition , a couple of years ago so I'm not qualified to compare and contrast Berry with others and it is possible that he is unsuited to the role but on the other hand I enjoyed it .
Black Comedy	Alain Corneau is amongst the finest of the current writer-directors in France which makes it all the more surprising that he didn't attempt to tighten this script and erase some of the more obvious holes . Frank Poupart ( Daeware ) is a not very good door-to-door salesman peddling household goods from a suitcase so it is highly unlikely - make that impossible - that he would be able to produce a mohair dressing gown in Extra Large when an old lady asks for one . This is an important point because to a certain extent the rest of the movie hinges on it . Had he said he didn't carry such items , which would have been true , the old lady would not have invited him inside and he would not have met her niece ( Trintignant ) and slipped into the downward spiral that led to three murders . At a basic level it's the kind of situation - man meets femme fatale and it all ends in tears - that produced such classics as The Postman Always Rings Twice , Double Indemnity , etc , but in each of those cases - a man is hired to work in a restaurant , meets the wife of the owner and starts an affair with her ; insurance salesman calls at client's home to get him to renew a policy on the verge of expiring , meets the man's wife , starts an affair respectively the meetings were quite normal and not contrived as here . If you can get past that - plus the wife who goes from slut to Good Housekeeping Wife Of The Year overnight - then this is a fine , darkly comic , slightly surreal entry in which there are no winners . The mood is almost totally melancholic with gloom the predominant shade and Daeware weighs in with a remarkable performance and trivia buffs will enjoy learning that the actress who played his wife ( and wound up dead ) is the mother of Clovis Cornillac .
Down Argentine Why ? . . .	. . . when it could just as soon have been called Down Upper Sandusky Way in terms of plot . What it was , of course , was at once a morale booster and a nod to its South American neighbours from the movie capital of North America if not the world . This was Carmen Miranda's first appearance outside the Latin American market and as such she has absolutely nothing to do with anything even faintly resembling a plot . C . Aubrey Smith lookalike Henry Stephenson is about as convincing as a South American horse-breeder as Michael Jackson would be as a gaucho but if things like this bother you then you're missing the point . Charlotte Greenwood weighs in with her trademark high kicks and there are more of the same from the Nicholas Brothers ; leads Don Ameche and Betty Grable exhibit as much chemistry as an empty petri dish but score individually whilst Mack Gordon and Harry Warren turned in a score that was just about up to snuff . All in all a pleasant enough crowd-pleaser .
Mad Kraut Disease	Like Peter Viertel after him Robert Siodmak was born in Dresden which after 1945 became part of East Germany . Having been more or less obliged to flee a still united Germany one jump ahead of Hitler Siodmak was arguably one mad Kraut when he returned to his homeland to round out his career . Nazi hunters are not , of course , anything new but usually the idea is to bring them to justice but Pierre Brasseur has a new wrinkle ; he hunts them down in the interest of making a buck and he's doing very nicely thank you , if anybody asks you , but as we know crime doesn't pay so Brasseur winds up with a sickly smile on his face and a tablet just short of where it will do the most good . This is a fine effort from Siodmak who got in just before The Spy Who Came In From The Cold kick-started a whole new genre in film-making ; had enough people seen this at the time this is the one we would be hailing as the prototype . Classy , crisp black and white photography complement a story in which everyone is black ; the victims are an East European Rat Pack who don't sing or perform , whose only interest in fact is to prevent Brasseur singing . Highly recommended .
Czechmate	Karl Anton was born in Prague and made the majority of his films in German and for all I know they were quite distinguished but you can't prove it from this effort ; I'm guessing it was a creaky operetta when it was written for the stage and by the time it got to the screen it was seriously arthritic ; on the other hand there are three reasons to see it : Arletty ! Arletty ! Arletty ! , three and a half if you include Jean Boyer , who was associated with Arletty on five of her early films including La Chaleur du sein and Bolero . For an operetta the singing is pretty ho-hum but I suppose we have to remember that this was Depression fodder intended to provide escapism for the masses but it's difficult not to compare it with similar output from Hollywood around the same time so that compared with , for example , 42nd Street this one is a bad nowhere . For reasons best known to the producers Arletty at one point takes a bath in the fountain of Place Concorde : no , not really , it just seems that way from the number of people who keep turning up , possibly thinking they're extras in a Marx Brothers movie . See it for Arletty by all means but leave it at that .
Great Book , Shame About The Movie	Irwin Shaw's novel The Young Lions was arguably the finest of the post-war novels about World War II ; unlike the majority of novels that appeared between 1945-55 it concerned itself with ALL the major theatres of war in Europe and North Africa whilst others - The Naked And The Dead , Pacific island ; The Cruel Sea , North Atlantic ; Mr . Roberts , The Caine Mutiny , Pacific , Battle Cry , Pacific , etc - confined themselves to one arena . Shaw began his novel on New Year's Eve , 1938 and took in the North African campaign , D-Day and the war in Europe and was notable for including a German perspective in the shape of one of the three leading characters , Christian Diestl - the other two were American , WASP Michael Whiteacre and Jew Noah Ackerman whilst a fourth ' character ' , the bullet that finally kills Noah , which was followed from its manufacture until it got to Diestl , was ' dropped ' by the publishers before it hit the stands in 1948 . The basic storyline of three disparate soldiers has been retained but because of Brando's childish tantrums , which were ultimately successful , he was able to completely upset the balance of the movie by playing Diestl as a ' good ' Nazi , culminating in the scene where , far from shooting Noah from ambush as he says ' welcome to Germany ' , he smashes his gun to pieces and is shot by Michael ( as he was in the book but ONLY after he had first killed Noah ) . Clift must have experienced a sense of deja vu as he was called upon to fight the toughest guys in the platoon because he'd done the same thing five years earlier in From Here To Eternity ; another echo with Eternity is that in both films senior officers who look the other way whilst Clift's characters are bullied are later themselves reprimanded by their own senior officers . The only thing wrong here is that Lions was published in 1948 but reached the screen later than Eternity , published in 1952 . Clift , as usual , acts everybody else off the screen but there is some good support . It's certainly worth seeing but could have been so much better .
Suivez moi	This is arguably the best performance to date from Monty Clift look-alike Laurent Lucas or maybe it's the classiest movie he's been in so far . Even Charlotte Gainsbourg who I've always been able to take or leave ( sorry , Yvan ) as I have her old mum , Jane Birkin , turns in something at least resembling a performance here which is more than can be said for the ridiculously overrated Charlotte Rampling , who can't retire quick enough for me . Dom Moll is rapidly becoming a player but the downside here is that he's not fully in control of his material and seems to be trying to marry several genres - the comedy of manners , the satire , the suspense movie , the supernatural etc - so that the whole fails to fully satisfy as much as it might have . Andre Dussollier is the class act here and he doesn't disappoint ; on balance it's certainly one to check out but not necessarily revisit and / or buy on DVD .
Dogged Determination	As the previous poster mentioned Truffaut hated this movie so Jean Dalannoy had to be doing something right . Delannoy was , of course , making fine films when Truffaut was still throwing his toys out of his pram and insulting his betters so that in itself is a benchmark . I doubt if anyone would be tempted to rank this effort amongst the all-time great French films but nevertheless it's a solid story - by Jean Aurenche who could write a better screenplay than Truffaut with one vowel behind his back and whom Truffaut also despised , natch ; have a sour grape , Frankie - top-billing Jean Gabin as a humane judge who becomes involved in the lives of several ' bad ' boys , some viewers will see the occasional nod to Dead End and / or Boys Town but better those than the 400 Yawns .
Slow Pulse	This is clearly aimed at the art house audience rather than the Multiplexes though there are those among the popcorn pillocks who may well appreciate the brilliant interplay between Michael Lonsdale and Mattieu Alamric as CEO and in-house psychologist respectively of a large German corporation in France . Ostensibly Alamric is asked to cosy up to Lonsdale in an effort to ascertain if his mental state to give the Board pause but of course what on the surface is straightforward turns out to be much more complex with the task ' getting ' to Alamric and invading his personal life . The acting throughout is uniformly excellent with the two leads beyond excellence and it's good to see Edith Scob back on screen . Will reward the patient viewer .
High Hopes Low Fruition	To watch a movie like this again - I saw it on release and now it's a freebie with a Broadsheet - is to wonder aloud why Mike Leigh , who proves here that he CAN write an Original screenplay , felt compelled to rip off Chabrol's Une Affaire des femmes in Vera Drake . Like much , if not all of Leigh's output this is an ensemble piece and if the labels on each character are writ in Bold Face - Socialist brother , Capitalist sister , Yuppie couple etc - that's just a minor flaw in Leigh's make up , he is , after all , firmly entrenched in the Ken Loach anti-Capitalist camp but unlike Loach he does remember to entertain the audience and not just preach at them . This movie revolves around a fragmented family ; brother Cyril is so steeped in Socialism that he is allowed to make schoolboyish statements like ' the day they machine gun the Royal Family is the day I'll wear a tie ' , whilst sister Valerie is heavily into conspicuous consumption and their old mum is slowly descending into a twilight world of short-term memory loss and confusion . Mum still lives alone in the house she's presumably occupied all her married life and where the brother and sister have been raised but the once run-down neighborhood is going up-market so the yuppie couple next door comprise a third couple . This is primarily a vehicle for an ensemble cast and each actor takes his own particular ball and runs with it whilst the director juggles those same balls . It was perhaps a mistake to let Heather Tobias play not only Abigail from Abigail's Party but play it in the style of Leigh's ex-wife Alison Steadman who created the role of Abigail but against that there will be younger viewers who never saw Abigail's Party . The sequences involving Jason Watkins peter out not quite half way through which raises the question of what they were doing there in the first place . The biggest negative is that the film is primarily a study of ' North London ' types ( Breaking And Entering uses the same locale ) and other North Londoners will recognise and possibly sneer at themselves and their friends / neighbors but it's difficult to know what they'd make of it in Leigh's native Salford . If you like fine acting you came to the right place but if you like taut , well-made screenplays chances are you'll be disappointed .
Sea Change	I almost gave this one a miss having seen a couple of Breillat films that were virtually hardcore porn with mainstream actors - Francois Berleand , Amira Casar - and been underwhelmed . However , compared to things like Romance and Anatomy Of Hell , Breve Traversee is Rebecca Of Sunnybrook Farm . Okay , there is a sexual encounter and yes , it is fairly graphic but no more so than stuff we can on TV nowadays . Breillat takes a lot of time building up to the encounter , giving us time to get to know and perhaps like and / or empathise with one or both protagonist . It's fairly basic ; a channel crossing , two people travelling alone , a chance meeting , then a second one , an evening spent together over a meal and a couple of drinks , mutual attraction growing subtly - not a word I thought I'd ever use in the same sentence as Breillat - stronger until the inevitable coupling in the cabin setting up an ending as poignant as that in its almost namesake Brief Encounter . In sum : the finest work I've seen from Breillat .
Sermons On The Mount	I found this one disappointing when I saw it first several years ago and now it's a freebie with a major newspaper I see no reason to revise my original opinion . All hands were above average and all made much better films before and after this one - Peck and King worked together six times and their first two At Bats produced two of the finest movies to come out of Hollywood ( Twelve O'Clock High , The Gunfighter ) whilst David and Bathsheba and The Bravados were strictly ho hum and Beloved Infidel woefully underrated . Similarly King made three films with Hayward , almost inevitable in the old Studio system with people as prolific as King and Hayward and yet for all the track records on the shoot this remains disappointing . I bow to no one in my admiration for Gregory Peck but like any major actor / star working consistently in Hollywood it was impossible not to become involved with the odd substandard product . In all Peck portrayed three writers in his career , one fictional journalist ( Gentlemen's Agreement ) , one real novelist / short story writer ( Scott Fitzgerald in Beloved Infidel ) and one not-quite-so fictional novelist / short story writer in the Harry Street he plays here in an adaptation of a story Hemingway clearly based on himself - ' macho ' writer not averse to big-game hunting , watching bullfights , heavy drinking and equally heavy womanizing ( Hemingway married four times ) - and this is by far the weakest of the three . Students of irony may note that 1 ) King directed Peck as both Fitzgerald AND Hemingway ( albeit a ' fictionalized ' Hem ) and 2 ) Peck was far more effective as Fitzgerald whilst in real life Fitzgerald , though a finer writer , was overshadowed in his lifetime by Hemingway's PR . Peck does his best - as do the entire cast and crew - but somehow it all fails to gel ; Susan Hayward for example is not one of nature's doormats , she is far too feisty and ballsy to play the downtrodden wife meekly mopping her husband's brow when her instinct is to cut his throat and of the three leads it is glamour girl Ava Gardner who is able to find the vulnerability beneath the feral woman . Not a great film , far from it but see it for what might have been .
Hearsay	This debut movie from writer director Alante Kavaite won't be released in France until the summer and Londoners were given an early showing as part of the Rendez-vous With French Cinema weekend at the Curzon , Mayfair . Knowing as much about it as anyone not connected with it I was drawn by the name of Ludmila Mikael who has to be one of the loveliest 60 year olds in the Industry ( okay , pedants , she turns 60 next month ) in addition to being a wonderful actress who doesn't appear in as many non-domestic films as she might but instead illuminates the Paris theatre on a regular basis . Top-billed Emilie Dequenne was an added attraction , this 26 year old is rapidly developing into a fine actress and has already scored heavily in Rosetta , Une Femme de menage and L'Equipier among others . Ecoute sees her as a sound recordist who returns to her childhood home following the murder of her mother ( Mikael ) . For a reason not satisfactorily explained in the script ( unless , of course , I missed it ) she has brought her sound equipment with her and finds herself able to tune into the past via her recorder . If you can get over the discrepancies here ( Sound Engineers do't usually own their own equipment , if they are employed by a television company they just draw it from the Stores on a daily basis , and there is no indication that she has resigned from her career and returned to her childhood home on a permanent basis ) this is a fairly decent little film that could do well if it finds its audience and is a promising debut .
Meet Me At St Patrick's Cathedral	On a superficial level - and come to think of it there isn't really a deeper one - this is Meet Me In St Louis without the songs and the story tilted towards the parents rather than the children . On the other hand Sally Benson's reminiscences of her life in turn of the century St Louis ran in the New Yorker sans words and music much as Clarence Day's hard-cover reminiscences of his own parents so the comparison holds . The forties were particularly rich in this kind of nostalgia and also included I Remember Mama . All require a certain amount of good will if one is to view them today but those who are able to surrender to the charm on display will be rewarded with a good old-fashioned wallow in a world without angst where a feisty heroine was a shot in the arm that wasn't addictive . Irene Dunne plays against Powell as well as Myrna Loy and trivia buffs will welcome the chance to catch Martin Milner in his debut . A decent print and we'd be off to the races .
Weirds And Music	There seems to be a current vogue in French cinema for adding songs to what otherwise would be non-musical films . Faubourg 36 has some sort of excuse inasmuch as it is centred on a Music Hall but Agathe Clery and this one would have worked quite as well as straight films . Of the two this , a tale of espionage , is the least likely candidate but they attempt to justify the songs by having virtually all the principals taking singing lessons with the same tutor ; clearly writer-director Ilan Duran Cohen figured he'd been switched as an infant and his real name was Ilan Duran Duran . If the plot is silly to tedious the playing is mostly top drawer especially where Marina Fois and Jeanne Balibar are concerned . Though I saw it with a capacity audience no one has seen fit to comment . Weird .
Three Bland Mice	This is Chabrol's take on the caper movie with Mamet-type twists and if you don't expect the earth to move it's pleasantly enjoyable . This is an Isabelle Huppert who is almost wholesome - fully wholesome when compared to the sleaze for which she seems to have a penchant - which means she's so good to look at that any acting she throws in - and that's plenty - is a bonus . She and Michel Serrault have a wonderful rapport and it's clear they enjoyed working together but Francois Cluzet is able to hold his own against the formidable duo for the middle third of the movie in which he appears . As someone has already pointed out this is primarily a fun movie and isn't trying to be profound or pretentious , just put a smile on your face from reel # 1 and keep it there more or less throughout with the possible exception of a couple of minutes when Huppert discovers Cluzet wearing an arrow where it will do the most good . This is one that will probably stand a subsequent viewing after several years .
Ziggie Stardust	This movie was released in the same year that the Ziegfeld Follies of 1936 featured a duet performed by Bob Hope and Eve Arden and written by Vernon Duke and Ira Gershwin . ' I Can't Get Started ' went on to become a ' standard ' helped initially by a 12 " 78 rpm recording by Bunny Berigan . Ironically , of course , Flo Ziegfeld had no involvement other than his name in this edition of the ' Follies ' he inaugurated in 1904 . This was one of the very first biopics and in terms of length one of the most ambitious ; whilst it may have been sanitized in terms of playing down Ziggie's philandering that philandering wouldn't have been public knowledge in a period when the press had standards and William Powell was an ideal choice for the eponymous character bringing both gravitas and charm to the role . It's difficult today to find anything in the performance of Luise Rainer that would justify an Oscar and Busby Berkeley had already out-spectacled the big Production Number - A Pretty Girl Is Like A Melody - two or three times over from 42nd Street on but nevertheless this remains highly watchable and enjoyable not least for the interplaying of Powell and Frank Morgan in early Wizard Of Oz mode . Given the budget it's difficult to understand why so little use was made of Fanny Brice , Will Rogers , etc , who had , after all , presumably been roped in to remind current audiences of the range of the Follies but cavils of this nature to one side this is well worth a look .
I Didn't Have To Work Hard . . .	. . . liking this one . Let's face it , Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi AND Jean-Pierre Darroussin , what's not to like . As it happens 2002 was an excellent year for French cinema so this one was in with some stiff competition but it still holds its own . Plot-wise we're talking flimsy : Darroussin is about to be divorced from Bruni-Tedeschi , he's not having much fun at the office , especially now there's a new head honcho and even more especially when that same head honcho seduces Bruni-Tedeschi who is still , technically , married to Darroussin . Then one day he hits the numbers bigtime , to the tune of 10 mil large . Now he has to go into double-life mode lest Bruni-Tedeschi realizes she is now entitled to 50 % of 10 mil . It is , of course , predictable ; he buys Château Lafitte by the case , decants it into el plonko bottles only to have them opened at a dinner party , etc . But as I've said before and will doubtless say again the pleasure is not in predicting the plot twists but in delighting in what two consummate artistes bring to those hackneyed situations . It's a soufflé , pure and simple , but if it were a dancer it'd be Astaire than better than which you do not get .
Three On The Nile	It is , of course , impossible to approach this film as just another release in a typical week because for better or worse it comes with baggage - the original director fired , ditto original writers , escalating production problems , the world press feeding frenzy surrounding the Burton-Taylor offscreen romance and last but not least Mank staying up all night to write the screenplay and then shooting all day . In some cases , notably Casablanca and The Blue Dahlia , writers staying one camera setup ahead of shooting can produce brilliant results but even Mank couldn't quite hit paydirt here . A child could discern the difference between the first half which explores Cleopatra's relationship with Caesar and the second in which Marc Anthony takes up the running and the only conclusion to be reached is that Mank was more sympathetic to the first relationship - he had , of course , already offered his own take on Julius Caesar in 1952 ( trivia buffs will note that John Hoyt appeared in both movies ) and more or less phoned in the Tony and Cleo segment . There are those who will savor the irony of third-rate joke actors like Martin Benson sharing a screen with Burton - though to be fair the way Burton walks through his part it's no more than he deserves . On balance this is a film that should be seen and allowances made for virtually all involved from Mank downwards who had done so much better and would , in some cases , do so again .
Forward March	This was one of several freebies in a newspaper with the catch-all title ' War Films ' ( Tunes Of Glory takes place entirely in peacetime , A Matter Of Life And Death is only peripherally concerned with war ) and I put off watching it based on a vague feeling it would turn out to be jingoistic crap . Having watched it at last I've been disabused of that prejudice ; formulaic it may be ( it follows the tried and true formula of introducing a group of conscripts at a train station and remaining with them through basic training until they wind up in North Africa pitted against Rommel's panzers . In other words it's our old friends the Hollywood bomber crew with English accents . Peter Ustinov had a hand in the script and also takes part as a sort of cut-rate Akim Tamiroff in Five Graves To Cairo and acquits himself as well as any in the fine cast . David Niven fails to steal it as the one ' name ' on view and gives basically an unselfish performance allowing the likes of Stanley Holloway and Leslie Dwyer to polish their lovable cockney sparrer images . Carol Reed handles it well and it stands up remarkably well .
Monkey Business	I don't usually bother with ' epics ' and I'm especially averse to CGI but what the hell , it's Christmas , a time of year when my arm is susceptible to a gentle twist or two so off I went and found I was watching three films in one ; an hour of Depression-era New York plus voyage , a little over an hour on Skull Island and a little less than an hour back in New York . First the positives ; Jackson obviously knows how to make a little go a long way and extract multiple mileage out of a simple idea , ergo , we open on a montage of Hoovervilles , soup-kitchens etc as Al Jolson bellows ' I'm Sitting On Top Of The World ' which is not only irony but anticipates the finale with Kong atop the Empire State building and bellowing not quite so loud as super-ham Jolie . The opening is all about desperation , from the starving jobless in general to Ann Darrow ( Naomi Watts ) and her actor friends specifically and then the desperation of those like Carl Denham ( Jack Black ) and his crew who DO have jobs but are about to lose them , which segues nicely into Denham's desperation to 1 ) flee the country one jump ahead of the moguls he has conned , 2 ) find a replacement leading lady at a minute's notice , 3 ) convince the captain ( Thomas Kretschman to weigh anchor like NOW , Man and 4 ) con writer Jack Driscoll ( Adrien Brody ) into remaining on board til the ship is underway . Black's interior sweating recalls Oscar Muldoon ( a great performance by Edmond O'Brien ) in The Barefoot Contessa and there's a nice touch in the poster that Bruce Baxter ( Kyle Chandler ) , a rugged Rock Hudson type sticks on his cabin wall heralding his appearance in Rough Trader and when Baxter is seen fleeing in terror on Skull Island insiders will recognise the reference to Richard Barthelmess an actor who made his name in aviation movies whilst being terrified to fly . Watts is fully believable as the naive trouper - a contradiction in terms if ever there was one - who instinctively runs towards Kong for protection from the T-Rex or whatever . The ludicrous note is that despite several close encounters with rough terrain and even rougher predators she manages to keep her clothes intact which defies logic especially in 2005 when no one is going to object to a little non-sexual nudity . On the negative side the natives disappear without trace once they have served their purpose of capturing Ann as a sacrificial offering and all of a sudden Jackson , who has been content to give us a blow-by-blow up to now , cuts from the chloroformed Kong to several months later when he's the main attraction on Mazda Lane . Clearly it would have been embarrassing to attempt to show Kong being transported in a ship his weight alone would probably sink to say nothing of there being no suitable restraints on board - perhaps foolishly Jackson allows Denham to draw attention to the size and strength of the restraints attached to Kong in the theatre , restraints which he had little trouble throwing off so how did they get him back ? Best not to ask , suspend your disbelief and enjoy .
Or Would You Rather Be A Mule	It's definitely a Man's Life in the courier business . In 18th century France you were still known as a courier , travelled by stage coach and ferried your cargo - bearer bonds , legal documents , even cash - in a briefcase or strongbox and robbery and occasional death were occupational hazards . Today you're known as a mule , travel by jet and carry your cargo - cocaine or better - on or more often INSIDE your person and twenty years in a Third World slammer or increasingly eternity on a slab should the packaging burst in your stomach are the new occupational hazards . This movie is based on a real case in which an innocent man who had the bad fortune to resemble a criminal paid with his life . Pierre Blanchar plays both a thief / murderer - the driver of the stage coach in which the courier was travelling was killed during the robbery - Andre Dubosc and the innocent look-alike Joseph Lesurques who has the good fortune to be married to Dita Parlo , one of the shining lights of 30s cinema who was unforgettable in Renoir's La Grande Illusion . This was Claude Autant-Lara in his social-conscience phase and after a slow , measured start he hits his stride in the wake of the robbery exploring mob psychology and revelling in the irony of a blind man being a key witness that sent an innocent man to the guillotine , we are all murderers indeed . Hitchcock explored similar territory in The Wrong Man in which Henry Fonda was subjected to a lot of discomfort and his wife , Vera Miles even more but in the end the truth emerged in plenty of time for Fonda to walk free , not so , alas , here . Not perhaps an ideal subject for a world on the brink of war but a fine film nevertheless .
Bali Hi-De-Hi	By this time - the sixth in an eventual series of seven - the formula was well established ; wise-cracks , in-jokes , forget the ' fourth wall ' , throw in some ' cameos ' ( in this case Bogie , Jane Russell , Bob Crosby and Martin and Lewis ) , a ' plot ' that sees Bing con Bob into taking some dangerous job ( human canon ball , deep-sea diver , etc ) , a soupcon of song and dance and away we go . This time around the duo leave town one bullet in front of a shotgun wedding - actually two bullets and two shotgun weddings as both Bing and Bob have dallied with local girls in Australia . They were , by definition , of their time so that much of the humour may seem flat but what remains is the great ' timing ' and rapport between Hope and Crosby and perhaps above all the songs , many of which became not only ' hits ' of the day but went on to become ' standards ' such as Moonlight Becomes You and But Beautiful . This is hardly surprising given that Johnny Burke wrote the lyrics for the first six and Jimmy Van Heusen the music for the last six ( Burke worked with composer James V . Monaco - ' Too Romantic ' on the first in the series , Singapore and Van Heusen worked with new partner Sammy Cahn on the seventh , Hong Kong ) . The score here is as fine as ever with such gems as Chicago Style , To See You Is To Love You , Hoots , Mon , and Moonflower . Maybe not the best of the seven but not the worst either and the only one in colour .
If You Go Down In The Woods Today	I suppose I should begin by stating that I've never read the novel nor seen any of the previous adaptations ; a girl I know in Paris has been recommending it since it was released long before it picked up Cesars for Best Actress , Film and Writing this year . Though I haven't read or seen it previously I knew , or thought I did , the main thrust - sorry about that - i . e . rough sex between a macho ill-educated man and a sexually frustrated aristocrat saddled with an impotent husband > How wrong can you be ; what we get here is a romantic and , dare I say it , Tender love story which may account why the audience with whom I saw it comprised twelve assorted and unaccompanied females between 20 and 60 and one couple . If you asked me to nominate an actress alive or dead who can do both aristocrat and sensual I'd think in terms of Ava Gardener , Sophia Loren , Fanny Ardant , Ingrid Bergman , etc and not , say , Audrey Hepburn , but I'd be wrong because Marina Hands is outstanding in the eponymous role and looks younger than her thirty years . Of course she IS the daughter of Ludmila Mikael which explains a lot ; the female director has followed convention inasmuch as the first time Constance sees her lover to be she is wearing a skirt that stops just short of her ankles , a coat , scarf , gloves and a hat in other words the only naked flesh on display is her face and true to form her first reaction to a man naked from the waist up , is to recoil in embarrassment though she soon gets over it . With two hours forty minutes to play with the director takes her time getting to the nitty gritty so that it's just short of the hour when they first make love . There's lots of detail , atmosphere as we get to know Constance who comes across as virginal and we suspect that if the marriage WAS consummated before her husband received the wound that rendered him impotent it was not very satisfactory . Another surprise is the gamekeeper - now given a name other than the Mellors of the novel , who , far from being a crude , macho love em and leave em macho type is actually sensitive and comes to love Constance . There IS sex , of course , but strange as it may seem it is almost chaste and would almost , but not quite , be at home in a Doris Day movie from the fifties . As I write Marina Hands has accepted an invitation to join the elite Comedy Francaise , an honour she fully deserves .
You CAN Go Home Again ( But I Wouldn't Bother )	Pascal Greggory has it made - on paper , at least . A town house only marginally smaller than the Musee d'Orsay , complete with a full complement of servants - a lifestyle in fact that it seems only Prince Charles aspires to today - and last but not least a trophy wife in the shape of Isabelle Huppert . Ah , there's the rub , as someone once said because picture his chagrin when he comes home one evening after a hard day's flaneuring to find a note in his wife's unmistakable hand to the effect that she's had it up to here and has taken it on the Jesse Owens with a lover about whom until now she has been so discreet it isn't true . But this is only the beginning for hardly has the ink had time to dry on the letter than she is back again and this is where the story really starts given that the bulk of the movie is the exploration of this angle at length . Pascal Greggory makes a convincing heavy - he was last seen at it in the latest remake of Arsene Lupin - and though he is ostensibly the victim and wronged party here he still manages to play it like a villain . I can't honestly claim to be a fan of Chereau and nothing in this effort really changes my mind but I am a fan of Isabelle Huppert and she obliges with her usual fine performance in the second film in a row ( after Les Souers Fachees ) in what will , we hope , turn out to be her new sleaze-free choice of roles .
Supreme Irony	As everyone and his Uncle Max knows Hollywood is run by accountants rather than creators so it's ironic to discover that accountants can't count ; having changed the title of Agatha Christie's novel from Ten Little Indians ( which was itself a subtle change from Christie's original Ten Little Ns ) to And Then There Were None and having changed the title figured why not change the ending as well so that now the correct title should read And Then There Were Two . Christie went to great pains to construct a plot in which all the ten people on a small , uninhabited island , died one by one leaving no one alive and a ' solution ' in the form of a suicide note written by the murderer before taking his own life . It was , of course , as improbable as any of the ' locked door ' mysteries penned by Christie herself and / or any of her rivals in the genre but improbable is not quite the same as not technically feasible but since when has Hollywood left a novel / play , etc unmolested . If you answered ' never ' you're close . So , not content with changing the names of some of the characters they also throw in a happy ending in which the two survivors are not only the two youngest members of the group and one of each sex but are also implicitly bound for the altar . That being said Rene Clair makes a decent enough fist of this , the seventh and last of the films he made outside his native France in a roughly ten-year period . Perhaps wisely he selected his cast from the ranks of ' character ' actors rather than stars - or , perhaps more pertinently , no ' star ' would be prepared to be killed on screen - but most audiences at the time would be familiar with virtually all of them - Judith Anderson had appeared in Laura , which was possibly still showing , Barry Fitzgerald had copped an Oscar the previous year for Going My Way , Richard Haydn had featured as one of the seven dwarfs / professors in Ball Of Fire , June Duprez was the female lead in The Thief Of Bagdad , etc . Clair did his best to bring a little visual flair to what is essentially a one-set piece , the actors got their lines out without bumping into the furniture ( at least not intentionally ) and a reasonable time was had by all including the viewer . Not perhaps one to treasure or buy on DVD but certainly worth catching on television .
Istanbul Was Constantinople . . .	. . . and there's a lot of that about because Vietnam WAS Indochina at the time this movie deals with which is primarily the 1930s . Eliane Devries ( Catherine Deneuve ) has both a daughter and a son yet has never given birth which is maybe a metaphor for France ' adopting ' Indochina . Like Heart Of Darkness the film employs a frame-narrator in the shape of Deneuve who begins by telling her story to Camille ( Linh Dan Pham ) whose parents have just been killed and because they were Eliane's best friends she has adopted Camille - who comes with a dowry of her parent's land which swell the size of Eliane's rubber plantation - and both raises and loves her as her own . Devries is a chic Frenchwoman who , for reasons never satisfactorily explained , has forsaken the chic , culture and civilisation of France for a superficially beautiful yet ultimately harsh land that's not unlike the ante-bellum South without the Mississippi . When a young naval officer , Jean-Baptiste ( Vincent Perez ) appears on the scene the inevitable happens and May and December have their mayfly moment . Jean-Baptiste was , of course , the name of the mime artist in Les Enfants du Paradis and is well chosen given that Perez , who has all the charisma of the Black Hole of Calcutta on a bad day , might just as well be miming for all the animation he brings to his lines . Equally inevitably Camille falls in love with him and when Deneuve has him transferred to a remote outpost Camille follows him and contrives to kill one of his colleagues putting them both on the run . All this is played out against the political unrest that is always a by-product of colonialism . In turn Camille has a child by Jean-Baptiste ; he is killed , she becomes something of a Vietnamese La Passionara and Deneuve winds up holding the baby and it is he , now a grown man , to whom Deneuve is narrating the story in 1954 as Indochina became Vietnam . Weighing in at two and a half hours it requires stamina but in addition to Deneuve both Jean Yanne and Dominique Blanc are on hand and against all the odds it does keep you watching .
Flawed Gem	My summary does double duty as a description of the eponymous character , a very light-skinned West Indian girl ' passing ' for white and the film itself , a low-key exploration of racial tension in pre-Swinging Sixties England . In terms of police-based drama we were still in the era of Dixin Of Dock Green with the more realistic Z Cars and The Sweeney still to come so that Nigel Patrick's Inspector comes across as a gentleman detecting as something of a hobby , an exact counterpart , in fact , of Raffles , the gentleman crook . The teenagers are unbelievably polite , dress conventionally and are unable to field a single tattoo , piercing , stud or pin in a college full whilst the prejudice is recorded mutely rather than trumpeted . Despite the odd and obligatory red herrings the real killer is not difficult to spot and the motive is all too plausible . Patrick takes the acting honours as one would expect with Michael Craig contributing his usual hundredweight of balsa wood but all in all it is both interesting and satisfying .
Flagging Franchise ? Pas du tout	There's been quite a lot of disappointment registered over the years , from initial critical and public reaction through comments right here , about this production which fail to do it justice . It is , to a certain extent , understandable , a minimal score , Astaire playing a non-performer for the first time in the franchise and Rogers doing the chasing for a change , were all contributory factors but if you can get past that you're left with a pleasant comedy that boasts two very fine numbers in I Used To Be Color Blind and Change Partners plus another tour de force dance number - with golf balls yet - for Astaire , so what do you want , blood ? In retrospect it's possible to see this , the eighth teaming of Astaire and Rogers as the mold-breaker inasmuch as their next entry - and the last for an entire decade - would be The Story Of Vernon And Irene Castle in which , once again , they deserted the formula to portray real people . All that to one side this is still a highly enjoyable romp .
Manners Maketh . . .	Dysfunction is a staple in the Art world , the novels of William Faulkner , Carson McCullers , etc would be lost without it - as would Southern Gothic as a genre , and it spills over into cinema , often in adaptations of novels , plays such as Beth Henry's Crimes Of The Heart , virtually anything by McCullers , Tennessee Williams plus the usual suspects known to us all . Here it pops up again in what is clearly a little known French movie ( why else has no one written about it ) that is well worth a look . A troubled young man , virtually a drifter , is hired by an eccentric woman who really wanted a girl as a housekeeper but settled on a male , part of whose duties include looking after a son who refuses to leave his room . It might be predictable but it's still a fairly decent effort .
It Beats A Yank At Oxford . . .	. . . Oxford , Mississippi , at least . Okay , the Paris we get is Paris , Culver City apart from the Establishing library footage of the real McCoy but it IS Paris in spirit than which nothing , nowhere , is better . Okay , Kelly is no Astaire but then who is and Caron is no Hepburn , ditto but Alan Lerner is light years ahead of the vastly overrated Comden and Green who scripted Kelly's other ' big ' 50s musical Singin ' In The Rain ( a curious replication of lyricists writing screenplays featuring songs by OTHER lyricists and just to balance things the Gershwin numbers are far superior to the Arthur Freed / Nacio Herb Brown numbers so Alan Lerner didn't have to feel too outclassed ) . The story needn't detain us any more than the anomalies - Kelly hasn't got change of a match and is a painter , i . e . bohemian , yet he is able to scare up a perfectly good suit at a few hours notice when Foch invites him to dinner at her hotel ; in the well-documented Love Is Here To Stay sequence the lovers are strangely unmolested by passers-by , other lovers and the bridge in the background is totally free of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic - this is , after all , a feelgood musical so it stands or falls by the score and in this case it stands four square . As feel good musicals go it's definitely in the top 10 .
Field ( s ) Of Drams	I've just had the chance to check this out again after several years . Time was I found Fields easy to take especially when he managed to slip some manual dexterity - at which he excelled - into his movies . Time , I fear , hasn't been kind to our boy though anyone who likes slapstick - and there are thousands , how else to account for the popularity of Chaplin - will enjoy this . It's well documented that Bill was fond of a dram or seven and I've heard serious debate on whether what appeared to be comic timing was actually the DTs and that aspect - the not-quite double take as he suddenly twitches as if beset by a swarm of invisible bees - is in evidence here in this self-penned tale of the head of a dysfunctional family who lucks into a job as security guard at a local bank . In the nothing-new-under-the-sun department scriptwriter Fields created a character named Egbert Souse pronounced SoosAY a good couple of decades before someone else created Hyacinth Bucket pronounced Bookay . Fields buffs will love this one .
Barbara Nails Thelma	This was probably the tail end of the first great Noir cycle but even if it does tend to flag a little it's still worth anyone's time . Stanwyck is on best scenery-chewing form and Paul Kelly is fine in a lower-billed role . Wendell Corey was , of course , prime lumber and wisely Siodmak doesn't give him anything difficult to do - like acting . The Stanwyck role is a first cousin to the one she played so brilliantly in Double Indemnity i . e . a femme fatale who uses her wiles on some poor sap who is a necessary means to her end whilst all the while there is another guy in the background . Siodmak was no slouch at noir or film-making in general and his professionalism keeps you watching to the bitter end . Definitely worth a look .
Day In The Museum	As episodic films go this is right up there with the best boasting a cast to delight anyone who admires French cinema , not least a return to acting - albeit in a minor capacity - for Tonie Marshall who last appeared BEFORE the camera twelve years ago but filled in the time usefully by writing and directing some fine movies . Her mom , Micheline Presle is also on hand as are the likes of Gerard Jugnot , Isabelle Carre , Yolande Moreau , Pierre Arditti , Fabrice Luchini , Valerie Lemercier , Michel Blanc , Andre Dussollier and more as we spend a day in the Musee Malraux switching from visitors to staff fluidly . It works best as a satire on the ' Arts ' culture , a highlight being Josie Balasko being strangled for real - the end result of a ' domestic ' - in full view of a group of visitors whose concern is allayed by the Guide who explains this is an example of Living Art and then prevails upon the assassin for an improv lecture . Alas , it turns symbolic which tends to let it down but see it for the cast .
Bridge Over Shallow Water	Consider the cast : Richard Bohringer , Daniel Auteuil , Phillipe Leotard , Jean Yanne , Michel Piccoli , Fanny Ardant , Jeanne Moreau - seven of the heaviest hitters in French cinema - throw in a bargain priced DVD and who WOULDN'T buy it ? This dream cast ensures that it IS worth watching but there are those who may struggle to cope with the surreal aspects which have some of the hallmarks of Death In A French Garden , the work of the same director . Here we have an ongoing bridge game in which the participants have titles rather than names - The Doctor , The Journalist , The Honorable Trader - in a slightly unrealistic setting that resembles a darker version of the one in Les Demoiselles de Rochefort , a vast space not unlike the Gare d'Orsay that Orson Welles utilised for The Trial . In the background is Jeanne Moreau , who bears yet another title , The Brothel Keeper ; at her right-hand The Paltoquet ( nonentity ) Michel Piccoli and spending a great deal of time in an incongruous hammock is Fanny Ardant . The bridge game is interrupted by the Flic ( Jean Yanne ) who commandeers the Doctor to determine the cause of death of a body that has just been discovered . Soon the Doctor is accused ( by Yanne ) of the crime and in the fullness of time the other players are also accused . In terms of storyline that's about it . None of the principals is in need of acting lessons and it's never less than interesting but more than that . . .
HellO , Dollys	No one ever accused a Hollywood biopic of sticking slavishly to the facts and after beginning by blatantly casting two leggy blondes ( Betty Grable , June Haver ) to portray the real-life short , stocky brunette eponymous twins this biopic fits where it touches . Of course in 1945 no one went to the movies accompanied by a fact-checker they went to be entertained by a permutation of spectacle , color , song and dance and if there were a few laughs thrown in for good measure so much the better . In those terms this could be counted a hit but those with a more discerning palate would balk at John Payne who was assigned the ' hit ' of the score , I Can't Begin To Tell You . Payne was a graduate of the Dick Powell Academy of Joke Singers though in his defense Powell began warbling in the early thirties before there were guys like Sinatra , Haymes and the Eberle Brothers ( Ray and Bob ) to show how it should be done and it's probably not just coincidence that Powell stopped singing around the time Sinatra established himself . Grable was current Queen of the Fox lot having usurped Alice Faye , who was intended to co-star but wasn't prepared to come out of retirement so instead the role went to newcomer June Haver , who'd had a bit part as a hat-check girl in Faye's last musical , The Gang's All Here , only eighteen months before . Grable was uneasy by this casting as befits the head that wears the crown but it's a testament to her acting skills that none of this comes over on the screen . Perhaps a tad tween for the 21st century but otherwise pleasant and undemanding entertainment .
Baudu Drowning	Alfred Greven , the honcho of the German-run Continental Films during the Occupation , was a man of parts . He thought nothing of employing blackmail to ' perusade ' both Edwige Feuillere and Danielle Darrieux to work for his outfit and when Darrieux called a halt after three films he saw to it that she didn't work again until well after the war . With this one he seems to take a delight in pointing out to the French public that Germans didn't have a monopoly on ruthlessness and that the protagonist of Au Bonheur des dames , Mouret ( Albert Prejean ) would make a pretty good Nazi himself . Of course Greven was only putting on celluloid what Emile Zola had put on paper in the previous century - and which Julien Duvivier had already filmed at the dawn of the Sound Era with the exquisite Dita Parlo - but nevertheless he probably derived great satisfaction from chronicling the rise of one shopkeeper ( Prejean ) at the expense of another Baudu ( Michel Simon ) . Zola is thought to have based his emporium Au Bonheur des dames on Bon Marche , the oldest and still one of the most elegant of Parisienne Department Stores and just as Bonheur swallows up its neighbour La Viel Elbeuf so Bon Marche was eventually eclipsed by Galleries Lafeyette and Printemps . Michel Simon dominates every scene in which he appears as does Suzy Prim whilst Albert Prejean who SHOULD dominate does so only in terms of the storyline . Ultimately this falls into the top half of the Continental output and is well worth seeking out .
Oh , Brother	Though it shares many similarities with Rich Man , Poor Man , not least the ending this movie is far more superficial than Irwin Shaw's fine novel . It has the same number and ratio of siblings - two boys , one girl , and one of the boys is successful legitimately ( cop , as opposed to businessman ) and one is marked lousy from the cradle and later prospers outside the law and apart from the end there you have it . Guillaume Canet ( ' good ' brother ) and Francois Cluzet ( ' bad ' brother ) had , of course , teamed successfully on Ne Le dis a personne for which both copped Cesars , Canet , Best Director and Cluzet , Best Actor , so it's not surprising that they work well together , which is just as well as they are the only ' names ' in the film . This isn't to say that the support phoned it in because that , too , is pretty solid . The script is a tad sloppy in spots for instance an early scene when cop Canet tells a colleague that he actually grew up in the building in which they are preparing to arrest someone . We then cut to a domestic scene involving Canet which gives the impression that this is a flashback - there's no other reason for the cut and we never go back to find out if the arrest was successful . If it IS meant as a flashback it's ludicrous because ( SPOILER ) Canet dies at the end of the flashback so clearly cannot be remembering some time in a post-death future . It does improve as it goes on and lots of strands come together but ultimately it's only partially satisfying .
Father's Day	Although he'd been directing films since the very early silent days Maurice Tourneur displayed no impatience to graduate to full-length features and was still turning out two , three and four reelers well into the 1930s . This melodrama is a case in point , made the same year as another short , Lidoire , this featured another actor destined - like Fernandel ( Lidoire ) to sustain a cinematic career over several decades . If Charles Vanel never achieved the stardom Fernandel enjoyed he did lend a definite cachet to virtually everything in which he appeared . In this early example he plays a man quite happy to lobby for the release of his brother-in-law from a mental institution in order to get his hands on the money tied up in the patient's bank account . He ignores both the terror and pleading of his wife to say nothing of medical advice and just as we wait for the ex patient to do something violent Tourneur springs a surprise and throws an anticlimactic bone to our doggedness . Well worth a look .
Alas , Only On Paper	This is the second of the two movies that Garland shot in 1963 , the last , as it turned out , she would ever make for though she lived another six years the only singing she did for a camera was for television . As much as anyone and perhaps more than most Judy Garland was one of those performers you either love or detest and if you love her you'll love this glorified soap in which she gets to sing some classy numbers , throw the odd tantrum and break a heart or two . There's a wonderful shot of her standing in the wings at the Palladium and visibly coming alive as the band plays her intro . Unfortunately Dirk Bogarde invites comparisons with the other English actor with whom she co-starred and it really wasn't wise of Bogarde - who actually wrote ( sans credit ) one of the big emotional scenes - to pit himself against James Mason . In some ways this movie is similar to the other one , A Child Is Waiting , she shot that same year ; same raw emotion , same fine acting but only one had songs . Though often dismissed this is , in fact , superior to such titles as In The Good Old Summertime , which she made at MGM in 1949 and no real Garland fan , gay or straight , will want to miss it .
Hornets Nest	In some ways this anticipates Welles ' Mr . Arkadin inasmuch as it is an uneven film crammed with brilliant performers , directed by an acknowledged master with a plot verging on the bizarre . Welles , of course didn't need much help with screenplays - if we exclude Citizen Kane - yet Pabst had three on the payroll two of whom , the exotic named Irma von Cube and Jacques Natanson , had some tasty credits ; von Cube had worked on both Mayerling and Johnny Belinda whilst Natanson worked on Max Ophuls final films , La Ronde , Le Plaisir and Lola Montes yet none of these was remotely like Salonika - Nest Of Spies which moves from Paris to Berne to Salonika in the first two reels setting up encounters between top-billed Dita Parlo and the likes of Louis Jouvet , Viviane Romance , Pierre Fresnay , Jean-Pierre Barrault , Gaston Modot , Pierre Blancheur and Charles Dullin among others . Some are little more than cameos , as in the case of Barrault , a lunatic who manages to intrigue via a schtick with a melon ; Louis Jouvet seems to be anticipating Akim Tamiroff in For Whom The Bell Tolls - on the other hand Pepe Le Moko was released about the same time so maybe someone figured Jouvet would make a passable Arab / gypsy fortune teller . For good measure Viviane Romance throws in an emotive song and a good , if slightly puzzling time is had by all . This is a film of moments rather than a whole but definitely worth seeing .
Vent Act Of 1945	The Michael Redgrave segment stands head and shoulders above the others and is the one thing that most people remember about this Ealing Studios release that ventured into new territory for a studio associated with comedy laced with occasional melodrama ( It Always Rains On Sunday ) . It was also an early sighting of the portmanteau movie - soon to be supplemented by Easy Money , Quartet , Trio , Encore and from Fox in Hollywood O'Henry's Full House , We're Not Married , etc . The Redgrave sequence epitomises the Dark end of the spectrum whilst the Naunton Wayne / Basil Radford section represents the lighter element with the Sally Ann Howes and Googie Withers segments occupying the middle ground . I'm prepared to believe that in 1945 it was reasonably scary though European audiences had just lived through a horror that eclipsed anything here . Today it's basically one ( Michael Redgrave ) standout segment plus some reasonably entertaining supplementary footage .
Black Street	This is the kind of movie that could play the Festival circuit indefinitely , amass several gongs and then disappear off the radar . The multiplexers are not likely to stay with it because pace-wise your average snail would leave it dead in the water . This is not to say that it lacks interest but it spoon-feeds its information which is fine by me but may exasperate others . Kate Dickie monitors CCTV in a central control room but seems to have no emotional life . She is pressured to attend a family wedding and it is apparent that she has cut herself off from family ties for some reason . One day she spots a man on the monitor and has a reaction . She speaks to a contact who confirms that the man was released from prison earlier than expected . She begins stalking him . Our first thought is that he is her ex and / or estranged husband but when he fails to react to her we rule this out but the question remains Why is she interested in him to the point of obsession and why is she prepared to have sex with him and then cry rape . Fine performances from Dickie and Colm Meaney lookalike Tony Curran keep us waiting for the ultimate revelation , but we warned , the only colour in this bleak geographical and emotional landscape is in the title .
Master Baker	Jean Gabin was not long out of the Music Halls and had yet to make an impact on the screen when he made this movie so perhaps it is not so surprising to find him singing at one point . Marc Allegret's previous movie was Fanny , the second part of the great Pagnol trilogy so on paper the omens were good . Top-billed Baker had been wowing audiences in the Paris night clubs for the best part of a decade , her husband - with no discernible talent - had crafted a screenplay to showcase her assets and theoretically a good time was had by all and it was arguably daring if not unconventional at that time to avoid the clichéd happy ending an audience would have expected . In a nutshell Baker and Gabin have known each other since childhood when they were flaunted in a carnival as brother and sister despite their obvious different ethnic backgrounds . Gabin was content with this but Baker was looking for love in adulthood and doomed to disappointment . In an echo of 42nd St Gabin ' arranges ' for the talented amateur Baker to replace the star of a show on which he is a technician and of course she scores heavily but having already introduced Gabin to a friend has to stand by unfulfilled . A better print may have helped but I'm glad I saw it without being overwhelmed .
That Old Gang Of Mine	I chose to see this on the strength of Diane Kurys and Michelle Laroque or vice versa so the rest was something of a bonus . There's nothing new in the premise which is little more than Class Reunion time with added spin . Essentially one brother writes a book in which he is critical of his ' Mr TV ' type brother , who specialises in Reality shows . Irked by this the ' wronged ' brother ( Lambert Wilson ) invites bad brother plus a bunch of old friends and colleagues to his second home in Marrakesh , a convenient 45th birthday falling at just the right time . Naturally old sores are picked to reveal festering wounds before they once more go their separate ways . The satire doesn't quite come off but there are some nice moments and Laroque has the has-been actress down pat . I'd hesitate to describe it as essential viewing but neither will you be entirely wasting your time .
Harbour Lite	This English version of Henri Decoin's L'Homme de Londres - both based on a Simenon novel - outperformed Brighton Rock at the English box office back in 1947 and some 60 years later it holds up much better that BR if only because it's less risible - no Dickie Attenborough heading up a gang of pensioners here , just Bobbie Newton personifying decency under threat and a choice group of supporting actors aiding and abetting . Margaret Barton who was a memorable Beryl in Brief Encounter weighs in with more solid work as Newton's daughter whilst the female lead , Simone Simon more or less phones in her role from La Bete Humaine with a passable English accent . Charles Victor , Irene Handl , William Hartnell , Kathleen Harrison , Leslie Dwyer and Gladys Henson are all solid and the film is only let down by the odd stretching of credibility - Barton picks the exact moment that Hartnell is passing to give Newton's address loudly and clearly to Simon and Hartnell finds it impossible to get out of a locked shed , albeit ramshackle . On balance a reasonably satisfying rarely screened movie .
Bennett , Ban It , Bin It . . .	. . . or How To Decline Jane Austen . We're told that comparisons are odious but let's fact it , this IS a much-filmed novel , I'm not sure just how many adaptations there have been but it's probably fair to say that this is more Austen 7 than Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud . It's watchable without being memorable and it makes all the right moves , about once in every reel there's a wide-angled chocolate-box shot to punctuate the less than exhilarating dialogue including an unashamed crib of Constable's The Hay Wain . The acting ranges from the mediocre to the highly competent - Judi Dench , for example , is NEVER going to be less than excellent in anything - but it's a pity that the acting honours are divided equally between the older generation , Brenda Blethyn , Donald Sutherland , at the expense of the young leads . Elizabeth Bennett and Darcy are direct descendants of Beatrice and Benedek so that if only subconsciously we don't just expect but demand clearly banked PASSION in the formal-to-arrogant exchanges but Keira Knightly and Matthew MacFadyen fail miserably to deliver and both seem to walk-through it rather than attempt to act as if saving their real acting for other projects ( MacFadyen was , in fact , appearing at the National Theatre as Prince Hal in Henry IV Parts I and II at the time ) . Having voiced these reservations I have no doubt it will please a lot of patrons and get its neg cost back though the screening I attended , on a Saturday , was only about half full .
Love For Sale	This is yet another ' domestic ' entry from the first decade of Sound in French Cinema and it's no better and no worse than the majority though hardly in the same league as the high quality stuff being turned out by the likes of Pagnol , Duvivier , L'Herbier , Prevert-Carnet etc , for whilst those talents turned out , these bread-and-butter directors churned out . The movie offers yet another glance at the young Arletty which has to be worth the price of admission alone , Pierre Blanchar on the other hand , who kick-starts the plot by getting in hock to some wise guys and has to make good by 1 ) stealing some potentially embarrassing letters and 2 ) topping the girl who is holding them is more or less ho hum but Michel Simon was incapable of turning in a bad performance and he and Arletty lift this one out of the rut .
Squatter's Rights	Carole Bouquet hasn't had too much luck with apartments in recent years , a couple of years ago she hired some illegal immigrants to renovate her apartment and ended up with debris , this time around she's a writer instead of a lawyer and studying the roots of prejudice so when a squatter in the shape of Marc Lavoine moves into the apartment next door the scene is set for another Benedek and Beatrice scenario in which initial hostility ripens into love . There aren't any real surprises but popular singer Lavoine acquits himself well enough , Bouquet is , as always , excellent and there's a nice line in man-eaters from Florence Foresti . A pleasant diversion .
UnAustentatious	It would take someone far more knowledgeable than I am to comment on the veracity or lack of it in this take on the early , pre-published life of Jane Austen so all I can do is approach it as a period piece with an unresolved Beatrice and Benedek relationship as its centre . Again I have no knowledge of Jane Austen's physical appearance , tall , short , plump , blonde , brunette , etc so I take it on trust that Ann Hathaway does have a reasonable resemblance to the real thing and I have no quarrel with her acting ability . Someone , maybe even his own mirror , has clearly told James McAvoy that he looks like a dark-haired Tommy Steele so he pulls out all the stops in a Xerox of that singular Steele combination of cocky full-of-myself arrogance underlying a please-love-me element which is probably an asset if you're an impressionable teen-aged girl but tends to grate on the more mature viewer . On balance this one is head and shoulders above the recent Pride and Prejudice and and there's a nice nod to Now , Voyager , when the spinster Austen befriends the daughter of her love , McAvoy , just as the spinster Vail ( Bette Davis ) befriended the daughter of HER love , Jerry ( Paul Henried ) ; in short ; the all-pals-together jobs-for-the-boys television team of writer and director provide a decent bedrock for the actors to play in front of . Clearly a crowd-pleaser .
Ruth In Alien Corn	For admirers of early Hollywood talkies this movie fields an impressive cast list ; Ruth Chatterton , George Brent , Guy Kibbee , Frank McHugh and an uncredited Mayo Methot for good measure . It is , of course , pure meller and crammed with plot and subplot that shows just how anaemic today's johnny-one-note plots are . Director Wellman keeps the whole thing bubbling so that the absurdities don't have time to take root . To nutshell it Chatterton falls for a wronggo , marries him and lives to regret it ; he ankles one step ahead of the sheriff leaving her pregnant ; all this is against the backdrop of a carney where they all work . With hubby out of the picture lush Frank McHugh offers marriage , she accepts and loses the child . Enter George Brent representing True Love but before they can walk off into the sunset McHugh is badly beaten ( don't ask ) so the plays the martyr card . End of story . interesting rather than memorable .
Second Fiddle Makes It To First Base	This is a pleasant enough diversion which pokes gentle fun at the search for an ' unknown ' to play the eponymous role in a film adaptation of a best selling novel . Someone actually gave this more than the customary ten seconds thought because it was released in 1939 , the same year as Gone With The Wind , a film that had hogged headlines around the world via its search for the perfect heroine , Scarlett O'Hara ; Scarlett was a Southern belle and in Second Fiddle the fictitious novel is The Girl From The North , the North carries connotations of snow and Sonja Henie came from a Northern country , Norway and was herself associated with both snow and ice and as if that were not enough , in Second Fiddle she is a resident of Bergen , Minnesota and Bergen is also , of course , an island off the coast of Norway . So , was it worth all this care . More or less . Publicist Tyrone Power is sent to bring Henie to Hollywood and naturally he falls in love with her but his job obliges him to engineer a ' romance ' between Henie and Rudy Vallee , another studio ' property ' in need of publicity ; we now have a touch of the Cyrano's as Power is not only buying the flowers and candy that Henie thinks is coming from Vallee but is also writing the billed-doux and even goes so far as to compose a ballad , I Poured My Heart Into A Song , ostensibly written by Vallee . Edna May Oliver is also on hand to lob the odd droll asides into the mix and it all ends happily . A diverting 80 minutes or so .
Polar Negri	Still acting at the age of 83 Charles Gerard has had a fairly undistinguished career embracing three disciplines , writer - 6 screenplays , director , 10 movies and actor , 63 roles and judging by his list of titles as director I'd have to guess that La loi des hommes is fairly typical . Any film that features both Micheline Presle and Arletty has to have something going for it and it was purely on the basis of these two iconic names that I shelled out for the DVD . As it turned out I was far from disappointed as what begins as a fairly straightforward polar with an armoured car heist segues into something more interesting if a tad opaque . By 1962 top-billed Presle was on the cusp of her ' mother ' phase and Arletty , in her fourth decade as an A-list vedette was in the closing stages of one of the most distinguished careers in French cinema . Both deliver as one would expect and the momentum of their craftsmanship elevates the entire largely pedestrian cast resulting in a more or less satisfying whole .
I Blame The Parents . .	. . . and so does Cayette . On the other hand Cayette spent virtually all his career blaming somebody . It's a sobering thought that Ken Loach probably hero-worshipped Cayette and almost certainly saw him as a role model . There is , thankfully , one large difference between guru and disciple and that is that unlike Loach Cayette doesn't forget to add a top layer to his diatribes in the shape of Entertainment . He actually provides a storyline that CAN , if one is so inclined , be viewed merely as drama , the Social Comment is there all right but unlike Loach it's not in yer face so if , for example , you want to view this film as nothing more than the tale of a group of youngsters who feel alienated and / or dispossessed and embark on a naive scheme to bankroll a trip to their idea of paradise then do that . These kids are in their mid teens so that in 1954 they'd lived through most of WW2 and the period of austerity that followed ; the Cold War is well underway as is Korea so little wonder they dream of tropical islands if only they had some serious money . We know because we've seen movies like The Asphalt Jungle - and will see it's successor The Killing in a couple of years - that even robberies that are planned meticulously over months and to the last detail have a way of unravelling if only because Crime could not be SEEN to pay in those halcyon days so what chance a scheme based on I'll cosy up to this rich guy , accept an invitation to his apartment and THEN , while his back's turned I'll leave the french window unlocked so that YOU can get in and take anything portable that we can sell . Oh , yes , should you be disturbed in the middle of this , by a cop , for example , you're on your own . Exactly . Which is , of course , what happens . Cayette , who was not averse to dealing with such emotive subjects as euthanasia starts by framing the parents in the courtroom as if it is them and not the kids who are on trial and he allows each one a flashback to reinforce the culpability . Overall it's a fine film with a cast largely unknown outside France with the exception of Bernard Blier and certainly has value as an example of domestic cinema in the early fifties .
End Of The Road	Hindsight is , of course , a wonderful thing . It allows us , for example , to put ourselves in the shoes of a mature , regular moviegoer in 1950 and speculate what we would have made of a 20th Century Fox movie released that year , directed by Otto Preminger in which Dana Andrews plays a Manhattan-based detective named Mark and falls in love with Gene Tierney in the course of investigating a murder in which she is a key figure . True , the Mark McPherson of ' Laura ' is a different animal to the Mark Dixon of ' Where The Sidewalk Ends ' but it would have required only a keystroke of Ben Hecht's typewriter to convert ' Mark ' to ' Steve ' , say , or ' Phil ' etc in an effort to avoid drawing attention / parallels . That same moviegoer - armed , of course , with our Hindsight - may have wondered at other similarities ; Mark's surname , Dixon , also cropped up in a noir entry by Nicholas Ray where Bogie played a loner called Dixon Steele , and in William Wyler's Detective Story Kirk Douglas played a tough detective , Jim McCloud , who had an equally pathological hatred for a specific criminal ( George McCready's Abortionist Karl Schneider ) and a criminal father , two traits shared by Mark Dixon . At the time , however , our moviegoer probably took this at face value , a strange combination of the atmospheric and fast-paced where the seemingly opposing worlds of the good guy cop and bad guy hood are actually closer than the worlds of angst-ridden loner Andrews and pure , too-good-to-live saintly Tierney . Again our friend Hindsight throws up an interesting cast not least Harry Von Zell , a regular in Comedy Shorts in the forties and here cast against type as a wealthy patsy steered to a floating crap game where he is subsequently killed . After appearing in the original Broadway cast of A Streetcar Named Desire in 1947 Karl Malden was signed by Fox along with Streetcar director Elia Kazan and began to crop up in titles like Boomerang and this one , foreshadowing his stint in The Streets Of San Francisco a quarter century later . Gary Merrill was still something of a new kid on the Fox block and destined to appear in two classics , All About Eve and Twelve O'Clock High but ultimately his wooden acting fell victim to Dutch Elm Disease . Neville Brand was still a couple of years shy of his ( literal ) breakout role and Tom Tully was as reliable as ever . On balance this is a fairly decent example of US noir without making it that extra mile to Greatness .
Middle Class	There appears to be a consensus in the English press that this film is not as good as the play upon which it is based which is not unlike a Chinaman remarking that Paris is not as nice as Beijing ( not many provincial Chinese will have seen Beijing just as not many cinema-goers go to the theatre ) these guys are paid to criticise FILMS and , if necessary compare and contrast them with OTHER films instead of making comments that by definition exclude about two thirds of their readers . As it happens I'm one of those people who see about one hundred plays a year and about twice that many films and I have seen The History Boys on stage and I do agree that the play was better but my task HERE is to comment on the film I saw as if it didn't exist in another medium . Whilst I agree with the Press that the cultural references are not valid for 1983 I also enjoyed them , with the exception of Gracie Fields , not least because I recognised them all and am sympathetic to the kind of teaching that punctuates the highway to knowledge with these kind of cultural / historical signposts . For the record Pal Joey had a major West End revival in 1980 so it is feasible that the ' big ' ballad , " Bewitched , Bothered And Bewildered " , would have reached the ears of eighteen year old boys via radio or other media ; everybody and his Uncle Max has seen Brief Encounter at some time or other and only Gracie Fields is suspect . What fascinates me is the way Bennett takes Rattigan's The Browning Version , a far superior play / film , and turns it on its head ; Rattigan's Crocker-Harris was a cold , unfeeling Classics teacher almost universally disliked / hated with the exception of one sensitive boy , Taplow , who , via an act of kindness reduces him to tears . On the other hand Bennett's Hector is a warm , popular classics teacher whose classics are not Latin and Greek but , as stated , Noel Coward , Rodgers and Hart etc and when HE is reduced to tears by an act of cruelty rather than kindness he breaks down in front of not one but Eight Taplows . Nice one , Alan . Many posters seem surprised that a homosexual writer and a homosexual director would see fit to lard a play / film ( Hytner also directed the play ) with homosexuality in one form or another , yet apparently find nothing singular in eight boys from one provincial school winning places to Oxford . As reality perhaps it leaves something to be desired but as entertainment it does the job .
Night Of The Hunted	At this time in his career - he was emerging from his Hopalong Cassidy years into adult mainstream cinema - Robert Mitchum had his share of offbeat female co-stars and if you thought Mitchum and Katherine Hepburn ( Undercurrent ) was a tad off-the-wall how about Mitchum and Judith Anderson , the Hamlet-playing distinguished stage actress . In a plot that makes a pretzel look like a breadstick with a ramrod up its spine they are cast as orphan and self-appointed ' mother ' ( don't ask ) ; Mitchum grows up on a ranch with no male role-model as the ' outsider ' of three children - the others being the biological son and daughter of Anderson . The plot unfurls - and boy , does it take its time - in that familiar device that enjoyed something of a vogue at the time , the flashback , so we begin with Teresa Wright - Mitchum's wife and longtime ' sister ' , given she's the biological daughter of Anderson and has grown up with Mitchum - riding out to join Mitchum , who is holed up and being pursued by a gang of what we don't yet know . In one of the most wacky uses of the flashback on record - these two grew up in the same house from very early childhood , remember - he starts to tell her of his past and as she knows most of this by definition , he mentions a consistent nightmare involving a man's feet wearing distinctive spurs . Via this and subsequent flashbacks we get a picture of a disturbed child , Jeb , who is never accepted by the other boy , Adam , in the family whilst clearly loved by Wright . He doesn't get many breaks , a psychopath , Dean Jagger , who hates him unrealistically , attempts to kill a ten-year old but succeeds only in killing his horse ; when confronted by Anderson , he spews out his hate for the boy and the ' family ' he springs from and then , equally unrealistically , agrees to back off and wait til the boy grows up for his revenge . When the army needs men and the ranch can only spare one the decision as to which one will go is left to the toss of a coin and Mitchum loses ; this is pretty much the pattern of his life until the denouement but the problem is that Mitchum doesn't do tormented , he does Brutal , Laid-Back , but Angst isn't in his palette . You can call this noir , a psychological western , a mystery but in the end it is all these and none of them whilst remaining interesting and watchable .
Christopher Robbin '	Today this plays like a creaky period piece but apparently it was the cat's pajamas back in 1946 when it became the first film by a major studio ( Fox ) to be shot on location - The Naked City , erroneously thought to be the groundbreaker was actually shot later . It is , of course , thinly disguised propaganda for the FBI , who lent the studio several vehicles specially adapted for surveillance filming and granted access to files , offices etc . The semi-documentary plot features William Eyth as a double agent sent by the FBI to infiltrate a ring of nazi spies led by the mysterious Mr . ' Christopher ' and bent on stealing the secrets of the atomic bomb . Lloyd Nolan is strangely subdued as the head honcho of the bureau whilst Signe Hasso is effective as - it turns out - Mr Christopher . Definite curio value .
Mella Yella	This is one of a number of recent German films that have played in England - Mostly Martha , Goodbye , Lenin , The Lives Of Others - and Academics and failed Pseuds are starting to talk about a German New Wave which is totally misleading because unlike the French so-called New Wave these German films are actually quite GOOD and adhere to the old style of film-making , strong stories , no hand-held cameras , jump-cuts and other sloppiness . That's not to say that this entry doesn't take the odd liberty - within minutes Yella is walking through the strangely deserted streets of a large town in the middle of the day , just her and her violent ex / estranged husband . Later that same husband turns up on her doorstep where she is saying goodbye to her father prior to leaving for a new job on the other side of the Elbe when the ex turns up again and offers to drive her to the station ; now both Yella and her father know that the ex is trouble but - in the equivalent of the scene where the heroine walks the corridors of the old , dark castle in the middle of the night with only a negligee and a candle for company - she meekly gets in the car , against all logic . There's an appropriate - given the denouement - surreal quality about it which shouldn't be exposed to a strong light but the metaphors mostly work and with the exception of the violent ex the acting is good quality . I doubt if it will find its audience outside Germany but nevertheless it'a a notable effort .
Whys and Wherefores	Having recently seen two other Chabrol films starring his then wife Stephane Audran I thought this slightly earlier one would be fairly similar and I was as right as I was wrong . Certainly the trademarks are on hand - stylish settings , photography , behaviour verging on the obsessive etc - but this time Chabrol throws sexual deviation into the mix at a time when it wasn't as commonplace as it was to become shortly afterwards . A lot depends on Why in more senses than one given that the second female character answers to that name , but why DOES Audran leave a ridiculously large tip for a pavement artist , why does Why allow herself to be picked up and ultimately of course why do we care . Completing the menage a trois is the ever reliable Jean-Louis Trintignant and whilst it's far from a waste of time I won't be so eager to watch it again as I will Le Boucher or La Femme Infidele .
Guilty Pleasures	Gerard Lanvin and Virginie Ledoyen first appeared together in Les Marmottes in 1993 and teamed up again five years later for this remake of Simenon's En Cas de malheur exactly forty years after Jean Gabin and Brigitte Bardot did it first time around . There's not a great deal of originality in the storyline - young , amoral girl seduces middle-aged lawyer , shacks up with him but continues to see her old yobbish boyfriend on the side and , oh , yes , it all ends in tears - but Lanvin and Ledoyen are two of the finest French actors working today and that's before we factor in Carole Bouquet as Lanvin's chic and talented wife , Denis Podalydes as a rival advocate and Francois Berleand , a partner in Lanvin's law firm . Guillaume Canet as Ledoyen's ex who won't let go has a nice line in obnoxious arrogance and makes it easy to despise him . Given the names I've mentioned no one should be surprised that the acting is top-notch if not first rate which means that this is well worth a look .
Secrets And Truths	This is certainly head and shoulders above Miller's last movie , La Petite Lili , in which he thought he was better than Chekhov and generally stank up the screen . Apparently this is also an adaptation , this time of a modern novel which I haven't read so I don't take it so personally . Another - and better - French director , Louis Malle , also had a crack at Chekhov but Vanya On 42nd Street was content to just film the original text rather than rewrite it . Here , with the help of a mainly fine cast , Patrick Bruehl , Mathieu Almaric , Cecile de France , Julie Depardieu , he tackles a multi-generational tale that begins in the mid thirties with a Holocaust waiting in the wings and ends in the eighties with resolution of a sort . Cecile de France makes an effortless transformation from her usual ingenue to a mature woman but Miller erred in casting Ludo Sagnier and expecting her to act with her clothes on ( her naked love scenes in Lili had been central to the wrecking of Chekhov ) . It has art house written all over it , of course , but it no worse for that . If slow , ponderous , unravelling is your thing you could do far worse than this and my only caveat is that Mathieu Almaric is not given enough to do .
They Capture The Castles	There was probably a good reason why RKO put these top-rated stars into a vehicle that was alien to everything they had done before ; it's interesting to speculate that perhaps the studio felt the franchise was winding down and needed kick-starting in a new direction , or maybe the studio felt the partnership was growing too demanding and wanted to ' teach them a lesson ' or , to explore another avenue , maybe they HAD been unable to persuade Astaire to sign another contract and decided his last contractual obligation would be in a movie weighted towards Ginger . Whatever , they came up with a bio-pic of two dancers who had revolutionized ballroom dancing a quarter of a century earlier but were , at the time of filming , virtually forgotten . Unlike the others in the franchise this time around there would be no mistaken identity ploys to keep the couple apart until the last reel , no new score ( just a single new number ) from the likes of Berling , Kern or Gershwin AND for good measure an unhappy ending . Vernon Castle was an Englishman from Norwich who moved to America and appeared in a dozen or so Broadway shows before forming a dance partnership with his wife , Irene , which brought them fame and fortune . He enlisted soon after the outbreak of World War I and was killed in February , 1918 , and the film more or less follows that outline . This time around there is virtually no chasing the girl ; they meet and marry within two reels , spend another reel starving then become an overnight sensation , enjoy it for five or six years until Vernon dies in an airplane accident . Fred and Ginger do what they did best , sing and dance but this time in a completely different style to the one fans were used to and expected . Nevertheless they still manage to charm and captivate and actually carry much more of the film with no Eric Blore , Edward Everett Horton , Erik Rhodes or Helen Broderick to share the load . In lieu of these comic stalwarts we get Walter Brennan ( playing the part of a man who , in real life , was Black ) and Edna May Oliver , both of whom are up to the little they get to do . Apparently it disappointed fans on its initial release but today it stands up well and reminds us just what our grandparents , parents , and even ourselves loved about Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers .
The Kingfish Syndrome	Nothing in the several episodes of ' Due South ' or the Oscar-Winning ' Million Dollar Baby ' , just two of his writing credits , prepared me for Crash . At a very basic level it echoes Robert Penn Warren's terrific novel All The King's Men , a thinly disguised portrait of Huey ' Kingfish ' Long , whose complex character could be boiled down to ' there's a little bit of good in the worst of us and a little bit of bad in the best ' . There are further nods in the direction of Robert Altman who also likes to people a canvas with several diverse characters and slowly allow them to meld so that the good become blurred with the bad and the bad . . . well , you get the point . Although I can't exactly toss my hat into the ring with the majority of previous posters I did keep watching to the end and I was unable to fault the performers but there's a nagging feeling deep down that keeps murmuring that somehow we need a little more than this .
Gale Warning	Four of the seven ' Road ' movies , just over half the franchise , were made in the 1940s and this one , released in 1947 , was the last of them . All seven are available on DVD in a handsome slipcase resembling one of those Louis Vuitton steamer trunks that you took with you on a world cruise if you were well-heeled and named Somerset Maugham or Noel Coward . One outlet was offering this set at a silly price and I snapped it up primarily for the songs , there are well over 20 in the seven titles of which a surprising number are very high quality or , dare I say it , high Standards . This one yields the standout ballad But Beautiful , the catchy You Don't Have To Know The Language , Appalachacola , Fla whilst Lamour gets one of the one-word title songs that were something of a trademark ( in all she sang four ; Constantly , Personality , Moonflowers and this one , Experience ) . Nobody went to these movies looking for a great plot and were quite happy to to find a pair of performers one jump ahead of the posse and watch Crosby set Hope up for another life-threatening stunt before meeting up with Lamour and the resident heavies . This time around it's Gale Sondergaard who's out to swindle Lamour and marry her off profitably . Frank Faylen , Nestor Paiva , the Andrews Sisters and the Wiere Brothers make up the numbers for one of the top three in the franchise .
Key Personnel	This one got under the wire . Released just over half a century ago it did bupkes at the Box Office and went from flop to cult . Today it only surfaces , if at all , at venues like London's National Film Theatre where it receives one or two screenings at best . It's one of those films in which it is possible to read almost Anything - witness the several ' gay ' readings in the reviews here . This was an era that also saw ' The Boy With Green Hair ' which explored the idea of being ' different ' and which is also open to a ' gay ' reading . Because it is all a dream it is also easy to interpret it as a nightmare of the way the world seemed to be heading in the early fifties but if we leave all that aside we have some fine surrealism with sets worthy of Salvador Dali . The acting is competent but the film is highly enjoyable .
Rocambole Waltz	Veteran writer-director Jacques de Baroncelli got into films in 1915 and wrote some 21 screenplays and directed 86 movies between then and his death in 1951 ; most of these were domestic dramas , what Hollywood referred to as ' programmers ' and it's ironic that the finest film with which he was associated was Henri Decoin's Bonnes a tuer , on which he received a dialogue credit some three years after his death . Quite a trick if anybody asks you . Rocambole is a sort of poor man's Arsene Lupin and if you've read of or seen on the screen his exploits then nothing here will come as too much of a surprise , in fact , the mixture as before would cover it . Pierre Brasseur , virtually the only name in the cast that means anything at all today is up to snuff as the eponymous hero and it did well enough at the box office to warrant a sequel which turned out to be the last film directed by Baroncelli . Certainly worth a look , especially in the restored version but don't expect too much .
Wilde In The Country	One of the better by-products of this technological age is that gradually , via TV and / or DVD one is able to catch up with movies like this that were either released before one's time or just proved elusive . The first problem is almost immediate ; after establishing that Cornel Wilde has just returned from two years in the slammer , Ray Collins takes it upon himself to explain the facts of the case to a third party , only thing is he wasn't privy to about 90 % of them beginning with Wilde's initial meeting , on a train , with Gene Tierney . Both are , in fact , en route to spend time as guests with Collins but neither is aware of it until they fetch up at the station where he is waiting . There are a few scenes in which all three - plus others - are together but soon Wilde and Tierney take to spending time together and finally , somewhat bizarrely , decide to get married off screen , i . e . the proposal occurs offscreen . Gradually Tierney reveals herself to be hopelessly possessive - she married Wilde only because he resembled her dead father for whom she clearly had incestuous feelings . Once again , as in Laura , Vincent Price gets as far as engagement to Tierney but loses out to another man . It's actually a fine melodrama even if Wilde does little more than look bemused . Jeanne Crain is slightly better as the stepsister in love with Wilde . Well worth a look .
Sullivan's Travels	I can't help feeling that some of the people who've commented on this are asking this director to be something he's not - he is , by the way , Georgian , not French , although his last few films were made in France . He does tend to meander and more or less hit upon an idea and let it lead him where it will which may be hard to take for those - myself included - who are more at home with a well-made script that boasts a beginning , a middle and an end . But he also has charm , a commodity in short supply these days and practically non-existent in Hollywood . In some ways our protagonist is directly related to Preston Sturges ' Sullivan except that Sullivan was an affluent movie director who went slumming and OUR hero is a working stiff with a dream . In both cases they wound up back at home like Dorothy and Toto but no one can take the JOURNEY away from them and that's what it's all about .
Jingle Jangle Jungle	As it turned out this was the second in a franchise that no one thought of as a franchise at the time . Hope and Crosby had been teamed with Dorothy Lamour in what was intended as a one-off , Road To Singapore , and when Fred McMurray and George Burns passed on this someone remembered that Road To Singapore had made a little noise at the box office so why not team Hope and Crosby again and throw a ' road ' into the title to remind fickle audiences of Singapore . Things were beginning to fall into place but we weren't there yet ; Hope and Crosby were now established as performers with Crosby as the pitch man and Hope performing the life-threatening stunts and what , in retrospect , turned out to be the main ingredient - the songs - was also in place . With Fred and Ginger no longer a team at RKO someone at Paramount clearly figured there was a gap in the market and you can almost hear the thinking . . . ' what if , they weren't two DANCERS , but two SINGERS , then we add an extra ' girl ' to the mix as a foil for Hope , Helen Broderick is working so why not Una Merkel , she did all right in Destry Rides Again opposite Micha Auer . . . ' Actually the foursome worked quite well but it's the threesome we remember from the rest of the franchise ( excluding the last , Hong Kong ) . We were also becoming used to the kind of jokes that let the audience in - the native chief tells Hope he will be fed to a giant bird which gives Crosby a chance to say ' this time the bird gets you ' . If there are not too many lines as on the money as that the one thing that endures is the songs ; on Singapore Johnny Burke was teamed with Jimmy Monaco but he'd now formed a partnership with Jimmy Van Heusen that would last throughout the forties and into the fifties and during that time they wrote not only all the other ' Road ' pictures but also about 95 per cent of Crosby musicals . They started well here with three fine numbers , You Lucky People You ( if you ever wondered where cockney comedian Tommy Trinder got his catch phrase from look no further ) , You're Dangerous , and the standout ballad It's Always You , plus the almost obligatory title number and it is these songs that will endure even if the films themselves tend to date .
Cut To The Chase	' Action ' barely rate even a blip on my personal radar but this one enjoyed a fairly universal fine critical response so when I found myself in another city and checked out the sole multiplex this was the only game in town , making it that or the nearest bar . I can see where the critics were coming from and I guess that as ' action ' movies go this one certainly delivers but whilst it entertained it failed to engross me to the extent that I did NOT question as it was unspooling rather than later just HOW Bourne was able to travel so easily and quickly from country to country with - presumably - no passport and little or no money . In a similar way I queried the ' cheating ' in the way that director Greengrass shot certain episodes , usually those involving high speed chases / fights etc so that , with the best will in the world , it is impossible to know just WHAT is happening ; in other words we are unable to follow a given person and / or vehicle from A to Z and trace the trajectory . What we get is something like A to about F then it turns into alphabet soup before stabilizingng round about X , Y or Z . Call me old fashioned but I call this SLOPPY film making from a director clearly convinced that the popcorn brigade won't CARE about logic and continuity just so long as the crashes keep coming . Apart from these cavils it was a pleasant enough time-passer .
Not So Fast , Inspector	As it turned out this was Mank's last film and that makes it fitting that it is the best of his ' late ' work - There Was A Crooked Man , The Honey Pot , Cleopatra etc . He was , of course , working with playwright Anthony Shaffer who adapted his own highly successful play for the screen - one of the few times Mank failed to take a writer-director credit since turning hyphenate in the nineteen forties . Okay , so Olivier is as mannered as always and Caine still a tad green , these things are easy to overlook because of the quality of the writing , the ' feel ' of a house given over to game-playing and the several twists in the plot . Not perhaps up there with Letter To Three Wives , All About Eve etc but only a whisker behind .
Here Comes Mr Jourdain	Every so often the inevitable happens and I'm faced with a film that I want to see with a leading actor I can't stand . So it is here ; I accept that Romain Duris has his admirers and good luck to him but to me he's just another ugly , smirking , journeyman actor like Gaspard Ulliel and Benoit Magimal . To make matters worse - from my point of view - they even added Ludvine Sagnier to the mix ; I've always contended that Ludo can't act with her clothes on and Boy , does she prove me right here though on the plus side she only has about fifteen minutes of screen time in two hours . That leaves Fabrice Luchini and Laura Morante to carve up the acting honours equally with Edward Baer finishing a notable third . If you know and admire Moliere - and if you know him it's hard NOT to admire him - then you can wallow in the references plus lines from his works that punctuate the plot , such as it is - M . Jourdain ( Fabrice Luchini ) , for example , was the bourgeois gentilhomme who was delighted to discover that he'd been speaking prose all his life whilst Moliere becomes a member of Jordain's household under the pseudonym Tartuffe and so on . There's a nod to Preston Sturges and Sullivan's Travels inasmuch as Moliere begins by stating to his troupe that he has had it up to here with comedy and wants to write a tragedy and coming to realize at the end of the film that laughter is , after all , the best medicine . The photography is excellent and if the direction is slow at times and always unimaginative anyone who has ever laughed at a Moliere comedy will almost certainly enjoy it despite Duris ' non-performance .
Honey , I'm Home	There is , of course , as someone once said , nothing new under the sun and the cynic in me wonders if Janet Lewis , who wrote ( in 1982 ) the novel on which this film is based , was familiar with a British film directed in 1946 by Basil Dearden entitled ' The Captive Heart ' . In that film a Czech soldier , Karel Hasek ( Micheael Redgrave ) assumes the identity of a dead British soldier , Geoffrey Mitchell , in order to survive and when he is sent to a P . O . W . camp he is obliged to correspond with the dead man's wife , Celia ( Rachel Kempson ) in order to maintain the pretence and gradually via this correspondence they fall in love but when , at the end of the war , Hasek meets Mitchell there is no question of his pretending to be her dead husband . Daniel Vigne has taken the novel by Lewis and adapted it for the screen . By setting it a few centuries in the past both writer and director distance it from The Captive Heart and do so further by depicting the real Martin Guerre in situ with wife Bertande ( Nathalie Baye ) then , after establishing his indifference to Bertrande he is allowed to abandon her . Years pass and Martin returns in the shape of Gerard Depardieu who is able to assuage doubts about his identity via his wide knowledge of both Bertande and the neighbors . There's not a great deal of suspense , it's fairly obvious that Depardieu is NOT the Martin Guerre who left the village but Vigne is more concerned with illustrating that Good can come out of Bad ; living with Depardieu Baye is much more happy than when living with the real Martin and the faux Martin also proves a much better neighbor so it's just a question of waiting for the bubble to burst and wonder if hope will triumph over knowledge ( no such luck ) and the lovers will be allowed to live happily ever after . Both Depardieu and Baye turn in first class jobs and the period setting is well photographed . If not exactly a ' must-see ' it is well worth seeing .
Power To The People	The day after the latest cinematic retelling of the Jesse James story opened in London - and is , by all accounts , a fairly turgid affair - the BBC screened this popular version from 1939 , shot in the old three-strip Technicolor and starring Tyrone power and a cast of Hollywood stalwarts - Henry Fonda and Jane Darwell would play mother and son again the following year in The Grapes Of Wrath , Donald Meek appeared in Stagecoach ( another John Ford film ) the same year , whilst the likes of Henry Hull and Randolph Scott made up the numbers . My own knowledge of the facts is too scanty for me to comment yeah or nay on a screenplay which paints the James brothers as home-steaders minding their own business until a nasty villain in the shape of Brian Donlevy tries to con them out of their land - as he has done to several of their neighbors - which is needed for the railroad , and inadvertently kills their mother . Naturally such behaviour is enough to send any God-fearing farmer to the edge so all those trains subsequently robbed by the brothers are just their way of getting even . It's probably fair to say that in 1939 no one was analysing these things too closely and provided a film delivered a fair slice of entertainment audiences were happy . This still delivers entertainment if you think of the standards of the time ; Power is a great hero and he plays with passion and zeal , his cause is seen to be just and he really was a hero to the people . Judged by its own lights this is a fine movie .
. . . by any other name . . .	. . . this rose would smell . Smell as sweet ? Smell as hokey ? Smell of desperation ? Probably a little of each . The opening is masterful , a group of agents kibitzing in a down-market Lindy's and gradually homing in on one of their own kind , Danny Rose . At this stage the film opens out to cover a self-contained episode in Rose's career and I for one would have preferred to stay in the deli and listen to more reminiscence . At this stage Allen was still attempting to ring the changes from movie to movie so full marks for something of a departure if not for peopling the movie with real-life Borcht-circuit Jewish comics and throwing in non-verbal glimpses of Milton Berle , Sammy Davis , etc . Okay , it may be uneven but its heart's in the right place .
Miracle Of The Belles	Unlike the majority of posters I haven't seen that many Kusturica movies so I can't really comment on the charges of repetition . What I can say is that I found it uneven which is apparently a signature of this filmmaker . It would be wrong to say I was bored by the more tranquil scenes but neither was I doubled over with laughter at the comedy or conscious of a lump in my throat during the pathos . The love interest , Natasa Solak , really is gorgeous and it is a tad improbable that she'd fall so much in love with Slavko Stimac but this is a minor beef because it's equally improbable that Stimac and Solak would survive the scene at the Drina or that love really WOULD find a way against the odds in the final scenes . On the whole I wasn't too aware of the two and a half hours it took to unspool , the set pieces were effective yet it failed to remain with me as I left the theater .
For Whom The Belles Toil	This is essentially a vehicle for one of France's best kept secrets , Fabrice Luchini , who spends lot of his time in the theatre in Paris with occasional forays into films that have mainly domestic appeal - one exception being Patrice Lecontes ' Confidances trop intimes ' that was shown in England and possibly the U . S . A as well . This time around he's one of those therapists who promise a cure for everything from Elton John to Martians In The Attic and in order to get the benefit of his method you sign up for a course at his isolated château where the price includes health food . We join him as a new intake - three men , three women - arrive and what follows is fairly par for the course but nonetheless entertaining . Dress is casual but that's a word that's open to interpretation ; one girl comes down from her room completely naked , which is about as casual as you can get whilst at the other end of the spectrum Francois Cluzet persists in wearing a suit and tie throughout but predictably leaves in jeans and no tie which tells everyone he's cured . I suspect this is another entry aimed only at the domestic market but I could be wrong . I hope so .
Sparrers CAN Sing	Marcel Blistene may well have possessed an overdeveloped sense of symmetry for he began and ended his Directorial career in 1946 with Etoile Sans lumiere starring Edith Piaf and ended it 10 films and thirteen years later with Les Amants de demain , starring Edith Piaf . If Blistene made only ten films ( plus one TV episode a little later ) The Little Sparrow made only eight and it's a little sad that these two relatively short film careers concluded with something as downbeat as this rather than with something more uplifting . One wonders what Blistene was thinking of when he ventured at such a late date into the world of Poetic Realism . He had cause to know better for in the very same year ( 1946 ) that he first teamed up with Piaf , the creators of the genre , Jacques Prevert and Marcel Carne came a spectacular cropper with Les Portes de la nuit in which they attempted to infuse a romantic fantasy onto a world rife with collaborators and black marketeers . Ironically Yves Montand appeared in both films though he had to wait almost a decade to make a mark as an actor whilst Prevert and Carne never worked together again . If Poetic Realism had had its day by 1946 by 1959 there was competition from the latest flavour-of-the-month the Nouvelle Vague and though it was short-lived and insubstantial in 1959 it was climbing the North Face of an academic and pseud-fuelled orgasm and a movie like Les Amants de demain didn't have a chance . Pierre Brasseur who acted in 150 films and wrote two over a period of 21 years , turned out a fairly turgid script in which several Losers are captured doing what they do best . It was a nice touch to have Piaf present in the early scenes but shot with her head in her hands so that Blistene can ' reveal ' his star after the best part of one reel has elapsed - his strength is in merely registering a figure at the corner of the frame as opposed to lingering on it in order to provoke interest . Piaf gets to sing three fine songs , all with music by her long-time composer Marguerite Monnot and those constitute the highlights of a film that is more interesting than entertaining .
This Contented Rosie	At the time this must have been easy to file as painless propaganda ; Launder and Gilliat start off as if attempting to emulate Noel Coward's classic This Happy Breed , we are introduced to a cut-rate Gibbons family and in particular two daughters , one a flighty Queenie clone this time called Elsie ( Joy Shelton ) and a more grounded Phyllis , now called Cecilia ( Patricia Roc ) but very soon and perhaps wisely the team realise that even the two of them are light years short of one Noel Coward so they veer off into Rosie The Riveter mode and give us a picture of Women At War which is not unpalatable by any means . There are two romances both slightly improbable , Patricia Roc snags a hopelessly inept Gordon Jackson whilst second female lead Ann Crawford winds up with Eric Portman . Seen today for the first time it failed to bore or embarrass though the England depicted is on the far side of the galaxy compared to what Blair has made of it .
Brief Encounters	Having seen the Musical version of this film , A Little Night Music , several times I watched the movie with one eye on how faithfully it had been adapted and the other as if I were adapting it into a musical and looking for suitable places to ' spot ' numbers . On balance I found the adaptation remarkably faithful to Bergman with perhaps the character of Desiree's mother enlarged slightly and all the names and most of the situations retained . Not being so informed about Bergman and his oeuvre as I might be I had somehow formed the impression that he made this light comedy quite some time after and as something of a break from and a contrast to his early dark work like Seventh Seal so I was surprised to read here that Smiles in fact preceded Seal . It should not , of course matter where a given title occurs in a filmmakers catalogue all that should matter is how well he made the film in question . Overall in this case I'd say pretty well . After a slight irritation of the clumsy exposition in which two of the clerks employed by the chief character , lawyer Fredrik Egerman , tell each other ( and us ) that 1 ) Fredrik has two tickets for the theatre where the star of the show , Desiree Arnfeld , used to be his mistress and 2 ) that he will be going with his new wife , Anne , who is half his age and leaving his son , Henrik , by a previous marriage , at home , it settled down into a well observed comedy of manners owing a little to a current American film , Baby Doll , in its central story of a child bride who refuses to consummate the marriage but then spinning off another series of lovers both star-crossed and otherwise . The cast reads like a roll call of the Bergman stock company , Harriet Andersson , Ulla Jacobsson , Gunnar Bjornstrand , Eva Dahlbeck etc and not unnaturally they play as an ensemble . As several other people have said here this is as good and as painless an introduction to Bergman as any .
If Chic Flic . . .	. . . isn't French for Chick Flick ( which of course it isn't ) then perhaps it ought to be for this affectionate account of four close-knit girl friends by yet another actress turned writer ( 15 Aout ) turned director Lisa Alessandrin assembles all the standard ingredients , men , domesticity , cosmetics , clothes , etc and allows them to simmer on a low light for just long enough to hold the attention . The highest profile belongs to Michelle Laroque who was , for me at least , the major selling point and to some extent the movie revolves around the Beauty Parlour she runs which makes sense if you're shooting a chick flick . The other three , Aure Atika ( also prominent in OSS-117 ) , Valerie Benguigui and Geraldine Nakache are virtually unknown outside France but work well as an ensemble whilst veteran Dora Doll ( 84 and still going strong , she's also currently in Je Vous trouve tres beau ) adds the gravitas of an older generation . Not a lot happens , love rears its ugly head in a couple of cases mostly ending in tears and the four bonds remain unshakable . A pleasant Saturday night entry .
The Miller's Tale	From my point of view Miller is uneven ; I disliked for example his tampering with Checkhov in La Petite Lili as much as I enjoyed his Betty Fisher and / or Garde Vue . Now thirty years old The Best Way To Walk probably qualifies as ' middle period ' and is no worse for that . There will be those who will see echoes of Ben Gazzara's Jocko de Paris ( End As A Man ) and point to the similarities between a France Holiday camp and an American Military Academy albeit such comparisons don't really hold water . Irwin Shaw was writing about Summer Camps at around the same time , notably in Voices Of A Summer Day and he was , of course , an ex-counsellor himself but Claude Miller has been reasonably creative in his portrayal of a warts-and-all boys camp in rural France and a particularly intense love-hate relationship destined to end in tears . The acting is uniformly excellent though both leading actors were unable to realise their potential - one died prematurely the other was unfairly typecast as a ' drag queen ' and had to watch the work dry up . Released in 1976 this was a refreshing antidote to the left-over pretentiousness of the New Wave and arguably one of the key films of 1970s French Cinema .
Technical Hitch	Personally I've always found Hitchcock to be vastly overrated which is not , of course , the same as saying he made bad films so much as the competent films he did make have been inflated out of proportion by academics and film snobs . That said this is a fairly reasonable entry that still works on an Entertainment level 60 years on . I doubt however that even 60 years ago the regular film-goer would have accepted the handsome , clean-cut Gregory Peck as a murderer or even , come to that , Ingrid Bergman as a psychiatrist . I think that like a modern audience they would have realized almost at once that Peck had either been ' framed ' for the alleged murder or else there would turn out to be an equally plausible explanation . It's easy to detect what have been described as Hitchcock ' touches ' ; holed up with Bergman in the Rochester house of her mentor Peck has one of his ' turns ' and goes downstairs clutching a straight razor , the elderly mentor is in his study enjoying some late night cookies and milk . He offers Peack a glass of the same cue Close Up of the razor in Peck's hand . Dissolve to : Bergman waking , realizing Peck is missing , panicking and rushing downstairs to find elderly mentor slumped in chair and no sign of Peck . Okay it has its moments but don't tell me that YOU believed for one moment that Peck had killed the mentor . How right you were . Mentor is only sleeping and confides to Bergman he knew from the start that Peck was ill , clocked the razor in his hand and slipped him a bromide in the milk . This is the kind of film that Hitch made again and again ; innocent man is somehow implicated in a murder and is obliged to go on the run either with or will soon meet a beautiful girl to accompany him and help him - see The 39 Steps , North By North-West etc . I don't suppose there's too much wrong with repeating yourself especially if you do it with charismatic stars and Peck and Bergman would be hard to beat in that category . Of course you have to gloss over the fact that Bergman's psychiatrist would not logically fall in love at first sight with someone clearly disturbed who is quickly revealed to be an impostor and perhaps even a murderer and would be even less unprofessional as to abandon her patients in the clinic in which she works and lives to ( a ) find Peck who has fled to New York and ( b ) go on the run with him . If you can suspend your disbelief in respect of these points then there is much to enjoy here not least the dramatic score by Miklos Rosza and the surreal dream sequence designed by Salvador Dali .
Holes In The Hols	This is Olivier Peyon's first feature length film so it would be churlish to be too critical yet there are a couple of points that distract the viewer from the story and wonder Why or How . For example the film opens with the camera tracking very closely a large truck carrying lumber ; the first thought is that the truck is there to block our view of the surroundings and so disorient us but not so . After thirty seconds or so we lose the truck and Cut to a provincial train station where two adults and two children wait for a train . Bernadette Dalfont , our protagonist , is standing there with her daughter and the daughter's two children , Marine , around twelve or thirteen and Tomas , around ten . Dalfont is about to deliver them by train to their father , Philippe , who is either divorced or separated from his wife . Dalfont , in jeans and jumper , boards the train with the kids but at the other end instead of Philippe , a young woman turns up and says she is his girlfriend and he has been delayed . She says the kids can watch TV in her office and extends the offer to Dalfont who declines saying she must take the next train back in half an hour . Exit one girlfriend and two kids leaving Dalfont alone on station . Cut : Now Dalfont is at the wheel of a car and the kids are climbing in as the girlfriend looks on telling Dalfont to be careful with Philippe's car . Question : WHY did Dalfont agree immediately to turn over her grandchildren to a complete stranger who could have been disturbed and dangerous and HOW did Dalfont know where the girlfriend's office was and further HOW did she persuade the girlfriend to hand them over PLUS her boyfriend's car . A little later they make a ferry crossing and on the other side the children ask why they have left their father's car behind to which Dalfont replies that the ferry was unable to accommodate it . Cut : Now they are in another car . WHERE did they get it . Who knows . They spend several days travelling and staying in good class hotels . WHERE did the money come from . In one hotel Dalfont meets a man around her own age , Claude Brasseur and dances with him in an evening gown . The director was present at the screening and when I put these points to him he was gracious enough to concede that they might impair concentration and said he had cut several scenes which would have answered these points . If we forget these minor irritations we are left with a fairly decent study of a woman in middle age suddenly acting irrationally - she does , in fact , virtually kidnap her grandchildren - who is beautifully realized by the veteran Dalfont . The ' interlude ' with Claude Brasseur is worth the price of admission alone and all in all this is a fine debut .
Gold Standard	This is another in the slightly off-centre whimsical quasi-comedies turned out by Ealing in the late forties and early fifties . Once again Tibby Clarke has come up with a slightly offbeat script though even at the time ( 1951 ) it must have been fairly obvious that the unsuitably-dressed Englishman sitting with Alec Guiness in a South American bar was actually a policeman about to take him back to England to stand trial for grand larceny rather than a bemused tourist listening to ' Dutch ' Holland's account of how he stole a million . If you're prepared to surrender disbelief for some 78 minutes and not ask awkward questions about milquetoast bank clerk Guiness ' masterminding ' a million pound heist in gold bars with , as right-hand man , Stanley Holloway , and ' hardened ' crooks Alfie Bass , weighing in at about half an ounce lighter than a strawberry milkshake with half the IQ and Syd James , 90 per cent cheeky chappie , ten per cent ' muscle ' rounding off the gang then the chances are you'll find this mildly diverting .
Puppy Love But Not A Dog	American child actors are notorious for being sophisticated beyond their years , irritating , cynical , nauseating etc so it's a refreshing change to find a movie in which this is not the case . It's true that the writing , especially in the voice-over narration is on a level above the average eleven year-olds but that , of course , is its appeal to an adult audience . There's a lot that's right and not so much that's wrong with this movie starting with the writing through to the direction and certainly the performances . It's not going to make anyone's Ten or Even One Hundred Best list but it is a perfect summer movie , charming , funny , enjoyable . Trust me , I'm a cynic .
The Old Army Game	This is one of those films which film buffs are expected to have seen and enthused over in the cradle and one of several which I , buff that I am , got around to seeing years - in this case sixty or more - after its initial release when the accumulated hype of half a century has a mountain to climb . In my case the first hour or so was definitely ho-hum but there were compensations in the second half most pointedly in the scenes where Tilly Walbrook has fled Nazi Germany and is recounting to the authorities the story of his wife's death and his sons ' indoctrination into the Hitler Youth . Powell and Pressburger are , like Hitchcock , John Ford , etc , filmmakers whose iconic status is out of proportion with their talent but who have somehow been hyped so much and so often by the Academic / BFI axis that I always feel like the boy who declared the King was naked . I'm certainly not asserting that these filmmakers are inept but neither am I prepared to follow slavishly those who would canonise them . ' Blimp ' is certainly well enough made and entertaining but not really much more .
Dark Grey	One line of dialogue stood out for me and actually made the film ; Lockwood and Calvert are travelling by coach to Calvert's London home and she asks Lockwood ( who has just played Desdemona to Granger's Othello ) how long Granger has been an actor . ' As far as I'm concerned he never was ' replies Lockwood , a brilliant summation of Granger's talent , the lack of which , of course , failed to prevent him achieving film stardom . This Regency meller stands up remarkably well and if Mason and Lockwood are slightly over the top , Calvert a tad TOO twee , as if auditioning for any parts Olivia de Havilland might reject , and Granger too inept probably at the time - and wartime at that - they were all quite acceptable . Certainly worth a look .
Get Carter	I can't improve on Shakespeare ( but then who can ) in summarizing this entry ; . . . it is a tale told by an idiot , full of sound and fury , signifying . . . Nothing . So who's the idiot here , certainly not Paul Schrader who is , ultimately , telling the tale albeit via his eponymous character Carter Page III ( Woody Harrelson ) who is arguably idiotic in permitting a superficial at best friendship with his ' walkee ' Kristin Scott-Thomas to influence him to becoming involved in a murder inquiry / scandal . There is lots of sound , I mean Lots and a good deal of it is witty , barbed , caustic and civilized ; as for the fury that comes not so much from Harrelson , who has every right to be furious , as from the chief investigator who despises Page and can barely contain his fury in interview situations . There is lots of sumptuous photography and although Carter Page is a bad second to Jay Gatsby in the clothes department he does boast a serious wardrobe plus accessories - cuff-links , etc - the acting is uniformly excellent but at the end of it all it is saying precisely zilch . I'm glad I saw it and I enjoyed it whilst I was watching it but that's about it and ultimately it's not quite enough .
Baked Alaska	This is , unquestionably , one of the best of the ' Road ' franchise . It began with a one-off , Singapore , and even the second , Zanzibar , was more accident than design but with the third entry , Morocco , the franchise was up and running and this , the fourth title , builds on the strengths of Morocco and reaches slightly beyond . By now the two male leads are established as performers , in this case vaudevillians at the turn of the century and all they need is an excuse to light out for the applicable destination and run into Dorothy Lamour . For the record we're talking map of hidden goldmine , acquired by Bing and Bob from the crooks , Sperry and McGurk , who murdered the real owner , and which rightfully belongs to Lamour , the daughter of the murdered man . Along with the usual gags , dismantling of the fourth wall , and the added ingredient of Robert Benchley's narrator , are the songs and this is one of the best bunch in the entire franchise , from Goodtime Charley , through Put It There , Pal , Welcome To My Dream , Should You and Personality . Dated , maybe but out of date , no .
A Step Too Farr	There's a lovely irony at work here inasmuch as Dirk Bogarde resolutely remained coy and refused to ' come out ' himself in his private life yet was prepared to play a character on screen who admitted to his wife before they married that he was gay and when one of his gay lovers commits suicide rather than ' out ' Melville Farr ( Bogarde ) he determines to unmask the blackmailers who drove ' Boy ' Barrett ( Peter McEnery ) to take his life ( Bogarde went on to play ' Boy ' Browning in A Bridge Too Far , nicely squaring a circle of sorts ) . The writers throw in a nice line in red herrings via the two mysterious men who are ultimately revealed to be operating a different scam entirely . Bogarde and Sylvia Sims play well and there are the usual faces from post-war British films being wheeled out to do their bit and swell the old CV . Possibly at the time it was both groundbreaking and influential ; today it's just a period piece no better and no worse than most other British films of the time .
Hunt Ball	When is a remake not a remake is one that will keep the pedants occupied long past my own bedtime and on the whole I'm content to let them pick the bones out of it whilst I savor and / or am disappointed by the latest example to find itself on a screen near me . You could argue that one of the clues is when a remake retains the Original title , Kiss Of Death , Ocean's Eleven , The Manchurian Candidate etc but then along comes The Ladykillers , which retains both title and approximate plot of the Ealing entry but then moves the action several thousand miles West by several decades forward leading pedants back to Square One . When they change not only the country but also the title the additional factors that come into play are 1 ) are you , as a viewer , aware of this situation and 2 ) have you seen the original . I suspect that anyone who saw Julien Duvivier's magnum opus Un Carnet de bal will be disappointed , to say the least , with Lydia which he made four years later ( 1941 ) in Hollywood , whilst those who never saw , or perhaps have never heard of Un Carnet de bal , will find Lydia vastly enjoyable - it is , after all , the work of a Great director , albeit one saddled with a ' revised ' script that tends to turn the original on its head . For the record Un Carnet de bal featured a recently widowed lady who , more or less on a whim , decides to trace the men with whom she danced at her very first ball as a teenager and is , inevitably , disappointed at what she discovers . The action was , then , set largely in the present with an elderly lady encountering elderly men ; this time around the lady in question is a spinster and is reminiscing with three of her old beaux in the present which means that , by definition , the bulk of the film is flashbacks to forty years earlier . Those with no knowledge of Un Carnet de bal will relish the initial ball scene with shades of both Max Ophuls in the swirling camera and Busby Berkely in the phalanx of art deco lady harpists , and the lush score by Miklos Rosza whilst those who have seen Carnet will feel keenly the absence of Louis Jouvet , Fernandel etc and gaze open-mouthed at the hopelessly inadequate substitutes of whom only Joseph Cotton makes even a half-decent fist . Mixed feelings then ; on the one hand it's still a Duvivier movie , on the other , there's only ONE Un Carnet de bal .
Oh , I DO Like To Be Beside The Seaside	This is another charmer . The great thing about France is that filmmakers are allowed to make ' small ' films like this without being penalized . In the same year ( 2002 ) for example Le Chignon d'Olga was also released and between them both films racked up something like 100 , 000 admissions but nobody yelled , no heads rolled , in fact Julie Lopes-Curval who directed Bord de mer went on to write La role de sa vie which co-screenwriter of Bord de mer , Francois Favrat , directed and with Agnes Jaoui and Karin Viard co-starring ' Role ' was a much more high-profile project . Not a lot happens in Bord de mer . If you want an analogy it's something like Walden if Thoreau had been part of a community . It's just a record of a year in a small seaside town which is virtually almost always out-of-season even in the summer because the only visitors are regulars , most of whom own property rather than staying in hotels / pensions . It's a company town to the extent that a small family company ' mine ' the sea for stones which are then ' sorted ' by the locals and used to manufacture anything that CAN be manufactured from pebbles . We follow a handful of people , the best known being Bulle Ogier and Ludmilla Mikhael , ex-Comedy Francaise as they are , in the immortal words of Johnny Burke , busy doing nothing . The film is shot in lovely , not to say restful , pastels and a second viewing some two years later was just as enjoyable as the initial one .
Daylight Shaving Time	It's going to take a brave person to kick against the waves of euphoria with which this has been greeted . I have no problem with sacred cows as a rule but in this case I didn't DISlike it enough to subject it to a hatchet job . I'm definitely not a fan of Burton's Gothic landscape and I can take or leave Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter but on this occasion all three combined to come up with something half decent . It's still a tad pat and unrealistic in the way it relies on coincidence to keep it flowing and although I've never actually witnessed a throat being cut I very much doubt if blood behaves in the way Burton portrays it here . The photography contrives to appear black and white which begs the question why bother to use colour stock in the first place , Sondheim's score has been curtailed but what remains is reasonably well performed but one is always aware that these are primarily actors who are singing rather than singing actors . It's going to be a smash anyway so good luck to it .
Time To Kill	If you didn't see this movie between its release in 1952 and the release in 1959 of Rio Bravo ( and presumably did see the Howard Hawks classic and THEN watched the Fred Zinneman roman a clef ) it's going to be tough to view it dispassionately . We also have to assume that at least half the audience back in 1952 totally missed the ' message ' embedded there by writer Carl Foreman , himself a victim of HUAC who was forced to flee the US and work in Britain . In this ' reading ' Frank Miller is Senator Joseph McCarthy symbolically ' persecuting ' noble left-wing writers / actors / directors who were , after all , only ' doing their jobs ' i . e . providing entertainment for the masses and if they slipped in the odd left-wing sentiment no one really got hurt . The Gary Cooper figure , Will Kane was one such figure who may well have been to the odd ' meeting ' and now needs upright citizens to testify to his essential ' goodness ' and comes up empty . Hawks , of course , saw it differently ; in his eyes Cooper was drawing a salary for a job that meant , if necessary , putting his life on the line without bitching about it and soliciting help from ordinary townsfolk who AREN'T being paid to risk their necks . Disgusted , Hawks came up with lawman Duke Wayne , also paid to stick his neck out , faced with a gang very similar to that of Frank Miller and taking them on without crying for help . If it did nothing else High Noon was directly responsible for a superior movie so we shouldn't be too hard on it . It was probably extremely tense at the time but time shows only the woodenness of Grace Kelly , the stiffness of Cooper and immaturity of Lloyd Bridges .
The Old College Try	Nice to be able to write something positive about a British film for a change . Okay , it owes more than a little to Le Chignon d'Olga - a likable leading man lusting after the wrong girl when the right one is under his nose - but it passes a pleasant ninety minutes . James McAvoy captures the right combination of nerd and charm , Eve Hall has just the right amount of casual shrewdness to make Anyone an ideal wife and / or girlfriend and Rebecca Hall knows just how much of the character's natural warmth to conceal under a mask of indifference . The word play in the title may be a tad twee - university IS a challenge for young people away from home for the first time , geddit - but the ultimate effect is just about spot on - for one viewing .
O , Mistress Minefield	I had to stop the DVD and wind back when I caught the briefest glimpse of someone who looked like Anouk Aimee in the boxing match sequence and sure enough it was one of the two stars of Lelouch's biggest hit by a country mile , Un Homme et une femme , though what she was meant to signify is anybody's guess . As if that weren't reminder enough Francis Lai's evocative score often gets to within one quaver of a plagiarism suit - or would , if he could plagiarise himself legally - before veering off at a tangent . Yves Montand is having a ball - on paper ; a high-profile job that takes him all over the world , a mistress in every port and Annie Girardot waiting back home yet he is shot through with a vague melancholy and almost tangible discontent . Montand is superb , he was just finding his acting chops proper after two decades as a world-class singer and the odd foray into film and Compartiment tuer , a couple of years earlier , had seen him blossom into a fully-fledged actor but if he is superb Girardot is outstanding and faced with competition from both these giants Candice Bergen does well to hold her own but luckily she married Louis Malle around this time and didn't need to depend on acting to put food on the table . Lelouch employs a couple of interesting techniques but tends to negate these by lacing the drama with newsreel footage which doesn't really develop the story so much as merely punctuate it for punctuation's sake . In my case I have a desire to see anything and everything in which Montand appears but those who don't may find it pretty ho-hum .
Cruel Fete	It was slightly surreal to watch this film at the National Film Theatre given that the NFT was itself part of the Festival Of Britain so that today's audience may well have been sitting on the site of the corner shop that was discovered to be right in the path of the development . The drama , such as it is , surrounds the idea that an Englishman's home is his castle - rather timely in the present political climate - so that when the House of Lord's , the quaint name given to their corner shop by Mr ( Stanley Holloway ) and Mrs ( Kathleen Harrison ) Lord is threatened with demolition the family barricade themselves in and resist all attempts at eviction . Muriel Box writes and directs well enough and there are sufficient familiar faces - George Cole , Margaret Barton , Naunton Wayne - on hand to provide a warm glow for nostalgics .
The Rake's Progress	As someone who 1 ) admires the novels of John Le Carre and 2 ) is the owner of a healthy dose of cynicism I was slightly uneasy when I began to read reports that this was the ' best ' adaptation of any Le Carre novel . Though it's a while since I've seen either I don't recall there being much wrong with The Spy Who Came In From The Cold or The Deadly Affair ( an adaptation of Call For The Dead ) and having now seen Gardener I still find it inferior to the other two . Unlike other posters I detected no special chemistry and / or ' magic ' between the two leads ; Ralph Fiennes seemed as anaemic as ever and though he is undoubtedly a fairly decent actor he always gives the appearance of being heavily sedated and there was very little reason that a typical LSE student would fall passionately in love with a dull minor diplomat . Having said that the expose aspect of drug companies being aided by Government officials to exploit widespread famine and illness is a subject that does need airing and the film is at its best in the ' cover-up ' aspects as personified by Danny Houston and , at a much higher level , Bill Nighy . On balance this is more of a gentleman's C than a double first .
Publish And Be Damned	Prevert wrote this screenplay for Renoir the same year he wrote Jenny for Marcel Carne and it's interesting to speculate what might have happened in French cinema had Prevert forged a partnership with Renoir instead of Carne . There's a lot here about workers ' rights ' a subject that still , 70 years down the line , still preoccupies Robert Guidiguian , but given that Prevert IS Prevert there's also a lot of poetic touches and subtle dialogue . Indeed it is tempting to think that the Batala he wrote for Jules Berry was a rough draft for the real Devil that Berry would play a few years later in Les Visiteurs du Soir . Arguably one of the earliest uses of ' flashback ' it is also full of holes - the flashback is related by a laundress who has fled with Amedee Lange to a small inn on the border ; realizing that the proprietor and customers have recognized Lange as a man wanted for murder , she offers to tell his ( Lange's ) story and then let them decide whether or not to turn him in . However roughly half of what she relates is stuff of which she herself had no direct knowledge , conversations to which she was not privy , etc . If we make allowances for this we are left with a fairly engrossing story verging on a morality play of good ( Lange ) versus evil ( Batala ) and workers banding together and unlike La Belle Equipe remaining bonded via the glue of Lange's humanity . In many small ways it feels earlier than nineteen thirty six but that is not necessarily a bad thing . Now available in a boxed set of 3 Renoir titles of which La Grande Illusion stands out .
Nuts In May	If you approach this as what it is , unashamed feelgood family fare then you'll probably enjoy it without necessarily wanting to see it again for a few years . It's basically a morality tale in which good defeats bad and everyone lives happily ever after . In a nutshell - sorry about that - Jimmy Durante with wife and daughter , who haven't got change of a match between them , move into an apartment owned by miser Frank Orth , who deposits $1 , 500 behind the baseboard each week . The last resident was Jimmy Conklin and his vaudeville act The Great Rupert , a gifted squirrel who returns to the apartment when Conklin releases him , takes up a position behind the baseboard and drops the money into Durante's apartment as fast as Orth deposits it . The twist is that Durante uses it to do good and help those less fortunate . Love interest is provided by Durante's daughter , Terri Moore and Orth's son , Tom Drake and the only jarring note is Moore's unexplained volte-face when she ditches the sugar-daddy she's been dating in favor of Drake's penniless songwriter . This cavil to one side this is a seriously pleasant movie and if families still exist this is the sort of stuff they should be watching en masse .
Water Over The Dam	The DVD of this movie has just been given away with an English newspaper so that I've had a chance to watch it . There are lots of comments posted here and I've just read enough of them to note the controversy it has aroused , most of it relating to deviations from the facts that used to come under the heading of poetic license . What impressed me most some half a century later was the impressive performance of Michael Redgrave who inhabited the role of Barnes Wallis and who has one of the best lines when an official asks in all seriousness what case he can make for releasing a Wellington for tests , ' perhaps the fact that I designed it may help ' says Redgrave dryly . I was equally impressed that 75 % of the running time was taken up with the development and testing of the bouncing bomb leaving only 25 % for the raid itself which must have reflected the facts truly . Overall it belongs in that class of understated British war films of the time and even Richard Todd's usual wooden performance is strangely effective given that he is playing in effect an anti-hero . Certainly worth a look for Regrave's performance .
Mellow Fruitfulness	Autumn comes round every year and so , it seems , does Eric Rohmer . Essentially we're watching paint dry here and taking our time about it yet somehow Rohmer contrives to make watching paint dry watchable . The plot , if you can call it that , involves Marie Riviere's Isabelle contriving to find a man for her long-time friend Beatrice Romand ( Magali ) whilst engaged on the same mission is the girl friend of Magali's son who has in mind a specific swain , her own ex-tutor and lover , Etienne ( Didier Sandre ) who teaches philosophy on the side , his main occupation being the seduction of his young female students . That's about it . There's some pleasant shots of the South of France , some eating , drinking , conversation and before you know it it's fade out time .
Collectors Item	Once again there is only one previous comment for this film , once again it is written by a Frenchman living in France and once again it registers disappointment . How I wish I could be so blase ' about French films of the 30s / 40s and let's face it , I probably would be if I could turn on my television set and see examples seven days a week but alas that will never be the case in England so I will continue to harvest them where I can - not least from that very same critic - salivate as I savour the names on the credits - in this case Gabrielle Fontan , Marguerite Moreno , Suzy Prim , Jean Tissier , Pierre Larquey and Robert Le Vigan - and subsequently probably overpraise . At a time when Japan was very much an enemy it was arguably brave to assign the leading role to an actress born in Tonkin ; Foun-sen had established a modest reputation in French cinema and had already appeared in L'Alibi , Drole de Drame and Mollenard among others and here she plays Renee Menard who has come to Paris bent on finding the father who abandoned her . Fortuitously there are several Paul Menards in the telephone directory and she works her way through a representative collection which is , basically , the plot . Bernard Roland was a journeyman director who did make one excellent movie , Portrait d'un Assassin , from a script by Henri Decoin , and this is very much a journeyman effort . Jacques Viot's screenplay reminds us that not EVERY film made in France from the thirties through the fifties was written by one of the GREAT FOUR - Jacques Prevert , Charles Spaak , Henri Jeanson , Jean Aurenche - it just seems that way and most of the films that were seen outside France were the work of one of the four ( five , if you include Pierre Bost , who was Aurenche's writing partner from 1943 ) . Viot had , as it happened , worked on Le Jour se leve with Prevert and it clearly went to his head ( he also worked on the dire American version , The Long Night ) , possibly because he worked with Prevert's best collaborator , Marcel Carne on L'Air de Paris and Juliette ou le clef des songes but of course there is only one Jacques Prevert and it isn't Jacques Viot , not by a country mile . Nevertheless the film is entertaining and , to someone like me , priceless as an example of French cinema BG ( before Godard ) .
Black And Tan	This French cult movie is now available on DVD and the plus factor is that it boasts virtually all of Splendid , the theatre company who collectively wrote and acted in several landmark productions such as Le Pere Noel est une ordeure , and is a chance to see the early - it was only his second full-length film - directorial work of Patrice Leconte but the negative factor is the dubbed English soundtrack which not only misses 90 per cent of the verbal humour , for which it can't be blamed but contrives to make all the characters sound the same , as if they could only run to one male and one female and hired two dorks who were unable to speak in anything other than monotones . Even if you don't speak French or speak only grade-school French you're probably better off ignoring the dubbed option and just relish this tightly-knit group of actors-writers in their salad days - Josie Balasko , for example is barely recognizable as a size 10 - and have fun trying to locate such modern stars as Thierry Thermitte , Gerard Jugnot , Michel Blanc etc . Essentially it's a send-up of the Club Med scene and plays more like a series of vignettes than a well-made play but the rewards are there if you persevere .
Lite-Housekeeping	Yet another small gem from that great year of French pics 2002 . The talent is out of the right bottle too if anybody asks you , writer director Claude Berri and male lead Jean-Pierre Bacri , no slouch as a writer himself . To a certain extent is IS a male fantasy with Emillie Duquenne all but throwing herself at Bacri who has to be twice her age at least . But , as others have pointed out in these boards Bacri is basically decent and certainly wasn't looking for a May-December affair only for someone to police his apartment . For reasons of her own Duquenne developed what seemed to be genuine hots for him and naturally he's not going to turn down an attractive young girl . There's no special insight nor is any attempted , it's just a record of a brief fling in which nobody really gets hurt and we get to see some pleasant Parisian locations and listen to some pleasing music . Lemon soufflé anyone .
Strike Up The Bland	Despite a reasonably varied output Jacques Demy is destined to be remembered by film buffs as the onlie begetter of The Umbrellas of Cherbourg and by admirers of Cole Porter , Larry Hart , Frank Loesser , Johnny Mercer etc as the William MacGonigall of lyricists , indeed Demy established something of a record in the number of banal lyrics he has committed to celluloid . Defenders will argue that in creating ' sung-through ' musicals he was not looking for extractable hit songs ( though in English translations two did emerge from Cherbourg ) . That first musical was bittersweet albeit brightly lit whereas this last entry is much more dark as reflected in the sombre reds and blues . Set against a strike it all ends in tears but along the way Danielle Darrieux , and Richard Berry weigh in with some fine work . Definitely watchable .
L'hommes du train	At least they waited fifty years to remake this which means that most of the popcorn brigade wouldn't have seen the original and have probably never seen an actor half as good as Van Heflin who makes Christian Bale look like the cardboard cutout he is . A lot of critics have been salivating over this remake and hailing it as the Second Coming . Actually it's a fine piece of film-making boasting good visuals and a strong central premise - if we draw a discreet veil over the ridiculous ending - back in the thirties you could just about get away with Jimmy Cagney screaming in terror as he went to the chair in Angels With Dirty Faces so that the punks who idolized him might think twice about emulating him ; but Russell Crowe walking onto the train voluntarily just so Christian Bale's son will admire his dead father is just a bad joke - and Good versus Evil is , after all , what the Western has always been about but this one wants to have it both ways so that Crowe's Ben Wade is subtly elevated to a Huey Long figure who does bad in order to do good . If they WERE bent on changing the original - and they WERE because the bulk of that took place in the hotel room allowing Ford and Heflin to spark off each other , whereas in this version the hotel room sequence is probably less than ten per cent of the total footage - then they would have been better to give more screen time to Gretchen Mol as Bale's wife and explore their clearly troubled relationship in more depth . Of course nothing I say here is going to affect the obvious success of this remake so I'll content myself with reserved praise and disappointment for what might have been .
Hello , Mary Lou , Goodbye , Job	In the early fifties the portmanteau movie was still hanging around ; it came in several formats ; the easiest was to adapt short works by noted writers , Maugham , O'Henry , Maupassant , etc . La Ronde was one variant on this using a common theme and different actors for each episode . Souvenirs perdus linked four stories via items in a Lost Property office and so on . Carlo Rim's take on the genre was to have several episodes linked via a housemaid who recalled her various employers and although top billing went to Danielle Darrieux she only appeared in one episode whilst the actual lead was Etchika Chourea as the housemaid . Though she appeared in just short of twenty films during her career Chourea failed to sec the screen alight or even cause s spark but she acquits herself well in what turns out to be a more than pleasant divertissement .
It Wasn't All Classics . . .	. . . in 1939 though they'd have you think so . There were also bread-and-butter entries like this one , pleasant enough , entertaining even , but lacking that little ' extra ' in an era that offered Easy Living , The Awful Truth etc . Of course anything with Eve Arden is going to be watchable and it's especially interesting to see Brod Crawford in the Ralph Bellamy role and trivia buffs will love the fact that Niven , here married to a Bishop's granddaughter ( Young ) moved both of them up a notch when he made Young The Bishop's Wife a decade later . Also noteworthy is the expose of magician's tricks , not least a new wrinkle on mind-reading . Lots to like her for the undemanding .
It's In The Bag	This was the first of several collaborations between Jacques Prevert and his kid brother Pierre . Prevert senior wrote two other screenplays that same year but it was junior's first At Bat . For a four and a half reeler it's quite tasty albeit weighed down by a hackneyed plot - the one where all the guys want to marry the girl with the dowry - but Prevert's linguistic touch is well in evidence and he can even be seen in a matelot-type striped jersey playing the flute . Julien Carrette is also on hand and that is always a good sign . The majority of the cast were and remain relatively unknown - Sound was still a new concept in French cinema and actors were selected as much for how they sounded as for acting ability - but the film is definitely more than a curio .
Taking The Fifth	For someone who takes movies as seriously as I do and has logged literally millions of miles of celluloid there's still an awful lot I've yet to see including musicals , one of my favorite genres and this was one of them yet barely five minutes in I realized that I had in fact seen it albeit via a remake with non-too-subtle changes . Consider the plot : We're spoon-fed the information that Gary Blake ( Dick Powell ) has written and will star in a new Revue ' On The Avenue ' just about to open on Broadway and co-starring Mona Merrick ( Alice Faye ) . Cut to opening night and after a number by Mona ( He Ain't Got Rhythm ) we segue into a sketch satirising ' the richest girl in the world ' even as the subject of the sketch , Mimi Caraway ( Madeleine Carroll ) takes her seat in the orchestra along with her father , Commodore Caraway ( George Barbier ) and fiancé Frederick Sims , the well-known Arctic explorer ( Alan Mowbray ) . Mimi , clearly based on Gloria Vanderbilt , is not too pleased about the satire any more than the Commodore and Sims but this doesn't prevent her falling for Gary before secretly buying the show and humiliating Gary . I don't know about you but I saw a movie about a millionaire who heard about a show IN REHEARSAL that satirised him ; he went along incognito and fell for one of the actresses so he bought the show secretly and put himself forward as a look-alike of the real millionaire , thus securing a role which kept him close to the actress . So , if you've seen Let's Make Love starring Yves Montand and Marilyn Monroe then you've more or less seen On The Avenue but Let's Make Love had neither Alice Faye nor an Irving Berlin score and On The Avenue had to make do with Dick Powell instead of the great Yves Montand . Be that as it may Berlin contributed a fine score in which ironically singing joke Dick Powell , on loan from Warners , got to ' sing ' what has become the best-known number , I've Got My Love To Keep Me Warm - for good measure he was also allotted two further ballads , You're Laughing At Me ( how right he was ) and The Girl On The Police Gazette , whilst Alice Faye , the best singer by a mile , wound up with This Year's Kisses , Slumming On Park Avenue and He Ain't Got Rhythm . There was fine support from Cora Witherspoon , Billy Gilbert , an underused Joan Davis , and Sig Ruman and a good time was had by all , especially patrons . One for the collection .
Blade Ruiner	Gordon Douglas was something of a poor man's Michael Curtiz at Warner Brothers inasmuch as he could turn his hand to just about any genre the studio assigned him to . In the early fifties Alan Ladd had run out of exotic locations to meet Veronica Lake and William Bendix at Paramount and although his greatest performance and greatest Paramount film by far ( Shane ) was already in the can though unreleased his agent wife Sue Carroll brokered a deal that took him to Warners who , being hip to his stand-out performance in Shane , laid on another ' Western ' to welcome him aboard . As a biography of Jim Bowie it fits where it touches and concludes with no reference to the Alamo - probably a bit tricky as Bowie winds up the movie married to the daughter of a Mexican official . That aside it's a fine example of the genre with Ladd on top of his game albeit playing Bowie as a nice guy who can't seem to help killing people , mostly as a result of his involvement with super-bitch socialite Virginia Mayo . In terms of Ladd's overall career it ranks well inside the top half and will surely entertain viewers .
Past Its Cell-By Date	This is a fairly elusive early film by Mank and it's nice to get the chance to catch up with it in the Mank season at the NFT - where , bizarrely , they're showing 19 out of the 20 movies he directed and inexplicably omitting Somewhere In The Night which is freely available on DVD . The original work was by John Galsworthy no less but brought up to date by Phillip Dunn in his third and last screenplay for Mank . The whole thing takes place in an England located not so much off the coast of France as on the shady side of Neptune and one that only viewers over sixty have even a ghost of a chance of recognizing . Rex Harrison plays the sort of man who , in the post-war austerity of 1948 , thinks nothing of piloting a private plane , spending a day at the races and happily laying out £50 ( a fortune in those days ) on behalf of a mechanic at the aerodrome , who picks a horse that comes in last . Later , strolling through the park he falls into conversation with a prostitute and when she is apprehended by a detective Harrison , ever the gallant , lays him out . Alas , his head comes into contact with a park bench and he winds up with a tag on his toe . Harrison , ever the gentleman , stays around til the police arrive and winds up doing three years on Dartmoor . Naturally he is incensed and escapes at the first opportunity , runs across Peggy Cummins riding to hounds , who then becomes the friendly female helping a fugitive mandatory in such films . It's all good fun and Mank wraps it up in 78 minutes . For Mank completists it is , of course , a must , but others will probably enjoy it if they're fairly undemanding .
Danielle In The Lion's Den	Those who love Wilder can and will find something to love in even his most blah projects - The Emperor Waltz for example - and this is no exception . It's fascinating to notice little ' touches ' not necessarily commonplace in 1934 like the early scene when the protagonist , recently stripped of his car by a tough-love father ' sees ' another car reflected in a shop window and we can almost pinpoint the moment when he decides to steal it yet Wilder refuses to follow this shot with the next logical one , i . e . the car being actually stolen ; instead we cut to another car containing two men which effectively ' masks ' the theft and THIS shot is followed by our protagonist now at the wheel and blithely speeding away . This is a film full of wheels and circles or , to put it another way , motion . This is not to say the trademark Wilder wit is not evident as there are gags a plenty . At seventeen years old and already a veteran actress Danielle Darrieux is virtually unrecognizable physically but the talent was there right from the beginning . No Wilder collection is complete without this and once again I'm indebted to an ultra kind Frenchman who taped it for me .
They Shoot Horses , Don't They	Kubrick made this film before being stricken by what I call David Leanitis , a disease with no known cure in which directors who have done sterling work and enjoyed great success with ' small ' films become susceptible to an overwhelming urge to do ' epic ' witness Lean himself who made a brilliant and acknowledged all-time classic set largely in the confines of a railway station which served as a microcosm for the world at large but couldn't rest until he'd explored the vastness of 1 ) the desert , 2 ) Mother Russia and 3 ) the sub-Continent . If anything Kubrick went one better seeing Lean's desert and raising him outer Space . However The Killing stands up reasonably well after half a century albeit Kubrick more or less ' stole ' the plot of John Huston's The Asphalt Jungle which was then some six years old . For movie buffs the cast is a dream from top-billed Sterling Hayden more or less replicating his role in The Asphalt Jungle with the minor difference that this time around he was the master-mind ( a role played by Sam Jaffe in ' Jungle ' ) instead of just one of the team , through Joe Sawyer , Jay C . Flippen , Elisha Cook , Jay Adler , Timothy Carey with a special mention for Marie Windsor as the femme fatale to end them all . It was made at the tail-end of the ' crime-does-not-pay ' era or , more accurately , crime must not be SEEN to pay which means that there is a fairly risible ending in which Hayden , stuck with two million dollars in small bills buys a suitcase without bothering to check if it locks or even attempting to secure it with straps , etc , so that it can fall off the trolley taking it to the plane and burst open . Prior to that the planning and execution of the heist , shot out of context and beefed up by voice-over narration , had held the interest whilst being far inferior to Jean-Pierre Melville's Le Cercle Rouge , which remains if not the last then certainly Next to the last word in heist movies . Certainly worth checking out of Blockbuster .
When in Rome	All three principals - Writer , Director , Actor - had turned out far superior stuff to this and I speak as someone who bows to no one in my admiration for Richard L . Breen's Pete Kelly's Blues and A Foreign Affair ( co-written with Billy Wilder ) , Gordon Douglas ' Young At Heart and Frank Sinatra's entire career . Journeyman director Gordon Douglas worked with Sinatra on three movies besides this one ; the sequel , Lady In Cement , Robin And The Seven Hoods and the aforementioned Young At Heart . He also shot the remake of Stagecoach , Only The Valiant , and a forgotten film in which Jimmy Cagney played an alkie , Come Fill The Cup , all good solid jobs without being exceptional . In the wake of Bill Goldman's screenplay for Paul Newman , Harper , the private eye genre became a drug on the market in the 60s and if Tony Rome is no worse than most neither is it any better . It's the kind of part that Sinatra could phone in while lighting a cigarette and cutting an album and there are too many strands that if developed sufficiently - like Sinatra's relationship with Richard Conte's working cop - might have lifted it out of the rut . It passes a hundred minutes more or less painlessly but that's the best you can give it .
Ivory Coasting	Richard Pottier , all but forgotten today , was as fine a journeyman as any director working in French cinema - he was actually born in what used to be known as the Austro-Hungarian empire in the middle of the twentieth century ; he worked with Prevert , Fernandel and directed no less than five movies for Continental during the occupation and was at home in most types of film making him something of a small-scale Michael Curtiz . This hugely enjoyable entry would hardly claim to be original - two film flam men team up with a femme fatale to take a rich pigeon and forget their original goal when they realise he possesses a ' treasure ' map which , if interpreted correctly will leave them up to their asses in ivory - but , as is so often the case , it's all in the wrists and when the wrists are on hands belonging to Isa Miranda we're in relatively safe hands .
The Star Who Came In From The Cold	Several posters have quoted Renoir voicing his desire to make a film showing Ingrid Bergman smiling to camera . The short answer is wouldn't we all whilst the harsh reality is that only a select few got to do so . At this stage of her career Bergman couldn't get arrested ; in 1949 she left Hollywood to make a picture in Europe , fell for director Roberto Rossellini and never looked forward . After five turkeys in Italy she was probably ready to open a vein but within the year , after making this for Renoir , she was back where she belonged and with an Oscar to boot for Anastasia . This is one of three movies that Renoir made in color around this time and on balance it's better than The Golden Coach , which isn't hard , and about even with French Can Can . Renoir probably figured that with so much going for her Bergman could get away with a couple of wooden leading men and Renoir picked two doozys in Jean Marais and Mel Ferrer , solid mahogany in both cases . The plot is actually based on a real incident in French history but Renoir is content to give it a once-over-lightly and concentrate on replicating the paintings of his father in set up after set up . In its pastel colors it resembles another film of the period Les Grandes Manouvres which is no bad thing . All in all it remains a pleasant trifle showcasing a beautiful and charismatic actress .
Three-Quarter Wilder . . .	. . . is , of course , streets ahead of four-quarter Godard but this does disappoint more than it pleases . If she's not careful Joan Fontaine is likely to wind up on the wrong end of a Trivial Pursuit question : Which non-singing , non-dancing actress still managed to co-star with a leading singer and THE dancer of the twentieth century . There's absolutely no chemistry whatsoever between Fontaine and Crosby which is understandable considering Crosby was in love with himself . Although they were at the same studio , Paramount , Crosby was serenely unaware that Wilder was in the middle of a hitting streak and had just turned out four smashes - The Major And The Minor , Five Graves To Cairo , Double Indemnity and The Lost Weekend - in a row and collected Best Screenplay , Best Director , Best Picture Oscars for the last one , because he showed up with his own team of writers headed by Barney Dean ( yeah , you heard ; Barney Dean to re-write Billy Wilder ) and would hand new pages to Wilder each day saying ' here's what we'll be shooting today ' or ' I'll be playing golf , let me know ' . Alas , what he lacked in manners / respect Crosby made up for in clout , his pictures were just as big hits as Wilder's and he'd had more of them . Apart from this what started out as a valentine to fin-de-siecle Vienna metamorphosed into a tribute to Yankee know-how / get-up-and-go with Crosby's David taking on the Viennese Goliath in the shape of Emeror Franz-Joseph ( Richard Haydn ) . No Wilder film could ever be all bad and his barbed reference to genocide remains with Crosby saving a mongrel litter from Sig Ruman's ' doctor ' and confronting Franz-Joseph with a speech about the mongrels not being ' pure ' enough to be allowed to live . Franz-Joseph is played as something just this side of a buffoon and there's absolutely no mention of the assassination of his wife , Sissi ( a memorable role for Romy Schneider ) or the double suicide of his son and the son's mistress at Mayerling . The prime interest will be to Wilder completists and / or what-might-have-beeners .
Let's Hear It For Anti-P	The negative aspect of this brilliant satire is that it won't really change anything . Those sad no-lifers who invented PC and continue to practice it , slowly making the world an unhappier place will fail to recognize themselves as the butt of this black humour , people like that never do . The other sad thing is that it is only SO funny because we , the if not quite Silent then only Half-Vocal Majority , are so starved of normal avenues for laughter again thanks to the saddos who advocate PC . Twenty years ago we wouldn't have needed to go to these extremes because we were allowed to be honest and employ NON offensive humor which the targets - be they Black , Jew , Gay , whatever , Knew and acknowledged it WAS only inoffensive humor . The number of comments on this board alone plus the queues at cinemas showing it and the mass laughter in auditoria across nations SHOULD be enough to see off the saddos but of course it won't be . It's one of those movies that's hilarious as you watch it but not necessarily on a subsequent viewing . Meanwhile let's hope the saddos get the message .
What If . . .	. . . Alec Harvey ( Trevor Howard ) and Laura Jesson ( Celia Johnson ) hadn't been happily ( even boringly ) married when they had that chance meeting in ' Brief Encouter ' but instead full of angst because 1 ) his wife was terminally ill and they had mutually agreed that she would take her own life and 2 ) her husband had regressed to a stage one up from complete vegetable following an accident in which their young daughter died . That , my friends , is the premise for the unlikely meeting between Yves Montand and Romy Schneider who meet on and off throughout one single night then separate . In his wisdom Costa-Gavros has taken one of the most beautiful women in the world and asked her to play dowdy and a man who is charm personified and asked him to play nerd . Somehow it works . Of COURSE it does . We're talking Montand and Schneider here so what's not to work . On the other hand the odds against the stranger whose shopping he knocks to the ground whilst alighting from a taxi being a woman as angst-ridden as himself have to be in the high Impossibles-To-One and it might be interesting to see if Romain Gary made a better fist of it in his novel from which the film is adapted . Montand and Gavros had a history , of course ; Gavros got his first break as a director when both Montand and his wife Simone Signoret agreed to star in Compartiment tuers which may not have been green-lighted otherwise and Montand turned in one of his all-time best performances ( and that's saying something ) in L'Aveu with Gavros on bullhorn so maybe he figured why not . It is indisputable that Montand and Schneider were far , far better in Sautet's Cesar et Rosalie where she was allowed to be not just an actress ( and she was a very fine one ) but a BEAUTIFUL actress and he was allowed to display not just his considerable acting prowess but also his singular charm and charisma . Here , as if the two guilt-laden protagonists weren't enough we get an eccentric animal trainer , a dog dancing with a monkey ( symbolic ? You tell me ) and Montand ' communicating ' with Schneider's brain-impaired husband via gibberish . Yeah , THAT's what it is , a Doris Day movie . Still what we can't get away from is that this is a movie starring Montand and Schneider and that makes it worthwhile . Just .
Perrier Masquerading As Champagne	This is perhaps best viewed as a complement to La Femme Infidele inasmuch as both films feature infidelity in the well-heeled set and in both cases infidelity segues into murder with both murderers confiding in their spouses - those same spouses on whom they'd been cheating - whilst waiting to be nailed by the flics . Staphane Audran ( then Madame Chabrol ) is common to both films playing the adulterous wife in the first and then seeing how it felt to be cheated on in this one . This is often spoken of as a great period - late 60s , early 70s - for Chabrol and he certainly turned out some slick , glossy , psychological thrillers at the time , favouring a pastel , muted colour and steady , reliable actors . This is no exception and all three principals cannot be faulted performance-wise but it's difficult to escape the feeling that the whole thing is a tad over-clinical .
One Flew Into The Cuckoo's Nest	Although there is fine support from the likes of Karl Malden , Neville Brand , Thelma Ritter , Betty Field and Eddie O'Brien in a cameo the film stands or falls on Lancaster's central performance and it's a performance that can't be faulted . Having established himself in one prison movie , Brute Force , and followed it up with several ' tough guy ' roles Lancaster had no trouble with the early scenes in which Robert Stroud is both tough and violent but he also has to mature and mellow and Lancaster handles that as well as anyone . Whit Bissell seemed bent on cornering the market in animal doctors at the time , having played them in both Hud and this one and there's a nice irony in Neville Brand , who made HIS name as a violent con in Riot In Cell Block 11 , turning into a humane warder this time around . A fascinating study of a fascinating real person and a satisfying film .
Lovers And Other Strangers	This represents yet another nail in the coffin of the new wavelet ; released in 1958 it features everything the spoiled brats were rebelling against and as if that weren't enough it was shot by Henri Decae , who they liked to claim as their own , proving here that at heart he was light years away from their hand-held arrogance . Nice , too , to see Alain Cuny who seemed to disappear - at least from International screens - after Les Visiteurs du soir as the boring ( to his wife ) semi aristocrat owner of both a newspaper and a château , neither of which does much to scratch the itch afflicting his wife , Jeanne Moreau , which even the attentions of a polo-playing lover cannot assuage . There's some nice observations of the Old-Money set in their natural habitat , ravishing black and white photography and a set piece in a nocturnal wood that is the very antithesis of new wavelet novelty . It was the second time hand-running that Moreau had played an adulterous wife for Malle and if anything she was better this time around . Now it's available in a boxed set of Malle it may attract the attention it deserves .
Stocks And Shears	There may be a term paper in French filmmakers and money metaphors . Back in 1921 Marcel L'Herbier adapted the Greek legend of Prometheus and equated him with a financier ; fifteen years later Maurice Tourneur - who had spent a considerable time making American films - adapted the Biblical story of Samson and made him , guess what , not only a financier but a pillar ( nice touch that ) of the Bourse , the Paris Stock Exchange so that when Delilah gets happy with those shears both pillars - real and symbolic - come crashing down . The great Harry Bauer takes the lead as an African copper magnate and Delilah comes in the shape of Gaby Morlay , more or less coerced into a loveless marriage by mom , titled but penniless Gabrielle Dorziat . In another nice touch this Samson wasn't blind to the reason Morlay said ' yes ' but she WAS blind to his very real love for her so that when she picks the wrong guy to step out of line with Bauer has no compunction in ruining not only the other man but also himself and two-thirds of the Bourse . Strong stuff at the tail-end of the Great Depression and a fine addition to any DVD collection .
The Music That Makes Them Dance	Triple-threat Noemie Lvovsky is one of that relatively small group of French female directors who continue to act - her latest acting job , Valerie Bruni-Tedeschi's Actress , opens in Paris next week . When she gets in right , as she did in Sentiments , Lvovsky is right up there with Nicole Garcia and Valerie Lemercier , which coming from me is praise indeed . The other two posters clearly didn't enjoy this as much as I did but those are the breaks . Had I been Jean-Pierre Marielle I'd have paid Lvovsky to work with Sabine Azema , Bulle Ogier and Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi and it was obvious that Jean-Pierre savoured every moment . Dysfunctional and / or eccentric families are nothing new and the best a director can hope to do is apply a little spin and this Lvovsky does ; if the sight of Marielle tap dancing a la Fred Astaire doesn't do it for you then the charm of the real Astaire probably passed right over your head and you'd best stay away from this delicate soufflé laced with acid drops .
Last Round At The Coach And Hearses	It would be interesting to know what a contemporary audience made of this when it hit the salles in 1939 ; it was one of 94 French films released that year but it's debatable whether any other wove together so many elements from other movies . Consider : The leading lady is an officer in the Salvation Army ( Major Barbara ) , she's dying of TB ( Camille ) and spends the bulk of her working life amidst dossers and no-hopers ( The Lower Depths ) and , oh yes , the dead are permitted to look at the living ( Liliom ) but in retrospect it's fascinating to note that in the year the war began we had a film blending fantasy with realism and in the year the war ended we had another , Les Portes de la nuit , so there's clearly a Term Paper lurking in there somewhere . Even Carne didn't produce as many fine films as Duvivier in the thirties and only Renoir tied him with a half dozen . This glides effortlessly from frames full of teeming life to lyrical scenes like an old woman trudging alone through a vast snowy landscape and , towards the end , bucolic scenes in pastoral meadowland . Only Michele Morgan had a pair of eyes like Micheline Francey's in French cinema and time and again Duvivier lets us see them in close up which serves as gorgeous punctuation to the more harrowing scenes . The plot has Francey determined to ' save ' a lush , Pierre Fresnay , and return him to the bosom of his family whilst quietly and discreetly running out of breath herself . Louis Jouvet is reduced to a supporting role and dies around the fourth reel but not before a scenery-chewing episode in which he is burning with a fever which compels him to leave his bed and stumble over snow-filled roofs where he expires to reappear towards the end in the driving seat of the ghostly carriage for which Fresnay is booked as his relief . Apart from an isolated scene at the start where ghostly hands separate the old woman's soul from her body plus the odd creaking of the as yet unseen phantom carriage Duvivier saves most of his process shots for the end ( and for 1939 they are excellent ) and in some respects call to mind the last scene in Three Comrades . Again I am indebted to our Scandinavian friend who supplied the print of this very fine movie .
Foxy Trot	Some forty years ago there were two enormously talented French Writer-Directors who moved effortlessly between Stage and Screen , often adapting their own theatrical triumphs for film . If Marcel Pagnol is arguably still remembered outside France by virtue of his great Trilogy ( Marius , Fanny , Cesar ) of the early thirties and the late quartet ( Jean de Florette , Manon des Sources , La Gloire de ma pere , La Château de ma mere ) some fifty years later , then Sacha Guitry is no less celebrated still in France , or Paris at least , where retrospectives are a regular thing on the Art House / Revival circuit . Whilst there was little to choose between them in terms of talent and craftsmanship Pagnol tended to favor rural tradespeople - Bakers , Well-Diggers , Saloonkeepers - whilst Guitry was more inclined to write about urban sophisticates . This typical Guitry entry was remade by Valerie Lemercier , who also acted in it as did Guitry himself ( an extra string that was lacking in the bow of Pagnol ) and now , thanks to the generosity of the guy in Norway , I am the proud owner of the DVD of Quadrille . The Guitry ' touch ' is evident throughout from his penchant for showing clips of not only actors but technicians in the opening credits to his polished take on contemporary mores and scintillating dialogue . On paper this is little more than mixed sexual doubles but on celluloid it's game , set and match to an old maestro .
Funny Girl , Funny Lady , Funny Kid	This was 18 year old Danielle Darrieux ' seventeenth film in four years and if we accept that not that many teenagers get to make that many films it becomes apparent that she was more than just another ' cute ' kid . The fact that her co-star , Albert Prejean had made his first film when Darrieux was just four years old illustrates something of a timeless problem in the movie business , while cute , pretty , attractive , gorgeous , sexy , or even beautiful teenage girls are crawling out of the woodwork at any one time the same , alas , cannot be said for the male of the species witness Audrey Hepburn's tally of leading men . Be that as it may this is yet another charmer designed to beat those Depression blues and send the audience out of the salles with a smile on its face albeit hunger in its stomach . Leo Joannon was a master at this genre although he did , in later years , get religion metaphorically speaking which caused him to turn out material best described as a poor man's Andre Cayatte , and he keeps the soufflé rising in this piece of fluff which sees Darrieux in love with a boss who reciprocates but couldn't dream of marrying one of his employees . Suitably miffed Darrieux Brodies off a bridge - taking care to select one with a handy set of steps close by . Playboy Prejean naturally chooses that moment to pass in his limo , spot the situation and save her . For his thanks Darrieux comes on like a male Boudu causing havoc in his household until it all ends just as we knew it would . This is a lovely example of ' bread-and-butter ' domestic film-making in France midway through the first decade of sound . Seven years later Joannon would direct the pair again in Caprices and one year after that Prejean would be playing Maigret for Continental whilst Darrieux would have been married to and divorced from Henri Decoin but not before making six fine movies with him . What an era in French cinema .
When ' Teen ' Equalled Clean	If , as I'm sure I read somewhere , the word ' teenager ' was coined in the mid 1950s then the boys and girls who epitomize joie de vivre in this minor masterpiece from 1949 are merely young people who are not yet in search of a label . It has been compared to the New Wavelet that would swirl round the ankles of older and better filmmakers in the late 1950s but primarily because Becker took his camera on to the streets of post-war Paris and focused it on young people who were rebelling in a modest way against the values of an older generation . But young people had always , at one stage in their development , rebelled against their parents and what they stood for and they'd taken a camera on to the streets of Manhattan two years earlier in The Naked City or , like the man said , there's nothing new under the sun . To watch this film today - and in my case for the first time , thanks to my Norwegian benefactor - is to be struck by just how CLEAN as well as clean-cut these kids were ; no tattoos , no scruffy sweat shirts and torn jeans , no rings through the nose , eyebrows or anywhere else and no tongue studs , definitely no H , Coke , Crack , Smack or Speed and YET with all these ' handicaps ' they still HAD A BALL . Okay , not all of them were teenagers ; Daniel Gelin , who held them all together was 28 and Brigitte Auber was 21 , though Nicole Courcel weighed in at 19 . With the exception of Gelin most non-French viewers may well assume that these people came out of nowhere , shot this movie and disappeared without trace but not so ; Pierre Trabaud , for example , dubbed Marlon Brando in On The Waterfront and was still acting four decades after this movie when he featured in Round Midnight ; Nicole Courcel had already appeared ( uncredited ) in Les Amoureux sont seuls au monde and would go on to Gibier de potence and La Marie du Port whilst Brigitte Auber , who had also been in Les Amoureux sont seuls du monde would go on to Duvivier's Under Paris Skies , which IMDb refuses to accept in French . This is a Hymn to Youth and a wonderful contrast to stuff like City Across The River , released the same year or Rebel Without A Cause ; in all three teenagers are ' troubled ' but in Becker's movie they handle it with much more maturity and zest for life as they drive around Paris - in an amphibious vehicle that was probably a remnant of World War II and resembles something known as a ' duck ' that is as much at home on the Seine as on the boulevards - in between sessions in jazz clubs . A real gem and a joy to watch .
The Grooms Came C . O .	If you attempt to take this film literally you'll encounter the kind of problems that one of the three people who have posted reviews here has noted . Until Time Travel arrives it remains impossible to know just WHAT it felt like in 1939 with a World War waiting in the wings , i . e . would we crave escapism and yearn to o . d . on soufflé's like this or would we dismiss them as irresponsible trifles and demand something with more gravitas . It may be worth remembering that 1939 has been well documented as a vintage year in Hollywood cinema with such releases as Gone With The Wind , Stagecoach , Ninotchka , etc , none of them particularly weighty . Pedants may well question the SPEED with which an Idea becomes a Fact . Guitry identifies a gap in the market ; there are lots of wealthy Foreign women in Paris who are looking at a one-way ticket home unless a loophole can be found ; Guitry figues the answer is our old friend the marriage of ' convenience ' ; one minute he has the idea , next minute he has opened a Hospice de veuillards ( in French a hospice is just a home rather than a place for the terminally ill , ergo hospice de veuillards = old people's home ) and no sooner is it open for business than the women arrive by shuttle . If this bothers you then you're destined for a bad two hours but if you're content to suspend your disbelief you're in for a treat of vintage Guitry which is saying something . One of his finest films and very well worth seeing .
A Plague On Both Your Houses	Yet another entertaining policier from France and one of the last films made by the late and very much lamented Michel Serrault , which would be reason enough to see it but as it turns out that reason is superfluous because the film stands on its own two feet as an excellent thriller with an unusual storyline which begins with mysterious signs painted on doorways and embraces the introduction into Paris of bubonic plague to which no one is immune least of all cop Lucas Belvaux , taking a break from directing to play second lead here . Olivier Gourmet is a modern version of the old Town Crier - and though I go to Paris several times each year I've yet to see one , although that doesn't mean they don't exist - who collects letters daily and then reads them out publicly , unaware that they are being ' treated ' with the plague virus . The mystery , of course , is Who and Why and we get there in the end but not before a well-balanced mixture of the cerebral and physical such as the sequence where a suspect escapes on roller blades and is pursued on foot and by car or the linking of the cerebral in the shape of Michel Serrault and the physical represented by Marie Gillain - in her third film in the salles this week - who almost chokes him to death before herself being pursued underneath the supports of a bridge from which she eventually plunges into the Seine . All in all a very satisfactory thriller .
Bizarre Notes From Underground	This is a screen adaptation of one of those novels they said couldn't be filmed . Raymonde Queneau is a sort of James Joyce-lite whose work is studded with word-play but Jean-Paul Rappeneau and director Louis Malle make it work . A simple premise - Zazie , played by 12 year old Catherine Demongeot , is brought to Paris by her mother and dumped on uncle ( Philippe Noiret ) so mom can enjoy some R and R with her latest boyfriend . Zazie has only one desire , to see and ride on the Metro but the Metro is on strike - spins out of control as foul-mouthed Zazie takes off on her own and encounters a succession of pre-Monty Python / Basil Fawlty types in nothing flat . As if this bouillabaisse needed seasoning Uncle is a drag artist though straight with it . If you don't respond to zany humour you'll find it infantile - as at least one commenter did - if not chances are you'll rejoice .
The Two Faces Of Lulu	Carine Tardieu has turned out a gently enigmatic film of the kind that used to be called a ' woman's picture ' . The protagonist Lucille , known as Lulu is first seen in a pre-credit sequence fighting in a school playground and looking about ten or twelve whilst a short time later she is seen at the wheel of the family car with her parents as passengers . Half the time she is fairly plain with slightly crooked teeth and at others she is radiant with perfect teeth . Her mother , Karin Viard , is loaded with inertia and permanently depressed and has been so for most of Lulu's life so when Lulu stumbles on a set of photos and a home movie showing a radiant Viard in love - but not with her husband - Lulu decides to track down the lover and bring him back into her mother's life . As another person has noted there are several questions that could use answers but on the whole it's a charming little film very much in the French style .
Hungarian Rhapsody	There's a wonderful ' in joke ' at work here : Leslie Howard , the ultimate ' English ' man , teacher of English and expert ON English was actually Hungarian though George Bernard Shaw could have had no idea of this when , in his original play he created a Hungarian pupil of Higgins who became so adept that he , too , could spot an impostor at ten glottal stops . Inevitably comparisons will be made with My Fair Lady and , by extension , between Howard and Harrison . It's really no contest ; in real life Harrison was widely acknowledged both to his face and behind his back to be a super c . . . so that he could phone in the Higgins arrogance and disdain whereas Howerd was a much nicer , gentler person and had to ' act ' the Higgins arrogance . The movie is this week's free DVD with a Broadsheet newspaper and it makes a welcome addition though the companion DVD - also directed by Puffin Asquith - The Browning Version is light years ahead of it and an acknowledged classic .
Goldilocks At Graveside	Irwin Shaw settled in Paris in 1951 and remained based there for two decades and it's fun to speculate that he saw this movie there and found the concept - during a funeral five people , the wife , son , daughter , mistress and a business associate of the deceased give their respective takes on his life - sufficiently interesting to borrow the opening for one of his finer late stories , Goldilocks At Graveside , published in his collection Love On A Dark Street in the mid 1960s . For that matter Joe Mankiewicz possibly borrowed the same motif for The Barefoot Contessa , released one year later than Bon Dieu . Arguably the opening are all the three have in common ; the dead man in Shaw's tale was a promising State Department official whose career was destroyed by the eponymous Goldilocks and lived out his life in obscurity , the shoeless aristocrat was a major film actress and Monsieur Dupont was a small-time business man . Autant-Lara ignores the rules of flashback and the film is stronger for it and if Danielle Darrieux as the mistress gets as much screen time as the wife , son , daughter and business associate put together by virtue of her star status this is not necessarily a bad thing given that Darrieux is the kind of actress the camera loves and riveting to watch . Autant-Lara extracts marvellous performances from the entire cast including Claude Berri and Julien Carette in relatively small roles and an Award winning one from his leading man . Released some five years before the new wavelet began lapping the feet of the Titans of French cinema the quality on display here makes one wonder just what Truffaut and his ilk found to cry about . One to savour .
Call Me Bashful	In almost every way Sally Adams was the perfect role for La Merm ; brash , vulgar , strident , these were qualities she acquired seemingly in the womb and the role called for them all - in spades . It's also arguably the best of Irving Berlin's four ' Book ' shows - he was represented on Broadway several times but largely in Revues until 1946 when he inherited Annie Get Your Gun after the death of Jerry Kern ; he followed with the ho-hum Miss Liberty , the turkey Mr . President and in between Call Me Madam , his second vehicle for Merman . From the opening credits , displayed on a gorgeous blue background on the old three-neg Technicolor as one great number segues into another in the overture there's a good feeling about the movie and once it gets underway it seldom lets up so that even the one jarring note , the wooden performance of Vera Ellen can't really louse it up . Merm , who can't even SPEAK in a conversational tone , is presumably on top of her game whilst acting / charm honors are divided equally between Donal O'Connor and George Sanders . One of the best film adaptations of a Broadway musical .
Carne ' At The Carney	This movie opens with the epitome of Noir ; EXT . Street . Night . Rain lashing down , light dappling the cobbles . A woman walking away from camera . Cut to : Man waiting up ahead . He takes out a gun as the woman approaches and puts a slug where it will do the most good . The woman crumples the man walks away . We stay with him as he enters a Carney and makes for a trailer attached to Le Mur de morte , the Wall of Death . If you shot something like that today you'd probably be satirising Noir but in 1949 it was right on the money . That Wall of Death link pegs the time with almost pin-point accuracy because in the immediate post-war years ex-servicemen were eking out livings riding motor bikes up and down the walls of small enclosed circular arenas as the crowds waited for them to get it wrong - one of the three main characters in Nevil Shute's novel The Chequeur Board takes it up and the novel was published in 1947 , a few years later the game was finished . The man with the gun made no attempt to conceal his identity and we recognise leading man Pierre Brasseur , but there's something wrong here , Brasseur wasn't leading man material ; his face shouted ' heavy ' and he was right at home as the gangster humiliated by Jean Gabin in Quai des Brumes , who later shoots Gabin in the back , he wasn't much nicer as Frederic Lemaitre in Les Enfants du paradis - both Marcel Carne movies - and even his JoJo in Porte des Lilas wasn't that simon pure . So , where were we , oh yes , Fabius ( Brasseur ) begins to pack when his wife Martha ( Arletty ) comes in . He's a little nonplussed given that he's just killed her but she's the forgiving sort and he agrees to keep on riding . Now top-billed actress Maria Montez enters the picture as an impresario interested in promoting Fabius as the star of a circus owned by Jules Berry . This involves him performing a loop-the-loop in a specially designed car after hurtling down a ramp designed by Marcel Dalio - YEAH , it IS a great cast if we don't count Montez and I STILL haven't mentioned Eric Von Stroheim as a badly disfigured ex-stuntman employed by Montez . Henri Decoin - no mean director himself - and the brilliant Charles Spaak weigh in with a classy script and you're in for a swell time if you catch this . For me the selling point had to be Arletty in her first film since Les Enfants du paradis four years earlier . They didn't do right by our Bess ; accused of collaborating - she had an open relationship with a German officer during the war but that's a long way from collaboration - she was arrested at Carne's house and not allowed to attend the premiere of Les Enfants or work again for a while . It's not for me , a non-Frenchman who wasn't around at the time , to discuss French policies on sensitive issues but as a lover of French Cinema perhaps I can wonder out loud what Great performances have possibly been lost by that Greatest of French actresses in those years between 1945 and her return here in 1949 . The price she paid is clearly etched on her face but she still acts joke ' actress ' Montez off the screen .
The Postwoman Always Shoots Twice	Isabelle Huppert picked up another ' Best Actress ' Cesar for her role here which cast her slightly against type as a sullen , resentful , postal worker with a built-in grudge against anyone more affluent . When Sandrine Bonnaire comes to work as a ' domestic ' at the local Gotrocks Manor it's only a matter of time until the two oddballs start comparing the chips on their respective shoulders and it all ends in tears and the faint aroma of cordite . However most of the movie is concerned with the journey rather than the arrival and Chabrol finds himself in the position of having to more or less justify to the viewer why Jacqueline Bissett would employ an obvious kook like Bonnaire on the spot - okay , she was desperate for a maid but this is ridiculous . On the other hand Bonnaire is no slouch in the acting department and fully capable of more or less holding her own against just about the finest French actress currently working so the upshot is that we put our reservations on hold and watch how Chabrol progresses the action . It's not the finest Chabrol film by any means , in fact it's not even close but neither is it chopped liver .
Belleville Rendezvous	This is one of those realistic polars where you can't tell the cops from the hoods without a scorecard . The premise is simplicity itself ; the star balance ( informer ) of the Belleville district is assassinated in the first minutes leaving the local cops with a vacancy to fill . Their thinking turns to Dede ( Leotard ) a small time pimp with only one client ( Nathalie Baye ) who is reluctant to say the least . The name Dede or its female version Dedee is something of a constant in French movies , in 1948 , Simone Signoret played Dedee of Anvers ( a hooker ) for her then husband Yves Allegret , but that's just an aside . Baye and Leotard had been an item in real-life but had broken up by the time the film was shot largely due to Leotard's drink and drugs problem but the genuine affection between them informs every scene they play together . The main thrust of the plot involves Belleville's Mr ' Big ' ( Maurice Ronet ) and his ' enforcer ' , Belge , a certified ding-dong ( or , if you're French , dingue-dong ) . Shot by Illinois-born Bob Swaim , this is in the finest tradition of the ' polar ' with outstanding ensemble acting - and we really should mention multi-talented Richard Berry as Leotard's nemesis - and a great set-piece involving a multi-car pile up and a shoot-out in the street . Definitely one of the all-time great post-war French polars .
Arsenic And New Lace	I'm a little bemused that some people have been beefing about Guitry's penchant for introducing his cast at the beginning of a film ; but this is what Guitry DOES and to complain about it is like complaining that Frank Sinatra performed I've Got You Under My Skin in each of his live concerts ( note to pedants : every life appearance AFTER 1956 when he recorded the song memorably on Songs For Swingin ' Lovers ) ; if you don't like Sinatra then why go to see him in concert and if you do like him why complain when he sings something that you both expect and want him to sing . So with Guitry ; if you don't like him give his movies plenty of room and if you do like him don't beef about something you know he's going to do and which takes only two or three minutes prior to the story getting under way . This time around he elects not to appear and allows Michel Simon to take centre stage as a man stuck in a mutually hateful marriage so that even as his spouse , Germaine Reuver , is buying poison to see him off he is entertaining similar thoughts that turn practical when he discovers you can have your murder and get away with it . Many of Guitry's repertory are on hand as is Louis de Funes in an early role as Andre . If you like Guitry you'll love it .
After You , Claude	Talk about referential : There's a moment very early on in which Ann Todd has just arrived on holiday from England and explores the hotel suite where husband Claude Rains will join her in a day or two . The suite is one of a pair with adjoining rooms and she walks out onto a balcony telling us in voice-over of an old lover , Trevor Howard who - unknown to her , has just arrived in the adjoing suite . Lean shoots this scene full on so that we see both balconies and as Todd emerges on to the one on the right it is the next best thing to a steal from the opening of Private Lives as it's possible to get . Private Lives was , of course , written by Noel Coward , the same Noel Coward who also wrote a one-act play called Still Life which was in turn directed by David Lean as Brief Encounter , which starred Trevor Howard . Thankfully Lean - who also worked with Coward memorably on In Which We Serve , This Happy Breed and Blithe Spirit - stops short of having Howard emerge on to the adjoining balcony and allows the film to veer towards another Coward one-act play become film , The Astonished Heart , both being variants on the eternal triangle , both featuring a leading character attempting suicide ( and succeeding in The Astonished Heart ) . The original novel by H . G . Welles appeared on the eve of the first world war and apart from the title little else is retained in a version which begins and ends in real time ( 1948 ) and moves back to 1939 and 1935 for glimpses of the long-standing affair between Todd and Howard . Not unexpectedly Rains , who is not often associated with leading-man status , steals the film from a Howard who does little save exhibit an off-key charm and a Todd who makes an art-form out of anguish . If it's arguably the weakest of Lean's forties output we are measuring it against Great Expectations , Oliver Twist , Blithe Spirit , This Happy Breed and his masterpiece Brief Encounter which should put it into perspective .
Two Yanks At Oxford	This was screened late last night on the BBC and provided another chance to see this excellent film written by and starring Michael Palin who based the story on his own great-grandfather who left Oxford to marry a woman he met whilst on holiday . Public School / Universities are , of course , something the British film industry does very well , indeed the Original ( 1951 ) The Browning Version with Michael Redgrave is one of the finest British films of all time and American Friends makes a fine addition to the ranks . The mores of 1860s Oxford are beautifully captured and full of details and the late Robert Eddison , primarily a stage actor , brings his mellifluous second-only-to-Gielgud voice fully to bear in all his scenes . Palin also captures to perfection the product of years of conditioning on the verge of becoming set in his ways and then undergoing a life-changing meeting . There is strong support all round with Connie Booth turning in a just-right reading of a maturing woman daring to hope for a bite at the cherry and hiding her disappointment and Alfred Molina more or less phoning in his standard cad about campus . Excellent .
Think Pink	Two newsrooms preserved in black and white 60 years apart ; two men who enjoyed power - albeit one considerably more than the other - who both thought it gave them the divine right to manipulate public opinion ; two exceptional ensemble acting teams . I doubt very much whether George Clooney knowingly set out to replicate aspects of Citizen Kane and I doubt even more that he'd wish to invite comparison between his own fine film and Welles's masterpiece but the parallels are there as noted . One of Clooney's problems is going to be that he is portraying events of half a century ago so that the people on whom they had most impact will be , by definition , now in their seventies or older , nevertheless this is a splendid effort at capturing a particular social climate and it's probable that the one glaring error - though originally written as a ballad in the thirties by the late forties / early fifties How High The Moon had become a ' bop ' anthem and was invariably performed at breakneck speed yet here Clooney slows it right down to one half-tone above a dirge - was deliberate , a metaphor for times that were out of joint . Apart from Strathairn who turns in a monumental performance acting honours were a consistently high standard and divided evenly among the whole ensemble .
Pearl Choker	Andre Cayette arguably pioneered social comment in French cinema with his Are We All Murderers in 1952 , other film makers flagged down the bandwagon and hopped aboard but none perhaps more unexpectedly than Claude Lelouch who had himself cornered the market in chocolate-box cinema and whose films celebrated Life rather than dwelling on Death as he does here . His choice of metaphor - a bullfight in which we are spared no gory detail of the barbaric ' sport ' - is apt only inasmuch as it is a barbaric ritual but inapt inasmuch as in general the bull has committed no crime and therefore requires no ' punishment ' and there are those who would argue that a serial killer HAS committed not one but several crimes and does therefore deserve some kind of punishment . Lelouch also attempts to stack the deck in the way he chooses to tell his story ; we begin with the main character , Amidou , being tailed by five plain clothes cops as he enjoys a motel rendez-vous with a girl friend . For all we know he is as innocent as the bull in a corrida and equally out-numbered . Nothing about him is in any way sinister and if anything he seems a pleasant enough sort of guy albeit an unfaithful one - we see him at home with wife and child as well as enjoying trysts with the girl friend . Eventually he is arrested in mid-copulation and THEN we learn why he has attracted the attention of the flics . He may or may not be the serial killer who has strangled several prostitutes - and if he was , he has ' reformed ' as it were , on the strength of his new relationship . Be that as it may he is convicted and sentenced to death and it is here , in the latter part of the film , that Lelouch sets out his stall ; the film segues from colour to black and white as we register first the tedium of prison life and then the growing terror as retribution draws nigh . Lelouch emphasizes the ritual aspects ( parallelling the bullfight ) which include the minutiae surrounding the assembly of the guillotine . Caroline Cellier , a fine French stage actress , makes one of her relatively rare film appearances , but the movie belongs to Amidou , then totally unknown , who delivers a fine performance in a fine film .
St Louis-lite	Without checking out reviews of the time it's pure speculation whether this blatant rip-off of Meet Me In St Louis went undetected . It's possible that critics and / or viewers weren't so analytical back then but against that is the fact that less than a decade had passed before the Musical Queen of the Warner lot went up against the ex ( just ) Musical Queen of MGM . There are clues a plenty ; both were based on well-loved reminiscences masquerading as short stories - by Sally Benson and Booth Tarkington respectively ; both featured charming ( but with a touch of the ' cutes ' ) American families ; both were set in the Mid-West , Missouri and Indiana respectively ; both featured Leon Ames as Banker patriarch ; in both stories the girl of the family falls for the Boy Next Door ( who , this time around has relocated to the Boy Across The Street ) ; both families boasted an outspoken maid in the respective shapes of Marjorie Main and Mary Wickes plus a youngest member ( Margaret O'Brien , Billy Gray ) whose tall stories result in misunderstandings that lead to physical assault . Both even have snowmen for God's sake . In most cases the actors stand up well to their counterparts though Rosemary de Camp in the Mary Astor mother role would perhaps not have been as effective as Astor at playing ' bad ' as Astor did in The Maltese Falcon . Mary Wickes has far more warmth and appeal than Marjorie Main , Gordon McCrae could sing better than Tom Drake and Gray had a slight edge on O'Brien . What the latter lacks is Minnelli's eye for color and decor and a score by Ralph Blane and Hugh Martin , relying heavily on tried-and-true numbers from the period ( 1917 against the 1903 of St Louis ) . Seen today it's highly watchable and competently done but overall I feel that Meet Me In St Louis would come off best in say another fifty years from now .
Keeler Deeler	This is a joy for anyone with an active interest in songwriting in the first half of the 20th century because in addition to a vintage score yielding four standards we get uncredited appearances from not only the writers concerned , Harry Warren and Al Dubin but also Harry Akst . It's quite something when the first TEN names in a cast list are all well known to film buffs , where the Book is stronger than most and the wise-cracks vintage - in a sequence where the showgirls are supplying their addresses one says grandly ' Park Avenue ' to which Rogers comments ' and boy is HER homework tough ' . The score offers only four complete songs but each - I'm Young And Healthy , Shuffle Off To Buffalo , You're Getting To Be A Habit With Me and the title song - is a gem . Everything connects and it all adds up to a great vintage movie .
The Silence Of The ( Sacrificial ) Lamb	Having just seen this - at a ' cinema du quartier ' in Paris that offers old black and white movies at 10 a . m . on Saturdays only for 3 euros - and noted the obvious symbolism I turned to this board under the impression that everyone would have made the same observations I did but no one in the dozen or so I read mentioned it so here goes . The movie was released in 1946 , one year after the end of the second world war and director Robert Siodmak was a German who went to America along with people like Billy Wilder ( who touched on a similar theme in his own The Emporer Waltz within a couple of years of TSS ) shortly after Hitler came to power - Wilder and Siodmak famously worked together in Germany on People On Sunday , Menschen am Sonntag . The murderer in The Spiral Staircase selects victims who are ' imperfect ' in some way and if that isn't a veiled reference to a fuhrer who killed millions of people because of PERCEIVED imperfections , Jewishness , homosexuality , etc then I don't know what is . Of course by setting it in 1906 it was carefully ' distanced ' from events in Germany but George Brent as the murderer invariably wore a moustache in his films , albeit slightly different than the fuhrer's and here he is even given a hint of cowlick . On the other hand this would be a stylish thriller even without the coded reference to the Holacaust and Siodmak borrows freely - the use of shadow and light for example - from the German Expressionist school to achieve his effects . Even after 60 years it still works as a psychological thriller so that you're prepared to forgive the occasional boob - it's unrealistic for instance to suppose that in the midst of a raging storm the Constable would distinguish the sound of Helen banging on the window even less likely he'd attribute it to a swinging gate inasmuch as 1 ) the two sounds are distinctly different and 2 ) the gate was much nearer to him than the window which would further differentiate the two sounds - and the - at the time - obligatory scene where the murderer , instead of getting on with the job takes time out to tell his helpless victim how he murdered her predecessors . These cavils to one side it remains an excellent film of its time .
Slaps At Sea	A wonderful time-capsule of a Europe on the brink of war - begun in 1939 and finished after the outbreak of war - and of the great liners at the end of their hey-day before they became troop carriers . The many-stranded plot contrives to pack some very representative actors of French cinema - Gaby Morlay , Jules Berry , Michel Simon , Claude Dauphin - on board the Normandie , one of the iconic liners - and pack them off to New York allowing plenty of time for misunderstandings , star-crossings and star-crossed lovers before more or less resolving the loose ends in and around the French Pavilion in New York . Light , buoyant , charming , nostalgic . Who could ask for anything more .
Classy Nocturne	No one could say Mank didn't have a checkered career : In the 1930s he was castigated for daring to re-write Scott Fitzgerald ( in his capacity as Producer on Three Comrades , Scott's only solo writing credit , he felt obliged to ' tidy ' up several sequences ) and in the 1960s he was the guy brought in to re-write and ' salvage ' Cleopatra but in between he initially wrote then wrote and directed some very tasty fare indeed culminating in his two magnum opii A Letter To Three Wives And All About Eve . Somewhere In the Night dates from 1946 , the same year his second directorial effort Dragonwyck was released and it's well up to snuff . A lot of ' amnesiac ' films are , by definition , forgettable , but not this one . Mank assembled as tasty a supporting cast as had ever been shoehorned into one film ranging from Whit Bissell through Harry Morgan , Jeff Corey to the standout Josephine Hutchinson . Leading from the front are the slightly wooden John Hodiak - marriage to Ann Baxter didn't improve his acting - , newcomer Nancy Guild , Lloyd Nolan and Richard Conte and Mank keeps the balls spinning in the air leaving little time for awkward questions - like why would Conte - who'd got away with murder for three years , introduce Hodiak to a detective friend ( Nolan ) knowing that Hodiak was trying to get to to bottom of the very murder for which he , Conte , was responsible . This the kind of movie , popular at the time , in which a protagonist who is possibly a murderer is befriended by a girl / woman who's never met him before - for example Alad Ladd and Veronica Lake in The Blue Dahlia and / or in which a street-wise gal like Guild here , has to have the expressions ' private eye ' and ' shamus ' explained to her . None of this detracts from an enjoyable ride and it's one to add to your Blockbuster shopping list .
Worth The Wait	Those who had a problem with Jerome Bonell's first film , Le Chignon d'Olga , aren't going to find this one any easier to sit through . Bonell is an observer rather than an innovator and he seems to aspire to bring a Chekhovian melancholy to rural France without necessarily going so far as Chekhovian plotting . Two of the actresses from Chignon ( Alice and Emma ) turn up again in this line drawing rather than fully realized portrait of disparate lives . He's now able to attract performers of the calibre of Jean-Pierre Darroussin and Manu Devos but such is Bonnell's surefootedness they fail to outshine the lesser known actors . Not a lot happens , paint dries , grass grows and we have a ringside seat . I enjoyed it , sue me .
Cultured Pearl	This has just aired on television some fifty-five years after the initial release so it has a license to appear dated yet it holds up surprisingly well . Burt Lancaster and Monty Clift would appear to be the only choices for the roles of Warden and Prewitt respectively ; if we consider who else was working in 1953 Paul Newman hadn't really established himself and even if he had he would not have brought Clift's vulnerability to the role and Lee Marvin and Neville Brand , both very possible possible Wardens had little or no marquee value . It's difficult to see how Donna Reed rated an Oscar although there was absolutely nothing wrong with her performance whereas Sinatra was a revelation and thoroughly deserved his . On the whole screenwriter Dan Taradash made a decent fist out of an ' unfilmable ' novel and Fred Zinneman got the best out of his actors . Still around seven or .
Time Was . . .	. . . when a film by Julien Duvivier featuring heavy hitters Raimu , Louis Jouvet , Michele Morgan , Suzy Prim , Fernand Ledoux and Robert Le Vigan would not have disappointed my French friend quite so much . We tend to agree more than we disagree and are both great admirers of Duvivier but this time we differ slightly . Hindsight is , of course , a wonderful thing and 20-20 hindsight is much sought-after . I'm inclined to think that as he was shooting this in 1940 Duvivier knew he was leaving France to stay in America for what must have seemed indefinitely so he chose to shoot not so much a film as a valentine to his homeland . My friend has also pointed out that Duvivier is at his best with less sprawling canvasses and it's true that the picaresque is not his natural habitat but as a non-French lover of French movies I revelled in the company of some of the very finest actors that France had to offer illustrating a painless history lesson spanning seventy years , indeed it may well have been subtitled 70 Glorious Years .
Dark Victory	As Boxed Sets go the one featuring Bette Davis in The Letter , Dark Victory , Now , Voyager and Mr . Skeffington has to be one of the best around - especially as HMV reduced it to £19 . 99 or £5 per film . I bought the set four days ago and have now viewed all four titles and in terms of Davis's acting there is little to choose between them and in each case there is at least one - and often more - outstanding supporting performance . The first three were more or less contemporaryy - all four were released between 1939-45 - whereas Mr . Skeffington begins just prior to World War I and meanders through three decades to take in World War II which has a bearing on the story . I've read at least one comment on this Board that points out the similarities with Now , Voyager inasmuch as they are opposite faces of the same coin ; in Voyager Davis began as an insecure plain Jane who blossomed into a highly desirable woman whilst in Skeffington she begins as the most sought-after woman in New York and ends ravaged by diphtheria unwanted and , so she believes , unloved . But she has , of course , reckoned without True Love as epitomised by Skeffington ( Claude Rains ) who loves her solely for herself and whom she rejected at the height of her beauty . Rains has his own reversal of fortune to deal with ; at the outset he was a successful businessman , conned by Davis's brother , Trippy but three decades later a graduate of a concentration camp he is both broken and blind with a heart still filled with love for Fanny ( Davis ) and so represents what may be called her Dark Victory when she welcomes him back into her life to provide the daily ego massage she can't live without . Like all the films in the boxed set there is a large streak of soap opera / melodrama here but it's also the highest quality available and anyone who is partial to a wallow in nostalgia could do far worse than invest in this set .
Graham Cracker	This film seems to have been vilified above and beyond the call of critical duty at the time of its initial release and a couple of posters on this page have seen fit to heave the old harpoon at a very underrated film . Though far from an expert on Scott Fitzgerald I have a strong feeling that he was around forty when he died and Gregory peck was forty three when he portrayed him so realistically that's about right ; Deborah Kerr was thirty eight so that's also more or less realistic . By all accounts Fitzgerald retained a certain youthful charm even in alcoholic middle age and if you're looking for an actor who can do charm with one hand behind his back without resorting to the gauche bashfulness of a Jimmy Stewart or Gary Cooper then Peck is definitely your man especially if , as here , he's also required to brush the charm away as if swatting a fly and reveal the cruel and brutal streak beneath the surface . I've always had a problem with Deborah Kerr as a sex object , even in From Here To Eternity she didn't really convince me , I always found her far more believable as the repressed spinster of the kind she played so well in Separate Tables . The upshot was that I came to this as a great admirer of both Peck and Fitzgerald and someone prepared to tolerate Kerr . Perhaps because I was familiar with many of the situations - not least the episode which Budd Schulberg has written about so memorably both in his roman a clef The Disenchanted and in his own recollections of the time he and Fitzgerald left Los Angeles by train bound for New Hampshire where they had been engaged as co-writers on Winter Carnival ; completely unaware of Fitzgerald's status as on-the-wagon Schulberg broke open a parting gift of champagne and shared it with Scott with hilarious / disastrous results depending on your point of view - and enjoy nothing more than movies about movie-making I enjoyed virtually every frame of this and found the moment at the very end when Scott is working away on The Last Tycoon and Sheilah is reading in the background and suddenly , magically , they both look up and smile a tender , lovers-only smile , resume what they are doing and then , seconds later , Scott slumps forward and is dead before his head hits the desk one of the most moving moments I've ever experienced in a cinema . I'd certainly add this to my DVD collection .
That's Life	Thanks to the generosity of the guys in France and Norway I now own copies of arguably the three most significant films of writer-director Albert Valentin . Chronologically these are L'Entraineuse , Marie-Martine and this one . Unfortunately Valentin's self-esteem was weaker than his talent and when films of this caliber met with critical mauling and public indifference he threw in the towel and played out his career writing pot-boilers in Italy and Germany . His CV is modest compared to some ; 35 writer and 13 director credits ( I actually listed some of these but the IMDb computer will not allow me to post this comment until I delete them ; I have encountered this problem before and written to the helpdesk and thought it was fixed but the computer still insists I have made ' many spelling ' mistakes ) . It's doubtful whether many filmmakers in 1944 were exploring a story from two opposing viewpoints ( indeed it is still comparatively rare enough to draw special mention when it was employed a couple of years ago in ' A la folle . . . pas du tout ' ) but by then Valentin was an old hand having made Marie-Martine in a highly complex time-frame . The concept of a member of the demi-monde attempting to become upwardly mobile was one that had informed Valentin's ' L'Entraineuse ' with the difference that whilst in the former Michele Morgan merely worked in a nightclub in this one Albert Prejean actually owns Le Vie de plaisir and whilst Morgan aspired only to friendship with a higher caste Prejean actually marries into the Aristocracy and both , needless to say , live to regret it . Somewhat incredibly there is only one comment on this delightful film and that poster has mentioned most of what I would have said so that I can do little but endorse that opinion . I did find especially interesting the Establishing scene in the nightclub where the chorines emerge from the bell of a huge saxophone perhaps an unconscious comment on the women and song ( the wine being in evidence on the tables ) aspect of wine , women and song . From then we are introduced to the denizens of this world , one of the few milieus in which High and Low society can meet freely . In a magnificent stroke the opposing viewpoints are put forward by the Prosecution and Defense in a divorce case involving Prejean and his Aristocratic wife - as each lawyer addresses the Court so we flashback for a His and Hers view of the courtship and marriage . In the midst of this is a somewhat surrealistic scene where a Bishop in full regalia , complete with entourage and extensive religious paraphernalia solemnly blesses a pack of hounds about to engage in a hunt . Indeed bloodsport plays a large part in the family into which Prejean has married and Spaak is on top form as he has Prejean toss a wry comment after his wife as she leaves for a shoot ' tell the pigeons I'm with them ' . With these two scenes - the same Bishop who blessed the hunt will not intercede on behalf of the young aristocrat who has impregnated a girl and wishes to marry her but cannot go against the family wishes - Spaak and Valentin state clearly their stance on the rules of behavior that obtained at the time . In short this is a minor gem and I hope that others will seek it out and be moved to write about it .
Omega Man	Despite a truly atrocious print badly dubbed into English and one that broke down four times during the screening , returning each time minus several frames the power of the film-making shines through . I'm not a political animal and don't make a point of seeking out political films but I am a great admirer of Yves Montand and although I was aware he was on screen for only around 20 minutes I went anyway and it's probably fair to say that I went to see Montand and stayed to watch a social comment masquerading as a thriller in which every major role was well played with special mention for Jean-Louis Trintignant and a virtually unrecognizable ( if you've only seen him in Cinema Paradiso or Les Choristes ) Jacques Perier . I'd definitely buy this on DVD should one be made available .
Hobohemia	If you have trouble suspending disbelief then this isn't for you . Consider : a woman already in late middle age finds a newborn baby in a cabbage patch and raises it as her own . Think about it ; she makes no attempt to locate the mother , who may well be a confused teenager in need of medical treatment and seemingly no one from the Italian equivalent of Social Services makes any attempt to put the baby into ' care ' ( no Social Services ? now I KNOW it's a fantasy ) . Before you know it young Toto is ten or so and his adoptive mother dies leaving him to the orphanage from which he emerges a HAPPY man who loves everybody . In nothing flat he has not only given his suitcase to the man who stole it from him but organised the local homeless into bona fide Shantytown residents and for an encore he leads them in a fight against capitalism in the shape of the businessman who buys the land on which the Shantytown stands when oil is discovered there . This wants some swallowing without the subsequent ' miracles ' beginning with Toto's dead mother ( the old lady who raised him rather than his biological one ) appearing to him and handing him a dove which doubles as a magic wand allowing him to grant modest wishes and a finale in which the hobos fly away to a better place located presumably somewhere over the rainbow . On the other hand the film is up to here with Charm and is easy to surrender to . On balance a small masterpiece .
Trumpet Blues	Hindsight is okay but we should keep an eye on it . For example hindsight allows us to speculate that Fox , having signed Glenn Miller and his orchestra to a two-picture deal and despite the fact that the band was arguably the best-known and most popular in the country , decided that for their first At Bat the band needed the support of a ' speciality ' act , cue Sonja Henie , ex-Olympic swimmer and already a veteran of such Fox musicals as Second Fiddle . Hindsight then tells us that this first movie , Sun Valley Serenade , let the Fox moguls know that the Miller outfit was a top draw in itself thus this second movie relies only on a Redbook magazine storyline , the Miller ork and some great numbers by Harry Warren and Mack Gordon . So it is that Ann Rutherford , late of the Andy Hardy movies and Gone With The Wind , marries trumpeter George Montgomery on the strength of two brief meetings and thus becomes the newest ' orchestra wife ' learning about life - and love - on the road . It's more predictable than Old Moore's Almanac but the nostalgia quotient - Jackie Gleason , Marion Hutton , Ray Eberle plus THAT band - is almost off the chart , add such dazzling numbers as At Last , Serenade In Blue , People Like You And Me and I Got A Gal In Kalamazoo and we're looking at an unbeatable parlay . One to savour .
WHAT A Dog !	Within thirty minutes I was thinking seriously of moving to Argentina or , as it's depicted by Carlos Sorin , Utopia-West . This is a country where a young and reasonably attractive girl can find herself stranded in the middle of nowhere and bask in the knowledge that she won't be raped or otherwise molested by the first guy ( s ) to come along who will instead by a Candide figure far from home in the shape of jobless , middle-aged Juan Villegas who will think nothing of towing her car 30 kilometers out of his way and then fixing it at her home . A land where the girl's mother , a widow , will not only wine and dine Villegas but also present him with a thoroughbred dog complete with papers in return for his troubles . And we're still not through : Villegas has only to stop at a gas station to have a complete stranger hire both himself and the dog as a security team to guard a factory . More ? Okay , Villegas goes to a bank to cash the check he gets for his security work and an executive not only admires the dog but puts Villegas in touch with a dog trainer . What a country . If you can put your cynicism / skepticism on hold then there's a lot to enjoy here . Apparently Sorin is known for avoiding professional actors in favour of real people so that the character of Juan Villegas is played by Juan Villegas whose last job was parking Sorin's car for five years . Similarly the dog ' trainer ' , Walter Donado is played by Walter Donado . The film seems to be saying that if your heart is pure then your strength is as the strength of ten because within days of meeting the trainer Villegas is the proud owner of both a cup and a ribbon from a local Dog Show . He has only to admire a singer in a cantina to have her invite him back home with her for coffee - and not just ANY old coffee but Turkish coffee . It's debatable whether Voltaire would recognize his creation so far from home but what isn't debatable is the simple humanity that informs this small , gentle movie .
Culture Vultures	Having more or less proved himself as an actor Guillaume Canet tried his hand at Writing and Directing and the result is fairly respectable so that anyone seeing this in 2002 may well have predicted a solid future for Guillaume behind the camera and would have been proved right when Ne le dis a personne won him a Best Director Cesar ( plus a Best Actor for Francois Cluzet ) last year . It's never easy to blur genres - Billy Wilder did it brilliantly in The Apartment but how many Billy Wilders are there out there ? That's right , you can count them on the fingers of one thumb - and segue from Satire to Manipulation to Violence but on the whole Canet manages to pull it off more or less successfully . He seems to have a knack for picking solid leading men ( witness Cluzet in Ne le dis a personne ) and in Francois Berleand he found the ideal actor to personify corruption . Berleand has a long history - some 166 titles - of supporting the finest French actors with a recent foray into leading man status and here he provides the industrial-strength cement that holds the film together . It's nearly always a bad idea for a director to cast his wife in a film at all let alone a leading role and when the wife in question ( they divorced last year ) is Diane Kruger it is more Disaster than bad idea but Canet himself plays perfectly against Berleand and if he just misses some of his targets they are not the Satirical ones of television Game Shows . On balance a fine effort .
Father , Son And Wholly Boast	I've yet to see Jacques Gamblin give a bad performance and this is no exception . Gamblin is one of those actors who paint with a king-size palette and range through the spectrum at will often breathing life into cardboard cutout characters . Today he's Gabriel , one of life's losers who shows up out of the blue to make contact with a son he hasn't seen for several years . Long divorced from the son's mother he has clearly been on a downward spiral but now he has pipe-dream plans to open a bar and attempt to better-late-than-never bonding with Marco , the son who's suddenly flavour of the month . Almost inevitably he runs into fiscal problems and begins to think in terms of caper , natch , which equally inevitably involve Marco with predictable consequences . It's possible that the hybrid element of the script will attract criticism unless , like me , you find it tends to strengthen the central father-son conflict . A fine effort .
Qui ne tue pas Bambi ?	Admirers of Yves Montand will always have a special affection for this one for without it we may never have had Cesar et Rosalie , L'Aveu , Le Cercle Rouge , Vincent , Francois , Paul et les autres , Police Python 357 , Le Choix des Armes , Le Sauvage , Garcon , Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources for it was here that for the first time in 20 years Montand suddenly felt at home on a set and realised he could command an audience in a cinema as effortlessly as he did on the concert stage . Since 1945 when Edith Piaf had wangled him a part in her own vehicle Etoile Sans lumiere he had averaged one film a year but still found walking on to a set traumatic rather than enjoyable with the result that he spent the bulk of his time charming the crowds who flocked to see him at L'Etoile , Olympia and venues around the world . After Compartiment he returned to the concert stage only twice more - an inestimable loss but moviegoers gain . Stories of how the movie came to be made depend on who you choose to believe ; first-time director and virtually unknown quantity Costa-Gavros credits both Montand and his wife , Simone Signoret ; he had been an Assistant on an earlier film of Signoret's , got to know her and she in turn had introduced him to Montand but a slight social acquaintance with an Assistant director is a far cry from starring in his first movie . Having written a script and found a producer C-G was asked if he had anyone in mind to play in the thing . His only thought was Catherine Allegret for the role of Bambi , one of the two lovers who don't wind up with a tag on their toe . When he approached Simone she told him that Catherine ( her daughter from her first marriage to director Yves Allegret ) had to get her Bac before anything else but she herself could play the Actress ; shortly afterwards Montand approached C-G and said ' I hear you've written a good script , is there anything for me in it ' . Blown away C-G told him to read it and take any part he liked . Other sources contradict this account but at this stage it's purely academic and the main thing is the film got made , Montand resurrected his native Midi accent - which he had worked long and hard to eradicate - gave his police Inspector a head cold and a blocked nose to add colour - something which has since become a cliché with every actor and his Uncle Max cast as a cop utilisng it - and turned in a great performance as did everyone else including a young Jacques Perrin , perhaps lately better known as the top-and-tail narrator in two of the biggest feelgood hits of the past few years Cinema Paradiso and Les Choristes . Shot in black and white with a plot resembling a pretzel crossed with a spiral staircase it still retains its ability to thrill . Yet another gift from Scandinavia and an invaluable one for a Montand buff .
I KNEW It Would Be Good	Jean-Pierre Darroussin has enhanced - and in some cases stolen - some seventy odd movies in the last 30 years , quietly racking up excellent character studies and when offered the chance to ' carry ' a major movie - Feux Rouges - he was more than up to the task and succeeded brilliantly . Now he has directed his first full length feature ( following and Award Winning Short some years ago ) and like another illustrious actor , Gerard Jugnot , he has also written ( or co-written ) it and plays the leading role . To say he pulls off all three roles wonderfully is to understate . This is a small masterpiece and it was both a pleasure and a privilege to shake his hand at the screening which he attended ( and which , in their wisdom , both the BFI and Cine Lumiere had omitted to mention in their respective Brochures ) . Darroussin has saddled himself with one of the trickiest characters an actor can play , a ' decent ' man , the kind perhaps embodied by Gregory Peck in To Kill A Mockingbird and by coincidence both characters are lawyers , but whilst Peck - who was , it must be repeated , absolutely brilliant - had a high-profile court case to showcase his innate decency Darroussin has much less to work with playing out his life in an unfashionable area of Paris and performing good deeds which are deliberately misinterpreted so that he winds up almost as a neighborhood Monsieur Hire thanks largely to the poisonous tongue of his fellow screenwriter Valerie Stroh who brands him a pervert . The character , recently divorced , has chosen to virtually cut himself off from his family who are suitably and snobbishly horrified at his new apartment , and dispense more or less free legal advice and even lend money to deadbeat clients , one of whom proceeds to beat up his wife who winds up in hospital and with himself in the slammer it falls upon Darroussin to house the teenage daughter of the marriage . He does all this with no reservations , acting almost trance-like , never doubting that he is doing the ' right ' and / or ' christian ' thing for which , of course , he must be punished . Darroussin is in almost every scene and displays remarkable assurance and control , contriving to bring glowing oils to what is essentially a water colour pastel . It is to be hoped that the writing-acting-directing team of Darroussin and Stroh continue in this vein with as much success as Jaoui and Bacri with whom , on this showing , they must now be favourably compared .
Spin Doctor	There's a major hurdle facing anyone who contemplates adapting Elwyn Brook White into another medium ; they're tampering with the supreme Stylist ( he even co-authored the definitive work on the subject , The Elements of Style ) so it's no contest for the average Hollywood Hack , and Susannah Grant and Karey Kirkpatrick ARE Hollywood hacks ( possibly self-awareness / frustration led them to name the two inept crows unable to distinguish a scarecrow from a flesh and blood person and who wind up trapped , Elwyn and Brooks ) . That said the film gets by on charm and the Universal Truths which is its stock in trade . Where White's original lines have been retained it takes on an extra dimension and like the original book it doesn't attempt a ' happy ' ending . Another strength is adhering to a ' period ' feel with no intrusive ' modern ' culture or falling standards of behaviour . If you are going to try to ' humanise ' a spider you could do a lot worse than have it ' voiced ' by Julia Roberts who is arguably known as a lovely person by more than half the movie-going world . In terms of ' life lessons ' this is not unlike Andy Hardy Down On The Farm which , as I mean it , is no bad thing .
Photo-Finish	With a little better screenplay this would have been a musical to rival any turned out by MGM . Quickly re-teaming Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds after Singin ' In The Rain and wisely jettisoning both Gene Kelly and Comden and Green the studio came up with a plot that fit where it touched then adorned it with some really great numbers by Josef Myrow and Mack Gordon which are light years fresher , wittier and more sophisticated than the stale Freed-Brown numbers in Singin ' In The Rain , which veer more towards sentiment than style . The movie gets off to a flying start with the standout A Lady Loves which kills two birds with one stone by establishing Reynolds as a dreamer aspiring wistfully to a career in movies . Donald O'Connor never really attained the stardom which was the rightful due of his talent and charm and he displays both to full advantage here . If ever anything came under the heading ' forgotten gem ' this one surely does .
Cafe Society	This is a pleasant , feel-good movie that may not exactly set the world on fire but may warm a few hearts . Two families run two cafes one on each side of a Route Nationale where it runs through a small town and the families are deadly rivals . The highest profiles are those of mother / daughter Josiane Balasko and Sylvie Testud , both solid performers and there's a neat twist when lorry drivers stage a strike and block the road at either end of the town . This , of course , provides opportunities for oneupmanship , dirty tricks etc and these are milked for all that the traffic will bear - sorry about that . English viewers will have mixed feelings about Eric Cantona , late of Manchester United , making yet another foray into the world of celluloid and seen naked yet strutting his stuff on top of Sylvie Testud . Overall I can think of worse ways to spend a hundred minutes .
Thompson Does It Again	I can't recall ever being disappointed in a film written by Daniele Thompson who has gone on to prove herself a brilliant writer-director also . Nothing if not versatile she began with one of the biggest box-office hits in French cinema , La Grande Vadrouille , which is still being revived close to half a century later and continued in comedic vein with such titles as Les Folies de grandeur and The Adventures of Rabbi Jacob whilst along the way launching the career of Sophie Marceau via La Boum - if these two ladies were fillies rather than filles we could employ handicapper terms to note that Marceau has just released her own second film as writer-director - before turning serious as she does here and also with Those Who Love Me Can Take The Train . This time around she is working with historical facts as distorted through the prism of Alexander Dumas and giving them a new coat of paint before setting them before Isabelle Adjani , Virna Lisi , Daniel Auteuil , Jean-Huges Anglade , Pascall Greggory , Vincent Perez and , if you're paying attention to every frame , Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi , all of which , with the possible exception of Perez , turn in fine performances modulating toward the exceptional in the case of Virna Lisi's Catherine de Medici . The plot has been discussed elsewhere so suffice it to say that as costume dramas go this is among the best even if the direction is the odd light year behind Thompson's screenplay .
Stage Fright	There's a term paper waiting to be written on the distinction between French actresses who abandon acting in favour of writing / directing - Ann Fontaine , Toni Marshall , Diane Kurys , Coline Serrau , Vera Belmont , Danielle Dubroux , Jeanne Labrune , Marion Vernoux , those who continue to act - Valerie Lemercier , Agnes Jaoui , Noemie Lvovsky , Josiane Balasko , Zabou Breitman - and even those who abandoned directing in favour of acting - Arielle Dombasle , Nathalie Delon . Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi belongs firmly in the second category and after an auspicious directing debut with the heavily autobiographical Il Est plus facile pour une chameau . . . she has now followed it with Actrices - which will be released in France in December - which also contains suspicious traces of autobiography and in which her real-life mother Marysa Borini is again cast as her mother ( albeit Valeria is playing a different character ) and Pascal Bongard reprises his role as a priest . Valeria has cast herself as a forty-something actress ( she is 43 ) who has a rendez-vous with a mid-life crisis , having neither husband , lover or children and a biological body clock putting in for time and a half . In this frame of mind she contracts to play the lead in Turgenev's A Month In The Country despite having no clue as to how to get into the role and it is these elements that amalgamate into a slightly offbeat but ultimately rewarding movie . It may be that life is in rehearsal to imitate art : Bruni-Teseschi was billed to appear at the English premiere but failed to show ; ac week earlier she had failed to show at a premiere in Bercy , this time for Faut que ca danse , written and directed by her good friend Noemie Lvovsky , who co-wrote both Il Est facile and Actrices and co-stars in the latter , Valeria is also dating Lou Garrel which is enough to propel anyone over the edge . Be that is it may in Actrices Bruni-Tedeschi has delivered a fine follow up to Il Est plus facile and I for one look forward to her next directorial effort .
United We Fall	If it does nothing else this film has already raised the age of target audiences in the modern cinema to something approaching half a century given that the main thrust is the six weeks in 1974 that Brian Clough was manager of Leeds United . Football and I have a tenuous relationship , I like it when Man U wins and Arsenal lose and if pushed I prefer Arsenal losing than Man U winning but that's about it . So I'm looking for something more than just football from a film like this and I have to say that it has not been found wanting . It's highly if not contagiously enjoyable and with virtually no previous knowledge of the events depicted I had no trouble rooting for Clough and condemning the Leeds animals to the outer reaches of hell . The film is well cast and it's hard to single out even a mediocre let alone a bad performance . If a non-partisan like me can get a boot out of it those who lived through the situation will revel in it .
Truss Me , I'm A Cynic	By and large I can take or leave Chabrol but he has made a lot of films with Isabelle Huppert which is more or less how and why I began watching his stuff . Apparently he had a ' rich ' period around 1970 give or take a year or so either way and this entry was right at the heart of it . If he has a schtick it is subjecting small-town / suburban France to a powerful microscope and this is no exception for we are offered a microcosm of a decadent French society as seen through Chabrol's jaded eyes complete with three symbolic witches a la Macbeth . In terms of plot a man , heavily under the influence of LSD attacks his wife and child . She sues for divorce . His wealthy father moves heaven and earth to gain custody of the child . Virtually everyone is dirty . Forget a happy ending . Stephane Audran is excellent . What can I tell you .
Summer Lightning	A cynic with a little culture under his belt may be tempted to dismiss this as Idiot's Delight With Spin but to do so is to reveal a shallowness not lacking in the film . Robert E Sherwood enjoyed a success with his play , Idiot's Delight , the subsequent movie adaptation was ho hum at best and several decades later the Broadway Musical version , Dance A Little Closer , was a disaster . Sherwood focused on a disparate group of people holed up in a mountain inn on the eve of World War II . Jacques Prevert's screenplay focuses on a disparate group of people holed up in a mountain hotel smack dab in the middle ( 1943 ) of that same world war yet of hostilities there is nary a mention . This was the third movie in which Gremillon featured his favourite actress Madeleine Renaud and he would do so yet again in La Ciel est a vous - and in passing coax a career-best performance out of Charles Vanel - and it's easy to see why he was so enamoured of her . Virtually forgotten today - much like the other Madeleine ( Robinson ) in the film - she was among the finest of an exceptionally fine generation of French actresses and she scores heavily here as a discarded mistress running a hotel in a remote mountain region . In a role written for Michele Morgan Madeleine Robinson offers strong support as a young lover , also rejected by Pierre Brasseur's troubled artist , who represents hope for the future in her new romance with a young engineer . All the values are sound , top writer , top director , top actors ( Brasseuer , Renaud , Robinson ) and make this an unfairly neglected minor masterpiece .
Buried Treasure	This is relatively late Guitry but no worse for that . There's a certain ' feel ' to a film by Guitry that's elusive and resistant to conventional methods of nailing it down but once you've encountered it you'll know it anywhere . Of course having stumbled on something of a signature - a penchant for introducing the actors and technicians at the beginning of a film - he was prone to milk it but it's more than that but what exactly I'm not sure . This time around he casts himself as the Baron of Cantanec who , in middle age , returns to the family seat in search of family heirlooms and in passing transforms the lives of the villagers . Charm is a fairly elusive quality yet Guitry's films abound in it as they do in slightly off-the-wall sequences like the one here in which the whole village takes to wheels via bicycles , tandems and even a bicycle made for three . I wish someone would offer the entire Guitry canon on DVD but until or if they do so we can be thankful for the small Revival Houses in Paris like the Champo which is currently playing 25 titles in Repertory .
From Bard To Verse	This is one of a handful of Mank titles that remain unavailable on DVD - at least in England - so it was good to catch up with it as part of a Brando cycle at the NFT albeit in a shoddy print with several frames missing at the beginning so that half a speech is missing . Mank was a writer himself , of course and though that didn't stop him butchering a Scott Fitzgerald script he clearly had more respect for Shakespeare and shot a more or less faithful version of the play so long as you're not too familiar with it . Gielgud is on hand to show how it's done and it's difficult for the other actors to come close to his inch-perfect reading but most of them make a decent stab ( sorry about that ) at it with people like Eddy O'Brien ( who went on to give an Oscar-winning performance as Oscar Muldoon in Mank's very next film , The Barefoot Contessa ) really shining . At the time ( 1953 ) it's a safe bet that Brando was the focus of all the PR and critical response and whilst he doesn't disgrace himself as Marc Anthony neither does he find anything new in the role . James Mason does his best as Brutus and has the advantage of a distinctive voice and Louis Calhern is an impressive Caesar . No one is going to touch Welles of course in adapting Shakespeare for the screen - his Chimes At Midnight is the finest filmed Shakespeare by a country mile - but Mank turned in a respectable effort here , a worthy .
Vera Cruz	I've just finished reading what feels like a series of unqualified Raves for this movie and though I'm unable to add another neither do I feel able to trash it . This is what I knew about it before I saw it : 1 ) It was co-written and directed by Sergio Castellitto who also played the male lead and was adapted from a novel by his wife and co-screenwriter Margaret Mazzantini . 2 ) Penelope Cruz was playing ' ugly ' . That's all , folks . I've never heard of Margaret Mazzantini much less read her highly acclaimed novel . I HAVE both heard of and seen Castellitto in the wonderful German film Mostly Martha and also in Rivette's Va Savoir . I've never seen Penny Cruz in anything other than magazines and to me she has always been if not actually ugly then certainly plain . There's a certain kind of female who seem to get by on a quality of sleaziness / ' cheap ' sex appeal and in this category I put Ludovine Sagnier , J-Lo , Cameron Diaz and , going further back , Jennifer Jones , Corrine Calvet , Martine Carol and Bardot . They give , to a slut , the impression of wearing slightly soiled underwear , but not for very long . Let me stress that this is only an opinion and it may be woefully wrong but there you go . Anyhow I am here to say that in this movie at least Cruz weighs in with a very creditable performance ; I note from other reviews on this board that viewers have been comparing her to Giulietta Masina but I was struck by her facial resemblance to Sophia Loren when , as she often did , Loren played a peasant . The story I found derivative with more than overtones of Blier's Trop Belle Pour Toi - that's the one where Gege Depardieu turns aside from a gorgeous wife like Carole Bouquet ( in real life he has more sense and they've long been an item ) in favor of Josie Balasko - that finds Castellitto's surgeon falling for the hard-to-see charms of Cruz despite having a drop-dead gorgeous wife in the shape of Claudia Gerini . It is highly watchable and all the technical credits are up to snuff but there remains a faint whiff of formula that clings to it like Sandalwood .
Tea And Empathy	If you put Fred Astaire in ANYTHING he's going to Style and Charm it to death ; if you put Audrey Hepburn in ANYTHING she's going to Enchant it to death so together they should be unbeatable ; and they almost are , BUT . One of the problems was that the original Broadway show Funny Face was part of an era where the ' Book ' of a Show was just something to hang a series of hit songs on with the result that virtually all Broadway shows from the twenties and early thirties are unrevivable unless the Book is jettisoned and a new one commissioned . This , plus some ' additional ' songs by the ubiquitous Roger Edens tends to unbalance a tasty score . It's slightly unbelievable that a film ostensibly about the world of haute couture brimming with elegant creations should crudely constrast this with the opposite end of the spectrum a la the hippy hang-outs the result jars rather than meshes . It's a bit like the early Woody Allen films in that there are great set-pieces , like Hepburn's lovely ' reading ' of How Long has This Been Going On , as good in its ( albeit totally different ) way as Judy's The Man That Got Away in the definitive version of A Star Is Born or Astaire's take on the title song but as a whole it just misses .
Bach To Basics	As a rule biopics of composers have a tough time pleasing everyone ; purists kvetch about chronological lapses , music lovers feel short-changed and the neutrals feel that less music and more story - fabricated or not - would be better all round . Having said that Abel Gance has made a very decent fist of Beethoven's life and work , helped considerably by having one of the finest actors in the business - in France or elsewhere - Harry Baur in the lead role . For some bizarre reason Gance is thought of as a ' silent ' director as if he'd his career had come to a halt with the advent of sound , a sort of directorial equivalent of John Gilbert , whereas he made several excellent sound films , not least this one . For 1936 he uses some adventurous techniques not least the ' Disney ' birds , lined up on a branch singing their hearts out to a Beethoven unable to hear . Today we may feel that Gance overdid the transition from silence to sound as he switches back and forth between Beethoven's and a general viewpoint but in 1936 it was the perfect visual image to illustrate the profound loss suffered by a genius . This movie , in black and white though it is , towers above such jokes as Stewart Granger's Paganini ( The Magic Bow ) and Dirk Bogarde's Liszt ( Song Without End ) and as for the blood on the keys in Cornel Wilde's Chopin ( A Song To Remember ) do we really want to go there . This is one that will take some beating .
Last Summer	This is a haunting film that's difficult to classify combining as it does the melancholy of Uncle Vanya with background music by the Dave Brubeck quartet . The central metaphor may seem a tad labored but it's also effective : the film opens with a lyrical shot of a large , rambling country house in which young children beguile the summer afternoon in innocent games ; at the end , with the matriarch dead , the house in the process of being sold and the contents dispersed to places like musee d'Orsay , the house and gardens are overrun with teenagers throwing a wild party complete with rap . In between is some class acting from the likes of Edith Scob , Charles Berling , Jeremie Renier and a blonde Juliette Binoche as mother and siblings respectively . This is a film in which pain is always below the surface and there are virtually no blow-ups signalling the unleashing of home-truths all round . This family is already fragmented long before the mother dies and has the feel of Sautet at his best - Cesar et Rosalie , Nelly et Monsieur Arnaud , Un Coeur en hiver - heady company sure but this movie can stand comparison .
Ghost-Writers In The Sky	It's a wonderful conceit - though no one seems to have noticed it - to have a bona fide ghost dictate a book to a bona fide mortal who then publishes it under her own name and cleans up , giving at once a new meaning to and putting spin on the term ghost-writer , a term applicable mainly to volumes of memoirs / autobiography as in this case when the ghost in question , a sea captain ( Rex Harrison ) dictates a volume recounting his experiences at sea to the woman who's come to live in his old house ( Gene Tierney ) . Mank had worked with Tierney in Dragonwyck and would work with Harrison again in Escape , Cleopatra and The Honeypot none of which were top-drawer Mankiewicz . You could argue that someone like Edmund Gwen would have been more suited to a crusty yet lovable sea captain but Gwen couldn't cut the romantic angle so Harrison was possibly the better choice though he failed to convince me on either count . On the other hand I've always been slightly bemused by the claims that Harrison was one of the best light comedians around . On the other hand there is no doubt that Gene Tierney did possess a slightly ethereal quality which made her ideal for the ' ghostly ' Laura . George Sanders merely phones in his standard suave cad and there must be thousands of slush-pile victims staring in amazement at the way Tierney is able as a complete unknown to march into a publishers with her ( technically not even HER ) first book in her hand , obtain an audience with a publisher who reads it whilst she waits and agrees to publish it on the spot , that's how we KNOW this is a fantasy .
Borcht Circuit Blues	This film has been available on DVD for a couple of years but I've resisted buying it having seen it on TV several years ago and aware that ' message ' movies seldom stand up in later years . Actually I was pleasantly surprised although I do agree with several of the points made by other posters here ; yes , there is a lack of chemistry between Gregory Peck and Dorothy McGuire and yes , he would have done much better to opt for Celeste Holm ( whose Best Supporting Actress Oscar was well deserved ) and yes it was asking a lot to make us believe that Albert Dekker would have been unaware of employment policies in his own organization etc . I have always found Peck a highly watchable and vastly underrated actor who , in common with Jack Lemmon , exudes decency from every pore so that it is hardly coincidence that he has in his screen personas fought racism against Jews and Blacks . John Garfield for once playing a decent person is strangely muted ; Garfield came out of the Group Theatre and embodies the virility and raw passion of that outfit lots of it provided by Clifford Odets and he would have been more effective opposing Peck rather than supporting him . On the other hand the film was made in 1947 and did , for the time , take an unpopular stance . Gadge himself emerged from the Group and had already directed Pinky , another of Fox's moral statements and he was reunited with Garfield as Garfield was reunited with Ann Revere who had played his mother in Body and Soul that same year . In mentioning these names I have perhaps put my finger on one of the problems with this movie ; it is , by any stretch of the imagination , a great cast yet comprises conflicting styles from McGuire's ' soft ' feminine image to Holm's brittle , wisecracking stylist to Garfield's raw virility to Peck's basically decent nice guy . Somehow the whole is greater than the parts and it remains very watchable .
Brief Encounter	Credit where it's due , please , knockers . The title surely says it all . It's not so long ago that ' shopgirl fiction ' was a forerunner of today's ' airport ' fiction and / or Aga-Sagas . It was also commonplace to hear references to ' shopgirls ' in movies , in terms of the Cinderella stories allegedly the reading matter of choice of those girl who spent their working days behind the counter at Woolworth's and / or equivalent establishments . Having tipped its glove , so to speak , in the title Steve Martin's screenplay proceeds to deliver what could be described as a Pretty Woman with an alternative ending . Clare Danes is nothing short of magnificent as the wannabee artist from Vermont alone and adrift in LA where she works in the glove department at Saks Fifth Avenue . Danes is one of those actresses who are BETTER than beautiful because beautiful , especially LA Beautiful is often a synonym for ' plastic ' , ' vapid ' , ' insipid ' etc ( think Kim Novak for example ) whilst Danes insinuates rather than oozes warmth , charm and naivety that ensures you are rooting for her from frame one . In the space of one reel she meets a weirdo who lives like and probably smells like a pig and what used in those very same ' shopgirl ' romances to be called a ' Sugar Daddy ' in the shape of Steve Martin , sixty years old but rich with it . In the real world a girl like Danes may possibly go along for the ride and milk the relationship for all it was worth in Cartier watches and designer furs with one eye on Father Time and the guy with the bullhorn poised to yell ' come in , Number 14 , your time is up ' but in THIS world of course , she falls in love with him ( Audrey Hepburn , you may remember , was similarly afflicted in both Sabrina Fair and Love In The Afternoon with respectively Bogie and Gary Cooper ) DESPITE his clear statement of intent which amounts to , ' I'm into sex with lovely , twenty-something girls but don't expect a band of gold ' . This affliction COULD have ended badly if , during all this time pig-sty dweller Jeremy hadn't been on the road with a rock band and reading every consciousness-raising volume he could get his hands on and is thus available when she calls time on Martin and , for good measure , BECAUSE it is called Shopgirl , she also gets a one-woman art show at a prestigious gallery . Corny , yes ; believable , no ; but cavils like these aside it actually WORKS by virtue of its off-key whimsy and an outstanding performance by Clare Danes . Recommended .
Lear On Mulberry Street	There are , of course , as we are constantly reminded by pedants , only seven basic plots and the trick is to apply spin and disguise the original as best you can . For this one Mank - who virtually wrote the entire screenplay without credit - took a handful of pages from Jerome Weidman's I'll Never Go There Anymore and grafted a revised version of King Lear onto them so that instead of a patriarch with three daughters , two of whom despise him and one who loves him , we get a patriarch with four sons , three of whom despise him or , to put it another way , anything Shakespeare can do Mank can do better . Somehow his heart didn't seem to be in it , possibly because he turned out a minor masterpiece , A Letter To Three Wives , back to back with this , nevertheless he supplies Richard Conte and Susan Hayward with some choice Mank-type dialogue and coaxes a masterful performance out of Eddie Robinson as Gino Monetti , banker to the poor . Luther Adler wasn't seen half enough on screen and often when he did get a part he gave the impression , as he does here , that he would rather be in the theatre . This is an interesting rather than memorable example from Mank's first flowering - circa 1946-54 .
Spanish Flies	After sixty years what is still most striking about this film are the evocations of Flemish Art from the opening scene in a market place crowded with Brueghel figurines to the subsequent groupings of the good burghers of Boom in the style of Rembrandt and the Rubenesque womenfolk . Charles Spaak turned in his usual reliable script and Jacques Feyder filmed it more than competently with his wife , Francoise Rosay in a key role . Louis Jouvet is the class act , not unusually but the plot is a little creaky - it failed as a Musical on Broadway in the early fifties where it played under the title Carnival In Flanders and left in its wake an enduring standard ' Here's That Rainy Day ' . Certainly worth another look .
Eat Your Heart Out Spiderman	Students of irony will turn up lots of grist for their mill in this one . Minnelli , for example , was celebrated for his skillful use of color so cognizant of that the accountants forced him to shoot in Eastman Color , a pale imitation of the old three-strip Technicolor which was still available at the time but more expensive . On the other hand Cinemascope had been around a couple of years by then and people like Minnelli knew just how to exploit it , in this case with crowded scenes like the patient's Committee gathering cutting to allow say , just three characters to fill the frame . Another , if more obvious , irony is having the doctors and staff of the Private Clinic behave more questionably than the mentally disturbed inmates and if we toss in casting against type - Lauren Bacall had acquired a well-deserved image as a tough , feisty ball-breaker yet here she is required to be the fragile , emotionally-scarred and needy young widow just vulnerable enough to climb into bed with Richard Widmark's Medical Director ; for an encore there is Gloria Grahame , born to play the overripe , sultry , wanton ' good-time girl ' temptress cast against type ( as she was in Minnelli's earlier The Bad And The Beautiful ) here as Widmark's neglected wife who nevertheless spurns the advances of Charles Boyer when the Natural Grahame persona would have put the moves on Him . This is shaping up like too many ironies in the fire but somehow the film works ; the to-die-for cast doesn't do any harm , take a look at the roster - Widmark , Bacall , Boyer , Grahame , Lillian Gish , Oscar Levant , Paul Stewart ( sadly and inexplicably underused ) , Tommy Rettig who , having mastered the piano in The 5 , 000 Fingers Of Dr . T , now turns his attention to chess , and two young debutants - in film terms only since both had acted on both Broadway and TV - John Kerr and Susan Strasberg , who made this one back to back with Picnic . Significantly the screenplay is credited to John Paxton with ' additional dialogue ' by William Gibson . Paxton had a decent enough overall CV with writing credits on such films as Crossfire , Murder , My Sweet ( aka Farewell , My Lovely ) Fourteen Hours and Kotch but Gibson wrote the novel The Cobweb plus plays like The Miracle Worker and Two For The SeeSaw , both subsequently adapted for the screen , and his dialogue ' touch ' is unmistakable . From a simple premise ; the library at the Clinic needs new drapes , logically this is handled by Miss Inch ( Gish ) whose only criteria is to save a buck but the patients would like to design and make their own which is more than Jake with Widmark who sees this as a positive therapeutic step but then , in a neat twist a two-way conflict becomes convoluted when Widmark's neglected wife , Grahame , weighs in with a scheme of her own in which she quickly enlists the both the clout and collaboration of the Head of the Board of Governers , the plot spins spider-like into that tangled mess we weave when first we practise to deceive . Time hasn't been good to the Eastman Color print - I saw this as part of a Bacall mini-season at the NFT - a venue that will always inform and apologize - either in the Programme Notes or via a member of staff prior to the screening - if they've been unable to get anything less than a good print and as nothing was said I have to conclude that the fault , Dear Brutus , lies in the process ( for the record Eastman went the same way as Ansco Color and those other fifties alternatives to three-strip . Overall I'm glad I saw this one but I won't be in a hurry to acquire a DVD .
Ticket To Ride	There's a school of thought that makes a case for Pyshka as the finest adaptation of Guy de Maupassant's short story Boule de Suif . Directed by Mikhail Romm and starring Galina Sergeyava this was also the last silent film produced in Russia but I'd have to ask another Galina , a valued friend , for more information on this version . Another friend , dbdmonteuil is slightly mistaken when he says that Dudley Nichols used Boule de Suif as a basis for Stagecoach . Nichols adapted a short story , Stage To Lordsburg , by Douglas Haycox , a well-known Western novelist so it is Haycox who may have been inspired by Boule de Suif . What matters ultimately , of course , is what kind of fist Christian Jacque and Micheline Presle made of it and the answer is a pretty damn good one . Jacque had a penchant for period films - his Fanfan La Tulipe - remains a benchmark in French cinema and he exhibits a sure touch with his material . For good measure another Maupassant story , Mademoiselle Fifi , is thrown into the mix and blends in perfectly and seamlessly ; the Hollywood Bomber Crew are all out of the right bottle with stalwarts such as Gabrielle Fontan ( Porte de Lilas , Les Portes de la nuit , etc ) lending sterling support but ultimately it is Presle's movie and she takes it with both hands and runs with it . A minor gem .
A Night To Remember	In 1942 it was all too easy to interpret any movie set in the distant past ( Les Visiteurs du soir ) or in a dreamscape as here as a metaphor for avoiding the present and / or commenting obliquely on the Occupation but be that as it may both the Carne-Prevert ' Visiteurs ' and this entry from Marcel L'Herbier more than stand up well when viewed today . True , Fernand Gravey was never much of an actor and , as has been noted , was too old to pass for a student - ' mature ' students were more or less unknown at the time - but provided you didn't ask him to ' act ' anything more demanding than bemusement he could get by . It's also a joy to see Micheline Presle in her prime - she continues to act to this day including small roles in films written and directed by her talented daughter , Tonie Marshall - and understand just why she was so prominent among French actresses . Marcel L'Herbier was , of course , himself a veteran who deserves to be much better remembered than he is and here he turns in a charming melange of comedy , drama and fantasy predicated on student Gravey being so worn out from holding down two jobs AND trying to study that he is prone to fall asleep anywhere and dream of a mysterious - but beautiful , natch - lady in white which amateur psychologists would say was trying to tell him something about his real-life unfaithful girlfriend . In a masterstroke L'Herbier allows Gravey to ' enter ' his dream - paving the way for Cocteau to put spin on the technique in Orphee - and set up a story within a story with more twists than a bag of pretzels . Bernard Blier - who would also father a future director , Bertrand - is also on hand to add a little class and Saturnin Fabre chews the scenery to everyone's satisfaction . Overall a fine movie and one I'll be adding to my ' wants ' list to France and Norway .
The Greener Grass	Bear with me as I take you back to the 1960s . You're a mogul with the power to Green Light a property and I've got 60 seconds to ' pitch ' to you . Okay , an Amtrak pulls in to Buffalo Crap , Iowa and Charles Bronson gets off . His eyes , slits in a pillbox at the best of times , narrow even more as he surveys Nowheresville . But even hardmen have headaches so he heads for the drugstore and some Milltown . Already in the drugstore is Mr Milquetoast personified , Edward Everett Horton ( this is our Meet-Cute , geddit ) . Leaving the drugstore they strike up a conversation when Bronson remarks that the druggist sold him a soluble version . No problem , says Horton , my large , rambling family home is right here , be my guest . Bronson is here for a few days to knock over the local bank , Horton has been here a lifetime teaching English prior to his retirement . Conveniently the hotel is closed so Horton invites Bronson to stay as his guest , cue male bonding . The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence and at heart tough guy Bronson is an English teacher and foppish Horton a bad ass dude . Alas , Hollywood doesn't respond to pitches like that but Hosannahs , France does and here we have Johnny Hallyday teamed with Jean Rochefort in a miniature gem brimming over with delicate ' touches ' and top-drawer performances . Patrice Leconte is right amongst the cream of current French Directors and he seldom puts a foot wrong in this terse yet rambling Brief Encounter . One that can stand multiple viewings .
Ground Forces	For a film about the armed forces with virtually no action , no love interest and over half its running time set in a court room this is strangely effective . Prior to Jack Lemmon's emergence on the scene in the early 50s no one did ' decency ' as well as Jimmy Stewart and Gary Cooper and that being the case Cooper could have phoned this one in had he put his mind to it . Although meaningless liberties have been taken with this true story - what possible difference , for example , could it have made to acknowledge that Mitchell was married rather than imply bachelor status - it still grips in an understated way . Essentially Mitchell distinguished himself as a pilot in the First World War but grew appalled at the indifference if not bias in favour of the Army and Navy in peacetime - there was , in fact , no Air Force - and having exhausted every avenue in an attempt to address this problem he called a press conference and accused the General Staff of incompetence . His purpose , of course , was to get the army to court martial him and use this as a forum to sue for recognition and the formation of a third armed force . For his pains he died in virtual obscurity prior to the second World War he had foreseen . Cooper is solid as the dedicated army man , Rod Steiger showboats in the flashiest role in the film as Prosecuting Attorney and the support is largely out of the right bottle . On the low-key side for an Otto Preminger film but none the worse for that .
Mais oui	Despite the international success of Les Choristes Gerard Jugnot remains virtually unknown in England . Of the 92 movies in which he has acted - 16 of which he wrote and 10 of which he directed - only seven have been shown in England and in two of them ( Le Juge et l'assassin , Que le fete commence ) he was uncredited ; in Les Valseuses he had only a ' bit ' ; Le Clef de la bagnole was full of French actors who appeared only momentarily ; Herbie Goes To Monte Carlo wasn't made in France which leaves Tandem and Monsieur Klein . Most of his colleagues from L'equipe du Splendid have similar profiles , i . e . scores of acting credits ( well over 100 in the case of Thierry Lhermitte ) , plus several writing and directing credits also but even so the likes of Michel Blanc ( Monsieur Hire ) , Josiane Balasko ( Gazon Maudit ) and Christian Clavier ( Les Visiteurs ) have still to register as even a modest blip on the radar of English movie goers . This is a great pity as all of them have lots to offer and Jugnot is no exception ; Oui , Mais is a fine example of simply Jugnot the actor doing a first-rate job as the psychiatrist who helps Emilie Dequenne come to terms with emerging adulthood and deal with problems on several fronts . In an age where psychiatry , in England at least , prefers to deal with mental illness by treating it with drugs to suppress rather than cure - not unlike bandaging a festering wound but applying no ointment ; it won't offend passers by but neither will it heal - it's refreshing to find a film where the value of analysis via one-to-one sessions is appreciated . Both Dequenne and Jugnot are excellent and the film is a real gem which would , I am convinced , if given the chance would be well received in England .
Love From Julie	I've never been much of an admirer of Lesley Caron but it's undeniable that she does possess the required ingenuousness for the role of an orphan doubling as Cinderella . Jean Webster's novel has been adapted many times not least as a stage Musical , Love From Judy , in the late forties . The natural warmth , charm and grace of Fred Astaire have seldom been better displayed , grace under pressure if you will given that his wife had died only recently . We don't hear enough of Johnny Mercer's great ballad Dream ( which was not written for the film ) but we do get Something's Gotta Give . As usual Fred dances so effortlessly that you wonder why the second-stringers like Kelly , Daily , Nelson etc even bother . Thelma Ritter could have been given a little more but she clicks with the little she does get and all in all this is a minor charmer .
You Caan Go Home Again	Blame Roger Kahn . As a fledgling reporter Kahn was assigned to ' cover ' the Brooklyn Dodgers in the early fifties , which meant he travelled with the team , roomed with them from Spring Training through to the end of the season . Thirty years later he thought it might be interesting to find out what had become of the individual players so he sought them out , interviewed them at length and published his findings as The Boys Of Summer , one of the finest books about baseball ever written by anyone anywhere . Thirty years ago Nicolas Philbert was a fledgling filmmaker who worked on a film made on location in Normandy and utilised real natives as opposed to actors to relate the facts of a real triple murder in the nineteenth century . Thirty years later Philbert went back to Normandy to trace the non-actors who appeared in the film and his findings comprise his latest film Back To Normandy . It defies categorization melding travelogue with philosophy , metaphysics and nostalgia into a richly satisfying whole that perhaps falls just a tad short of his wonderful Etre et Avoir which did for the Auvergne what this latest effort does for Normandy . I doubt if it will play many Multiplexes or ' speak ' to the bubblegum crowd but that's their loss .
Ring-A-Ding-Ding	Edmond T . Greville had almost 40 films on his Director's CV but is probably remembered only for The Hands Of Orlac which is a great pity as he proves himself here to be a fine craftsman . During the several years he spent making films in France Erich Von Stroheim played many diverse characters but never , to my knowledge , a pipe-smoking sea captain , still , there's a first time for everything . The only other ' name ' in the cast is Dora Doll who by this time could phone in the stereotypical lush , slut , femme fatale , perm any two from three , and does so here as the drunken , sluttish wife of novelist manque Blaise d'Orliac , who takes a bullet where it will do the most good ( note the similarity to Hands Of . . . close enough for me to be able to say she perished at the hands of D'Orliac . Scott Fitzgerald's breakthrough novel in 1929 was This Side Of Paradise and clearly Greville wanted to show us another side and does so by straying into Marcel Pagnol country , literally in setting his film in Provence and figuratively by peopling his small town with Pagnol types as they might have appeared two decades after the Marius trilogy ; on the other hand we could argue that what we have here is a prototype of Peyton Place which in 1953 was still in the head of Grace Metalious . Whichever way you slice it this is a fine French movie ; a friend of mine has drawn attention to the bells which are heard throughout but he seems to have missed their secondary message ; they were in fact warning us that the dreaded New Wavelet was on the horizon and that for a brief moment of madness fine films like this would be consigned to the trash can . Of more interest to me was the recurring motif of bars - the slats through which the cop looks down on Blaise , the back of the wicker rocking chair in the ' murder ' scene etc , symbols which suggest that small towns in the open countryside are also prisons .
Dog Watch	I don't really understand the approach that some people bring to commenting on a given film . I'm speaking specifically of what appears to be what I can only describe as resentment that a given actor - Duke Wayne is a prime example - appears to play himself in every film when that aberration is the very thing that has propelled him to stardom . Surely if it's widely known that , to take another example , Fred Astaire specialized in musical films that called upon him to sing and dance and YOU don't LIKE musical films then why pay money to see them and then moan because the leading player does what he is best known for . Jean-Pierre Bacri who is as fine an actor as he is a writer , which is saying a lot , has developed a persona of morose , misanthropic grouch and polished it until it gleams but most people who regularly watch French films know this and choose to celebrate the ease with which he assumes this persona rather than finding fault with it . In Kennedy et Moi he displays yet another facet of this character playing as he does a writer who is fresh out of ideas and is in addition undergoing a mid-life crisis . Sam Karman , who appeared in the original stage production of Cuisine et Dependences which was co-written by Bacri and his long-term partner Agnes Jaoui , and subsequently played alongside Bacri and Jaoui once more in the film version , has written and directed a fine film that explores this all-too common subject . Bacri is excellent as always and Karman himself offers fine support as does another fine actress-turned-director Nicole Garcia as Bacri's wife . This is a modest film but highly enjoyable .
No Reservations . . .	. . . about recommending this to anyone with eyes and ears capable of homing in on Charm , Style , Song and Dance . It is , in fact , one of the better original musicals scored by Irving Berlin possible because it is not so reliant on his back catalogue . Astaire and Crosby play more or less Hope and Crosby , i . e . partners with a healthy rivalry in place and not above stealing each other's girl . The major difference between this and a ' Road ' film is that the ' Road ' films were tongue-in-cheek spoofs at Holiday Inn type musical comedies and generally offered more laughs than songs . This is an exceptionally fine score with one great ballad , Be Careful , It's My Heart , a worthy Oscar-winner , and one almost as good but not half so well known , Let's Start The New Year Right and , as if that were not enough the ultimate ' seasonal ' song , White Christmas . Marjorie Reynolds is just right as the girl who almost destroys the friendship / partnership and it's a great pity she never again found a role so perfect for her . Astaire is , as always , beyond category and all in all this is about as feelgood as they come .
Is EV'RYbody Happee ?	At a superficial level this is a modern take on ' Marty ' , the Paddy Chayefsky / Delber Mann Oscar Winner of 1955 which centred on a romance between a plug-ugly butcher , Ernest Borgnine and a ' homely ' schoolteacher , Betsy Blair . This time around the ' homliness ' is supplied by writer-director Miranda July and the plug-ugliness by John Hawke . He's a shoe salesman just coming off a marriage and more or less saddled with two young boys while she runs a cab service for Senior Citizens and aspires to the artistic life . Apart from ' Marty ' there's also a nod to ' The Accidental Tourist ' with July in the kooky Geena Davis stalker and Hawke in the passive and timid William Hurt role . Elsewhere there are other performances , quirky / offbeat to a character but all handled well by the actors concerned . July is one of those actresses it's easy to fall in love with , in the style of Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi , and she's more than a competent writer director . Clearly she read somewhere E . M . Forster's celebrated mantra ' only connect ' and has adapted it as her own . It will be hard for her to follow this but let's hope she pulls it off .
It's All In The Mind	Erich Von Stroheim had three ' French ' periods , the late 30s , late 40s and late 50s and this is from the first period - roughly 1937-1940 . It would perhaps be foolish to equate it with two other films from that first period , Les Disparus de St Agil and La Grande Illusion , but neither is it chopped liver . Pierre Chenal is an underrated director who worked with Von Stroheim several times and was still turning out interesting stuff - The Killer Knows The Score , Dangerous Games - at the end of his career and this is a neat little entry which is fairly representative of French cinema at the time . At 80 minutes it equates to the Hollywwod ' program ' picture or the ' quota quickies ' produced in England , solid fare designed to fill the bottom half of a double bill supporting an ' A ' picture ( which is why they were also known as ' B ' pictures - or even one equal half of a double bill of two ' B ' pictures ( let's face it , moviegoers got a lot for their money in those days ; two feature films , cartoon , newsreel plus a one or two reel ' magazine ' , The March Of Time , Pathe Pictorial , Look At Life ; how come WE accept one feature , 50 commercials and a couple of trailers ) . This one sees Von Stroheim as a telepathist working in a plush Parisian nite-club ( telepathy was a not-so-elaborate con which was code-based so that the usually blindfolded maestro relied on an Assistant to say ' I'm holding a silver object ' or some such which would be the code for a wristwatch , etc . Incredibly it actually flourished in England up to the fifties via a husband-and-wife act The Piddingtons ) where one night an old enemy turns up by chance . Naturally he has to be killed and Von Stroheim is up to the task and having done so he bribes one of the ' hostesses ' at the club to swear he spent the night with her . Louis Jouvet , in charge of the murder investigation , isn't buying this for birdseed but lacking hard evidence he persuades a colleague , Albert Prejean , to seduce the girl and get at the truth ( this , of course , would be inadmissible today ) . That's about it but Chenal has a sure eye and keeps the action rolling along and no way are Jouvet and Von Stroheim ever going to be less than watchable .
Catwalk	He walks through walls and she's a cat-burglar ; as winning parleys go that has to be up there with Sinatra , Crosby and Cole Porter in High Society . Director Jean Boyer will always have a special place in my heart because of the films he made with Arletty , okay , they were bread-and-butter entries but French bread and Normandy butter is not to be sneezed at . Joan Greenwood had been in films for ten years and had things like Kind Hearts And Coronets , Whiskey Galore and The Bad Lord Byron on her cv when she played the cat burglar who bewitches Bourvil to the extent that he masquerades as a celebrated criminal to impress her - nothing new there , Gene Kelly posed as notorious pirate Mack The Black to impress Judy Garland in The Pirate three years previously . Boyer gives us enough set pieces to flesh out the one-trick pony aspect and the whole is a delightful and charming romp . Recommended .
Thanks But No Thanks	This is a slightly disturbing film for a Francophile like me bearing as it does distinct overtones of intolerance for individual rights . Accountant Gilbert Melki , upright law-abiding citizen , in a stable ten-year marriage with cab-driver Sandrine Kiberlain is stopped my an official as he leaves the Metro smoking a cigarette - there's no suggestion that he was smoking ON the Metro itself or even on the platform ; he is , in fact only a few metres from the street - and asked for I . D . Not unnaturally he bridles at this but threatened with the police he acquiesces . A short time later he sees police demanding I . D . in the street and pauses to watch . This doesn't sit well with the police who tell him to ' get lost ' . When he persists in hanging around and explaining he is just watching he is arrested and spends a night in the cells without a blanket on a cold night . Released the next morning he asks to see an Inspector in order to complain , is thrown out unceremoniously and when he dares to return he winds up in a psychiatric hospital . It's difficult to know what the French Tourist Board would make of Manu Cau's film but it is certainly food for thought with top-of-the-line performances from Melki and Kiberlain , as you would expect . In fact everyone in this Kafkaesque world turns in fine performances though it's hard to envisage a target audience - it played at the London Film Festival but so far has no English distributor unlike some others that are already playing in London or will open tomorrow or in the next few weeks . My advice : Catch it if you can .
Cliffhanger	Cliff Odets was one of the finest American playwrights of the 20th century and several of his plays have been adapted for the screen with varying results . This is one of the best . Odets made his name with the Group Theatre in the mid thirties where one of the actors was Jules Garfinckle . Hollywood knocked that out of him and he became John Garfield , in many ways the acting personification of Odets writing , raw , virile , coiled spring contained energy . So it was fitting that when Odets wrote a new play in 1949 Garfield played the lead on Broadway . Alas , I didn't see it but I can imagine how writer and actor combined perfectly . When Robert Aldrich came to make the film he tapped Jack Palance - an actor he worked with in back-to-back productions , this one and ' Attack ' - for the Garfield role , a good choice as it's difficult to think of another actor of the time , with the possible exception of Charles Bronson who was still relatively unknown , who could bring the energy and self-disgust to the part of the stage actor who'd ' sold out ' to Hollywood ( for actor read writer , Odets himself deserted Broadway for Hollywood and lived to regret it ) and can't walk away without paying the price in scandal . Aldrich surrounded Palance with an almost perfect cast . Ida Lupino was seldom better as Marion , the wife in love with her husband's integrity as much as with the man himself , Wendell Corey , never much more than a Johnny-One-Note actor lucked into a part - press agent Smiley Coy - that called for that very one note in his repertoire , Jean Hagan and Shelley Winters handled the Hollywood ' tramps ' as well as any of their contemporaries would have done and Rod Steiger was nothing if not memorable as Stanley Shriner Hoff an amalgam of any movie moguls you care to think of from Harry Cohn to Louis B . Mayer . It's a great script laced with highly quotable lines and full of that Odets pizzaz .
Hold That Tiger	Transposing a TV series to and / or for the big screen is not unlike expanding a short story into a novel i . e . why bother ; the obvious answer in the case of the former is money ; couch potatoes who enjoyed the series may venture to the local Multiplex and the strictly cinema audience probably missed the TV series . What we have here is slick entertainment set in that long Edwardian summer that culminated in the First World War and the Russian Revolution , both of which are offscreen characters here . The period doesn't figure that often in mega-buck movies although the last Arsene Lupin movie and A Very Long Engagement infringed upon it . As entertainment it hits all its targets and non-French audiences are unlikely to be distracted by familiar names - Deneuve , Depardieu , Binoche , Huppert etc - though the French film buff will be reassured by the presence of the reliable Jacques Gamblin , Gerard Jugnot and somewhat more erratic Clovis Cornillac . Guillaume Canet's ex-wife Diane Kruger has a central role but luckily she's not prevailed upon to act anything more demanding than gorgeous and / or sympathetic which she does as well as any equally gorgeous non-actress ( she does it again in her latest , Pour Elle , in the salles now and it's all pretty harmless . If you like to be entertained and think you're learning a little about social history at the same time this is probably for you .
Kitchen Privileges	This was the first collaboration of the great writer-actor team of Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri ; it was a huge success on the stage and paved the way for their second play-and-subsequent-film Un Air de famille after which they concentrated on writing directly for the screen ( On Connait le chanson , Smoking / No Smoking , and Le Gout des autres and Comme une Image which Jaoui also , of course , directed . Cuisine is now available on DVD and very welcome it is . All the themes of the duo - the small group as microcosm , the flawed relationships , long-savoured resentments , etc - are in evidence from the first and if , like Francis Veber in another context , they keep making the same movies this is no problem because like Veber they keep ringing the changes and finding different ways to extract new wine from old bottles . Like Une air de famille the setting - in this case a kitchen - is one associated with food and only the relationships are different ; the kitchen is in the home of a married couple , Zabou Breitman and Sam Karman , who have given a temporary roof to a friend , Jean-Pierre Bacri and have invited another friend - arguably we could call him The Man Who Didn't Come To Dinner as he remains off-camera - who , in the intervening decade since they saw him last has become a TV personality . Also on hand is Zabou's brother , Jean-Pierre Darroussin and HIS unseen girlfriend and finally Agnes Jaoui , the wife of a journalist . Between them these five explore the Human Condition in all its manifestations and contribute the kind of high quality acting we would expect given their respective track records . It's also interesting to note that three out of the five went on to direct films ; apart from Jaoui herself Zabou wrote , directed and appeared in the brilliant Se Souvenirs des belles choses and Sam Karman weighed in with Un Petite semaine . This is one to relish .
Eve In B-Flat	Clearly Denis Dercourt likes to do things the hard way ; a fine classical musician himself he seems bent on a way of combining his twin passions of classical music and film-making in a way that will render them palatable to a mass audience . Having got it right in his first At Bat , Les Cachetonniers , he didn't do quite so well with My Children Aren't Like Others but now he has come up with a winner ; All About Eve in time . For Margo Channing read Ariane Fouchercourt a renowned concert pianist played brilliantly by Catherine Frot . Mank never told us just why Eve Harrington was so determined to scupper Margo but Dercourt has given us a feasible motive for Deborah Francois to give Ariane the business and it's none other than that dish best served cold . As a ten year old our Debbie was a promising pianist but during an audition Ariane , who is President of the Jury distracts her by signing an autograph and blows her chance . We get a glimpse of the future when , on the way out of the audition she brings a piano lid down on the hands of a totally uninvolved child who is warming up whilst waiting her own turn . Ten years go by and she has the chance to work for Ariane as a page-turner , makes herself indispensable a la Eve and then strikes . That's about all there is to it but it's extremely well done . Actresses don't come any better than Frot and she is well supported by young Deborah Francois . Pascal Greggory isn't having too much luck with his screen wives lately having gone from Isabelle Huppert in Gabrielle to Frot here . Classical music in movies is mostly confined to biopics - The Great Waltz , La Symphonie Fantastique , Song Without End , etc and on the odd occasion they attempt to attach a fictional story to it it has to compete with the scenery chewing of Joan Crawford in Humoresque for example . In fact only Claude Sautet lines the three cherries up in Un Coeur en hiver in recent years . Dercourt has struck a nice balance and it would be nice if Tourneuse found its audience
Aces , Hi	Kevin Spacey really is a card ; apparently there is no movie job he won't stoop to if it subsidises his real job of running and acting at The Old Vic in London . Here he plays scammer turned Math Professor who grooms a team of MIT students to rip off the Vegas casinos by legitimately mastering the art of ' counting ' the cards . The inescapable fact that this is perfectly legal cuts no ice with the casinos who naturally prefer to retain the advantage so Lawrence Fishburne is apt to show up and ' discourage ' gifted amateurs - who have , after all , spent hours honing the art of memorising discards - from darkening their doors in future . It's all quite glib , quite superficial , quite glossy and yes , quite enjoyable .
Low Blood Count	Horror and even excessively violent movies don't even approach my radar but this multi ( albeit at minor festivals ) Award winner was so well reviewed that I decided to give it a whirl - in the same way , I did something similar a few years ago when Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon garnered the same sort of ecstatic Press . I found it slow to get into its stride and initially all the characters seemed as cold as the Swedish locale but gradually it warmed up . At its heart is a burgeoning relationship between two twelve-year olds - or one twelve-year-old and one of indeterminate age . Even at such tender years both have problems , not least hunger in more than one sense of the word . They nurture their relationship against a background of murders which seem hardly to impinge on the community of which they are a part . No one is questioned , no one is even followed by police and the fact that the viewer is privy to the killings is neither here nor there . There are scenes that could be construed as horrific but they verge very close to the risible , provoking mirth rather than terror . The two central performances are exceptional but may be one-offs , not unlike that of Bobby Henrey in The Fallen Idol , rather than the beginnings of fine careers .
Ear ? Here ? Fear ! Cheer	It's not all that often that I for one come across a movie totally unknown to me and written , directed and performed by people who are just names albeit names worthy of respect in their own country . Ucho is one of those films from a country we used to call Czechoslovakia - Billy Wilder had a lot of fun with the name , recommending spelling it backwards as a cure for insomnia in his script for Bluebeard's Eighth Wife - which then became the Czech Republic and has now fragmented into the Czech Republic and Slovakia . What few films I've seen from there - with the possible exception of ' Daisies ' - I've enjoyed though it is a woefully small total , The Fireman's Ball , Closely Observed Trains , Kolya , Divided We Fall , which are now supplemented by Ucho . Watching it I was reminded in turn of L'Aveu and The Trial given that it contains elements of both . It's also something of a Long Night's Journey Into Day chronicling as it does the time that elapses between a government Minister arriving home late from a party to slowly realise that in the absence of himself and his wife their house has been bugged by his own Party , and the next morning when his fears prove theoretically groundless as he learns he is to replace a Minister who has been deposed . Although on paper this makes for a sigh of relief in reality it just means he will have an even higher profile and be that much bigger a target for Party hit men . Shot in black and white the film mirrors a society that for us in the West is virtually impossible to imagine but even then the tension is liberally laced with humour . A fine film in a fine tradition .
Quality Street	Claude Lelouch tended to make chocolate-box films and this is certainly out of the right box of Quality Street . Today we - or at least me - are used to seeing a craggy , lived-in face on Jean-Louis Trintignant and it's something of a revelation to realize that forty years ago he was actually handsome , but then I guess that probably Clint Eastwood must have looked something similar in his days as a TV cowboy in Rawhide . Arguably the movie opts for glamour at the expense of reality making it a sort of gallicized Doris Day-Cary Grant outing or love among the rich and chic but that argument can be countered by the many films featuring love among the poor-but-happy . Okay , so we have a racing driver and a continuity girl which means we have scenes of movie making and motor racing but are we saying that a racing driver and a continuity girl can't or are incapable of falling in love . Of course it's more pleasant to see a gorgeous young woman and a handsome man fall in love than to watch say an overweight steel puddler and a blowzy waitress do the same thing but if you know that going in then so what . Both actors here are more than up to expressing deep feelings without dialogue and of delivering dialogue in a realistic manner when called for ; the images are mostly seductive as is the music , in short this is good old-fashioned entertainment .
Best Of Breed	Whether this movie is based on , inspired by or just bears a passing resemblance to Chekhov's The Lady With The Little Dog is ultimately academic because what really matters is the movie as it stands , is it good , bad or ho-hum . It's actually rather good if anybody asks you . Sure , there are things that verge on hat of the very oldest kind , like the O'Henryish ending but the film transcends stuff like that easily . It begins with our old friend the Frame narrator buttonholing a passenger on a small cruise ship and laying his life-story on him . The information ladled out by the passenger - despite advancing years he is newly married ; he had loved and pursued his wife for years ; she in turn was unhappily married and could never love him but finally consented to marry him - over the length of the film is done so cunningly that only the professional film / story analyst will even sense a connection between this and the story told by Marcello Mastroianni , architect manque , married to Miss Gotrocks in the shape of Silvana Mangana , who is seized without warning by a passion for a Russian woman encountered by chance , so much so that he pursues her to her homeland and perseveres in the face of a burocray not unlike that encountered by Melvyn Douglas in HIS attempt to be reunited with Ninotchka , until he is finally able to travel to her small home town . The style is a hybrid of Chekhovian spareness and Visconti opulence but even this seems appropriate for a film determined to charm and seduce the discriminating viewer . Does it succeed ? What do you think .
Cut To The Chase	This is another take on the cat-and-mouse war games that was kick-started by The Enemy Below . The twist is that this time the U-boat commander is on the bridge of the American destroyer in an advisory capacity at the invitation of skipper Richard Widmark . Widmark just knows there's a Soviet sub down there somewhere and damned if he isn't going to wait it out whatever it takes . Instead of a full-on chase the screenplay carefully filters the action through the eyes of two newcomers who join the ship via helicopter whilst it is in mid voyage ; Sydney Poitier is an eminent photo-journalist assigned to do a magazine story on Widmark whilst Martin Balsam is the new ship's doctor . All four are on top of their game and Wally Cox scores in a rare dramatic role although James McArthur is slightly wooden . With no ' action ' in the accepted sense until the final reel the film holds the attention by simply racking up the tension . Excellent .
The Best Room Service In Town	As a lifelong Sinatra fan who has seen all the movies and owns all the CDs I have no hesitation in rating this the best film he made in the 40s , his best in fact until Meet Danny Wilson right at the start of the 50s . In fact it's right up there with the two great musicals he made in the 50s , Young At Heart and High Society and it's no coincidence that all three had rock-solid scripts , had in fact begun life in each case as non-musical dramas / comedies . Young At Heart was a successful novel by Fanny Hurst which became a fine drama , Four Daughters ; High Society was a play , The Philadelphia Story , tailored especially for Katherine Hepburn who played it both on Broadway and the subsequent film version and Step Lively began as a farce on Broadway and became a film vehicle for the Marx Brothers . This means that Sinatra isn't asked to carry the film and we can enjoy George Murphy as a sort of pre-Bilko complete with two sidekicks , Wally Brown and Alan Carny , in a running battle with Walter Slezak , Adolph Menjou and Eugene Palette . The six great songs provided by Jule Syne and Sammy Cahn are a bonus even those in which Sinatra does not feature ( Ask The Madam ) . Sinatra is allowed to develop his personality into something - albeit only a little - more than the gauche ' himself ' he played in Higher And Higher and once he got to MGM he was back to gauche . I suspect that Anchors Aweigh would seem very dated today despite a fine score , The Kissing Bandit was always a joke with Take Me Out To The Ballgame only a notch better and I've always found On The Town vastly overrated which leaves It Happened In Brooklyn as the best of a mediocre lot . Step Lively - seen today , May , 2008 , retains its freshness and failed completely to disappoint .
The China Syndrome	Those with a cynical turn of mind may well be tempted to dismiss this as The Rains Came with chopsticks , whilst others may just as easily debate the merits of Louis Bromfield and Willie Maugham , authors of the respective novels even as a third group are comparing this version to one made in 1934 and starring Greta Garbo . All this to one side this remains superior Art House fare - I was , in fact , surprised to find it playing a Multiplex and drawing only a handful of spectators . Maugham was a Victorian who actually broke into print whilst Victoria was still very much on the throne ( Liza Of Lambeth , 1897 ) and wrote his last novel around 1950 which means that his novels , stories and plays are ' old fashioned ' if your aim is belittlement or ' well-made ' if you're more objective . He was also a great traveller and many of his short stories and a handful of novels are set in exotic locales and this one is a first cousin to The Letter and second cousin to Rain . The plot is threadbare but serviceable ; an aging ' party girl ' marries a dull man largely because he is about to embark for Shanghai ; both know that she doesn't love him but he hopes that she will come to do so . Once in Shanghai she wastes no time in starting an affair with the local Lothario and her husband says he is prepared to divorce her providing the lover will make an honest woman of her , knowing only too well that the man will not divorce his own wife to marry someone he views as strictly fling material . With that out of the way the husband takes his wife up-river where he will attempt to stem a cholera epidemic but what neither of them realise is that this experience will bring them close together at last . Edward Norton as Dr Fane plays from beginning to end like a Gold Medallist graduate of the Laurence Harvey School of Acting but the difference is that Norton is only ACTING wooden whereas with Harvey it came with the territory . Naomi Watts is a match for him as indeed are Toby Jones , Diana Rigg and even Maggie Steed in the small role as Watts ' mother and seen only briefly at the start . Apart from the comparisons with The Rains Came there may be also those who will line it up alongside Indochine if only because both feature sumptuous photography in Oriental locales and bygone eras but The Painted Veil remains a fine and ultimately moving film which fully deserves the Awards it has received and deserves equally to be seen by discerning viewers .
Hold The Front Page	Given their open admiration of Hollywood and sometimes slavish imitation , often improving on the prototypes , it's surprising that the French filmmakers were slow to tackle the newspaper pic ; virtually all the Hollywood icons played at one time or another a reporter , editor , photographer and some of the films in question - The Front Page , It Happened One Night , Five-Star Final , The Philadelphia Story , His Girl Friday - became equally iconic . Hardly surprising then that I relish the irony that it took a German company , Continental , to turn out a great French newspaper story in La Ferme aux loups . The joint leads , reporter Francois Perier and photographer Paul Meurisse , are two of the finest and most dependable French actors , both with long and distinguished careers but virtually unknown outside France . Perier even gets the girl , Martine Carol , making an early appearance in a leading role . The plot is serviceable ; the news-hounds cover a routine story involving the body of a tramp , a little later their car gets stuck in country mud and they seek shelter in an OLD DARK HOUSE and , guess what , there's the same tramp , stiffer than a Laurence Harvey performance . Turns out it's twins , revenge , the whole nine yards in fact but it's lotsa fun .
Black Hell	What constitutes noir ? Urban setting , check . Rain-splattered street , check . Larceny , check . Gunshots , check . All the above are present and correct in the opening MINUTES of Chair de poule and a femme fatale isn't far behind . This was Julien Duviviers penultimate movie in a career spanning seven decades and coming as it did at the tail end of the new wavelet I like to think it helped to see off that pretentious hiccup which temporarily blighted a Great Film industry . Having opened on two men sitting in a car as torrential rain lashes the city streets Duvivier has them proceed to break in to a private home , get caught in the act of opening the safe by the owner , engage in a struggle involving gunshots and flee the scene . Then , taking a leaf out of Jacques Tourneur's book he moves the whole noir genre to the great outdoors ( Tourneur shot most of Out Of The Past in a rural setting ) . Robert Hossein , fleeing the crime scene is given a lift by a somewhat naive filling station owner who offers him room , board , and a job which involves access to his sultry wife . You may be ahead of me here because yes , it does smack of The Postman Always Rings Twice but we're talking Duvivier here and he turns the whole thing up a notch introducing a fourth character where Postman was confined to three . He keeps the thing moving remorselessly to a climax that's Greek in its inevitability . Not to be missed .
Long Season's Journey . . .	Gene O'Neill set what is arguably his greatest play , Long Day's Journey Into Night , on a day in 1912 in New England . Here we have a piece also set in 1912 and also in New England but Massachussetts rather than Connecticut and the time-span is a tad longer , around six months . That apart the two couldn't be more different and are poles rather than miles apart for where O'Neill doesn't shirk from mild profanity , drug addiction and alcoholism , George P . Marquand's characters balk at a preference for cigarettes rather than cigars . Marquand was a great social historian who was to Boston was Edith Wharton and Louis McNeice were to New York and John O'Hara was to Pennsylvania and Mank , in his third film behind the camera , has caught the nuances perfectly , realizing that the trick is to encourage the actors to speak what to even an audience in 1947 were preposterous lines ( I have to use a word I've never had occasion to use in front of you in all our married lives . . . sex ' ) with completely straight faces . Although perhaps not recommended on a regular basis a film like this , celebrating as it does , the art of graceful acting complementing gracious living , is a genuine delight as a contrast to modern fare and though Mank had still to find his voice he had proved himself fully capable of segueing from historical / Gothic romance ( Dragonwyck ) through noir ( Somewhere In The Night ) to the comedy of manners . Ronald Coleman could hardly be bettered as the eponymous character and the support is excellent . Recommended .
Double Six	Danielle Darrieux - still going strong ; she appeared in a TV film this year at the age of 91 - gives a new meaning to the word ' prolific ' . She made her first film in 1931 and had completed seventeen more when this was released in 1935 . This was the first of nine films she made with Henri Decoin whom she married that same year and buried in the credits is the name of producer Alfred Greven later infamous as the head of Continental , the German-run French film company which flourished during the Occupation . It was , in fact , quite normal for films at that time to be shot twice , once in French , once in German with the leading roles switched to accommodate each country so with inter-country liaison a common occurrence it's not too hard to understand why some French actors - Darrieux among them - came to work for Continental . There was , however , one German involved in this entry who wound up like Harry Baur , i . e . with a tag on his toe . Co-director Herbert Selpin was moved to offer critical comments about a film he made in 1942 , Titanic . He sunk without trace . Although less than perfect especially in the way Decoin has chosen to tell the story it was enough for me to savor Darrieux sailing effortlessly through this psychological drama aided by veteran Charles Vanel and I have no hesitation in awarding it .
Stage-Door Jeanson	As an admirer of Louis Jouvet I have long coveted this film and now , at last , I own it thanks thanks to the boundless generosity of the Norwegian film buff who has provided so many memorable movies over the years . Jouvet was primarily a man of the theatre who condescended to appear in films to finance his theatre work , possibly inspiring Orson to do the same thing years later though in Orson's case he appeared in crap to finance art-house fodder . Jouvet played stage actors on film in such titles as La Fin du jour and Miquette et sa mere and here he plays a dramatic teacher which was again close to home as he had done this in real life as well . Henri Jeanson provided his usual pithy dialogue and there are sightings of Julien Carette and Marcel Dalio . Claude Dauphin is ostensibly the leading man but we needn't dwell on him . Marc Allegret enjoyed a fairly long if mainly undistinguished career - his Fanny , for example is arguably the weakest of the great Pagnol trilogy and a movie he made in England , Blanche Fury , didn't exactly set the screen ablaze - but this is definitely one of if not the highlight .
Family Matters ( So They Say )	Until someone else posts a comment this one is going to tip the balance in favor of Tonie Marshall's minor gem . I accept the right of the first poster to be negative and it is possible that the film touched a nerve and / or he / she saw it on a bad day . Whatever this IS a great black comedy , trust me , I'm a doctor . It may well have been the ending in which Marshall has the siblings dancing on their father's coffin in the cemetery that influenced Daniele Thompson to OPEN her own dysfunctional family entry , La Buche , in a cemetery , though Thompson confined the black humor to the verbal kind . We begin with a great premise . Jean Yanne , who distributes his seed liberally and indiscriminately , finds himself in court facing a count of Murder One . Four of his siblings who have never met him or each other read about the case , turn up in court and realize their connection . When the siblings in question are Anemone , Nathalie Baye , Francois Cluzet and American Molly Ringwald ( presumably to illustrate how FAR Yanne spread his seed ) we can rest easy knowing that Class is Alive and Well in the Acting Department . After the initial meeting / realization it's just a case of inhibitions being removed and catalysts doing their work . In his orneriness Yanne wants to leave his loot to yet a fifth sibling from SOUTH America yet but , having seen him off , the quartet proceed to induce a heart attack in Yanne by describing how they KILLED their half-brother and this leads to the climactic scene in the cemetery when , in an effort to get a quart into a pint pot ( the grave is not quite large enough to accept the coffin , you really had to be there ) the quartet mount the coffin and literally kick it into the place where it will do the most good . Slightly brilliant .
Sub-Standard ? On The Contrary	If there were such a position as Poet Laureate of the Second World War then Rene Clement would surely be a strong candidate for office . Beginning with La Bataille du rail at the very end of hostilities he returned to it in Le pere tranquil , Jeux Interdits and Paris , Brule-e-til . Les Maudits is arguably the star in his crown albeit he ' borrowed ' the idea of hell as other people from Sartre and it's hardly new to use a small space as a microcosm of a larger society nevertheless - and without the use of major stars - he is able to rack up the tension like the master he is in this Henri Jeanson scripted tale of what might be called a Ship Of Foils , a mixed bag of Nazis , businessmen , mistresses etc all for one reason or another anxious to get to South America via submarine at the tail-end of the war . They make two stops en route , once to hijack a doctor after one of the passengers is injured and once in Africa where Marcel Dalio - the sole ' name ' in the cast - has a warehouse . Clement skillfully builds the atmosphere and explores the conflicts that inevitably develop and offers no respite . It might be a typical Hollywood ' bomber-crew ' movie but it is far from a Hollywood ending . Excellent .
Diminishing Returns ? Pas du tout	Between them the other two posters seem to have got it just about right . In other words this IS a sequel that works as well as if not better than the original . Those who missed the original are quickly brought up to speed with a particularly brilliant precis which concludes with a natural link that enables us to zoom straight into THIS film , picking up ' Blondie ' and Christine in Brazil even as back in Paris a colleague of the late Milan is preparing the ground to discredit Toulouse ( Jean Rochefort ) again utilising Perrin as an unwitting pawn . The stage is now set for more assassination attempts that go comedically wrong and allow the excellent cast to turn in standout performances - Mirielle Darc gets a ' with the participation of ' credit and is off-screen for the bulk of the action suggesting problems behind-the-scenes - as they did the first time around . The two films are now available as a DVD package and are highly recommended .
The Windmills Of His Mind	This film was shot in three versions , French , Spanish and English but the one I saw was something of a hybrid with dialogue in French and Spanish almost simultaneously . Luckily the stunning visuals more than make up for this ; Pabst was expert at framing scenes , shooting faces , creating effects from shade and light etc . He also anticipated Man Of La Mancha by about thirty years , allowing his Quochotte ( Chaliapin ) to burst into song almost at will . The film was made in 1933 , the year Hitler came to power and it's interesting to speculate on the finale ( involving book burning ) and wonder did Hitler get his idea from Pabst or did Pabst merely reflect what happened in Germany . This to one side it remains an exceptional film and if Orson's was in the same class we're all in for a treat .
Bread Alone	This film has the distinction of being the very last film produced and released by Continental , the German-run French film company that turned out 31 of the 220 films produced in France during the Occupation , far and away the lion's share . Following the death by torture of Harry Baur , the first French actor to die at the hands of the Nazis , Albert Prejean assumed the role of Maigret in Picpus , Cecile est morte and Caves , all three Continental productions . Writer Charles Spaak was imprisoned with the script still unfinished which may account for its preoccupation with food - when scenes are not actually set in the kitchen of the eponymous luxury hotel they are set in the dining room and the irony is that we never see any actual food for the very good reason that there was none , or at least none to speak of . Veteran Gabrielle Fontan is on hand to lend gravitas to a flimsy plot in which another fine actress , Suzy Prim , is killed off far too early which provides the excuse for Prejean / Maigret to turn up and interrogate everyone in sight . Not perhaps a classic but certainly of more than passing interest to Continental scholars .
More Andy Serkis Than Douglas Sirk	There is quite a considerable distance between the glossy melodramas for which Douglas Sirk has become iconised and this melange of comedy thriller . Perhaps the best reason to see it is the cast which throws the likes of Lucille Ball together with Boris Karloff , Charles Coburn with George Zucco etc . You need to check your credulity at the door as Scotland Yard Inspector Coburn offers Lucille Ball a job as decoy having known her for something like eight minutes . Her job is to get next to a serial killer without winding up with a tag on her toe but along the way she tangles with Boris Karloff's disturbed dress designer - a sort of unBalenciaga if you will - and Alan Mowbray's White Slaver . George Sanders doesn't have to do caddish this time around thereby diminishing his performance whilst Ann Codee ( uncredited ) and Cedric Hardwicke round out an interesting cast in an interesting film .
Squeeze Play	Those who are interested in such things have tended to divide Andre Cayatte's career into two halves ; the first period , what might be termed entertainments , and the second / later period , what might be termed the social conscious phase . Those same people have tended to date the division somewhat later than his stint at Continental but after watching Le Dernier Sou I would argue that he was already rehearsing for his second phase as early as this . The film is about scams and the suffering they cause and culminates in a trial which , in my opinion nudges ' entertainment ' - and we should not lose sight of the Continental manifesto which was , essentially , to provide escapist fodder for the masses which theoretically would make them forget they were living in a country Occupied by the enemy - into the realm of social conscious . It's good to see Noel Roquevert , a solid ' supporting ' actor , given a leading role and it's even better to see how well he handles it ; Ginette Leclerc is equally excellent and delivers a performance to match the one she gave in Le Corbeau . I've now posted comments on 28 of the 31 films produced by Continental between 1941 and 1943 and would dearly love to track down the remaining three , Marriage d'Amour , Ne Bouget plus and perhaps most elusive of all , Vingt-Cinq ans de bonheur . If anyone reading this has any information on these - better yet knows where I can get my hands on them - a PM to that effect would be much appreciated .
Trench ( and / or Trochaic ) Feet	One can only applaud Production Companies who invest in films like this which hold nothing for the Multiplex set and not even that much for the Art House circuit but in which every single person involved both Above and Below the line gives a hundred and ten per cent . What we have is an excellent adaptation of an excellent novel concerned mainly with the work of a small hospital / asylum in Scotland during World War I in which , like MASH in a much later conflict the job of the medical staff was to patch up the ( in this case mentally as opposed to physically ) wounded so that they can return to the Front and have another shot at getting killed . This theme is sufficient in itself to sustain a novel / film but in this case we also explore the discussions of two patients , Sigreid Sassoon and Wilfrid Owen , whose poetry about the First World War still resonates today . It's difficult to imagine an actor who could play the lead , Dr . Rivers , more effectively than Jonathan Pryce but it is churlish to single him out when every actor is worthy of praise . In short this is one of the Biggest ' small ' films around and well worthy of respect .
Polar Bears	Cop turned director is a new one on me but there's always a first time I guess . One thing's sure Marchal has a lot of balls in titling his film as he has and so inviting direct comparison with the only other film to employ as its title the address of the Police headquarters in Paris , Henri-Georges Clouzot's 1947 classic called simply Quai des orfevres without the number which is superfluous . Clouzot's movie is well over 50 years old and featured a more sedate form of detection - Louis Jouvet was not exactly Monsieur Hard Man and , like the man said , the times they are a changing . Marchal , who began taking acting lessons when he was still a cop ( so that's how they perfect the good cop / bad cop routine ) and went on to play in several TV crime series , has based his story on a real situation , the internicine rivalry in the eighties between the BRI and the BRB , both working out of the Quai . Co-scriptwriter Dominique Loiseau was a player and this is partly his story . The film is dominated by two lions in winter , Gerard Depardieu and Daniel Auteuil recalling Duke Wayne and Bob Mitchum in El Dorado , two ageing pros if not yet over the hill certainly at the summit , so these two craggy bears , polar bears if you will , polar being the French name for gangster / caper / crime films , light up the screen no question about it as the respective heads of the BRB ( Brigade de Repression du Banditisme , that's Major Heists to you and me ) and BRI ( Brigade de Recherche et d'Intervention ( we're Gangbusters , Man ) . There's a history between these two , we're never QUITE told the full story which is a masterstroke , but it involves Vrink's ( Auteuil ) wife , who may have once been Klein's ( Depardieu ) girl . To sweeten the pot Mancini ( Andre Dussollier ) head honcho announces his retirement leaving his job up for grabs ; both are equally qualified but it's an open secret that the first guy to nail a particularly violent gang will become the new chief . Auteuil is our Dirty Harry kind of cop , often worse than the villains he's after but he DOES usually get them in the end , Depardieu is a tad choosier but not TOO good to live . To say more wouldn't really add much , I found myself a little intrigued by the long , black leather coats worn by both Brigades , resembling nothing so much as the outfit of choice of the Stasi in East Germany and I HOPE this is an oblique comment on the fact that ( England at least ) is slowly becoming a Police state . All in all an enjoyable romp and well worth 8 stars .
Hen Night	This is arguably by far the most accessible film yet made by Claire Denis , indeed it's tempting to think that she was persuaded by the money-men to go at least semi-mainstream at least once in order to fund further indulgences like her very next movie L'Intrus , an academics wet dream . Here she opts for two well-known actors in Vincent Lindon and Valerie Lamercier - whose own third film as writer-director Palais-Royal opens in Paris this month - and wisely leaves them to do what they do best and let her camera linger on them as they do so . Lamercier is rare among French actresses in that she is not a head-turner in the tradition of Manu Beart , Catherine Deneuve , Isabelle Huppert , etc but she does have a very definite subtle beauty and Denis brings this out in lingering shots of her face . Laure ( Lemercier ) has just given up her flat , filled the back of her car with portable possessions prior to moving in with her boyfriend yet inexplicably breaking her journey by attending a dinner party . Perhaps I should have said that On Paper those are her plans because having left her flat she finds herself caught up in one of those French transport strikes that punctuate the City of Light the way pauses punctuate a Pinter play . Traffic is virtually at a standstill and the radio is urging drivers to offer lifts to pedestrians so when Vincent Lindon raps on the window and solicits a ride she agrees . This is the point where the pseudo-intellectuals come into their own and ' read ' all kinds of stuff into it ; her life is at an impasse , she feels mentally or spiritually paralysed unable to move forward , you know the kind of thing , easy to do and about as meaningful as a stryofoam cup . Whatever , she and Lindon experience an unspoken attraction and nothing is surer than that they will wind up in the sack but then it is , technically , her Hen night and who's to say she isn't thinking twice about what , to some people , is a major step . So they have their mayfly moment and we share it with them and then it's over . Just like a movie . It's all about the experience , the heightened glow , the memories . This is memorable and one that can stand re-viewing .
Too Young To Cut The Mustard ? Pas du tout	Louis Malle thought nothing of mining his childhood / youth for films such as Au Revoir , Les Enfants and in most cases these quasi-autobiographical entries are among his finest work . This is no exception ; set in Dijon , perhaps best known as the centre of the moutard ( mustard ) industry , it features a family very like his own , a protagonist very like himself , constantly ragged by two older brothers , obsessed with Jazz and literature and crucially sharing a hotel room with his mother . Stated as baldly as this it's not going to have a line at the box office but as always it is what Malled does with these basic facts that makes this an outstanding film ; beginning with the period ' feel ' which is spot-on and on to which he grafts some brilliant ensemble acting so that although Benoit Ferreux and Lea Massari carry the burden the weight is distributed equally between the very fine supporting actors . One to own on DVD .
If Flowers Be The Words Of Love . . .	. . . bloom on , as Shakespeare didn't quite say but might have had he heard Danielle Darrieux sing Les fleurs sont des mots d'amour , one of two numbers she performs in this confection from Continental . Initially she signed for only one movie , Premiere Rendez-vous , directed by her then still husband Henri Decoin , which though not the first Continental movie to be shot ( that was L'Assassinat de Pere Noel ) was the first to be released . By the time Rendez-vous was in the can Darrieux had left Decoin and was involved with the South American-born International playboy Porfirio Rubirosa , soon to become her second husband and Alfred Greven , the head of Continental , who got top talent to work for a German company during the Occupation where and how he could intimated that should she sign for a further two pictures Senor Rubirosa would be a welcome guest in Occupied France whereas on the other hand . . . well , visas were hard to come by and who knows , the senor may find himself en route to Buenos Aires on the first tanker out of Le Havre . Whether means ever justify ends is best left to the philosophers but I for one am grateful that blackmail is such an ugly word because if there's one thing in life I enjoy more than a Danielle Darrieux movie it is three Danielle Darrieux movies . Of the three she finally made for Continental Premiere Rendez-vous is by far the best but Caprices and La Fausse Maitresse are not exactly chopped liver . Here , as the daughter of a circus owner , she gets to perform on a rope , sing the two songs I mentioned , fall for a local rugby player and pretend that it is the bareback rider who has eyes for him , tangle with a bent journalist before Cayatte wraps it up neatly in 85 minutes even . Vintage wine albeit domestic .
Decibel Points	Pierre Chenal belongs to that band of French directors - though technically he was Belgian - who turned out a solid body of work mostly in the thirties / forties / fifties and are now all but forgotten , think of people like Marcel L'Herbier , Albert Valentin and you'll know what I mean . Personally I've always had a soft spot for Chenal's L'Alibi though some find it has dated badly . L'Assassin was arguably the last decent film he made though he did make two more , the second as late as 1984 , that needn't detain us here . This is our old friend the Black Comedy and it's as fine an example as most . With a genre like this you need a central hub from which to spin off the mounting improbabilities and in this case that hub is Paul Meurisse , a composer with a deadline to produce a symphony and a noisy garage beneath his window . He thinks he's solved his problem when he meets , purely by chance , a pious air-head , Maria Schell , who offers him the use of her rural retreat as you do to complete strangers . He takes her up , naturally and this , equally naturally , is only the beginning of his troubles . There's a beautifully wacky take on the scene in lots of thrillers when someone shoots a guy then puts the gun in the corpse's hand to make it look like suicide . In this case , Meurisse , exasperated by Schell's father , Noel Rocquefort , who cheerfully insists on building a boat noisily , takes a hammer and beats him to death , unintentionally of course , then realizing he's gone too far , puts the murder weapon in the victim's hand but the topper comes when an ' expert ' called in by the police declares that Yes , you could top yourself with several blows from a hammer where they would do the most good . And this is in the first thirty minutes after which it continues to spiral out of control for another forty five minutes or so . Definitely worth seeing .
Path Of Least Resistance	This late offering ( 1959 ) from one of the all-time great French directors Julien Duvivier , with a taut script by Henri Jeanson makes for a very entertaining experience . An ex-Resistance member whose code-name was Marie-Octobre ( Danielle Darrieux ) gathers the old Group together several years after the war for a Reunion-cum-unmasking because back in 1944 one of the Group was killed by another member and now it's pay-back time . Duvivier skillfully manipulates his actors - some of the finest in French cinema at the time - without allowing either them or his camera to leave the confines of the house . Of course one could argue that Agatha Christie did it first but there's always room for well-done drama of this nature and with actors of the calibre of Paul Meurisse , Lino Ventura , Bernard Blier , Serge Reggiani and , of course , Danielle Darrieux a great time is had by all .
Swede Smell Of Success	Clifford Odets began his play Rocket To The Moon smack in the middle of a domestic quarrel with no build-up . It's doubtful if Siodmak - who was still in Europe at the time - saw the play but he begins this movie in a similar fashion . The camera swoops over LA during the opening credits then comes to rest in a car park where Lancaster and DeCarlo are locked in a passionate clinch that reeks of danger and desperation . Siodmak and Lancaster hit one out of the park with The Killers where Lancasters ' Swede had been part of a major heist and crossed his colleagues because of a woman ( Ava Gardner ) . The director-actor duo clearly figured that warmed-over swede had corned beef hash beat seven ways from the middle so here we have Lancaster involved in a major heist and double-crossing his colleagues because of a woman ( Yvonne de Carlo ) . Siodmak was , of course , a major league director so the movie is greater than the sum of its parts . The noir atmosphere is well handled and for good measure the two leads are both supplemented and complemented by Dan Duryea at his sinister best . Throw in Percy Helton and Stephen McNally , simmer gently and serve sizzling hot . A minor gem .
Conn . Man	Some of the posters seem less than gruntled because this is neither Mark Twain nor Rodgers and Hart but clearly it doesn't pretend to be either . You'll look a long time to find a greater Rodgers and Hart fan than me but Burke and Van Heusen weren't exactly chopped liver in addition to which they knew Der Bingle inside out and tailored some great songs - But Beautiful , Moonlight Becomes You , It's Always You , The Day After Forever , etc - to fit his highly personal style and here they come up with yet another fine - and unfairly neglected - ballad , Once And For Always , plus a couple of upbeat philosophy-lite entries in If You Stub Your Toe On The Moon and Busy Doing Nothing . The flimsy plot isn't meant to be taken seriously - why else make Merlin a heavy when in most , if not all , of the other versions he is more a friend / mentor to Arthur - so if you start wondering aloud why Sir Lancelot who has been sold to historians as the epitome of chivalry and uprightness metamorphoses into a schoolyard bully you're not going to get much fun out of what is essentially a fun movie . On balance it does what it sets out to do , entertain , so good luck to it .
Oh ! Mein Papa	A forgotten gem that was remade in Hollywood within a couple of years , using the same lead actor Gerard Depardieu but substituting Katherine Heigl for Marie Gillain in the co-leading role of Depardieu's daughter . Whilst both are good - if you've only seen the Hollywood version , My Father The Hero , you'll probably like it well enough not knowing what you're missing - but this , the original , has the edge . As it happens both Marie Gillain and Katherine Heigl went on to become accomplished adult actresses which has to say something about the quality of the writing . If you like to smile , laugh out loud occasionally , and weep a little this is right down your rue .
Beware Of Geeks Sharing Grifts	Some like it black and it doesn't get much blacker than this . Ty Power and Eddie Goulding had hit one out of the park the previous year with The Razor's Edge and students of irony will relish the fact that in the first movie Power epitomized ' goodness ' and dedicated his life to a search for truth whilst in the second he epitomized greed and devoted his life to a search for the perfect scam . In 1947 a movie like this was completely off the wall and in the normal course of events wouldn't have been made at all but Power , having read the novel and seen the possibilities for an actor , bought the rights , got Goulding interested and badgered Zanuck on the basis of his ( Power ) box office clout . Even then having shot it Fox did little or nothing to promote it , tossing it as a sop to Power as they'd toss a bone to a dog . The movie says so many things and works on so many levels that it's probably best to let each viewer interpret it in his own way but the entire cast display exceptional form making it a true ensemble piece . There are , of course , ' silly ' flaws , necessary to resolve the plot but which could have been done better . Why , for example , does Power prevail on his own wife , Colleen Moore , when he attempts to convince a millionaire that he , Power , can manifest the dead . Moore was an integral part of Power's mind-reading act and had actually been within two feet of the millionaire at his night-club table . Better to use his accomplice , the phony psychologist ( Helen Walker ) who , unlike Gray , would NOT get an attack of conscience and blow the whole thing . Yes , the millionaire knew her too but she only had to remain a discreet distance away . Whilst we're on the subject , Power knew ( and admired ) that Walker had a habit of ' taping ' her subjects with blackmail in mind , so he would have been extra careful not to let her tape HIM . These caveats to one side this remains a remarkable movie .
Slipped Disc	This was a sure-footed directing debut for Clint Eastwood which still holds up close to forty years on . At least one other poster has noted the mood-destroying sequences - the Jazz Festival footage and the lyrical lovers sequence cut to the Roberta Flack recording of The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face - but , hey , this was the guys ' first time on bullhorn and it probably seemed a practical solution if , as I imagine , the money men were demanding more footage . Shorn of these two extraneous sequences the movie would have been a much tighter thriller , well-paced and building to a crescendo . If Eastwood was no Welles - but then , who is - he was from the first and remains an actor-director fit to be mentioned in the same breath as old Awesome .
In This Case DO Bug Me	This is a very modest , very lovely movie with a great score by Hoagy Carmichael and Frank Loesser with a standout number , We're The Couple In The Castle , that is totally evocative of the period and harks back to Penthouse Serenade just as the opening premise ( Hoppity's coming ) may well have inspired Fred Saidy and Yip Harburg's opening ( Woody's Coming ) in Finian's Rainbow six years later . I totally agree with those posters who have noted that were the name Disney appended to this it would by now have achieved ' classic ' status rather than have fallen into neglect . It's wonderfully inventive , never more so than when objects barely noticed in the ' real ' world assume a much greater significance - both pro and con - in the insect world . Actually it IS a classic , albeit a minor one .
Parallel Lines That Meet	It's almost certain that as an English person with no Czech to speak of I missed a good two thirds of the satire here so it's probably just as well that the one third I DID understand is so good . I missed it first time around so it's even more possible that any satire that was pertinent then no longer obtains but even so we are still left with a delightful fable in which a sleepy small town train station is our old friend the microcosm . Although we do have something of a main character in Milos ( Vaclav Neckar ) the teenage virgin apprentice trainee there is a full complement of support both in and around the station from the stationmaster Max ( Vladimir Valenta ) and his wife ( Libuse Havelkova ) who are active in poultry , train dispatcher Hubicka ( Josef Somr ) the Czech equivalent of a babe magnet and who is ultimately responsible for Milos getting laid , Milos's girlfriend of sorts , Masa ( Jitka Bendova ) who is unable to make Milos a ' man ' and Victoria Freie ( Nada Ubankova ) who succeeds where Masa fails . Although it is set in the middle of World War Two there is a curious lack of wartime ' feeling ' despite the presence of a local Quisling . In passing there is one of the most outre phallic symbols in film history but that's another story . Verdict : A real charmer .
The Silent Treatment	With this movie full of stunning imagery and stylish technique Abel Gance proved that he need take a back seat to no one when it came to mastery of the medium , in other words he forms a triumvirate with Sergei Eisenstein and David Wark Griffith , a triumvirate in which all are equal . The First World War was barely cold in its grave when Gance shot J'Accuse - a motif that recurs throughout from the visually stunning message spelled out by infantry at the outset to the child being taught to write it on a blackboard - yet remarkably what should now seem ' dated ' is still potent - seventeen years later Irwin Shaw ( who may or may not have seen or been aware of J'Accuse ) utilised the concept of the dead protesting at the way in which their lives were squandered in his powerful One-Act play ' Bury The Dead ' - and aspects of it were re-worked by others . Like most fine social documents it employs a ' normal ' story - in this case our old friend the Eternal Triangle - as a way in to the exploration of political inadequacies and its message still resonates some 87 years later . A Masterpiece .
Royal Flush	Those of us who found the much-vaunted albeit slightly dubious charm of Princess Diana terminally elusive will revel in this delicious satire in which writer-director Valerie Lemercier captures perfectly that faux demureness and all too real touch of the retard about Diana . Lemercier , who is much more lovely and desirable than Diana ever was , is right on the nose with her characterisation developing it naturally from the gauche , naive speech therapist who lucked into a Prince ( Lambert Wilson ) who , as the second son - shades of ' Bertie ' aka George the Sixth - had no realistic claim to the throne but did have an elder brother who might be a Prince but would never make sperm Count so that when the King dies unexpectedly Wilson finds himself the new reigning Monarch and Lemercier by extension becomes Queen . Ever-so-slowly the moth becomes a social butterfly and Lemercier's genius is that she can makes us wince / reach for the sick-bag as Armelle is incapable of passing a Black child or a Senior Citizen without summoning the photographers and posing winsomely , yet sympathize with her rebellion against Royal protocol / chastisement as personified and practiced by Catherine Deneuve's Queen and Michel Aumont's Brother-in-law . The scene where Armelle gets a custard pie in the kisser will resonate with all those who longed to hurl just such a missile at the ' Queen of Hearts ' as will many other scenes . By now , of course , I've lost half my readers but I urge the other half to seek out this gem as soon as possible .
Other People's Babies	Once again having seen and enjoyed a fine film I turn to these pages and find it inexplicable that no one has seen fit to offer an opinion . Despite a slew of good reviews ( The French tend to favor a nought to three star system ) , three maximums , six ' very good ' , in four weeks in Paris it's only racked up one hundred thousand admissions and last week was down to six thousand in five salles which means that the ruthless French distributors will yank it any minute now . That's no way to treat Bertrand Tavernier but compared to Claude Lelouch he probably feels he's being feted ; Lelouch's latest , The Human Condition : Part One , Parisiens , has been yanked already after just four weeks , I got there just in time but that's another story . It's amazing what Tavernier has been able to do with a very basic story of a French couple - Jacques Gamblin and Isabelle Carre - attempting to adopt a baby girl in Cambodia . Okay , location shooting helps but frankly Cambodia's not THAT interesting or photogenic whichever way you slice it and it's very much the central performances that sell this one . There's solid support from a few other couples in the same boat but Gamblin are Carre are light years ahead of the pack . Both , of course , have been around a while and both have copped awards , Carre , a Best Actress Cesar for Se Souvenirs des belles choses ( another outstanding film that was let down by the public ) and Gamblin in Tavernier's own recent masterpiece Laissez-Passer , but somehow they've never received the recognition they deserve and it may be that they'll be denied this time around too . For a cynical Westerner like me it's all too easy to believe in the political / governmental corruption that obtains in countries like Cambodia and Tavernier does little to disabuse me , telling it , presumably , like it is . And that's all it is , really , hope seguing to frustration , more hope , more bribes until at last . . . but go and see it , it's worth it , believe me .
Hardy Annual	In a career spanning 46 years Claude Autant-Lara directed some fifty movies several of which - Le Ble en herbe , L'Auberge Rouge , Fric Frac , Douce , Sylvie et la fantome , Le Diable au corps - are indispensable to any collection of French film classics and no two titles cover the same areas because versatility was a hallmark of Autant-Lara . He had dealt with the Second World War notably in the delicious black comedy La Traversee de Paris but nothing really prepared his admirers for this true story of a saintly man attempting in a very modest way to counter the evil all around him . Hardy Kruger , himself German and a one-time member of the Hitler Youth enjoyed a long if largely undistinguished career in movies but twice he was moved to appear in what may loosely be described as anti-war fare and both here and in Sundays With Cybele he lifted his game . This is a fine film that deserves to be seen by the discriminating viewer .
Mad Donnas	I'm guessing you'll go a long way to find a negative opinion of this minor classic which tended to get lost in the shuffle on its initial release due to the fact that as we all know 1939 was a vintage year for Hollywood movies . Be that as it may it had hardly dated when I caught up with it at the NFT , the thick end of 70 years after the initial release ; true , Roz Russell now seems a tad mannered / OTT but at the time it probably seemed quite normal ; using the same criteria Norma Shearer now seems like a carry-over from the Silents but again was probably perfectly acceptable at the time . What survives intact is the great script punctuated with acidic one-liners and toppers such as when the novelist in the group allows that she should perhaps ask Roz Russell for help with her plots , ' you should ask someone ' retorts Russell and the strength of the movie is that this is thrown away whereas a director other than Cukor may well have paused for a laugh instead of hurtling on with the action . There's a fine blend of ingenu'e versus alley-cat with all shades in between ; in short , a terrific vintage movie .
Re-Action In The South Of England	Frankly I wasn't expecting much from this flag-waver which I've never seen until today's screening as part of a Bogie retrospective at the NFT . I was aware that it formed part of Bogie's war-time CV and I had also read the oft-repeated story of how Bogie and Massy made an on-set wager as to whose stunt double was the bravest . That's what I KNEW . What I EXPECTED was a morale-booster laced liberally with not-too-subtle propaganda ( given that the screenplay was by John Howard Lawson who never let a chance to praise Communism pass ) and a cast of trained seals walking through it . What I GOT was actually very entertaining and informative , a movie that both invites and can withstand comparison with In Which We Serve . In both films a ship is blown out of the water in the first three reels , there are several survivors who eventually join another ship and sea-time is leavened by shore time . One ( In Which We Serve ) celebrates the Royal navy whilst the other ( Action In The North Atlantic ) deals with the Merchant navy and draws attention to the vital part the service played in the War effort . In Which We Serve on balance comes off marginally better but it did have the virtue of being written and co-directed by an exceptionally talented man , Noel Coward , who also played a leading role and apart from this Coward was able to lard his screenplay with a richer ' civilian ' storyline inasmuch as England , unlike America , suffered heavy bombing resulting in thousands of civilian casualties . What we are left with is a fine film with realistic dialogue slightly more colorful than that in the British film , sterling performances from a typical Hollywood ' bomber-crew ' including the ubiquitous Alan Hale , plus Sam Levene and Dane Clark . Ruth Gordon and Julie Bishop are stuck with the thankless roles of sailor's wives and for good measure Bishop gets to sing Cole Porter's Night And Day . It was a meister stroke to get a Hitler looka-like ( complete with moustache to make sure we get it ) to play the U-Boat officer behind the initial attack . There's probably little scope for further screenings outside of this kind of retrospective but it's definitely worth looking out for on DVD .
Moulin d'Or	Theoretically any first-rate director should be able to tackle any genre and emerge with a worthwhile product and there are those - like Howard Hawks - whose careers illustrate this but on the other hand a producer toying with the idea of remaking say , The Lower Depths or Crime and Punishment would not automatically think of approaching Francis Veber just as John Ford would not be the automatic choice for a lavish musical . Guys like Veber and Ford have established a style / genre that they do as well and / or better than anyone else and so it was that Marcel Pagnol was a logical choice to bring the Provencal stories of Alphonse Daudet to the screen . As it turned out this was to be Pagnol's cinematic swansong though he lived another twenty years and as swansongs go it is as good as any and better than most . Pagnol settled on three stories - not unlike Max Ophuls in Le Plaisir - which illustrate the range of Daudet and certainly allow us to sample his unique flavour whether it be tipsy monks creating a new form of absolution along with the wine , a mill running on empty or a priest facing devilish temptation . We may regret that Pagnol was unable to bow out with something of his own but we also applaud a distinguished swansong .
Malle de Vie	Louis Malle is on record as finding this the first of his early films with which he was fully satisfied . I choose not to argue with him although I didn't find too much wrong with the others . What is indisputable here is that director and leading actor ( Maurice Ronet ) were in complete accord with both being entitled to pat themselves on the back . Though based on a celebrated novel Malle has embellished this with his own touches and succeeded against all the odds in making Paris empty and vacuous - as seen , of course , through the jaded eyes of the protagonist - which is quite a trick if anybody asks you . It's not so much Paris as the people in it , of course , people who are all good friends of the protagonist and none of whom can persuade him that life really is worth living . It's a fine ensemble piece dominated by a central role and if technically - in terms of when it was made - a product of the New Wave then certainly one of the more accomplished and professional of the genre . Should really be on everyone's list .
The Song's Zabou	What attracted me to this one was the billing . Jacques Gamblin who I have yet to see give a bad or even mediocre performance plus Zabout Breitman who directed one of the finest French films of the last few years , Se Souvenirs des belles choses , and is an equally fine actress plus Deborah Francois , the very promising newcomer who scored heavily as the Page-Turner a couple of years ago . There's not that much to it ; we're privy to the highs and lows of a family over a period of several years ; they laugh , they cry , they fight , there are crises to be dealt with and they are ; The penultimate scene is just Zabou sitting silently and I can still see it forty eight hours later . Not , of course , for everyone but then what is .
Witch Report	Notable left wing sympathizers Yves Montand and Simone Signoret read Arthur Miller's The Crucible in bed nightly and determined to play it in France , which they did on the Paris stage and a little later on film . Roulou directed some 23 mostly undistinguished films - though he fared better as an actor - and he makes little or no attempt to be cinematic , allowing in the main the text to do its work . At the time - mid / late 50s - Montand was still far better known as an outstanding singer both in concert and on record despite his fine performance in Clouzot's Le Salaire de la peur , whilst his wife , Signoret was well established as one of the finest French actresses of her generation yet the viewer is unaware that they are anything other than two fine actresses interpreting a fine script . This is one that tends to get lost in the shuffle and is unfairly neglected .
Two For The Reeds	Bogie was one lucky guy ; in the space of three years he got to romance BOTH the wonderful Hepburns , respectively Katherine and Audrey ( Sabrina , 1954 ) . These two pros virtually carry the entire movie and run a slightly larger gamut than the celebrated A to B which , according to Dorothy Parker , encompassed Hepburn's entire range . It's a delight to watch them explore the roles and develop the characters and little short of amazing that well into middle age they could conjure up the feeling of teenagers discovering Love . Actors like these don't grow on trees unlike so many of the newer breed who litter the film sets of the world with sawdust . Deservedly a classic .
Where's Charley	Way back in 1973 Don Sigel made Charley Varrick in which Walter Matthau made a reasonable living knocking over small mid-West banks til one day he hit the jackpot and unknowingly targeted the small , nondescript bank used for laundering mob money . After that we were into a chase movie with Joe Don Baker pursuing Matthau on behalf of the mob . Now a new wine turns up in an old bottle ; in No Country For Old Men Josh Brolin stumbles on two million dollars and a half dozen stiffs . He takes the money , natch , and just as natch , Javier Bardem - last seen around these parts in Goya's Ghosts - comes after him and there you have it . This is one of those films that unimaginative critics who can't think of anything new to say refer to as a ' return-to-form ' film , in this case the form is allegedly returning to the freres Coen and who am I to say otherwise . I know I liked Fargo and I know I like this one but as for the Form book your guess is as good as mine .
Righters Block	I don't know about you but there are still several films that everyone and his Uncle Max seems to have seen but me . On the other hand I am gradually making headway via DVD , revivals , festivals , etc . Time was I felt deprived because I hadn't seen Citizen Kane , Casablanca , It's A Wonderful Life , The Wizard Of Oz , for God's sake but like I say they're all now safely under my belt and I feel the better for having caught up with them eventually . In the case of Bergman it's not just The Seventh Seal but practically everything he ever made that , for one reason or another , I haven't seen ; in fact off the top of my head I can recall seeing only Smiles Of A Summer Night and Autumn Sonata . Nor , if I'm honest , have I made any great attempt to watch him , most of the films are now available on DVD but I'm not exactly breaking a leg rushing to Virgin , FNAC or HMV but now The Seventh Seal has just opened commercially in London so , along with 8 other people I checked it out , exactly 50 years after it was released . The first thing I noticed was that it's not quite as grim as I had supposed and nor is the celebrated chess game given that much screen time - from all I'd read over the years I'd imagined a fairly static movie with these two symbolic characters trading moves for 90 minutes . Taint , so , honey , taint so . Following some portentous music we find ourselves on a craggy beach where the knight , Antonius Block , is resting . Beside him on a piece of fairly flat rock a chess board has been set up . This is a pretty unrealistic image with which to kick off a non-comedy film because no normal person would set out a chessboard in such an inhospitable place where the more or less constant wind would scatter the pieces every which way in nothing flat . So now Bergman has to get us past this incongruity and I guess that having ' Death ' appear in human form and accepting a challenge from Block - who can forestall his date with Death for the duration of the game and even cancel it altogether should he win - is as good a way as any . We then accompany Block and his squire as he returns home after ten years away from his wife - he's been to the Crusades if anybody asks you - which immediately reminds us of Agammemnon returning home to HIS wife after ten tough years in Troy and the Fall of the House of Atreus is as nought compared to the angst that visits Block . The images are striking at times , the acting is more than accomplished and in fact the only jarring note is just that , in fact not just one note but the several that make up the score which has a habit of SHOUTING at us when it wants to underline something instead of employing a more subtle approach . It's nice to be able to cross it off my list but I won't be breaking my neck to see it again and nor am I likely to buy the DVD .
Bridging The Gap	During the forties it seemed that MGM in particular had something of an obsession about offering classical and popular music in one package so that Jose Iturbi was almost as at home on the lot as Arthur Freed . This is yet another example and re-teams Sinatra and Kathryn Grayson who had already blended their respective genres in Anchors Aweigh some three years earlier . Adding Durante to the mix does no harm at all in fact the only jarring note is Peter Lawford who could neither sing , dance or act but didn't let that stop him from masquerading as competent at all three . The plot is as light as Isobel Lennart could get away with and still sound half credible and is merely a hook on which to hang some tasty Jule Styne-Sammy Cahn numbers including the Kern-like ballad Time After Time . Apart from Step Lively , made at RKO , this is arguably Sinatra's best musical from the forties - and YES I KNOW On The Town was released in the same decade . Sue me .
Barnstormers	If all you knew about this prior to watching it was that the title translates as The Burning Barns you might be forgiven for anticipating a touch of the Southern Gothics , especially if you were on nodding terms with Faulkner and Tennessee Williams both of whom have written about barn burning as if it were a minor Art form requiring both skill and finesse and at worst a semi-respectable / legitimate occupation . You would , however , soon be disabused because what we have here is yet another story in a rural setting - in this case the Jura - involving a large family headed by matriarch Simone Signoret who owns a farm named The Burning Barns . The body of a young woman is discovered on land owned by Signoret and serves as a springboard to put the somewhat dysfunctional family under a microscope . Alain Delon arrives to head the investigation and the fun / fascination is watching two generations of French actors teaming up again in the wake of the previous year's success Le Veuve Coudroc . There's little in the way of thriller , mystery element but Signoret and Delon are augmented by the likes of Paul Crachet ( who appeared with Signoret in L'Armee des Ombres ) , a young and almost unrecognizable Bernard Le Coq , Miou-Miou and Signoret's real-life daughter Catherine Allegret . It's very watchable and definitely recommended .
The Kingdom And I	It's Lubitsch , it's got songs , what more do you want . Alas , it's also got Jeanette MacDonald and Maurice Chevalier but you can't have everything . It's actually quite good , especially for 1929 ; okay , the songs could be better but the idea of integrating song and story was innovative and though Mamoulian did it better three years later this was clearly his blueprint - AND he had a score by Rodgers and Hart . Victor Schertzinger was a fine composer and later turned director and Clifford Grey was a competent lyricist so that leaves the story , a twist , one of several at the time , on The Merry Widow , which Lubitsch would film with the same two leads in 1934 . It remains a fascinating record of Lubitsch's first talkie and early musical film .
Not Only That . . .	. . . but it'll still be snowing in July , metaphorically at least , for this mother and her seven children . By pure coincidence I saw this film within days of Au Hasard Balthazar so that I couldn't help but be struck by the similarities , both feature , for example , the abuse of dumb animals but in the former Balthazar really IS an animal whilst in the latter it is Dominique Reymond who is both dumb first for ever getting involved with Daniel Duval and second for staying with him to BE abused by him and there is , of course , an extra twist in that Duval is himself an animal so that the end product is one animal abusing not only a dumb woman but also their own children . In its cyclical nature the film also resembles Etre et Avoir without the joy . There is no doubt that Sandrine Veysset has written and directed a fine film which treads a fine line between documentary and fiction . We are plunged into the action with no preparing the ground - ironic in a film in which farming plays such a large part - and left to work out that Reymonde has , for reasons not explained and thus open to such interpretations as that old catch-all low self esteem , at some time in the past become the mistress cum slave of Duval who in turn has a legal wife and another family in a neighbouring village . He seems to be totally without finer feelings and views his mistress and their seven children as cheap labour first , second and last and at one point he even accuses Reymonde of refusing to ' service ' him which speaks volumes of how he sees her although he has already provided an insight into his sensitivity when he makes sexual overtures to his own daughter , which is why Reymonde is reluctant to continue sexual relations with him . The thing that Reymonde has in spades is both a highly developed maternal instinct and an incredible amount of love for her children which is evident in everything she does . If ever a film illustrated Oscar Wilde's oft-quoted ' we are all in the gutter but some of us are looking at the stars ' it is surely this wonderful movie . Overwhelming .
Magic Town	The lunatic asylum as a metaphor is not of course original and has been employed in films as diverse as The Balcony and Folle Embellie but this one has an added element of charm that works heavily in its favour . Initially it's hard to accept Adolfo Celli as a Scottish officer or indeed Alan Bates as a Scottish soldier much less an ornithologist but as soon as the French actors are rolled out ( almost literally ) it picks up and is off and running . Micheline Presle is particularly striking and at one level the film is worthy of her daughter , Tonie Marshall , a more than accomplished director , but all the inmates have their moments - indeed De Broca seems to have deliberately provided each one with his or her moment in the sun so that the film is at its strongest as an ensemble piece although Genvieve Bujold's chocolate box beauty tends to catch the eye whenever she appears . The plot has been dealt with elsewhere but just for the record it's kick-started by one of those World War One blunders that were obviously commonplace and seem funny now but probably less so at the time especially to those on the receiving end ; ornithologist Bates is mistaken by his Colonel for an explosives expert and ordered to diffuse the bombs thought to have been planted by the Germans prior to evacuating the town ( along with the residents ) . Nothing Bates can say can deter the Colonel from sending an unqualified man to do a job for which he lacks both training and expertise and the upshot is that Bates inadvertently releases the inmates of the local asylum who then with the logic of a dream assume the clothes and roles of the townspeople . There's a fine sense of colour in the costumes , possibly inspired by Minelli but essentially it achieves its effects by a charm offensive . Highly recommended .
Information Please	As a student of irony I relish the fact that the outstanding stage actress Mildred Dunnock was uncredited despite being the subject of a focal scene - she is , of course , the lady in the wheelchair who Richard Widmark pushes down a flight of stairs . Actually there was quite a bit of fine acting on display here not least from leading man Victor Mature in arguably his finest performance albeit closely followed by his Doc Holliday in My Darling , Clementine . Taylor Holmes is also effective as the sleazy lawyer personified and Brian Donlevy and Colleen Gray are effective as Assistant DA and wife respectively . This makes Richard Widmark's performance all the more brilliant for eclipsing the others in what was far from a leading role . Henry Hathaway , one of the better journeyman directors of the time racks up the tension admirably and this remains highly watchable sixty years on .
Arching Through Georgia	It's difficult enough to write comments for films around fifty years old but when were talking ' silent ' there's another dimension of difficulty inasmuch as one is moving into a world of title cards and 26 frames per second . On the other hand a truly great film will suffer comparison with the best of later eras and so it is here . If one is new to Keaton , knowing only that he was a deadpan comedian who performed hilarious yet often dangerous stunts then this will be something of ( in the words Oscar Hammerstein put into the mouth of the King Of Siam ) a puzzlement ; it boasts a more or less straightforward narrative in which engineer Keaton's train is stolen by Union troops during The War Between The States and he sets off in pursuit . Any gags occur naturally within this context rather than being contrived and the film is better for this . I doubt if I can add anything pertinent to previous comments so I'll content myself with reporting that I'm glad to have seen it at last .
Getting There	This has to be one of the better Hitchcock movies despite inconsistencies . I find Hitchcock vastly overrated which is not the same as incompetent ; basically he's a first-rate journeyman with a first-rate press agent but here he wisely cast Cary Grant in the lead and supplied him with a worthy villain in the talented shape of James Mason . Given that pairing you could practically cast Marjorie Main as the love interest and get away with it . For an average man in the street Grant is urbanity personified in the face of real , life-threatening danger and witty with it . It defies credence that someone who'd just been force fed an entire fifth of Bourbon would be able to sit up straight in a car let alone negotiate a winding road in the face of oncoming traffic and if you swallow this then nothing that follows will faze you . Enjoyable , Yes ; Credible , No , but what the hey , it's only a movie , Ingrid .
In Like Flynn	Little new here story-wise so if the cast make a mess of it there's nowhere left to go . With the likes of top-billed Gerard Jugnot there's not much chance of that but British viewers may find it hard to reconcile Jean Dujardin's facial resemblance to and adoption of the mannerisms of Leonard Rossiter to give credence to his Flynn-like seducing and brawling . As Valentin his lifestyle of choice revolves around women , gambling and , when necessary , fighting . Uncle Van Buck ( Gerard Jugnot ) wants to marry him off to our old friend the impoverished Baroness Cecile ( Melanie Doutey ) but with no desire to settle down he bets his uncle that he can seduce the Baroness with , as it were , one hand tied behind his back , thus proving her no better than any other woman and certainly not wife material . As I said an old story but one with nice touches of the kind that Ophuls or Billy Wilder would not have been able to get away with like the sign outside the bordel , a variation on those Black Forest Weather Indicators , or our introduction to Valentin , blindfolded in the bordel , identifying each girl by the taste of her nipples . They didn't make them like that in the old days . All in all a delightful soufflé .
Something To Shout About . . .	. . . but in the accepted meaning of the phrase , meaning something to praise from the rooftops rather than the meaning with which Truffaut invested it , which might better be termed something to rant about , for this is exactly the kind of ' quality ' film or ' film du papa ' that got right up Truffaut's nose and led to his infamous vitriolic attack on traditional film-making . In many ways Clair's film complements Jean Renoir's French Can Can because both were celebrations of a world that had vanished and it is less than coincidence that both film makers had been absent from France for several years and returned to find the France of their youth gone with the wind . Their immediate response was to attempt to recapture it on film and whilst Renoir plumped for the fin-de-siecle Paris of Toulouse Lautrec , Montmartre and the Moulin Rouge Clair opted for the world of the heyday of Silent Film , the 1920s . Not surprisingly the film is replete with exquisite touches , mementos of a lost world and so authentic is the studio-created Paris that time and again it looks and feels like the real thing . Clair has concocted a soufflé of a plot around what is essentially a valentine to a time gone by and he has taken a dash of Edmund Rostand and Cyrano de Bergerac insofar as Maurice Chevalier's Emile takes under his wing the Jacques of Francois Perrier and schools him in the art of seduction whilst counselling him never to fall in love . This , of course , sets the scene for Emile to do just that when the daughter of a friend turns to him for help . Emile finds Madeleine ( Marcelle Derrien ) irresistible despite her being young enough to be his daughter and though she stops short of loving him in return she does develop a deep affection for him and would be quite happy to marry him until , of course , she meets Jacques . Neither has any idea of the part they play in the life of Emile and what could have been an interesting situation open to several permutations is resolved neatly and speedily by Clair since his interest in the situation is peripheral at best . He does succeed brilliantly in his evocation of a Golden Age and on that level the film is little short of a masterpiece .
Love Forty +	Someone on these Boards has predicated that the whole thing is being dreamed by the best friend of the protagonist , albeit a friend he hasn't seen for some 20 years . I'm reluctant to dismiss this out of hand but it does raise some viable questions . Why WOULD a telephone engineer - or a shoe salesman or butcher for that matter - WANT to create a mythical world and weave it around a friend populating it in the process with a set of equally mythical supporting characters . With an imagination that good the friend should be WRITING not Dreaming . Dream or not SOMEONE , and the obvious candidate is director Paolo Sorrentino , has created a very watchable world in which Tony Servillo makes stillness a Fine Art . We are asked to believe that forty-something Titta La Girolomo ( Servillo ) ' upset ' the Mafia some years prior to our meeting him and as penance he is a virtual prisoner in a small Swiss hotel from which each week he drives to a local bank with a suitcase containing nine mill large in used notes . Other than this weekly trip he is free to do as he likes and what he likes to do is smoke , play cards with a man who cheats and a wife who reminds the husband how far they have fallen socially , and ignore the friendly overtures of Olivia Magnani , who has spent two years trying to get a smile and / or a ' good evening ' out of him . For reasons best known to himself and which are inconsistent with a man who has no interest in anything or anyone , Servillo spends a certain amount of time every day applying a stethoscope to the wall of his bedroom and listening to the private conversations of his card-playing partners . Eventually he does respond to Magnani - he has to do so or they would be no film . This is plot 6f : the one about Destry , who never wears a gun , or Sean ( Duke Wayne ) , the ' Quiet Man ' who refuses to rise to provocation and fight until the obligatory scene where the gun is strapped on and the fists cocked - but instead of contenting himself with a polite come stai oggi he removes 100 , 000 from the suitcase and buys her a car . The final inconsistency occurs when Magnani tells him she will pick him up the following day at 4 pm in her car and they will drive into the mountains to celebrate his birthday . We've established that she lives locally so why she is then seen driving from somewhere miles away , ignoring a police roadblock to drive off the road and overturn the car is anyone's guess . This inconsistencies apart this remains a fine piece of film-making with an excellent lead performance and a very good supporting one .
Bum Steers	By one of those fortuitous coincidences that punctuate life I watched Ninotchka for the umpteenth time twenty four hours before watching this equally fine albeit totally different Melvyn Douglas entry and one for which he deservedly won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar . This was the first Larry McMurty novel ( Horseman , Pass By ) to reach the screen and it would be eight years before a second ( The Last Picture Show ) so it's just as well that this was enough to be going on with . Superficially it was Alfie with sagebrush but Paul Newman was able to get beyond the brash arrogance of Michael Caine and show us the self-disgust of Hud Bannon even as he's pulling another scam . Newman could easily have carried this movie but it wasn't necessary because he had Douglas , Patricia Neal and Brandon de Wilde dividing acting honors equally with him with Whit Bissell turning in a quietly understated cameo as the vet who condemns the Bannon herd to slaughter . All the technical credits are right on the money and unlike Alfie it holds up remarkably well after forty-something years .
Sing A Rainbow	Frank Sinatra's film career is fairly easily compartmentalized ; the forties musicals in which he was expected merely to sing and play shy ; a handful of ' serious ' roles in the fifties and sixties in which he revealed what a fine actor he actually was when he put his mind to it and the self-indulgent years in the sixties when he just enjoyed himself on screen with or without the Rat Pack . Gordon Douglas directed Sinatra five times beginning with Young At Heart in 1954 , by far the best of the five inasmuch as it exploited Sinatra's two strengths , Singing and Acting . One of the other four was Robin And The Seven Hoods , in which The Rat Pack enjoyed themselves on screen and two of the other three , Tony Rome and Lady In Cement , allowed Sinatra to enjoy himself on screen without the Rat Pack but sandwiched in between Tony Rome and Lady In Cement was The Detective , arguably Sinatra's last half-decent film ( though feel free to nominate Dirty Dingus Magee or The First Deadly Sin ) . For ninety five per cent of the time Sinatra puts his mind to acting , losing himself in a character and there are only fleeting moments - the look / grin he gives Al Freeman in the opening sequence when Freeman says ' I hear you're the best detective in town - when he reverts to ' being ' Sinatra . Horace McMahon must have felt he was caught in a time-warp , having played the same role , captain of detectives , in William Wyler's Detective Story back in 1951 , but he offers solid support as do Ralph Meeker , Robert Duvall and Jack Klugman . Lee Remick is as good as she always was but Jacqueline Bisset seems ill at ease in a largely colourless role . It was probably outspoken for its time but we look back in irony forty years on as the same corruption Joe Leland was seeking to expose and eliminate is still in business at the same old stand . A lifelong Sinatra fan of both his singing and acting I find this - along with The Manchurian Candidate - one of the most watchable of his 60s movies .
A Shot In The Light	As another poster has pointed out neither version of Mayerling is based on the actual events but on those events as distorted through the prism of the novel . Nevertheless both the principals and the situations did exist and Anatole Litvak , Charles Boyer and Danielle Darrieux burn THIS version of the story into our retinas . All three benefited from the success of the film and if success is measured in Hollywood contracts then again all three triumphed . Litvak and Boyer made more out of it than Darrieux who quickly returned to France where she made some great movies with her first husband , Henri Decoin , and subsequently with others . Just eighteen at the time she played the tragic lover she filled the screen with the freshness of youth and the broken promise of dawn . Litvak tips his glove from Frame # 1 which he fills with shadows on a wall at once announcing that this is but a shadow-play and that all of us are insubstantial as shadows in the wider scheme of things . It's true that the Terence Young version had a lovelier Sissi in the shape of Ava Gardner but Young had to make do with Catherine Deneuve whilst Litvak had Darrieux . Enough said .
Demy Paradis	It's probably pure chance that I saw this film for the first time - in the restored version by Agnes Varda - a few days after I was leafing through Demy's Collected Lyrics which have recently been published in France . It's clear from Frame # 1 that this is a film to which you either have to surrender as the credits roll or squirm in embarrassment for the next two hours . Demy's ' fairy-tale ' is as unashamedly full of coincidences as any Shakespeare comedy even to the extent of employing one set of twins , albeit non-identical but played by real-life sisters Catherine Deneuve and Francois Dorleac . If you're going to stop and wonder why the streets are always available for dancing in - i . e . traffic-free - or why Danielle Darrieux runs a cafe / bar which is little more than a counter , a glass roof and no substantial walls , then you're in the wrong movie . Demy loved chocolate-box movies and he complemented them with chocolate-box music from Michel Legrand - I was pleasantly surprised to realize that I already knew the main love them via its English lyric by Alan and Marilyn Bergman , You Must Believe In Spring , recorded definitively by Marlene VerPlanck - and the score , on the whole is lush without being memorable and ranging from fifties type small combo jazz to all-out string ensembles and if everyone - including Gene Kelly - except Danielle Darrieux is dubbed so what . Jacques Perrin is also on hand as a love-sick sailor , what else , and after seeing him play more or less the same role ( narrator ) in both Cinema Paradiso and Les Choristes the effect is like seeing a photograph of a friend acquired in middle age when he was a young man . Definitely worth a second viewing and who knows , I may even go so far as to buy the DVD .
In The Market For Love	Irma La Douce began life as a French musical - a species fairly thin on the ground compared to Broadway and Shaftesbury Avenue - with a great score by Marguerite Monet , who composed several ' signature ' songs for Edith Piaf . In the fullness of time it transferred to London and Broadway and then Billy Wilder got hold of it and adapted it as a comedy dropping all the songs . You can do this if you're a genius and Wilder was one of the best in the business . Sometimes when you're a genius you gravitate to the similarly gifted and that happened here when Wilder signed Jack Lemon to play the lead . Actually it required little genius to make that move since the duo had already hit one out of the park with The Apartment a couple of years earlier . Even Shirley MacLaine can't louse this one up though God knows she tries hard enough with that ' Gee , look at me , aren't I the most lovable kook that ever came down the pike ' schtick on overdrive . Lou Jacobi is the perfect narrator who has a hammerlock on droll that just can't be broken . There's probably an academic somewhere even as I write who's writing a dissertation on how the apple that Nestor ( Lemon ) insists on paying for in his establishing scene is redolent of the Eve he will soon meet and who will subsequently lead him into temptation . Don't you just love these pseuds with nothing better to do than sacrifice pleasure on the altar of scholarship . Ah well , the rest of us can just sit back and pig out on a great comic movie .
Slowly But Surely	Probably the most negative thing one can say about this fine movie is that it was directly responsible for Alice Faye walking away from Hollywood . Rightly or wrongly Darryl F Zanuck decided that the film should be tilted towards Linda Darnell , a comparatively fresh face whereas Faye had been around for a good decade , starred in some great musicals and created a lot of ' hit ' songs . She missed out , alas , on at least one more in the shape of ' Slowly ' composed by David Raksin with a lyric by Kermit Goell ; Raksin , of course , had composed ' Laura ' for Preminger and Andrews last movie and Johnny Mercer had added a lyric later . The original plan was for Faye to perform Slowly on screen , a nice touch given that it was Darnell's ' song ' , constantly played on a jukebox either by Darnell herself or Charles Bickford . In the event it is Dick Haymes ' voice we hear and adding insult to injury some of Fayes'dramatic scenes also wound up in the trim bin . Apart from that it's a stylish noir with Preminger apparently taking on Max Ophuls in the fluid camera stakes and shooting in long takes rather than cutting constantly . There's strong support from an interesting cast including Ann Revere , Percy Kilbride , John Carradine , Bruce Cabot and Bickford . Ironically Alice Faye gets top billing in what was to be her only non-musical , leading man Dana Andrews is solid but Darnell runs away with the movie thanks to a dream of a role . Arguably just a tad better than Laura .
Champagne For Cesar	With this brilliant film Henri Decoin skirts the territory practically patented by Marcel Pagnol and moves it from Provence to the banks of the Rhone where he subjects his Pagnol-like village to microscopic scrutiny where Pagnol was content to view his merely through a normal lens . There's a lot of healthy cynicism on display and for 1947 Decoin was more than cavalier in his irreverent approach to sacred cows . The Romeo and Juliet factor runs through it and it is interesting to recall that only a couple of years later a slightly better writer than Jean Aurenche ( Jacques Prevert ) and a slightly less gifted director than Decoin ( Andre Cayatte ) would explore a similar plot / theme in Les Amants de Verone and having said this let me add that I bow to no one in my admiration of both Jean Aurenche and Claude Autant-Lara , respectively among the finest Writers and Directors in French cinema . Almost inevitably Michel Simon steals the movie and Gaby Morlay is not far behind as his slatternly live-in lover but Decoin hits so many targets - organised religion , local politics etc - that the performances are merely a bonus . Decoin didn't get much better than this and that's saying something .
High Flier	Probably more so than any other director Howard Hawks had a knack of coming in at the tail-end of a genre , reinventing it and more often than not turning in the definitive movie in that genre . He did it with screwball comedy with Bringing Up Baby , with Westerns in successive decades via Red River and Rio Bravo , thrillers with The Big Sleep and here , literally at the tail-end of both a decade ( 30s ) and the genre that helped define the decade he does it with the ' flying ' picture . No less than eleven leading players and supporting and / or ' character ' actors keep the pot boiling in a multi-faceted storyline that embodies Hawks respect for the ' professional ' summed up succinctly in Grant's terse advice to Arthur when she asks / offers to play the piano ' You better be good ' . In Hawk's world you're either a pro i . e . good at what you do or you're a waste of space a la Noah Beery Jnr ' Joe Souther , who crashes fatally in the first ten minutes because , as Grant says ' he wasn't good enough ' . For the record this is one - if not THE - movie where Grant says ' Judy ' several times throughout but never more than once on each occasion when he addresses the gal who done him wrong Judy McPherson ( Rita Hayworth ) now married to another flier , Bat Kilgallan ( McPherson ) , Richard Barthelmess , who changed his name in an attempt to avoid the stigma of baling out of a plane and leaving his navigator to die in it . For trivia buffs it's possible to see a connection between the short sequence where Barthelmess - who gets all the lousy jobs because of his reputation - flies a cargo of nitro glycerin through a pass in rough weather as the genesis for George H Clouzot's The Wages Of Fear in which four men drive a similar cargo in two trucks over bumpy terrain in the same part of the world , South America , but for everyone it's first rate entertainment from a vintage era and if I mention ALL the players by name - Allyn Joslyn , Victor Kilian , Sig Ruman , John Carroll , Thomas Mitchell , Don ' Red ' Barry , Noah Beery Jnr - and throw in the leads - Cary Grant , Jean Arthur , Rita Hayworth , Richard Barthelmess - it's because they ARE that good , pros to a man . See , Enjoy .
Love Match	Anyone who missed the opening credits may be forgiven for thinking they had wandered into the wrong auditorium by mistake given that they had paid for a Woody Allen movie on the strength of others they'd seen which , as is his wont , had been sprinkled with one-liners . Here we get a virtually straight story in which Woody seems to be hijacking Tom Ripley and / or other amoral Patricia Highsmith characters and amalgamating them into someone who , like Tom Ripley , ingratiates himself into a social class other than the one into which he was born and then does what he has to do in order to remain there and , as with Highsmith , gets away with it . This is not to detract from the entertainment on offer , the actors work well as an ensemble and Allen's writing and direction are up to his usual standard but one wonders if he is running out of ideas and whether this Ripleyesque character will emerge again . . . and again .
My Coloring Book	If , during a game of Trivial Pursuit , you're asked to name a Broadway Musical in which one of the characters , a racist , turns black overnight , the chances are you'll answer Finian's Rainbow , the hit show of 1947 , so , yes , it HAS been done before but NOT with Valerie Lemercier who is a Great actress , a Great writer and a Great director . This time around she is called upon only to act and she acts up a storm as the prejudiced career woman just getting to the top of her profession when , inexplicably , she grows bronzer and bronzer , gets fired and can only find a job in an outfit that hires primarily Black help . The twist is not long in coming when she falls heavily for a genuine Black colleague before just as inexplicably reverting to her own skin tone . Those are the bare bones but the flesh that Lemercier grafts onto them have to be seen to be believed . Outstanding .
Whose Is	The talented Marie Gillain makes her second appearance in the salles in this charming effort . This time around she's a blonde married schoolteacher who runs across a childhood friend in a supermarket ; Gilles Lellouche has just broken up with his girl friend and returned to live with his parents but soon he and Marie are playing the dating game for real . Of course plots like these are nothing without complications so in the fullness of time Gilles finds himself single-O yet again and for the second time a French romantic comedy moves to Manhattan for a finale . Warm ? Check . Funny ? Check . Enjoyable ? Check . Worth seeing ? What , are you still here ; the box office is right over there .
Don't Give This The Brush	This is a movie that just begs for someone to observe how FRENCH it is , the implication being that other countries somehow can't get their celluloid souffles to rise quite like the Gauls . Be that as it may this IS , I suppose , typically French , whatever that means . Sabine Azema and Daniel Auteuil are a well-heeled couple of the ' early retirement ' school . Azema likes to dabble in landscapes and whilst she is thus occupied a blind man ( Sergi Lopez ) tells her and shows - if that is the right word - her a house that is for sale . In nothing flat she and Auteuil are installed and beginning a new life in which Lopez and his wife ( Amira Casar ) quickly become their new best friends and in the fullness of time - probably about two or three months - it's wife-swapping time . Azema and Auteuil take to this like ducks to water so much so that they're soon advertising for like-minded couples . If it sounds sordid on the page it doesn't come across like that on the screen , possibly because it's French . All the principals are on top of their game and Casar proves that there IS life after Catherine Breillat . Well worth a look .
You CAN Get A Man With A Gun	By 1955 , five years after this one was released James Stewart and Anthony Mann had completed another six films together , four of them Westerns . Their rapport was obvious from the outset and what was intended as little more than a Universal progrmmer became both a cult and a classic . Buffs of the period will revel in the fact that the first ten names on the credits were all more than well known - and that's not counting Ray Teal or ' Anthony ' Curtis , later to become Tony . Perhaps ten years later the ' psychological ' western was well entrenched but in 1950 it was rare to throw Ahab into the mix with Cain and Abel , to say nothing of addressing several other issues along the way , and still furnish a conventional western on the surface and full credit to all concerned . One to add to the DVD collection .
May Wine	Malle made only two films after this one , Damage , and Vanya On 42nd Street and it's tempting to view Milou en Mai as a rehearsal for Vanya though in the end the differences outweigh the similarities . It IS set on a country estate that is running to seed and there IS a ' Vanya ' figure in Milou himself ( Michel Piccoli ) who more or less tends the estate in the absence of his siblings - one deceased , one pursuing his own career . There IS a family gathering with all that that implies , bickering , truth-telling , laughter , tears , accusations , recriminations etc . Perhaps above all it is a MOOD piece which does put it in the same universe as Chekhov but it is ultimately too easy to read it in this way . It was a masterstroke to place it at the time of the student riots in Paris , May , 1968 and this strengthens the links with Chekhov who , of course , wrote his own masterpieces at a time when Russia was undergoing changes unacknowledged by his gentlefolk with their heads in the metaphorical sand of dachas serenely remote from the turbulence . This is a film of great lyricism and melancholia with a gentle Jazz music score by Stephane Grappelly and the action , such as it is , is kick-started by the death of Milou's mother which necessitates summoning the family for the funeral . Again like Chekhov what we have here is an ensemble piece rather than Leading Man , Leading Lady , Juvenile , Ingenue , etc and the acting is uniformly excellent from Miou-Miou as Milou's daughter , Camille , to Francois Berleand as the family lawyer who drives a red Alfa Romeo and still carries a torch for Camille , to Valerie Lemercier in the small but telling role of Madame Boutelleau . The events in far-off Paris punctuate but are not allowed to dominate and barely to influence the action leaving the family - and non-family - to quarrel , couple , fail-to-couple and relate the occasional home truth . In short a lovely Autumnal movie .
Trouble Every Day	This may be one of the most realistic Police Procedurals ever made . It's low-key to the point of virtually creating an H-minor . No prizes for guessing that Nathalie Baye is outstanding as a Commandant returning to duty after detox - she lost a son and found the sauce , not very original but very human - on the same day Jalil Lespert joins her squad . Fresh out of Training College Lespert badly misses his wife who has remained in their native Le Havre and is reluctant to join him in Paris . Two wounded birds cope as best they can in the day-to-day environment of a homicide squad which is woefully short on glamour / drama but high on realistic routine . A minor murder is investigated thoroughly but with little result i . e . very realistically . Don't look for happy endings tied up in pink ribbons but do look for top-drawer acting .
Stompin ' In The Savoie	This has the dubious distinction of being the first release of the infamous Continental Films and top-billed Harry Baur also has a distinction but one I feel sure he would have been happy to waive , that of being the first major French actor to be tortured to death by the Gestapo within months of shooting this fine movie . Baur was a veteran actor who made his first film in 1909 and was an early - if not actually the ' first ' Maigret and he graced many ( 77 but who's counting ) fine French films with his presence . Those who have seen Bertrand Tavernier's masterpiece ' Laissez-Passer ' which was set in Paris and specifically featured Continental will take extra pleasure in seeing an actual product of the company ( Douce is another that should not be missed ) . Pere Noel is now available on DVD and I have to say that the quality is excellent . Cynics may question a ' village ' in the Savoy Alps that boasts chateaux like the one here in which we half expect to see Errol Flynn duelling with Basil Rathbone such is the scope and magnificence of its great stone-flagged floors with at least one fireplace as big as the White Horse Inn . I tend to agree with the viewer who stated that the plot is flimsy and is far outclassed by the atmosphere , which is terrific though again one may wonder how a globe-maker would make a living in a remote Alpine village . These things to one side the film is a joy and though It is very doubtful whether any of the fine actors - with the exception of Baur and Fernand Ledoux - would have been known outside France even in 1941 let alone today that is one more pleasure to savour , making the acquaintance of actors who were once only names in Reference Books . This is one I'll watch again .
Sammy Glick in Punkin Crik	It seems that at one time or another everyone and his Uncle Max wants to make a film about Hollywood and in my case , as a viewer , I welcome them whilst acknowledging that the best novel about Hollywood , Budd Schulberg's What Makes Sammy Run , has yet to be filmed - unless you know something I don't - though Ervin Drake did turn it into a Broadway musical . In some ways David Mamet attempts to rectify this by coming at Sammy from another angle so that Sammy Glick , no-talent writer-on-the-make is here the Producer combined with the sleazy small-town lawyer , whilst Schulberg's hero , the idealistic writer used as a pawn by Glick is retained in the shape of Phillip Seymour Hoffman . Mamet manages a number of digs at easy but nonetheless amusing targets and really showcases his real-life wife , Rebecca Pigeon , who has never looked lovelier or been more believable even if it is a tad unrealistic that such a lovely , erudite creature would be withering on the wine of Smalltown , USA . This is a lot of fun to watch first time around but I wonder if it will stand multiple viewings .
Villains Come Free	There are echoes of Dos Passos here , especially the USA trilogy , perhaps most notably in the ' wobblies ' sequences though strangely for such a factual hard-hitting film the Industrial Workers Of The World are never mentioned by name nor is Gene Debs , whose philosophy runs through it . Like The Roaring Twenties at the end of the decade it begins in the trenches of WW1 where the character of the protagonists are quickly delineated . Richard Barthelmes is also something of a Candide figure - not perhaps so obvious as his similarity to Jean Valjean ) taking every setback on the chin and still keeping his humanity intact . The plot has been dealt with in reasonable detail by other commenters so suffice it to say that the support is excellent notably from Aline McMahon , with Charley Grapewin , Robert Barratt and Loretta Young not far behind . A memorable early talkie .
The Wages Of Virtue	On a superficial level this could be described as Guys and Dolls without the Frank Loesser score and an unhappy ending , Beautiful Salvation Army Girl Saves Sinner's Soul And He Enlists but that approach would do justice to neither . Very few , if indeed any , actresses did ' goodness / sadness ' better than Michele Morgan , blessed as she was , with two of the most expressive eyes in the business and here it is , in a manner of speaking , business as usual as her Salvationist ( lieutenant ) encounters low-life Rene Lefevre and by her example turns his life around . Given the size of his billing Michel Simon has a relatively small role as captain , appearing only in the second half of the film . He and Morgan had played together memorably in Quai des Brumes the previous year ( imdb is incorrect in dating this as 1940 , it was actually released in 1939 ) but then they had been adversaries rather than comrades . Morgan herself doesn't make an appearance until the third reel but that gives us time to see just how wicked Lefevre is for only when we know the depth of his degradation can we measure his ascent . Morgan encounters him when he is affecting blindness and making a decent living out of gullible people and her subsequent treatment of him causes him to initially fall in love with her and then take inspiration from her selflessness . In a nice touch this is a love story with no kisses or caresses and as is often the case Morgan pays the price for being virtuous , expiring from a long-time wasting sickness . Georges Lacombe was a fair journeyman director with the Henri-Georges Clouzot screenplay Les Derniers des six arguably his finest directorial effort with this one not far behind .
Slim Pickings ? Yes And No	Okay , we're talking 73 years so , to paraphrase Linda Loman , allowances must be made . What shines out like a beacon is the chemistry between Powell and Loy and their deft handling of both dialogue and situations . Such is the charisma / charm of Bill Powell that he can state categorically that he is living off his wife - an heiress - and not arouse contempt although this may be because the script provides him with another gigolo in the shape of Cesar Romero , who plays it ugly making Nick ( Powell ) look almost noble . As for the plot , such as it is , it's best forgotten other than as a spine to hang the two principal performances on . What we take away from this is the memory of two people who genuinely like being married to each other and see marriage as a game of Style punctuated by martinis . Quintessential thirties movie making Hollywood style .
Symphony Cyd	This is a largely satisfying musical in the old tradition - with the exception of That's Entertainment the score dates from the 1930s - with the only weak link the Book by the vastly overrated Comden and Green . Maybe in 1953 no one was wincing at sloppy writing but seen today it leaves a lot to be desired . Three examples should suffice ; 1 ) the opening scene is on a train just pulling into New York from LA . Two businessman are chatting as they prepare to disembark - bear in mind that it STILL takes three days to travel by train from LA to New York so in 1953 it may have taken longer - here is the sparkling dialogue by C & G : 1st Man : So you're from sunny Cal ? 2nd Man : Yep , sunny Cal . They then go on to talk about movie stars ( a deliberate ploy to introduce Astaire who's hiding behind a newspaper ) . The point is THIS kind of stuff would have been dispensed with in the first hour or two out of LA not days later . 2 ) Astaire and Charisse decide to go out together to see if they can dance together . Astaire hails a cab and asks Charisse her venue of choice , Elmers , the Stork , etc . Charisse , looking RAVISHING in a gorgeous white dress replies that she couldn't go to a fancy place dressed as she is . Ridiculous . Were she wearing REAL rehearsal clothes , jeans , sweat-shirt etc , then maybe . On the other hand this sequence does lead to Dancing In The Dark arguably the most Romantic dance in Hollywood history . 3 ) The show-within-a-show opens in New Haven and flops big-time . Astaire returns to his hotel room , 5-star , natch , as befits a star , and hears the sound of partying from an adjoining suite . Checking it out he finds the gypsies commiserating with each other . Since when do gypsies ( chorus dancers if you're a civilian ) put up at the same luxury hotel as the stars ? If you answered ' never ' you'd be close . If we ignore this Amateur Book then there is a lot to savour in the numbers , all , of course , the work of Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz . In a really audacious stroke Minelli shoots Dancing In The Dark as strictly instrumental and gets away with it even though that lyric cries out to be sung by Astaire . Astaire has the lion's share of the numbers and takes full advantage of such gems as By Myself , A Shine On My Shoes , Louisa and I Guess I'll Have To Change My Plan in which Jack Buchananen just about holds his own against the guy who wrote the book . Fifty years on it holds up well and is a must for Astaire fans .
Heels On Wheels	The amazing thing here is that a movie that has so much wrong with it could be so good . Consider : In 1957 it was still unnacceptable to make a film without a single decent character so non-talented Kim Novak had to play an ingenue role in a story that didn't allow for one ; some of Larry Hart's lyrics - especially ' In Our Little Den Of Iniquity ' were far too ' adult ' for Hollywood so that half the Broadway score was jettisoned in favor of material from other Rodgers and Hart shows - I Didn't Know What Time It Was , There's A Small Hotel , My Funny Valentine , The Lady Is A Tramp - so that the overall effect was that of a sleek ocean liner with four limpets clinging to it . On the other hand there was Frank Sinatra . Let me say that again : On the other hand there was Frank Sinatra , who single-handedly cancelled out these flaws even the almost impossible mistake of giving one of the finest ballads ever written ( Funny Valentine ) to a wooden actress with no discernible singing voice or style . Sinatra was born to play this role and he grabs it with both hands and towers above everyone and everything else on view . The book can't quite match John O'Hara's original ' book ' for the Broadway show but then what could , nevertheless we get a reasonable facsimile and , let me say again , Sinatra to bring the whole megillah to life . A must-see musical .
Lawsome Foursome	I'm not familiar with the Georges Simenon novel which forms the basis of this highly entertaining film but if Henri Decoin was faithful to the original in his adaptation then it is far from the usual Simenon fare and more the territory of Sacha Guitry who actually tackled a similar subject in Quadrille . Set in Cannes the story revolves around the unbearable Annette ( Louise Carletti ) who falls for handsome lawyer Marcel ( Henri Garat ) who in turn is pitching the woo to haughty American ( and blonde with it ) Myriame ( Mona Goya ) who in turn is attempting to charm the shy Bernard ( Georges Rollin ) . With a brittle script by Decoin even journeyman director Jean Dreville can't knock the gloss of this one and it all moves at a fair clip until the finale which sees Annette getting Marcel to the altar only to ditch him in favour of Bernard . Well worth a look .
Dog Days	One can only applaud production companies willing to bankroll films as non-commercial as this . I'd be hard put to say exactly who its target audience is but I hope it finds it . It's something that could only be English despite strong elements of Hungary and Australia . It's probably just as well that the title is sufficiently insipid to bypass those in search of exploding heads and twisted metal and although I have just seen it at a Multiplex it has all the earmarks - one might even say dog-earmarks - of Art House fodder . To nutshell it we're in Edwardian England where Jeremy Northam pays a duty call each week on his eccentric father , Peter O'Toole . There had been another son who perished in the Boer War . Enter Dean Spanley , Sam O'Neill , who has a penchant for Tokay and a tendency to reminisce under its influence of the years he spent as a dog . Rounding out the principals is Bryan Brown , procurer of the hard-to-find Tokay and witness to the reminiscing . It comes together rather too well , perhaps , but remains laden with charm . Try and catch it if you're feeling pixilated .
Believe Me , You'll Want To Make It Your Business Too	Three years after the first outing for the Beresfords , By The Pricking Of My Thumb , Pascal Thomas brings back the impeccable Catherine Frot and Andre Dussollier for Crime Is Our Business , his third and best adaptation of Agatha Christie . This is our old friend the murder without a corpse - there IS a corpse , of course , but only Prudence's aunt witnessed the actual murder which , in a nod to Rear Window , she witnessed taking place in a railway carriage as her own train passed in the other direction . In the fullness of time the corpse does turn up and the murderer is exposed but what makes the movie - as it did the first - is the wonderful rapport between the two leads , punctuated with wisecracks in the style of Bill Powell and Myrna Loy . If it's unadulterated entertainment you're after - to say nothing of arguably the best reading of the Holmes-Watson joke that went round the globe around ten years ago - then this one has your name on it . Bring on the DVD .
Page-Turner	This will probably appeal to Nostalgia buffs as much as the dirty-raincoat brigade who would do well to save their money . As someone who had never heard of Bettie Page prior to seeing the film I was ' sold ' on it by those reviews which emphasized the period feel and stated clearly that the titillation content was virtually non-existent . Page comes across as one of life's optimists or else stupidity personified . Almost certainly a victim of incest at the hands of her father , she goes on to marry a wife-beater , leaves him and still continues to trust men to the extent of agreeing to go dancing with a perfect stranger she meets in the street only to wind up in the woods supplying sex to a dozen or so men who have paid for the privilege . With those kind of experiences behind them most girls would be forgiven for eschewing male company for the rest of their lives but Page deals with it by becoming a model for ' glamor ' magazines . This is , of course , a true story and apparently Ms Page is still very much alive and would presumably let out a squawk if she thought the film-makers were misrepresenting the facts so all I can say is that she was a very remarkable person . There is an outstanding central performance and wonderful attention to period detail . Well worth a look .
Is It A Plane , Is It A Bird . . .	. . . no , it's Fernandel who THINKS he's a bird ( Don't ask ) . By now we are used to hearing orchestras strike up to accompany someone who feels moved to start singing in the street , or even in the rain , but this is arguably the first and only time an unseen orchestra has been on hand to accompany a man who bursts into song whilst nestling in a tree . Why a tree ? Simple , where else would you find a bird or , to put it another way , Simplet , where else would you find an actor named Fernandel who directed himself playing a character named Simplet whose natural habitat appears to be a tree from where he ' talks ' to the birds , thus anticipating Alan Jay Lerner who would later write a song entitled I Talk To The Trees . Alfred Greven , the honcho at Continental Films was nothing if not shrewd and to lure Fernandel into working for the German-run company he not only allowed him to direct but also to bring his brother-in-law , Jean Manse on board as co-screenwriter and lyricist - and for good measure allowed Manse to appear in a small role . The story is pure fluff , the village is making a modest living from the visitors who come there to see Simplet so that when he is exiled to a neighboring village they begin to feel the pinch and want him back ( shades of Pagnol's La Femme du Boulanger which had appeared three years previously , but Manse wasn't going to let a little larceny impair the goose laying the golden eggs ) . As a second strand there is Simplet's yen for La Cigale who is already in a relationship but prepared to string him along . By 1941 of course Fernandel was as big a star as anyone including Gabin and Raimu and audiences weren't about to worry about nepotism or plagiarism . He made them laugh . Sue him .
Briefs Encounter	Though I've yet to see all the films Tracy and Hepburn made together of those I have seen this is the best which makes me lean toward agreement with those who have seen them all and nominate this as the finest . There weren't too many movies advocating Women's Lib in the late forties , or even the fifties if it comes to that but the movement , albeit not yet a Movement does add a spine to the Garson Kanin-Ruth Gordon screenplay in which the two leads are ably supported by Judy Holliday especially but also by David Wayne , arguably the only actor to create three characters on Broadway and lose out when they were bought for the screen , on the other hand he does get to sing Cole Porter's Farewell , Amanda - recycled by Porter from his earlier , So Long , Samoa - and Jean Hagan turning in a prototype , complete with voice , of the character she would play three years later in Singfin ' In The Rain . A comic gem .
A Fellow Of Infinite Jest . . .	. . . as Shakespeare didn't say of Ernst Lubitsch but may very well have had he lived in the 20th century . This was one of his last films and one of an unbroken string of ' classics ' including Bluebeard's Eighth Wife , Ninotchka and Heaven Can Wait . At least one person writing about To Be Or Not To Be here wondered in print if Billy Wilder had a hand in the screenplay ; whilst it's easy to see why someone might think that the answer is no - Wilder , of course , co-wrote the screenplays for both Bluebeard's Eighth Wife and Nonotchka - though the whole premise of the movie is very Wilderian , a Black Comedy about the rape of Poland by the Nazis actually shot whilst the violation was taking place , as good a definition of inflagrante delicto as any I know of , this is compounded by the rape of Shakespeare by a ham actor , Jozef Tura a dream part for Jack Benny who was a better actor than he was given credit for having for years played on radio ( and later television ) a character light years away from his real persona . Just as Wilder would do in his own films - The Apartment , for example - Lubitsch switches effortlessly between laugh-out-loud comedy and the real drama of a nation under siege and having selected a consummate group of actors from top-billed Carole Lombard to the cream of supporting players such as Sig Ruman , Felix Bressart , Stanley Ridges he got the very best out of them and even Robert Stack in a thankless under-developed role wasn't a total loss . A brilliant comedy that still stands up today .
Hello Brolly	Okay , here's a superficial smart-ass take on this entry : We're in a French port , there's a guy who loves a gal and a gal who loves him right back , arguably she loves him just a tad more than he loves her . He goes away for a couple of years but not without leaving her pregnant . There's an older guy , richer guy in love with her for whom until now she had no time . She levels about her situation and he marries her anyway and raises the child as his own . Now , hands up all those who said ' That's " Marius " by Marcel Pagnol , the first part of his great trilogy ' . While you're wiping the egg off your faces I'll try a less frivolous take . IF Pagnol had been born in the North instead of the South of France it's just feasible that he may have written a story set in the Northern French port of Cherbourg , called his male protagonist Guy and not Marius , had him conscripted into the army for his obligatory two years National Service spent in Algeria and called his female protagonist Genvieve instead of Fanny . Jacques Demy may well have had Marius in mind albeit subconsciously when he wrote and directed The Umbrellas Of Cherbourg - and it was , incidentally , just about the same time that Harold Rome wrote the words and music for a condensed and musical version of Pagnol's trilogy which , as ' Fanny ' was produced on Broadway by David Merrick - but nobody creates in a vacuum and Demy has come up with a charming , not to say enchanting movie . How referential it actually is can be left to the quasi-academic pseuds but it might be worth noting in passing Demy's self-referential nod to his earlier equally romantic movie ' Lola ' in which the character of Roland Cossard ( played here by the same actor , Marc Michel ) was the protagonist in love with Anouk Aimee's eponymous Lola , the background music was also by Michel Legrand whose main love theme turns up again here . Younger viewers will most likely be unaware of the two half-decent lyrics that were written for the two main themes of Umbrellas and enjoyed no little success as respectively ' I Will Wait For You ' and ' Watch What Happens ' and those who DO remember will marvel at the banality of Demy's original words - ' lyrics ' may be stretching it . It might be interesting to discover which came first , Demy's pedestrian words or Legrand's lush melodies . It's fun at that to imagine Legrand , faced with something like ' pass the salt ' , ' it looks like a nice day ' , ' the girls are wearing their hair shorter this year ' , etc and coming up with those gorgeous melodies ( I'd rather not dwell on the opposite ) . Ultimately this is a movie it's hard not to like , from the muted pastels , reminiscent of Les Grands Manouvres , to the Audrey Hepburn-lite sub-Givenchy outfits worn by Deneuve and Ann Vernon as her mother . Cynics may say that it's just one large chocolate-box full of soft centres and they'd have a point but it's not too long and it does offer both entertainment and escape .
An Affair To Forget	In case there are any Literalists out there let me begin by saying that my summary merely refers to the fact that nearly everyone concerned wants to forget the Maurizius Affair but for various reasons are unable to do so , what the summary is NOT saying is that this is a forgettable film . Anyone who's read my comments on other Duvivier movies will know that I bow to no one ( not even the extremely generous French guy who tapes French movies unlikely to be shown in the UK from French television and sends them to me ) in my admiration for Duvivier and love of his work . Okay , it's bleak - at least this one is - but so is life , Charlie , and where else could you see quality actors like Charles Vanel , Madeleine Robinson - albeit underused - and Anton ' Tillie ' Walbrook going through their paces . Ultimately this is an affair with no winners only losers and what is lost among other things like respect are illusions , perhaps the most precious gift of all . The shadowy , misty sets are reminiscent of the ' poetic-realism ' school pioneered by the Prevert-Carne team and , of course , none the worse for that . On balance I wouldn't rank this with Duvivier's finest work but it's definitely the best of his second-string and should certainly be seen .
Banker's Draft	Films as innovative as Citizen Kane inevitably have a lot to answer for as other - often inferior - talents divide up the techniques like relatives dividing house and contents of their late family member so no prizes for guessing what gave Francis Girod to punctuate the story of Romy Schneider's banker via newsreels which conveniently display the dates , changing styles etc . As a bisexual Schneider should not be too surprised when she gets shafted by both male and female elements though arguably the one that hurt most was courtesy of Jean-Louis Trintignant who had her thrown into jail on a fraud charge , but then if you will offer 8 per cent interest when all around you they're offering one you're bound to be unpopular . For good measure Schneider is involved in a car crash and a stint in a mental hospital so you could argue she welcomed the bullet in the back albeit it came at the height of her fame . This is an absorbing film and if Schneider walks away with it that's not to say that Trintignant , Claude Brasseur and - in smaller roles - Daniel Auteuil and Thierry Lhermitte are chopped liver . Very well worth watching .
Wheel Of Fire	Though he does have three daughters it may be stretching things to compare Yves Montand to King Lear , for one thing the Cordelia counterpart would be the eldest , Isabelle Adjani , and not the youngest and though they come close neither father nor daughter actually dies so that Lear's great speech " thou art a soul in bliss , but I am bound upon a wheel of fire , which mine own tears do scald like molten lead " doesn't really apply . On the other hand the itinerant charmer / loser Montand does entertain plans to turn the old homestead into a casino so ' wheel ' gets under the wire as does ' fire ' which is in the title . Sue me , already . Jean-Paul Rappeneau's CV is sparse but choice . His seven full length features have garnered no less than nine Cesar Best Acting nominations and one third of those have gone home with the gong . Prior to becoming a hyphenate ( Writer-Director ) he wrote the screenplays for Zazie Dans le metro and L'Homme du Rio and his writer-director credits include Cyrano de Bergerac , Le Hussard sur le toit and Bon Voyage . He worked twice with the two leads here - Le Sauvage with Montand and Bon Voyage with Adjani - but this was the only time they starred together . If you have even a slight aversion to Montand you may find his charm a little too hard to take but then again no one DOES charm as well as Montand and if you like it you'll love it . This time around he needs all the charm he can get as the eternal dreamer whose constant pursuit of the big score leaves his family relying on eldest daughter Adjani to stay ahead of the game . Luckily she has a good job as an interpreter and just when we have established her twin roles Montand turns up like the proverbial bad penny , effortlessly charming the rest of the family via song and presents ( did I say that no one SINGS like Montand , either ) , leaving Adjani to provide the conflict . This time he has a new scheme , to convert the family's second home , beside Lake Geneva , into a casino . This involves getting into bed with some dodgy characters , chases , gun-play and father-daughter bonding . The result is a feel-good , professional package that every Montand fan will want to see and / or own .
Shaw Thing	Irwin Shaw was highly accomplished writer in most genres ; only John O'Hara equalled / eclipsed him as a novelist and writer of the finest short stories in 20th century America . Over the years several stories ( The Girls In Their Summer Dresses , Tip On A Dead Jockey , In The French Style ) and novels ( The Young Lions , Two Weeks In Another Town ) by Shaw would reach the screen and in addition he received Screenplay credit on film adaptations of other writers ( Fire Down Below , Act Of Love ) and if his masterpiece was his own adaptation of two of his finest stories - A Year To Learn The Language and In The French Style - The Talk Of The Town was not far behind . It's the kind of thing that used to epitomise Hollywood movies ; civilized , sophisticated people , good looking , urbane , feeling no need to disfigure themselves via the application of tattoos , studs , safety pins , happy to utilise well-modulated voices not to whine but to flip deceptively light dialogue at each other , keeping it in the air like a juggler's clubs and in passing make the odd moral / ethical comment on society . Here we have three of the finest exponents of the Art of Screen Acting - Jean Arthur , Ronald Coleman and Cary Grant - at the top of their game revelling in the words / situations into which Shaw and his co-writer thrust them . Casting Directors knowing nothing about the character but registering only the name Leopold Dilg would not immediately think of Cary Grant but the part of anarchist / scapegoat fits him like a glove , as does Supreme Court Judge in waiting Lightcap Ronald Coleman . If it seems a tad unlikely that cracker lawyer Edgar Buchanan was once a classmate of the urbane Ronald Coleman it needn't detain us long . For a film that is dialogue heavy it gets off to a flying start with a couple of minutes of montage in which the whole premise - a fire at a mill , death of at least one man , ready-made scapegoat - is laid out like a red carpet at Cannes . Thereafter the three principals pick up the ball and run with it ( The Eighty Yard Run was , of course , another classic short story by Irwin Shaw ) . If you like your soufflé ' laced with buckshot then this is for you . Outstanding .
Honey , He Shrunk The Id	Apart from anything else this is a wonderful chance to savour not only two of the finest French actors in Raimu and Pierre Brasseur but also some of the mainstays of French Cinema , names like Saturnin Fabre , Blanchette Brunoy and Gabrielle Fontan who I sometimes think has been in every French film I love whilst leading lady Sylvia Bataille has a cv that boasts such standout titles as Jenny , Le Crime de Monsieur Lange and Les Portes de la nuit - trivia buffs would no doubt kvel to learn that Bataille , whose screen husband here undergoes psychoanalysis , married one psychoanalyst ( Jacques Lacan ) and was the mother of another ( Laurence Bataille ) . Both Jean Anouilh and Jean Aurenche worked on the screenplay alongside future director Yves Allegret and pedigrees don't come much more distinguished ; this was still a good six years before Aurenche forged an enduring partnership with Pierre Bost and this was only his second screenplay but you wouldn't know it from the assurance on display . This was the era of Screwball Comedy and that same year Preston Sturges wrote Easy Living for Jean Arthur and Ray Milland and if this isn't quite in that league it is , nevertheless , a captivating soufflé ' based on the somewhat flimsy , not to say ridiculous , premise that a customs official asking a perfectly logical and totally expected question to whit : have you anything to declare , should render the interrogatee , Pierre Brasseur , impotent - Brasseur was on his honeymoon and the question was posed on a sleeping-car with a border imminent . Out of this Aurenche , Allegret and Anouilh spin a gossamer-thin web of hilarity in which Brasseur's father-in-law , Raimu is a principal player and Saturnin Fabres shrink has to be seen to be believed . All in all this is a delightful romp in which the lover of French Cinema will revel in the cast like a kid let loose in a sweet shop .
Tuxedo Junction	I think it's fairly safe to say that this is the finest film that Julien Duvivier made outside France , let alone made in America ; Anna Karenina which he made in England doesn't really compete with the Don Camillo films he shot in Italy - in fact on reflection The Little World Of Don Camillo may tie Tales Of Manhattan for Best - Duvivier - Made - Outside - France . He was a master of the ' anthology ' movie and both Un Carnet de bal and Sous le ciel de Paris are outstanding examples that had the advantage of tighter scripting - in Tales Of Manhattan the roster of credited writers threatens to outnumber the cast and Duvivier deserves a small accolade for unifying so many diverse styles into a cohesive whole . Others have provided details of the several episodes as well as pointing out that not Every sequence takes place in Manhattan , notably the final sequence which is set in the Deep South and provides a perfect coda when the tuxedo in question finds a final resting place on a scarecrow . It feels as if every Hollywood actor who wasn't on active service in 1942 was on Duvivier's set standing up to be counted and Phil Silvers is brilliant in an all-too-brief segment working a pre-Bilko scam on W . C . Fields . A delight .
Song Of Songs	Lelouch doesn't do bijou or minimal , even what was essentially an intimate love story , Un Homme et une femme was played out against a broad canvas of movie making and Formula 1 racing . If nothing else one has to admire not only the ambition but also the logistics involved in Les Uns et l'autres , a tapestry that weaves together three generations of four disparate families linked initially by World War II and secondly by equally disparate music encompassing ballet , classical and pop . Though the stories themselves are often ordinary to the point of banality we are never very far from spectacle in one form or another and from a motley group of fine actors I would single out Nicole Garcia's Jewish violinist whose husband perishes in the camps with honorable mention to that husband , Robert Hossein , plus Jacques Villeret and James Caan whilst Fanny Ardant was barely on screen long enough for her performance to be assessed . An exceptional film .
Happy Families	Among the cognoscenti the Great Crested Vedette doesn't come any greater or more crested than Isabelle Huppert and in this entry she could be said to welcome two previously Lesser Spotted Vedettes in the shape of Vincent Lindon and Fabrice Luchini to the higher echelon . All three are members of our old friend the dysfunctional family with Luchini , fresh out of the slammer , determined to steer his life in a new direction - he was , in his other life , CEO of a large company and his unspecified crime may well have been of the ' white collar ' variety , insider trading , stock manipulation etc . Wife , Huppert , and brother , Lindon , react in slightly different ways and at one point it appears that we have a House Of Strangers situation in the making until at a family dinner Louis ( Lindon ) lobs a mini-bombshell via the revelation of his fathering of an illegitimate child which has the effect of uniting all and sundry . In passing this is the last film to date in which Ann Fontaine appeared as an actress and as she has enhanced French Cinema whilst wearing her Directorial hat I for one am not in a hurry to see her back in front of the camera instead of behind it . This is a fine example of the kind of film that the French do so well and other countries hardly do at all .
Hamlet For Beginners	' Adorable ' is a word that should be used sparingly and almost certainly reserved for Audrey Hepburn - there's an outside chance that the Other Audrey , Tautao , may grow into it in time - and the last person I would have considered applying it to would be Manu Devos but better make that WOULD have thought , past tense because this time around I'm damned if she ISN'T adorable as a semi-kook albeit one with a ' serious ' job ( anaesthiologist in a private clinic ) who has a problem making up her mind . Luckily it's not murder / revenge she has to worry about so much as whether or not to accept the constant proposals of her long-time live-in lover and file her attraction to a doctor-patient ( Lambert Wilson , who , incidentally , plays a Prince / King himself in the current offering Palais Royal ) under ' we'll never know what might have been ' . Devos , often cast in humorless , dramatic roles - which she does to perfection , rightly winning a Best Actress Cesar for Sur mes levres - is nothing less than a delight in this lighter but far from insubstantial role and I'll willingly see it again and / or buy the DVD .
Satan In Stiletto Heels	There's a lot to like in this film not least the gloriously anti-PC stance ; in a world where employers live in fear of firing a female employee who is clearly nine and a half months pregnant it's refreshing to see an employer who thinks nothing of TELLING rather than asking her Assistant to obtain a copy of the new UNPUNLISHED Harry Potter novel by four pm or not to bother coming back to work ( and the ' work ' is on a Fashion magazine , the Potter book is for the boss's kids ) and when , against all the odds the Assistant places the book on her desk at the allotted time the boss merely says ' ONE copy ? but I have twins , do you expect them to cut it in half ? Only to be assured by the Assistant that she has had two FURTHER copies bound and delivered to the twins in question . Perhaps the best thing about Miranda Priestly ( Meryl Streep ) is the way she is able to intimidate any and everyone by NOT chewing the scenery a la Crawford and Davis but merely employing a look of disdain or at best a low , well modulated voice . Bitchy one-liners abound and we think immediately of Mank's All About Eve and A Letter To Three Wives and for George Sanders in the former we have Stanley Tucci here who , as horrified as everyone else by the total lack of fashion-sense displayed by Andrea ( Ann Hathaway ) offers her a pair of stylish shoes to replace her own drab one-step-up-from-trainers and when she rejects them by saying ' Miranda hired me and she knows what I look like ' his response is ' But do YOU ' . The fourth stand-out performance comes from Emily Blunt as Hathaway's predecessor who can't believe people like Andrea exist but nevertheless helps her get a handle on the job . Ironically this hymn to sophistication opened in London on the same day as Marty Scorcese's ( who wouldn't know sophistication if it bit him in the ass ) in-yer-face The Departed ; two movies , two Hollywoods , two different worlds . Unlike most of the Hollywood stuff I've seen and enjoyed recently - Sideways , The Station Agent , Garden State - I have a feeling that this entry WILL hold up on a second viewing .
Between Laroque And A Hard Place	Combining comedy with social comment requires surefootedness and Coline Serrau proves that she is more than equal to the task in this entry from the early nineties . She was building on the success of her mega hit which translates as Three Men and A Cradle but her initial follow up Romuald et Juliet largely failed to find its audience . Not so with this one which hits most of the targets it aims its scatter-gun at . The premise of a man losing his wife and job on the same day is , of course , the basis for a joke and I personally know several that begin in this way , for Serrau it's also something of a joke but one leavened with social comment and , in retrospect , social history , for it is a fairly accurate of French society in the nineties . Serrau also succeeds in creating yet another male bonding of opposites that almost rivals the Depardieu-Richard duo created by Francis Veber and Vincent Lindon and Patrick Timsit ( ironically Timsit appeared in the stage version of Veber's L'Emmerdeur , recreating with Richard Berry the screen partnership of Lino Ventura and Jacques Brel ) need not be ashamed to measure their partnership against those of Depardieu-Reno ( Tais-toi ) , Auteuil-Elmahlah ( La Doublure ) or Auteuil-Boon in Patrice Leconte's Mon meilleur ami . Serrau has surrounded them with quality performers such as Michele Laroque who weighs in with a tour de force tirade in which half the fun is trying to see when she takes a breath . Ultimately , of course , there is nothing funny about mid-life crises or finding oneself both wifeless and jobless at a stroke , just as there's nothing funny about a guy attempting to climb the promotional ladder by lending his apartment to executives for sexual trysts and discovering that his own object of desire , who subsequently attempts suicide , is one of the people involved but cinemas the world over rang with laughter when Billy Wilder's The Apartment was screened just as they did for this fine film by Coline Serrau . I saw it for the first time yesterday - courtesy of a French friend - some fifteen years after its initial release and found it both fresh and excellent .
Vested Interest	It's easy to see why this film appealed to international audiences on its initial release because in the very heart of the Great Depression it provided charm , sophistication , romance , laughter and at the same time gave a reminder of tears in such throwaway scenes as a young mother fainting from hunger and the couple who can't afford to let rooms to skippers . Seen on television this very day it holds up well and is a fine mirror of a lost time . Colbert was always a class act and Gable showed a flair for something other than macho roles to say nothing of ever reliable Walter Connolly who alternated with Eugene Palette in portraying wealthy fathers with errant daughters . Ward Bond and Irving Bacon pop up albeit uncredited and all in all a good time is had by all .
How Ya Gonna Get ' Em Out Of The House After They've Seen The World	I suspect this is more of a grey comedy masquerading as Black . Given that's it's about a relative - in this case a son - who's a pain in the ass it's tempting to see it as another angle on the same director's ' Tatie Danielle ' where an aunt and not a son was the cause of friction but that would be to superficialize . Tanguy ( Eric Berger ) has it made ; 28 years old , fluent in both Chinese and Japanese and earning good money as a teacher whilst completing his ph . D . A regular girl friend who's anxious to set up light housekeeping with him plus all the spare tail he wants . You're probably waiting for me to describe the kind of swinging bachelor pad that Sinatra used to have in movies like The Tender Trap but the twist is that Tanguy does all this from his parent's house and they've had just about enough thank you very much so they decide to ' encourage ' him to leave by taking the cush out of his cushy lifestyle . But Tanguy is not just fluent in Chinese and Japanese he is also an advocate of Eastern philosophy so he turns everything around and smiles tolerantly if not quite inscrutably at all their best-laid plans . The long-suffering parents Edith and Paul ( set designer and architect respectively ) are played by Sabine Azema and Andre Dussollier , veterans at acting together and boy , does it show . Add a cynical aunt , Paul's mother ( Helene Duc ) whose constant needling finally spurs them to action and you have a cast that could make Bowling For Dollars seem like Moliere . A fine movie which addresses a subject that is now relevant in England if not other countries .
We Are All The Richer For Having This Film	It's not beyond the bounds of credibility that Ken Loach genuflects to Andre Cayatte morning noon and night because Cayatte was baring his bleeding heart when Loach was still squirreling his deep hatred of England in his subconscious awaiting release via a non-stop string of celluloid attacks on the terrible country where he is still happy to live . Unlike Loach Cayatte knew how to entertain as well as preach and spent the bulk of the 1940s giving the public the lift it needed to counter the War news . After making five films for Continental between 1942 and 1943 he teamed with Jacques Prevert to make the best of his entertainments by a country mile , Les Amants de Verone and then turned his attention to addressing social problems with this title being possibly the finest of them all . Being the craftsman that Loach is not Cayette is content to spend a couple of reels introducing his lead character whose background in a dysfunctional family makes him an ideal candidate for the Resistance to groom into a first-class killer . The problem is , of course , that once peace breaks out he is unable and / or unwilling to stop killing and inevitably is caught , tried and condemned . And this , as they say , is where the story really starts for in the condemned cell Cayatte is able both to record and register his contempt for the Penal system that still obtained in the early fifties ; a system possibly unparalleled for a total lack of humanity that verged on the barbarous , one in which the condemned were given absolutely no warning of execution but merely ' surprised ' in the night , manhandled out of the cell with a platitudinous Gallic equivalent of ' chin up ' . Only in the daylight hours are the condemned sure of a brief respite . Cayette has turned out a masterly film which is at once harrowing to watch yet compulsive viewing .
Time Was	It's quite possible that The Locket ( 1948 ) wouldn't have been made in the way it was - flashbacks within flashbacks - if Albert Valentin had not pioneered the technique five years earlier . Even if you're French and / or fluent in the language it's still something of a minefield but the skill is breathtaking and the performances more than competent with only Jules Berry - the owner of the Publishing House in Le Crime de Monsieur Lang , the ' victim ' of Jean Gabin in Le Jour se leve and the Devil in Les Visiteurs du soir - being remotely familiar to non-French audiences but the strictly domestic actors / actresses - St Cyr in the title role who notched up a century ( she died in 2004 aged 100 ) and Saturnin Fabre lend strong support . If ever a film was ripe for rediscovery this is it . Seek it out .
My Defenses Are Down	One of the plus factors about this excellent thriller is that unless you happen to live there you wouldn't know you were in Paris ; a few years ago there was an equally fine thriller , A La Petite Semaine which was shot largely in Porte de Clignacourt , North Paris whilst this one was shot mainly a few miles West in La Defense ( whose Metro station was used to great effect in Buffet Froid . There have been several notable French films in this genre lately , indeed the most recent , Ne le dis a personne ( Tell No One ) has only just finished making the rounds , and now here is yet another perhaps just a notch or two below ' personne ' but still very , very good . The two have elements in common , an ordinary man suddenly involved in a nightmare and coming under suspicion of murder , there's even a chase sequence similar to but briefer and less tense than the one with Vincent Cluzet which is not the same as saying that Yvan Attal is not every bit as fine an actor as Cluzet and he more than holds his own against Clovis Cornillac ( who also had a large role in A La Petite Semaine ) who has by far the ' showier ' role as a psychotic obsessed with vengeance for a childhood prank that went wrong . Why they had to go to Finland for Attal's wife I'll never know - his own long-time real life partner Charlotte Gainsbourg could have played it equally well - but Minna Haapkyla is certainly adequate . All in all this is a stylish thriller and more than worth watching out for .
Building Up To An Awful Let-Down . . .	. . . to paraphrase the lyric Johnny Mercer wrote to Fred Astaire's music way back when . This features the delectable Carole Bouquet as a lawyer with two adolescents and no husband on her hands . What she is happy to treat as a one-night stand backfires when the guy in question falls in love with her and decides to move in . In real life a lawyer wouldn't have much of a problem getting him to leave but this is movies as opposed to real life so the solution she comes up with is to have the whole house renovated . Predictably it winds up as a sort of Mr . Blandings Builds His Dream House-lite with chaos accelerating until just when everything collapsible has collapsed and been rebuilt half the crew turn out to be illegals with no papers so the flics raid the joint , the illegals take it on the Jesse Owens but not without destroying the house again . There's lots to enjoy here not least Bouquet letting her hair down .
Good Golly , Miss Brolly	Everyone with even a minor interest in film has probably seen this at one time or another if only on television - as I had . I've just had a chance to watch it on DVD and I have to say that it does hold up pretty well . I haven't read the books but apparently they were a series of unrelated episodes rather than straight stories with beginnings , middles and ends and that may account for why the Dick Van Dyke character Bert pops up as a sort of Everyfoil to the eponymous nanny and why the Ed Wynn character is there for only a single isolated sequence . No one is going to accuse the Sherman brothers of being Cole Porter - well they COULD but they'd look pretty silly when they had to back it up with hard evidence - but their knack for catchy melodies is undeniable even if their lyrics are a tad short of Porter , Larry Hart , Johnny Mercer , Frank Loesser etc , about from here to Guatamala short . Julie Andrews could probably not be bettered in the title role and this is very much a title character-led movie so although the support is well up to snuff it remains academic . Still entertains .
Don't Take It As Gospel	The Champo - a small cinema du quartier in Paris - is to be applauded for staging this major retrospective of Sacha Guitry ; since January of this year they've been screening one Guitry title twice a day from a pool of twenty five which means they've now screened all of them at least twice . Most of the time it's difficult to believe they come even close to the nut but today , perhaps because it was a Bank Holiday , there were about 60 patrons for the second screening at 4 pm . This is Guitry in urban mode which means sophisticated well-dressed people sitting in salons dishing dirt and playing sexual games . The only thing that comes anywhere near Guitry in this mode is Noel Coward and even that is slightly misleading ; they were both primarily playrights , yes , and they tended to write with a swizzle stick rather than a pen , yes again , but really they were chalk and cheese . This is prime Guitry , nuff said .
Fiddlers Two	On paper this looks promising ; a beautiful actress , Edwige Feuilliere , an actor who's just come off a starring role opposite Arletty in Les Enfants du paradis , a respected director , Jean Delannoy and one of THE four best scriptwriters in French cinema , Charles Spaak . Sometimes it all goes wrong but always with artists of this calibre in front of and behind the camera there are moments to savour and so it is here . Barrault doesn't really convince as a violinist whereas Feuilliere has only to convince us she is in love . There are promising visuals and nine Delannoy has the camera in the right place and when that is in front of Feuilliere's face you won't hear a peep out of me . Interesting as opposed to memorable .
Cold Cuts	I have to say I find it difficult to join in the chorus of ' masterpiece ' preceding this comment but that is not to dismiss it out of hand . I merely wonder it is possible to have a thriller without thrills . It's clear from murder # 1 who the killer is and there's not even an attempt at a red herring but by the same token we are spared the justification scene I did it because my parents rejected me , never displayed affection , etc . Apparently this guy IS really just a son of a bitch . This leaves us with atmosphere , lighting , music , acting . The lighting is non existent and what music there is is unobtrusive but luckily acting and atmos test high so all in all it's well worth an 8 .
Bridging Lone ( r )	I saw this when it was released some five or six years ago and found it only so-so perhaps due to my aversion to Vanessa Paradis , a Goldie Hawn clone who seems to be under the misconception that acting is all about looking helpless and ' cute ' and standing back as all the men within a hundred mile radius roll over and play dead . However the DVD is now available at a giveaway price so I watched it again and found more to admire . I have , of course , no problem with Patrice Leconte , indeed with some twelve titles he is the French director most represented in my DVD collection , similarly Daniel Auteuil is right behind Depardieu in the front rank of French actors currently working . So it was just a question of getting round Paradis which I found somewhat easier this time around . At the time ( 1999 ) Leconte had a penchant for using one actor twice in succession - Paradis appeared in his previous film Une Chance sur deux and Auteuil would appear in his next , La Veuve de St Pierre - so having just seen Paradis acted out of sight by Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo may have had something to do with it . The film is laced with wry , cynical lines and seems to be heading into Billy Wilder ( The Apartment ) territory except that the growing attachment between Auteuil and Paradis is largely on a subconscious level and even at the end it makes do without a conventional clinch . The idea of the obvious ' loser ' - here Paradis - becoming stronger than the obvious ' stable / strong ' one - Auteuil - is far from new , in fact SO far from new as to be formulaic so all that is left is to do it well and here all hands oblige . Leconte has one of the most eclectic ouevres of any director French or otherwise so it's ironic that he's chosen to come full circle inasmuch as his latest film - which opens in February - is a return to his roots ; his second film was Les Bronzes and his latest Friends For Life or Les Bronzes Revisited . Meanwhile La Fille sur le pont is well worth a look .
The Red And The Black	When Stendhal coined the title The Red and The Black he used red for the military and black for the church but in this sense red can also mean Communism , the Communism espoused by devout Catholic Hansenn who , as we now know is the greatest traitor in American history . In the way in which it eschews sensationalism and concentrates on the day-to-day routine of unmasking a spy Breach is a fine complement to The Lives Of Others which concentrates on the day-to-day spying ON individuals . In both cases we know the outcome - Hansenn was caught and is now doing time , the Stasi was disbanded - but this does little or nothing to diminish the enjoyment as the respective stories unfold and both films are blessed with great acting . In this case Chris Cooper turns in arguably the best performance of a fine career and Laura Linney adds one more character to an outstanding portfolio . This is one to buy on DVD .
Death In Venice	As dysfunctional families go the Maglias should but of course if they did there would be no story . Jacques Prevert hit another one out of the park with this right-on-the-money take of Shakespeare's star-crossed lovers but it wouldn't be Prevert if there was no spin on it and here he has two non-actors assigned to stand in for the leads in a film version of Romeo and Juliet . He , Serge Reggiani , is a glass-blower by trade - the movie is being shot in Venice where the adjacent islands of Murano and Burano feature glass-blowing and lace-making as sole industries - and she , Anouk Aimee , is about the only thing resembling an ordinary human being in the Maglia clan . The evil content takes the shape of Pierre Brasseur , working for the fourth time with Prevert ( Quai des Brumes , Les Enfants du Paradis , Adieu , Leonard ) who is the architect of the ultimate tragedy . This is the work of a lyrical Andre Cayette , before he succumbed to an overwhelming urge to right social wrongs but on the other hand it's tough not to be lyrical / poetic when you're shooting a script that is written by Prevert . This is a wonderful movie and the sooner it is made widely available ( it goes without saying that without our Norwegian friend I'd still be searching for this gem ) the better .
Shell Game	What a joy to see Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi actually Laughing - to say nothing of throwing in the odd song and dance - her way through a movie for a change . I guess she's so adept at playing downtrodden losers that she just keeps getting that kind of work and even when she wrote , directed and starred in Il est plus facile pour une chameau . . . she saddled herself with a guilt complex because she was extremely wealthy . As the only other commenter says this IS a summer movie and I'm more than glad I was able to track it down to the one Revival house in Paris in which it's still playing - it opened here in March and I missed it by one day . When , as in my case , you will go anywhere and see a given artist in anything it can lead to disappointment but this time Valeria got it right and for me she is the main reason to see this . Our other commenter has dealt with the plot so I won't replicate that aspect instead I'll happily endorse his praise .
The Whole Enchilada	I can only add my voice to the others here who have praised this as a beautiful , passionate and moving film . In England at least we tend to have a stereotypical view of Mexico as a land of hovels and poverty and the film rightly disabuses us of that concept , portraying a land of elegance and refinement even as - ironically - there is a minor Civil War raging in which the downtrodden majority are fighting for equality . To a certain extent this is employed as a metaphor given that the main story centres on a slightly barbaric ' tradition ' that demands the youngest daughter of the household is more or less indentured as unpaid slave with the specific duty of attending to - in this case - a mother until her death . The protagonist , Tita , rebels against this , but only inwardly and silently as opposed to the soldiers who rebel openly against the tradition of ' them ' and ' us ' . The film is beautifully photographed and ravishing to look at , the acting is solid and all in all it's a fine Art House movie .
Boy Meets Girl - In Spades	I heard a lot of good things about this movie so I decided to give it a whirl though I can't claim to be a fan of Argentinean cinema nor too wild about ' controversial ' subjects but in spite of an appalling soundtrack - and I caught it in a top-of-the-line multiplex - its ultimate sensitivity won me over . Apparently the first-time director Lucia Puenzo is the daughter of a well-known ( presumabmly domestic ) Argentinian director and the fact that she is female may have something to do with the delicate way she handles the story of a fifteen year old hermaphrodite facing parental pressure to opt for one sex or the other and sign up for the applicable surgery . To everyone's credit the film avoids the almost obligatory tragic ending in such cases usually involving suicide or ' accidental ' death and thus resulting in a ' clean ' ending ; far from it ; in this case the person involved opts to go through life just as he / she is and deal with each problem as it occurs . Not for everyone , of course , but a brave film that deserves to find its audience .
Two A Brest	Films like this were the bread and butter of French Cinema in the first two decades of Sound and this one boasts a glorious roster from Gremillon himself to Andre Cayette , an uncredited Charles Spaak and , of course , arguably the Greatest of them all , Jacques Prevert . In a film in which the sea is a major character it was a master stroke to begin the story on land and with a set piece , the wedding of one of the mariners which allows a natural chance to establish Gabin's Andre Laurent and hear his praises sung to the heavens then see him in happy domesticated mode , dancing with his wife of ten years and far from happy with his lifestyle though deeply in love with him . An S . O . S . call establishes that these men are the crew of an ocean-going tugboat who help ships in distress in return for a piece of the action . A second master stroke is the delayed appearance of Michele Morgan who we know is about to provide the love interest / temptation for Gabin . She turns out to be the ' wife ' of the morally dubious captain of the distressed ship and can't wait to leave him . The fact that shooting began in 1939 only to be halted by the outbreak of war , resumed roughly one year later has led some viewers to see this as a bridge between the poetic realism of the late thirties and the Cinema of Occupation although personally I don't buy into this whilst relishing the Prevertian ' touch ' of having Catherine ( Morgan ) hail from Le Havre which was , of course , the setting for the initial Gabin / Morgan movie Quai des Brumes . The couple of ' holes ' in the script - Morgan's husband , reluctant to let her go , makes no attempt to trace her whilst she , with no visible means of support , appears to be living in a luxury apartment - are mere cavils and whichever way you slice it this is one to treasure .
Postcards From The Edge	By coincidence this film has just opened in London on the same day as A Very Long Engagement . Both films have in common a search and / or longing for a loved one but one was made for a stick of gum and one for several millions . In terms of story this is plot number # 5a and in modern times we can trace it back to The Importance Of Being Ernest which boasted not one but two fictional characters created to make life easier for a protagonist . This kind of thing is , of course , destined to blow up in your face and end , as often as not , in tears . This time around single mum Emily Mortimer has airbrushed her husband out of her life after his brutal treatment ( unseen but it HAD to be ) of his son Frankie left the boy permanently deaf . When we join them Frankie is nine , going on ten and has spent the bulk of his life moving from one place to another as mum attempts to elude his biological father and her husband . To satisfy the boy's curiosity she tells him his father is at sea and supports this with a series of letters supposedly from all over the globe to which Frankie responds enthusiastically . Inevitably the ' mythical ' ship which she thought didn't exist turns up in Glasgow , their current base leaving her with a class A dilemma . The solution she opts for is to hire a stranger to play Frankie's father - it's been so long that Frankie has no clear recollection and no photos of his father . That's really all there is to it except that the stranger turns out to be warm , sympathetic and handsome , a dream come true , in fact . Put like this it sounds mawkish to say the least but it's pleasantly easy to warm to , to like , to enjoy on its own small scale terms .
Dream Girl	Erich Emmanuel Schmitt is best known for adapting other people's work for both stage and screen rather than for Original Screenplays so an Original for his directorial debut is something of a rarity . As it happens I saw one of his most recent adaptations on the Paris stage when he took Noel Cowards ' Private Lives ' and ' adapted ' it to within an inch of its life so much so that what Coward wrote as a duet plus two thankless supporting roles emerged at the pen of Schmitt as a full-blown quartet . Armed with this information I had mixed feelings about Odette toulemonde even though he had obviously hedged his bets bu casting Catherine Frot in the lead . When she puts her mind to it no one can do Adorable like Frot ( see Un Air de famille or Les Soeurs fachees ) just as when she puts her mind to it no one can do Evil like Frot ( see Vipere au poing ) in short she's one of the best in the business : were she to read this fulsome praise she may have trouble keeping her feet on the ground which is precisely her problem as Odette ; she is prone to levitating at odd moments from sheer joie de vivre though it may help if , as she does , you know a guy who resembles Jesus Christ , thinks nothing of walking on water and when last seen was walking up a hill carrying on his shoulders a large block of wood . A mother with teenage children but no husband Odette is ripe for romance and finds it via best selling novelist Albert Dupontel , as unhappy in this branch of the Arts as he was when he played a concert pianist for Daniel Thompson in Fauteuils d'orchestre . With actors like Frot and Dupontel - and Frot lip-synching Josephine Baker for good measure - you have to work at it to turn out something from the Kennel Club and Schmitt pulls off a hugely entertaining debut .
When The Bough Breaks	Shortly after its initial release this became - in terms of viewing figures - the most popular French film after Le Grande Vadrouille and it's not too difficult to see why . There's something for everyone to write his or her 2 , 500 words about in this story of three male chauvinists getting in touch with not so much their feminist side as their maternal instincts and , for good measure , a sub-plot involving drugs which disappears without trace halfway through . Serreau is clearly interested in exploring role reversal and turning the traditional role-playing tables so that by the end of the film the three male chauvinists have learned not only to care about and / or love baby Marie but are light years ahead of the natural mother in terms of how to care for her in a literal sense . The three principals , Roland Giraud ( Pierre ) , Michel Boujenah ( Michel ) and Andre Dussollier ( Jacques , the natural father of Marie ) were all relatively unknown at the time - Dussollier was almost unrecognizable to boot - and though all three have worked steadily since only Dussollier has achieved recognition outside France , and this probably worked in the film's favour just as conversely the higher profile of the Hollywood actors in the inevitable remake worked against what was a lousy film anyway . As usual the best of the dialogue loses in translation but sufficient original flavour survives to make this a highly enjoyable romp .
That Versatile Woman Balasko	Anyone seeing this film and unaware of Balasko's 50 plus previous films , 18 of which she wrote including the six she wrote and directed would probably find it hard to believe that she is best known as a comedienne . Helmer Guillaume Nicloux appears to have a penchant for persuading ex-members of l'equipe Splendid to appear in polars having started in his last film , Un Affaire Privee , with Thierry Lhermitte ( who turns up here in a neat cameo ) and now with Balasko . Nicloux doesn't like to make it easy for the audience which means the mentally sub-teens who feel naked without a family-size tub of popcorn would do well to avoid this one . Although Balasko's Michele Varin is described as a detective it is the audience who need to do the lion's share of detecting , for one thing Balasko is never really shown in anything resembling a police station , she SAYS she's a flic and occasionally she flashes the tin and is seen in the odd conversation with uniformed cops but that's about it as far as confirmation goes . She is acutely depressed since the death of a young child and Nicloux playfully or even wilfully allows us to speculate Pirandello-like just what is real and what is not ; the thinking-man's polar already . Thierry Lhermitte even reprises his private heat role from Une Affaire Privee allowing further speculation that his case in THAT movie and the suicide / murder that kicks of THIS one are tenuously connected and Nicloux clouds the issue further in one of those end captions to the effect that the case was never solved . Ultimately the crime or lack of same is of far less moment than what is going on in Balasko's psyche . It's a stunning performance and puts her up there with France's finest actresses and there's no greater praise than that .
Snow Job	This movie was released at the tail-end of the Big-Band era when it was par for the course for ' name ' bands to go ' on the road ' playing to packed houses in venues all across the US . This meant that fans got to know the members of the band by sight and so would have had no difficulty in recognizing more than half the Glenn Miller orchestra on screen , from the rhythm section , Moe Purtill , Trigger Alpert , Chummy MacGregor , to trumpeters Billy May , Johnny Best and Ray Anthony , saxophonists Al Klink and Tex Beneke ( who ' duelled ' on In The Mood ) vocalist Paula Kelly ( the ' boy ' singer Ray Eberle was missing on this one but appeared in the follow-up Orchestra Wives ) and not one but TWO vocal groups , The Modernaires and Six Hits And A Miss . Arguably in 1941 the average Big Band fan would have been satisfied with just the orchestra and not asked for a story but for the benefit of run-of-the-mill audiences Fox concocted a storyline that had ' pianist ' John Payne falling for the band vocalist Lynn Bari until the arrival of Sonja Henie as a refugee he has unwittingly sponsored provides the conflict . Henie - who was , by all accounts a royal pain in the ass to work with - was also , of course , an ex-Olympic ice skater and as such Fox's answer to swimmer Esther Williams . Comedy was provided by Milton Berle and Joan Davis but the icing on the cake was the standout score by Harry Warren and Mack Gordon which included I Know Why , Chattanooga Choo-Choo and The Kiss Polka . Something for everyone and there WAS a war on - or , in the case of the USA , there very soon would be and all in all a pleasant wallow in nostalgia .
Five Guys Named Schmo	Anyone watching this on DVD who admires French Cinema and has a special regard for 30s / 40s French cinema could be forgiven for hitting the ' Pause ' button at the end of the Opening credits just to savour the roll-call of names there from writer Yves Mirande through a roster of such stalwart actors as Andre Luguet , Noel-Noel , Jean Tissier , Raymond Rouleau , Rene Lefevre , Bernard Blier and Michele Alfa . This was only one of five films the tragic actress Mireille Balin made in 1942 but for many the main attraction will be Arletty whose career may be said to epitomise irony in that roughly 90-95 % of her roles were supporting rather than leading ( for example , the first two - Hotel du Nord and Le Jour se leve - of the four films she made with Marcel Carne were , strictly speaking supporting , yet she managed to walk away with both even playing opposite Louis Jouvet and Jean Gabin respectively . In every decade since the 1930s French cinema has produced at least one World-Class actress , Arletty herself in the thirties , Simone Signoret in the forties , Jeanne Moreau in the fifties , Catherine Deneuve in the sixties , Isabelle Huppert in the seventies and so on but all of the others were Leading Ladies in every sense of the world whilst Arletty continued - as she does here - to achieve immortality largely in support . This is one of the portmanteau films in the tradition of Un Carnet de bal and - as the only other poster has noted - Julien Duvivier was the Master of this genre . Arletty appears only in the first of five segments , all of which deal with unhappy love affairs , recalled by the male half in an attempt to discourage a young man from suicide after being dumped . Although release was held up this was actually shot in 1942 during the Occupation at a time when Continental was grabbing the lion's share of the market and it's interesting as an example of the kind of fare that was on offer at the time . I'll certainly watch it again .
Bonjour , Bonjour	This is a French movie about the Resistance so right away it's got to be a bad nowhere to Melville's L'Armee des ombres ; it's also about WOMEN in the resistance so now it's got to be a bad nowhere to Berri's Lucie Aubrac . So why bother . Glad you asked that . For one thing L'Armee des ombres was made in 1969 , forty years ago as near as damn it and while Lucie Aubrac is much more recent eleven years is still a long time between drinks . Jean-Paul Salome ' hasn't really done much to prepare us for the excellence on display here though his last effort , Arsene Lupin , some four years ago , also shunned the modern day . It's a given that French film actresses are , as a body , pound for pound just about the best in the world and Salome ' hasn't needed to go with the really heavy hitters to find four very fine actresses . Domestically and arguably outside France as well Sophie Marceau owns the highest profile having made a major impact as a teenager in Boum . Youngest and with the smallest cv is Deborah Francois at 21 but even she has The Child and The Page Turner behind her and both went international . Julie Depardieu and Marie Gillain are more interesting and it is , for me at least , a pleasure to see them getting some international exposure - and the same goes for Julien Boissellier who has done some great work in France but has barely been seen outside it . The premise is classic and the factual element - the character of Louise ( Marceau ) was decorated and enjoyed a long life - does no harm whatsoever : we're in very early June , 1944 and with D-Day less than a week away it is essential to maintain secrecy and rescue the one man - a geologist - who is the lynch-pin . Accordingle brother and sister Marceau and Boissellier recruit three more French girls working in England , and sign them up for this one-off mission . The geologist , once rescued , reveals that the leading German on the scene is aware that something is going down and very soon . This decides Boissellier to keep the girls and move to Paris . Salome ' keeps it moving and gets great performances out of everyone making this a great addition to Resistance movies in general and one I can't wait to acquire on DVD .
Co-Respondents Course	This was the first in the franchise of Fred and Ginger movies and the second to team them - following Flying Down To Rio in which they had supporting roles - and it's easy to understand the thinking behind it ; they'd scored heavily with The Carioca so why not build a movie around THEM and ANOTHER ' new ' dance . The only jarring note is the fact they picked on a fine Cole Porter show and then jettisoned all save one of Porter's songs ( Fred Astaire had starred in the Broadway show , his first since his lifelong dance partner , sister Adele , retired from the stage in favor of marriage , and they probably figured a few thousand spectators would make the connection ) . True , they had the grace to retain Night and Day but the Broadway show wasn't a one-song affair by any means , there was a second fine ballad , After You , and a tasty upbeat entry How's Your Romance but in their wisdom RKO decreed that a gaggle of journeymen songwriters could eclipse Cole Porter . In your dreams , fellas . This initial top-billed teaming set the pattern for those to follow ; Fred is invariably a performer ( except in Carefree ) who falls for Ginger more or less on sight leaving around an hour of screen time for misunderstandings , quarrels and reconciliations punctuated by some high class song and dance by the best in the business . Three of the comedy ' support ' here , Eric Blore , Edward Everett Horton and Erik Rhodes would also be on hand for Top Hat - indeed Rhode's Tonetti is a warm-up for his Bedini in the latter - and only Alice Brady would be replaced by Helen Broderick . With one gorgeous ' romantic ' dance number ( Porter's Night and Day ) and the obligatory novelty dance , The Continental , which occupied more or less the last two reels , this was an auspicious start to a timeless franchise .
Do I Hear A Waltz	There are some plots that have a lot of mileage in them and will accommodate transition between media - think of the Isherwood novels Mr Norris Changes Trains that became the play I Am A Camera that became the musical Cabaret - and Arthur Laurents ' play The Time Of The Cuckoo is one of them becoming in turn this movie and subsequently the Broadway musical Do I Hear A Waltz which bombed despite or because of the composer-lyricist teaming of Dick Rodgers and Steve Sondheim . The movie works , not because of David Lean , not because of Venice and certainly not because of Rossano Brazzi but because of Katie Hepburn . She is , in a word , magic , in another word , enchanting , I could go on but it's a big Thesaurus and I'm sure you've got things to do . Brazzi was simply outclassed by Hepburn but he was virtually the only game in town if you want an Italian leading man with a track record - Mastroianni could have done it a couple of years later , Louis Jordan could have done it then and done it better but he was French . Much has been made of the city of Venice as a major character so it is a valentine , that's about the Sighs of it but no worse for that . Jeremy Spenser has a couple of scenes that may have eased him into The Roman Spring of Mrs Stone a little later but the movie belongs to Hepburn , an incandescent 48 .
All The President's Mendacity	Of course it helps if you are French yourself or have 1 ) an interest in , 2 ) a knowledge of or 3 ) a passion for all things French but even without one , two or all three this is still a very fine film . As I write Michel Bouquet is three months shy of his eightieth birthday and despite being asked to portray a man walking in the shadow of death he turns in a remarkably robust performance , one , surely worthy of an award . Jalil Lespert doesn't have too much to do except pose awkward questions so tentatively that they are almost too easy to ignore and / or brush aside yet he manages somehow to bring some gravitas to the role . I am the least political animal you're ever likely to meet plus I am not French and have never lived in France but I have acquired over a time , mainly via my admiration for French films a perhaps necessarily limited knowledge of French history so that names like Petain , Leon Blum , etc are not as Greek to me as they may be to other non-French viewers . Having said that I think even the complete novice will find lots to admire in the quality of the acting all round especially that of the two principals . Not perhaps for everyone but if it IS for you then you came to the right place .
Silver Bells and Cockle Shells	This is one of those feelgood movies like , say ' Amelie ' that you see and find fresh and energetic and then go back to months later and wonder what you saw in it the first time . On the other hand it's only just been released and I've only seen it once so yes , I DID , find it fresh and energetic despite being a tad formulaic . This is the second movie in a year ( or just over ) to portray New Jersey as Mississippi-lite , sort of WHAT IF Carson McCullers had been born in Trenton , would she still have found it chock-full of dysfunctional eccentrics . Maybe we'll never know but we sure can speculate . This time around obligatory kook Natalie Portman is Geena Davis once-removed from the Accidental Tourist ( Maryland , of course , is the northernmost Southern State , so there may be a Term Paper to be written on the Migration of Southern Gothic to Northern Ga Ga ) . Zack Graff has , no question , written and directed a very competent and sure-footed movie which involves the viewer from Frame One - at least on a first viewing - despite that same viewer's ability to second-guess both the turns in the plot and the ending - in this case it's not the arriving it's the journey . Several posters have beefed about the ending and possibly with good reason yet nevertheless there are honorable precedents ; on at least two occasions ( Sabrina Fair and Love In The Afternoon , both , coincidentally starring Audrey Hepburn ) no less a maestro than Billy Wilder threw in a closing scene where the hero , once it came down to the wire , couldn't bear to leave the girl ( okay , who COULD bear to leave Audrey Hepburn , who , indeed , in his right mind , would even CONSIDER it for a nano-second ) so the writer-helmer is in excellent company . It might have been a tad more honest if it hadn't taken so long for the penny to drop but it's a minor cavil . For a first viewing .
Big Steel	Lucas Belvaux has contrived to make a fine film laced with social comment without resorting to the preachiness of Ken Loach primarily because , unlike Loach , Belvaux knows how to sugar the pill by first entertaining and then leaving the audience to spot any social comment . We are in Liege and the local steel mill has sucked the life out of the workforce and then spat them out . One guy has lost both legs in the plant , another is his ' carer ' , Belvaux himself is an ex-con working shifts at a brewery and checking in with the police every week . Eric Caravaca is a young ' house husband ' whilst his wife , Natacha Regnier ( and , incidentally , my prime motive for seeing this film ) is worn out from long hours in a laundry . All could use some serious money yet with the exception of Pirmet ( Belvaux ) all are upright citizens with no clue as to how to pull off a ' caper ' . A plan , however , is devised , which involves knocking over a safe in the office of Gilbert Melki ( a fine cameo ; he appears at the end for probably less than ten minutes of screen time ) . Life of course would be nothing without complications ; the plan had been devised excluding Patrick ( Caravaca ) on the grounds that as the only married man and father among the group he is less expendable ; when , however , he learns about it he deals himself in whereupon Pirmet bows out , leaving the way clear for a ' Crime Does Not Pay ' cock-up . This is , not to put too fine a point on it , a brilliant film which combines the caper with the social comment and benefits from outstanding performances . One to buy on DVD .
Reel Or Imaginary	This is yet another valentine to movies and the part they play in people's lives , at once referential and innovative . It does however require a certain suspension of disbelief - is it , for example , feasible that a caretaker would ( a ) be allowed to live in the museum full time and ( b ) have access to all the expensive equipment housed there so that he can , in effect , run movies to his heart's content . Once we get round that we can relax and enjoy what is in effect a gentle , tender romance in which people get beaten up ; it's contraries like this that make it interesting . Essentially it's a film about losers , four to be exact : A girl who works in a fast-food outlet with only vague dreams of improving her lot ; her boyfriend who steals cars for a living and treats her as an object rather than a partner , yet , perversely doesn't want to lose her but will if the right man comes along ; her roommate , a hairdresser , who fancies the car thief herself , and Martino , the caretaker of the museum , who lives in a world of his own and takes as a role model Buster Keaton . Martino loves the girl from afar but when she scalds her boss and the police are called she holes up in the museum and falls into a relationship with Martino . When the heat is off and she can leave she realizes that she loves both men , who ask her to choose between them . This is a quirky entry that definitely grows on you and benefits by featuring virtual unknowns in the lead roles . Well worth checking out and very probably a second look .
Gift Of The Gabin	With films of this vintage and this level of acclaim the trick is to watch them as they must have been seen at the time before they became either clichéd , imitated , parodied or all three , and in doing so attempt to spot / respond to what was seen as innovative but seems perhaps dated seventy years on . Apart from the two Hollywood remakes - Algiers , with Charles Boyer , who at least was French , and Hedy Lamarr , who wasn't , and the risible Casbah with Tony Martin and , wait for it , Marta Toren ( who she ? ) there were the semi-rip , sorry , spin-offs featuring men , unable to return , for one reason or another , to their own countries ; best known , of course , is Casablanca , but Clark Gable had a stab at it in Soldier Of Fortune and , just in case we didn't get it he had a recording of traffic sounds in Chicago to remind him of such wholesome delights as Al Capone and St Valentine's Day . But it was Jean Gabin , in films since 1928 who had scored heavily in La Bandera and La Belle Equipe , who started the whole thing off . Seeing it now one is surprised at how it's been pillaged . At one point Ines ( Line Noto ) his gypsy girlfriend catches him moping for his home and says ' forget Paris ' , fifty years on that became the title of a Billy Crystal movie ; Ines again says to Pepe ' you are what you are ' which Jerry Herman twisted around to ' I Am What I Am ' in La Cage aux folles . Julian Duvivier used his camera well to convey the claustrophobia of the casbah and if the final shot - Pepe clinging to and then slowly slipping down the railings that bar him from the ship taking his love , Gaby ( Mireille Balin ) back to Paris and later stolen by Carol Reed for the last shot of ' Odd Man Out ' - seems a tad heavy on the symbolism it probably seemed anything but in 1937 . With support on the order of Saturnin Fabre ( Le Grand-pere ) and Marcel Dalio in a ' bit ' the film gets classy acting . Gabin , of course , was made to play Pepe and with master of dialogue Henri Jeanson putting the words in everyone's mouth the film remains highly watchable .
Sugar Beat	Gabin became a star in the thirties , ' eloped ' to the US during the war then made something of a glorious comeback in the fifties and went on to do some outstanding ' lion in winter ' stuff such as Le Chat in which he gave as good as he got to another icon of French cinema Simone Signoret . Here he is cast as the matriarch of a powerful and influential family whose fortune is built on sugar . Despite their distinguished achievements - they have legions of honor like other families have second cars - they are a pretty despicable bunch . The son is not fit for purpose so far as running the business is concerned whilst the prospective son-in-law ( Bernard Blier ) is more than up to it . Add Pierre Brasseur to the mix and you have an outstanding cast recording the downfall of a proud and arrogant dynasty . Highly recommended .
Clinging In The Rain	Initially this third film from triple-threat Writer-Director-Actress Agnes Jaoui ( and the seventh she has co-written with Jean-Pierre Bacri ) seems reluctant to surrender its riches but two and a half to three reels in we're ready to roll over and play dead once again as the old team of Jaoui and Bacri deliver yet another feast for the eyes and the ears . Their great strength as actor-writers has always been observation and recording of the minutiae of the Human Condition as it applies to what appear to be randomly linked lives and once more they draw us subtly into another microcosm of unhappy lives verging on the dysfunctional and circling like moths the light of Jaoui's feminist writer turned wannabe politician whilst working through unfinished business with her sister and agreeing to a filmed interview with two inept filmmakers one of whom ( Bacri ) is having a clandestine affair with that same unhappily married sister . As is sometimes the way with Jaoui-Bacri movies not that much happens except that they train a microscope on real people - there's even a short sequence in which Jaoui and Bacri study an ant carrying a twig which could be seen as an oblique comment on what they are about . Overall another satisfying movie which I shall be adding to my DVD collection as soon as it becomes available .
Twelve O'Clock High	Despite a long and active career , which included amongst other things supplying the off-screen ' voice ' of Lord Haw Haw in Twelve O'Clock High and creating the role of Socrates in the Broadway production of Maxwell Anderson's Barefoot In Athens , Barry Jones was relatively unknown to cinema-goers in 1950 which made him an ideal choice for Professor Willoughby who , well-shod in London , intends to detonate a nuclear device in its centre unless the Prime Minister agrees to issue a statement prepared by Willoughby . This is one of those British films that DO stand up half a century later which is not , of course , the same as saying they are without flaws - for one thing we never see Willoughby until he has stolen the nuclear device , left home , wife and daughter and made his way to London . What we feel the loss of is a sense of seeing him being slowly driven from brilliant scientist and nondescript family man to someone prepared to unleash devastation on a great capital city . Joan Hickson and Olive Sloan are both solid in support as is Andre Morrell , charged with the task of finding Willoughby but others characters , Willoughby's daughter , his colleague and son-in-law-in-waiting are cheapest cardboard cutouts . Overall the pace is the thing that keeps it interesting , that and the period ' feel ' of a lost London . Definitely worth a look .
Elf Hazard	There's a lovely tongue-in-cheek disclaimer at the beginning of this film to the effect that neither the events nor the characters depicted are based on real people or events , especially , nudge , nudge , wink , wink , the Elf scandal which rocked France lo , these few moons ago . No film of course should presuppose a previous knowledge on the part of the audience ; the average film-goer outside France will have little or no knowledge of Elf and the French Government Ministers involved in corruption just as the average film-goer will know of Marie Antoinette only that she once said ' let them eat cake ' and by coincidence Sophia Coppola's take on Marie Antoinette opens here , in London , tomorrow , whilst L'Ivresse du pouvoir is showing as part of the London Film Festival so it's a case of how do you like your corruption , in the 20th century heart of France or 17th century suburban Paris , that's about Versailles of it . What matters in either case is the quality of the film-making ; is it good , bad or indifferent . I've yet to see the Coppola but the Chabrol is out of the right bottle . Not a lot happens dramatically despite a nobbled car and a leap from a window , it's basically cat and mouse between Huppert's incorruptible judge and the highly corruptible ministers / big business she's attempting to nail - if she IS incorruptible Huppert is not above getting high on her power to imprison some of the fattest cats with their whiskers in the cream ( yet again a title has been badly translated ; the literal meaning of the French title is the drunkenness of power or , more colloquially , drunk on power ) which makes the French title more clear . Anybody who expects Huppert to turn in even a mediocre performance is seriously stupid and here she is right on top of her game well supported by Francois Berleand , who only a couple of years ago played her husband in Les Soeurs fachees , and here proves , as they used to say in Zenda , an opponent worthy of her steel . Go see , trust me .
Parrot Fashion	It's interesting to speculate whether Preston Sturges was familiar with this movie because a few years later he wrote and directed Christmas In July which , like Un Oiseau rare , is kick-started by a contest to find a new slogan , in this case for a lamp and in the Sturges movie for a coffee . Whether Sturges saw it or not it's a safe bet that IMDb would not omit his Screenplay credit as they do her for Jacques Prevert , in fact according to IMDb the actors made it up as they went along for they fail to list ANY writer . Prevert was arguably the finest of all the French scriptwriters in the first half of the twentieth century with only a handful - Charles Spaak , Henri Jeanson , Jean Aurenche , Pierre Bost - fit to be mentioned in the same breath and here he is in a more playful mood than in his Popular Front screenplay Le Crime de Monsieur Lange . The slogan competition is won by Pierre Larquey but the prize is not cash , as in the Sturges movie , but a holiday at a ski resort . Larquey is a valet and his employer , Max Dearly , is not best pleased and insists on going along and we don't need to come from planet Krytpon to guess that valet and employer are going to be perceived as opposites but Prevert throws us a curve and introduced a Second winner in the shape of Pierre Brasseur , playing a rare romantic role . For those who enjoy basking in the quiet backwaters of early French cinema there is much to savor here with names like Jean Tissier , Marcel Duhamel and Monique Rolland making up the numbers . For some reason this minor gem has fallen into neglect which makes my debt to our Norwegian correspondent all the more weighty .
What I Did For Love	There are at least two ways of describing this entry : Early Chabrol and / or Vintage Chabrol . Depends on what you mean by love . Chronologically it dates from his early days as writer-director and if you are moved to describe those days as vintage then who am I to argue . Certainly it has Chabrol's signature all over it ; the cool , almost passionless behaviour of the principals , the affluent lifestyles usually on the fringes of large cities ( in this case Versailles and Neuilly ) which could be read by those who have nothing better to do as a metaphor for the leading characters who could be said to exist on the fringes of civilised behaviour . This time around Michel Bouquet is in a well established marriage with Stephane Audran - at one point Audran remarks to their son that he will soon be ten years old - and although he seems to have little interest in sleeping with her , witness his polite rejection of her sexual overtures , he doesn't take too kindly to Maurice Ronet pinch-hitting for him . Having acquired Ronet's address via private heat he pays a social call on his wife's lover and almost as an afterthought brutally kills him whilst discussing the situation as one civilised man to another . Naturally Audran is in the frame yet soon enough the attention switches to Bouquet at which point Audran , realising what has happened , destroys evidence that could help convict Bouquet . Like I said , civilised to a fare-thee-well . Lots of quality on offer here , Writing , Direction , Acting , Photography all up to snuff and beyond . Highly enjoyable .
Ev'ry Street's A Boulevard In Old Pigalle . . .	. . . and ev'ry hope's a dream . This is late Duvivier but fleeting glimpses of the style remain , like sepia snapshots seen under water , Duvivier has always depicted the richness of the milieu , the overlooked characters who people it unobtrusively like insects under stones . Jean-Pierre Melville beat him to it in the case of Pigalle , depicting it vibrantly in his Bob , Le Flambeur a little earlier but Duvivier is no less telling if no longer original . The top billing of Jean-Pierre Leaud was off-putting , carrying with it as it does the baggage of pretentiousness associated with Truffaut but the superior director Duvivier succeeds in getting Leaud to act natural and shed the Truffaut-inflected mannerisms and so turn in a respectable performance that makes us forget within minutes the excruciating 400 Yawns . Academics and their ilk will be out wet-dreaming each other at Duvivier's framing of Leaud on the roof-top with the Sacre Coeur above him and the sleaze of Pigalle below ( Heaven-Hell , geddit ) but the non-pseuds among us will accept it a face value . Not top-drawer Duvivier but even bottom-drawer Duvivier outguns Godard who doesn't POSSESS a top drawer or even a bottom one . Unpretentious and entertaining what more , after all , can a film aspire to .
Twelve O'Clock High	Any movie that can quote King Kong and The Sound Of Music without stretching has to be doing something right . It's the ideal film for this time of year , a perfect blend of live action and animation welded together seamlessly and chock-full of references from Alice In Wonderland to Cinderella , The Sleeping Beauty , Snow White and more . Amy Adams was denied the big award for Junebug and she'll probably lose out again yet she is magical in a part that requires the kind of naivety of Leslie Caron in Lili , or the two Audreys , Hepburn and Tautou and she does it effortlessly . The score is tuneful and how often do you find an interior rhyme in a lyric today . It builds up to a stroke-of-midnight kiss and it really is a twelve o'clock high .
Koster Brava	Henry Koster was a fine journeyman director who probably did little more on this film than keep out of the way of Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull and prevent the supporting cast from bumping into the furniture but for all that the finished product is something he can be proud of as can Mary Chase , who adapted her own Broadway Pulitzer Prizewinning play for the screen . Despite the inevitable - if not obligatory ' opening out ' the stage origins are apparent but the movie is no worse for that - seasoned playgoers won't mind and non-playgoers won't know or care - and even the central flaw - Elwood P . Dowd lives in a small town where everyone knows everyone else so his eccentricity would be well documented and the ladies who come for tea at the beginning would take Elwood's behaviour in their stride rather than being shocked / scared into leaving - is easy to overlook given the charm of the central performance - Harvey , natch - and the wonderful support . In some ways Elwood P . Dowd is first cousin to Longellow Deeds , a notion reinforced by the fact that both pooka and pixilated begin with the same letter of the alphabet and both films have established places in the pantheon of great movies .
Going Deutch	By definition all Resistance movies have things in common . Almost invariably there will be a set-piece in which the Resistance in question break into the local Nazi stronghold to rescue anything from one to half a dozen prisoners , then there'll be an account of the day-to-day life in an Occupied country , arrests , beatings , torture , etc . Black Book throws in another wrinkle more at home in cop / gangster movies - it is , in fact , being played out right now in ' The Bill ' a long-running cop show on British TV - the one where someone goes undercover , infiltrates the enemy camp and falls for the ' target ' . Black Book is a fine example of the genre but we have to ask ourselves is it possible for a film about the Resistance to eclipse Jean-Pierre Melville's definitive ' L'Armee des ombres ' and the answer is , of course , no , but that didn't stop , for example , Lucie Aubrac , which ran Armee a close second - and both titles featured Resistance members penetrating Nazi headquarters to rescue comrades . On the other hand if we MUST have another Resistance saga then this is as good as anything that ISN'T L'Armee des ombres ; if you can get over the slightly unbelievable charmed life of the heroine played by Carice Van Houten as a sort of Candide without the innocence who , time and time again and against all the odds survives intact whilst all around her are being slaughtered then you're almost certain to enjoy this lengthy saga . Van Houten has , somewhat ludicrously , been compared to Scarlett Johannson but leaves Johannson dead in the water both as a beauty and an actress and Sebastian Koch is equally able as Nazi turned love object . There are twists throughout so that several times you assume it's over only for yet one more turn of the screw . So long as no one mentions it in the same breath as L'Armee des ombres this is highly entertaining .
Night-Tripping LAPDs	In Act I , Scene I , of Henry IV Part I the king , having just learned of Hotspur's latest triumph ( his army left 10 , 000 Scots dead and he took several important prisoners ) is reminded of his own son , Prince Hal , at this stage something of a wastrel ; the king expresses his dearest wish : ' Oh , that it could be proved that some night-tripping fairy had exchanged in cradle clothes our children where they lay and called mine Percy , his Plantaganet , then would I have his Harry and he mine . . . ' It's doubtful the LAPD had time to read Shakespeare circa 1928 because they were too busy with corruption , incompetence and framing anyone who dared to question their integrity . This could so easily be portraying Tony Blair's and now Gordon Brown's government exactly 90 years later . As Frank Sinatra's character in Suddenly put it , nothing changes . With a flashy role it's probably true to say that Angelina Jolie is courting the Oscar but it's too glib a charge to level - as it has been - at the film as a whole . Clint Eastwood is as fine a filmmaker as any working in Hollywood and seldom disappoints behind the camera . If this were fiction he would surely not have dared portray a State Asylum in which the chief psychiatrist was in the hip pocket of the LAPD and virtually every nurse was a certified sadist but it is , we are assured , a true story . Apart from Jolie and a strangely subdued John Malkovitch the only halfway decent character is the Steve Martin lookalike who inadvertently solves the mystery of Jolie's missing son . My advice : ignore the negative criticism and check this one out .
Dixie Cups	If you're looking for authenticity , atmosphere and the stink of flop sweat then this is for you . Gypsy Rose Lee prevailed on room-mate Craig Rice to help whip her memoirs of burlesque into shape and throw in a murder or two for ballast and William A . Wellman does his usual pro job behind the camera . In 1943 there was no way you could show stripping - which was , of course , the main attraction of burlesque - but what we do get is actual Top Banana-Second Banana routines that had been used in burlecue since year One . With hindsight we can compare the atmosphere to Gypsy - both in stage and film form - and Sugar Babies , which revived the format in the eightiesbut this is the next best thing to being there . Don't miss it .
Gleesome Threesome	To all intents and purposes this is a Claude Autant-Lara film , the Producer , Lehman , in a touch of the Irving Mills ' gave himself a director credit ( Irving Mills was a music publisher who used to ' cut himself in ' on songs written by Duke Ellington ) . Alas , they chose to utilise Parisian slang which today is not only dated but almost incomprehensible even to provincial French but that is the only cavil . We can overlook the plot - Fernandel is , to put it kindly , naive or , as we would say today , not streetwise ; he's an assistant to a jeweller , a quality which hooker Arletty immediately finds more appealing than good manners , charm , handsomeness and given that Marcel ( Fernandel ) has had it up to here with the boss's daughter making sheeps ' eyes at him he is ripe for ' grooming ' as a jewel thief . The third member of the standout trio is Michel Simon as the laziest thief in town . For the rest of the film-going world Jean Gabin was virtually the Only French male actor between the wars which was tough on the likes of Simon , Jules Berry , Julian Carette , Bernard Blier , Charles Vanel etc . Simon in fact earned recognition earlier than Gabin when he played the eponymous Boudu who was saved from drowning by a bookseller who lived to regret it and he more than held his own with Gabin in Quai des Brumes . In short , we watch this today to see three thoroughbreds in their prime and we do not watch in vain . Once again a nod in the direction of Scandinavia without whom . . .
Easy Terms	Shown on television more or less 60 years after its initial release this holds up remarkably well in contrast to Brighton Rock made one year earlier with the same leading man and the other twin director brother at the helm . Perhaps it is because The Guinea Pig presents Britain in a positive rather than a negative light or , to put it another way , perhaps we can feel nostalgia for an IDEA of a lost Britain rather than an actual one . Dickie Attenborough then 23 and already married for three years ( to Sheila Sim , who marries Robert Fleyming here ) ' got away ' with playing the working class schoolboy awarded a scholarship to a Public school as a ' socialist ' experiment and part of the enjoyment is watching the traditional ' values ' of that lost England reflected in the prism of the Public school as they had been in Goodbye , Mr . Chips and would be again in The Browning Version though all three films had a different focus . Today when ANY form of education is anathema to the Blairites it's difficult if a film like this would last five minutes should anyone be foolish enough to produce and screen one but as long as Channel 4 is prepared to air this type of movie we can bask in its core values for an hour or so even as the barbarians are at the gate .
My Last Duchess . . .	. . . wasn't a patch on this one but neither was it the Browning version . Edwige Feuilliere in one of those fine French actresses difficult - at least in my case - to track down , though I did manage to acquire Le Ble en herbe , one of her finest accomplishments , and Mam'zelle Bonaparte - the one she made immediately before this - about which the less said the better . Here she is on top of her game as a romantic trapped in a boring marriage , longing for a soul-mate but not recognizing him when he turns up in fact if this were a farce the misunderstanding that pile up around her would be funny , as it is they are merely sad . Balzac wrote the original short story and Jean Giradoux adapted it for the screen thus ensuring that Feuilliere is given highly speakable dialogue . It all ends in tears , of course , but the journey itself is impressive .
Pop Song	It's a great pity that this marvellous film was released after Atonement because it blows it out of the water . Unlike Atonement which was above all a cynical exercise in Festival film making closely allied to multi-media hype And When Did You Last See Your Father is just about making a high quality film aimed at the Art House rather than the Multiplex audience and any Awards / Nominations it happens to garner will be a bonus rather than a deliberate target . It's never been a secret that Jim Broadbent is one of Englands ' finest actors and here he gives arguably his finest performance on film ; Colin Firth on the other hand is best known for a well-polished limited range , perhaps limited by lack of opportunity rather than lack of talent and here he offers support of the highest quality . Juliet Stevenson has done far better work than this and indeed one wonders why she accepted a part that she can walk through and any film that features Sarah Lancashire is going to have at least a few worthwhile moments when she is on screen . In what amounts to a glorified cameo she comes into her own at the very end of the film in a standout scene with Colin Firth . Whilst hardly a film to send you of of the cinema with a song in your heat and a smile on your lips it is one to warm you a little and earn your respect .
The Two Faces Of Eve	The one about the naive , unworldly guy falling for the fast-talking cynical gal who starts out by using him and winds up loving him is hardly new indeed Stanwyck herself played virtually the same role in Ball Of Fire whilst Gary Cooper , her ' victim ' in Fire did something similar in Mr Deeds Goes To Town where Jean Arthur came to laugh and stayed to love and so on . Nevertheless Sturges is able to give a hackneyed plot a fresh coat of paint with some fine writing and direction and it does no harm to have a first-rate cast from the two leads , Fonda and Stanwyck through Eric Blore , Eugene Palette , Charles Coburn , Melville Cooper and fully paid-up member of the Preston Sturges Repertory Company William Deamarest . This is the one where virtually all the main characters have two names and Stanwyck comes complete with two personas ; there should really be a sub-genre for films like this and others like Easy Living ( written but not directed by Sturgis ) Sophisticated Screwball but call it what you will it's still great .
O , Brother , Where WERE You	This is yet another charmer albeit offbeat from France . Young Sophie Quinton has lived virtually all her life in a convent where , with the exception of Miou-Miou all the nuns are of pensionable age . Avril ( Quinton ) is still a novice and the main thrust of the movie takes place outside the convent during a sort of pre-final vows sabbatical in which for the first time in her life she experiences secular life . Along the way she discovers that 1 ) she has a twin brother and 2 ) he's gay and if that weren't enough she falls in with a young man who accompanies here more or less throughout the entire sabbatical and hardly surprisingly begins to fall for her as a person . I'm glad to say that the film does the Catholic church no favors and limns a portrait of a Mother Superior so unhinged and violent ( she thinks nothing of throwing temper tantrums in chapel and even less of stabbing Avril ) that an apter description would be Mother INferior . Sophie Quinton is a revelation as Avril hitting all the right notes on both her exterior and interior journey and I recommend this one without reservation .
So Who IS In The Frame ?	Cryptic is as good a word as any to describe this . If red herrings are your thing then you've come to the right place . Jerome Salle takes a leaf out of Patrice Leconte's book and starts on a pair of feminine feet but unlike Sandrine Bonnaire in Leconte's movie , who wore granny shoes , these are stylish high heels . In another departure Salle keeps us waiting to see the woman in question approximately three or four times as long as Leconte , who revealed Bonnaire in less than one minute screen time . Salle teases us in several ways ; showing a female hand - her back is to us - selecting and lighting a cigarette in close up , then more feet as she walks the length of a platform before finally boarding a train and walking past several empty seats to select a place opposite Yvan Attal - whom we might be forgiven for assuming is the eponymous Zimmer - and even then her eyes are hidden behind dark glasses . Friend Zimmer is by all accounts a criminal genius wanted far and wide by both sides of the law . Attal is strangely subdued this time around with little or none of the macho arrogance of his small-time crook in ' Bon Voyage ' and Sophie Marceau is suitably enigmatic as well she might be given the role she's been handed . Ultimately this is one you watch for the acting rather than the plot which could conceal itself behind a spiral staircase .
Entertaining Monsieur Sloane	It's impossible - for me at least - to know whether or not Ann Fontaine was familiar with Joe Orton's sixties play Entertaining Mister Sloane ( subsequently filmed ) before writing and directing Nettoyage a sec some thirty years later but it is reasonable to assume that the central premise - bi-sexual catalyst male enters and ultimately disrupts household via sexual encounters with both male and female - is very similar with , in the case of the latter , a Gallic twist . Orton's protagonist disrupted a home occupied by a brother and sister both childless whilst Fontaine's shares a home with a married couple who have a child . There are , of course , other substantial differences , where Mr Sloane came , as it were , out of nowhere , Loic ( Stanislas Merhar ) is first encountered by Nicole ( Miou-Miou ) and Jean-Marie ( Charles Berning ) Kunstler in a club where he is performing a cross-dressing act with his sister Marilyn ( Mathilde Seigner ) and only goes to live with the Kunstlers some time later when Marilyn leaves both him and the act in favour of life with her boy friend . The Kunstlers have been married for some fifteen years and it may be said that the marriage has become as ' dry ' as the dry cleaning business they own and is in need of sexual ' cleaning ' . If so they came to the right place for the amoral Loic is happy to oblige , first by seducing Nicole - not terribly difficult as she was ripe for seduction - and then , with less success , Jean-Marie . What we have here is a fine , tightly written and directed script acted to perfection by the three principals and arguably the finest of Fontaines early films - Berning would later appear in her How I Killed My Father . Very definitely worth seeing .
Twin Piques	Isabelle Huppert , who has A-list directors standing in line to work with her is celebrated for her willingness to help new writer-directors by lending her name to attract finance and her presence on set to attract audiences . This can , of course , prove embarrassing - Josie Balasko's first directorial effort Sac de Noeuds didn't exactly set the screen alight but Huppert was right to see the promise which has since been kept over and over - but on the other hand it can result in something as delightful as Aleandra Leclerc's Les Soeurs fachees ( Huppert has a new film with Leclerc , Les Mediaturs , in post-production even as we speak ) . She got it right this time , too , with Joachim Lafosse who probably wouldn't have got this one off the ground without Huppert . Real-life brothers Jeremie and Yannick Renier play Huppert's twin sons who live with her in what was the family home til Huppert divorced their father Patrick Descamps , who has remarried and lives within driving distance with his new wife and child . The French title Nue Propriete , is more specific , a French legal term in which a family member , usually an ex-spouse , is allowed to live in a house but has no legal right to ownership so that they cannot , for example , sell it or take in lodgers . This , in fact is the position in which Huppert finds herself and as it happens she does want to sell , move away with a neighbour / lover and open a B & B . This brings us to the twins , neither of whom appears to have any friends although one has a girl he uses as a sex-object . Long before we , the audience , enter the scene , the boys have become dominant , especially Jeremie Renier who thinks nothing of interrogating his mother daily , verbally abusing her and going through her bag . It goes without saying that her attempt to introduce her lover to the twins is a disaster . This is a cloistered , unhealthy family with Huppert thinking nothing of taking a shower openly whilst one son cleans his teeth two or three feet away ; a great deal of screen time is given over to meals , traditionally a time when families come together in harmony but not , of course , here . As usual Huppert gives a Master-Class in Screen acting but there isn't really a bad performance throughout . It's not exactly Feelgood but it is a fine film and worth anyone's time .
The Thinking Man's Jason Bourne	For whatever reason - maybe he needed to prove something , maybe he had little control over the Bournes - Tony Gilroy , who scripted all three of the Bourne movies , has made his directorial debut with a movie as complex as the Bournes but without the relentless violence that marred - for me at least - the trilogy . Plot-wise it could spot a pretzel ten points and , as someone has already pointed out , you need to pay attention otherwise you'll wind up floundering out of your depth . George Clooney gives certainly one of his finer performances and is well supported by the likes of Sydney Pollack , Tilda Swinton and Tom Wilkinson . All told it's a fine effort but one that like so many contemporary movies will probably not stand a second viewing .
A Great Taste Of The Lubitsch Touch	Lubitsch , Lehar and Larry ( Hart ) are an unbeatable parlay in this entry where the only jarring notes are those leaving the mouth of Jeannette McDonald and heading for the stratosphere pursued by a pack of Labradors . Enough people love the voices of McDonald , Kathryn Grayson , Jane Powell , etc to neutralize my antipathy but if only they could have used someone who could sing and not screech - impossible , I accept , at the time because in 1934 the likes of Peggy Lee , June Christy , Dinah Shore etc were not available for operetta . That cavil - albeit a major one - aside this is one of the most sophisticated , witty , lavish musicals that ever came down the pike . Samson Raphaelson supplied a gem-encrusted ' Book ' and Larry Hart turned in some of his finest lyrics . Decor , costumes , camera movement all score heavily and the waltz sequence is so fluid and captivating it reveals Busby Berkley as merely a traffic cop with a train set . There was more than a touch of the ham in Chevalier but if we try to ignore the worst excesses of the two leads there is a lot to enjoy from the supporting players and simply the overwhelming STYLE of the thing .
A Rose By Any Other Name	It was probably wise of Audrey Tautou to shed - at least partly - her ' Amelie ' image as quickly as possible and stake her claim to be perceived as a more versatile actress . For a 26 year old directing her first full-length film Laetitia Colambani is very assured and it's doubtful if others in her position would plump for a debut quite so sophisticated in its story telling . Tautou is excellent as Angelique who , in the first half of the story is her signature wide-eyed innocent Bambi-type young girl , experiencing all the pangs and thrills of a first REAL love then segueing through doubt , jealousy to criminality and attempted suicide . It is here that Colambani plays her Ace and takes us back to the beginning to see the same events through the perspective of Loic ( Samuel L Bihan ) , the love object . It now becomes clear that Angelique has completely misinterpreted a spontaneous gesture - overjoyed to learn his wife ( Isabelle Carre ) was pregnant Loic bought a large bouquet of roses and out of his great joy impulsively gave one to Angelique , who was living next door to him - and on that flimsy straw has constructed the bricks of a non-existent , or at best one-sided , love . As is often the way an obsession touches other innocent lives , some irreparably and the brilliantly ambiguous ending implies that more tragedy is on the cards . All in all an excellent film that can stand up to a second if not multiple viewings .
A GREAT Pleasure Actually	Journeyman French director Marcel L'Herbier clearly had a penchant for the word ' bonheur ' and employed it in two of his many films . First time round it was Le Bonheur in 1934 and then , just over a decade later he shot this , Au Petit bonheur , the film that brought the luminescent vedette Danielle Darrieux back to the screen after a three-year gap during the Occupation . Darrieux shared the screen - but not above-the-title billing - with two very solid French actors , Andre Luguet and Francois Perier , both completely unknown outside France but well respected within it , both , coincidentally , racking up 111 movies apiece . The plot is little more than a hook from which to suspend a delightful ninety minutes or so of sophistication , style and escapism . Darrieux and Perier are married , they quarrel , she storms out . Cue Luguet as the older roue ' , add Paulette Dubost to complicate things , simmer gently and voila . Bliss . This is one of those movies where a man feels undressed without a valet to dress him and exists in a world of Art Deco - think almost any of the Fred-and-Ginger films , Top Hat , Swingtime , etc . If ONLY we in the UK would take a leaf out of the French book and mount retrospectives of the likes of Darrieux , Michele Morgan , Edwige Feuilliere , Micheline Presle etc then quality ephemera like this would be available on a much larger scale .
You Don't Have To Know The Language	I suppose it's lucky I enjoyed this film because if anything is critic-proof this is it . It has now racked up more admissions in France than any film except Titanic - it overhauled the previous French ( as opposed to Hollywood ) long-time leader La Grand Vadrouille a matter of days ago . France of course regularly throws up heavy-grossing films - think Amelie , Les Choristes , La Mome in this decade alone - and all of these are equally good , if not better than this one so whilst I don't begrudge its success I do find it somewhat inexplicable . I like the anti-PC element ( leading man Kad Merad feigns disability in order to win a transfer to the Riviera ) but the main thrust of the story - the singular dialect peculiar to Northern France - can take it only so far . Writer-director Danny Boon , a native of the region , spoke the dialect exclusively for the first two years of his life and full marks for getting a feature-length movie out of it . Kad Merad is excellent in the leading role as is veteran Line Renaud as Boon's mother . It's definitely entertaining but I would rate it no higher than that .
I Told You So	Any filmmaker who offered the public something entitled They'll Come To A Bad End would hardly expect to have them queuing down the Mile End Road but say it in French , Gibier de Potence and it's a different matter entirely . It's not easy to pigeon-hole this entry from Roger Richebe dating from 1951 . At one level it's a Reverse Angle on the White Slave trade with the ' victim ' being a young man fresh out of an orphanage who is ' targeted ' by Alice ( Arletty ) an ultra discreet pimp who runs a dress shop and arranges liaisons on the side for the odd lonely ( and loaded ) lady . She breaks Marceau in gently , coaxing him initially to pose for some risqué photographs and then turning him loose on her clientele . There's a certain amount of fascination in this strictly platonic relationship - Alice is possibly asexual having flatly ruled out lesbianism yet equally indifferent to heterosexuality - and Richebe keeps us interested . Marceau who , in between gigs serves as a soldier in the Second World War , is a mixture of self-disgust and innocence and eventually and inevitably he meets a ' normal ' young girl who represents his lost innocence . They fall in love and have their mayfly moment of happiness but it is , of course , destined to end in tears . Arletty is in top form which is saying a lot and this may well be an undiscovered gem .
Follow Fleet-Footed Fred	This was the second of three films that Irving Berlin wrote for the Astaire-Rogers franchise and it has by far the largest score and is somewhat unusual in that two of the numbers are performed by Harriet Hilliard leaving the rest to be divvied and / or shared between the principals . As usual the storyline needn't detain us though for the record it was based on a play , Shore Leave , that also served as the basis for a Broadway Musical , Hit The Deck . Anyone who actually saw Shore Leave in the theatre may have been momentarily bemused inasmuch as the roles played by Fred and Ginger were created for the movie but what matters , as always , is the music , lyrics and hoofing and this is all out of the right bottle . It's a departure from the other titles in the franchise in that 1 ) we get to see Astaire play the piano - in real life he was an accomplished pianist and composed several songs , one of which , I'm Building Up To An Awful Let-Down , had a lyric by Johnny Mercer and spent a couple of weeks in the charts - and it is the only one of the series in which he played a serviceman , albeit an ex-hoofer who enlisted in the navy after being dumped by dancing partner Ginger before the story starts . He gets to perform a little-known but excellent Berlin number , I'd Rather Lead A Band as well as duetting on I'm Putting All My Eggs In One Basket but the ultimate number is the prophetic - in 1936 rumbles of World War II were already being felt - Let's Face The Music And Dance , one of the most potent ballads ever performed by the team . So what if Randolph Scott is a little wooden and fish-out-of-water without either a horse or a six-gun within easy reach and Harriet Hilliard doesn't exactly set the screen on fire ; we came to see Fred and Ginger and the only question is , do they deliver . Answer : In spades .
Tourist Trap	Outstanding location shooting in two of Europe's most photogenic countries ( Italy and France ) , a comic ' caper ' plot with guns that don't really kill plus two of the greatest comedians in French cinema - Louis de Funes and Bourvil - has to be an unbeatable parlay and in fact the following year they did it again - or something very , very similar in Le Grande Vadrouille in which the director of both films , ex-actor Gerard Oury , brought his daughter , Danielle Thompson , on board as co-scriptwriter . It was also a nice touch to name the Louis de Funes character after the Armenian-American writer William Saroyan , now largely forgotten but once hugely popular whose schtick was humorous whimsey . The plot won't really stand scrutiny under a harsh light ; Bourvil's 2CV is totally written off by the roller of de Funes even before he has left Paris on his proposed driving holiday in Italy . Knowing a rube when he sees one de Funes makes Bourvil an offer he can't refuse ; the ' loan ' of a Cadillac which needs to be driven from Naples to Bordeaux plus a ticket to Naples and spending money . What Bourvil doesn't know , of course , is that the car is bristling with gold , heroin and diamonds and how unwittingly he gets rid of these en route is half the fun . Perhaps a tad dated forty years on but still one of the best ' feelgoods ' around .
Slasher Movie	The nearest I ever came to seeing this was a clip shown at a Gerard Philippe exposition in Paris about two years ago . I had no interest in the remake and having just caught up with the original just over half a century after it was made I can only conclude that the inept fencing was intentional , aimed at a long obsolete target . Hollywood had been doing realistic sword fights since the 30s when the greatest of them all , Basil Rathbone , crossed foils with Errol Flynn and others so the technique was available and so that leaves only satire . After a while you don't notice and revel in the Henri Jeanson dialogue reminiscent of the Prisoner Of Zenda , both versions . Gerard Philippe certainly had the presence to bring off a role like this and Gina Lollabrigida was probably a tad better than Martine Carol , the other obvious candidate at the time . The print I saw was particularly bad and at one point broke down completely so maybe a DVD version would enhance it .
Blind Faith	Nigel Balchin was one of the finest English novelists of his generation and equally facile at screen writing and it was his name rather than that of veteran director Henry Hathaway and definitely not that of wooden actor Van Johnson that attracted me to this one . Once you get over the ridiculous mistakes which no one who doesn't live in or know London well will register - Johnson's address is given as Portman Square which is indeed close to Baker Street but the Thames is a good mile or more away and not , as depicted , right outside his apartment building - this is a classy little thriller if a tad familiar : Johnson , a playwright has recently lost his sight and overhears a conversation ( shades of Sorry , Wrong Number ) which he interprets as a plot to kidnap someone . From then on the film divides into two halves ; 1 ) get someone to believe him / fake him seriously and 2 ) track down the perpetrators . It works on both levels even if Maurice Denham's policeman is a little too dim and a little too eager to let an ' amateur ' have his head . Certainly worth seeing .
Legends In The Fall	Definitely not one for the Multiplexes this has Art House written all over it and it's all the better for it . There's a definite Checkovian ' feel ' to this one , albeit minor Checkov , with five characters doing nothing much except give a Master Class in Screen Acting . If you actively look for such things you'll find resonances with titles like On Golden Pond and , having brought up Checkov I could argue that they could have re-titled it Two Sisters . Whatever it's a Collectors item even if the story is best not subjected to a strong light ; two sisters , both widowed , continue to spend their summers in a cottage in Maine where , years ago , they could track whales briefly ; now the whales have gone as has the metaphorical youth of the sisters . Sarah , Lillian Gish , has a suitor of sorts in Vincent Price , a White Russian who exists like Blanche du Bois on the kindness of strangers . Libby , Bette Davis , will have none of it and sends him on his way with a flea in his ear . The two other characters are Ann ' Maisie ' Sothern , a friend of Sarah's for sixty years and Harry Carey Jnr - light years away from Monument Valley where he weighed in with support in almost every John Ford Western - as the local repairman . Gentle , Unobtrusive , Unforgettable .
I Believe I Like This	This is yet another of those ' little ' films the French do so well and nobody else seems to do at all . It ' never going to set the world on fire and , to be fair , it never aspires to ; there are no ' showcase ' roles and nobody feels the need to chew the scenery , it's just a small , solid entertainment with the leads placed in two of the safest pairs of hands in the business , Vincent Lindon and Sandrine Bonnaire , who are given top-class support by an ensemble headed by Francois Berleand and Kad Merad . Director Philippe Jolivet worked with Bonnaire on his last movie but one , Filles Uniques , which was in similar vein . The plot , such as it is , features Lindon as head of a large company which has hired Bonnaire to create a large piece of ceramic Art for the foyer . Clearly knowing a lovely girl when he sees one he falls for her but because he has once been bitten ( his ex wife was heavily into Industrial Espionage ) he is twice shy so he prevails on the Head of Security , Francois Berleand , to both check out her background and bug her apartment . With this much information you can write the rest yourself and chances are you'd be right on the money but as I keep saying it's all in the wrist and the wrists involved here are as supple as they come . A lovely way to spend an evening .
Net Gains	I find it both interesting and apposite that some of the reviews here invite comparison with the singular world of Patricia Highsmith . There is indeed at times the same air of unreality , amorality and lawbreakers leading charmed lives . The characters may perhaps best be described as separate strands of seaweed on the edge of the Sargasso sea ; dead or at least lifeless to a certain extent but with just enough current to prevent them coalescing but touching , drifting apart and touching again . Someone has already pointed out the ' borrowing ' from Kubrick and it IS stretching credibility to have Stephen Freiss transporting so much money in such a beat-up attache case , in fact the entire end sequence relies heavily on coincidence that finds three people - one cop on vacation plus two people fleeing for various but linked reasons - converging in the same place at the same time . Nicole Garcia has emerged as a very fine director ( L'Adversaire , Place Vendome ) and was an equally fine actress as she shows here in a finely judged performance as what might be describes as a Fruitcake's Fruitcake ; she kicks off the film by stabbing her own young ( ten or so ) daughter in the hand for the flimsiest of reasons ; years later she inflicts herself on that same daughter ( Sandrine Kiberlain ) , now 1 ) adult , 2 ) successful - a best-selling novel , a large house in a desirable location and 3 ) a mother herself . She finds it strange that her daughter Betty ( still bearing the scar of the knife wound ) is not prepared to leave her young son alone in the house and go out to dinner and later , walking in the grounds she discovers the body of the boy , her grandson , let us not forget , who has fallen out of the bedroom window , and views it with a mixture of curiosity and detachment . A distraught and withdrawn Betty is hardly a million laffs so Mom thoughtfully snatches the first approximate lookalike she sees and brings him home like a cat brings home a mouse and blithely announces that two friends have gone on vacation and left their son with her . Betty's not buying this for birdseed and the truth does indeed soon emerge but here we are faced with another touch of the Highsmiths ; the mother of the kidnapped boy ( Mathilde Seigner ) is a hooker in all but name and not really concerned that her son has gone missing which is highly convenient . We're now pursuing one plot strand that explores Betty's gradual bonding with the boy , another centered on Seigner's latest live-in ( two months ) lover , jealous of her involvement with other men and under suspicion himself , sicking the police onto gigolo Stephen Freiss , who may or may not be the father of the missing boy . Freiss's latest conquest , a mega-rich younger woman has improbably gone on vacation for three months leaving him in charge of her very well-appointed house but little else . He mentions his new situation to Seigner over a coffee and she suggests he sell the house , which he proceeds to do . The cops come to the house but figure he's innocent and leave it at that . One of the cops ' plants ' the information that he's going on vacation any minute now . A little more of this and we have a set up where Kiberlain is taking the boy out of the country to start a new life , Freiss is also leaving with a briefcase full of bread and a cop and his family are off on vacation , all at the same time and at the same airport . A woman sitting next to Freiss asks him to mind her small boy whilst she goes to the powder room . He is happy to oblige . Cop sees him with boy . Chase . Briefcase opens . Kiss the money goodbye . Meanwhile Betty's plane takes off . If you can swallow all this you'll love it . The acting is of the highest standard across the board . Garcia , Kiberlain and Seigner are three exceptional talents and they are well supported . In short , a winner .
One More Time	Surprisingly for someone with a predilection for chamber / Art House movies especially French and especially NOT the Hollywood of recent years I found a lot to like here . Okay , the schmaltz is as high as a week-old steak pie but Stallone has gone to bat for the Over-The-Hill brigade and portrayed them as above all gutsy and Honorable . He turns out to be surprisingly good on relationships and instead of offering something as tawdry as Venus in which an old man lusts after a young girl he gives us a warm , intimate NON-Intimate friendship between a widower still deeply in love with his wife and a woman some twenty years younger . He mixes in just the right amount of aggression , hype and , of course , this being part of the Rocky franchise , action . For someone primarily thought of as a dumb ' animal ' a la John Rambo etc Stallone displays a sure touch as a Double-Threat Writer / Director , something I would guess that is beyond the Schwartzeneggers and Van Damns . Really worth seeing .
Wouldn't It Be Loverley . . .	. . . if out there somewhere was a real Fair Lady transformed by an assassin's bullet into an amnesiac and requiring only expert coaching by a Pygmalion / Professor Higgins to blossom into a long-lost Russian princess . By pure coincidence this movie was released the same year ( 1956 ) that My Fair Lady opened on Broadway though so far as I can tell the parallels appear to have escaped virtually everyone . Bergman's last Hollywood film was the Australian-set Hitchcock turkey Under Capricorn seven years previously , seven lean years spent in banishment as penance for falling in love with and having a child by a man other than her husband , behaviour for which today she'd be lauded and this movie - and Bergman's performance - erases all memory of the Hitchcock debacle . Time and again it betrays its theatre origin , it was adapted from a successful Broadway play , and Bergman could hardly be bettered as the amnesiac who allows herself to be groomed by a trio of con-men led by Yul Brynner to pass herself off as Anastasia and almost as an afterthought picking up the ten million deposited by Czar Nicholas II for his children . There's even an obligatory ' graduation ' set-piece which also parallels the one in My Fair Lady in which Anastasia and Eliza Doolittle respectively convince a collection of Royalty and Aristocrats of their lineage . This is top-of-the-range film-making with both Bergman and Helen Hayes at the top of their game .
Fingers And Thumbs	With a couple of heavy hitters like Catherine Frot and Andre Dussollier you can cast them in anything and get a result . Even that most English of English crime writers Agatha Christie . A few years back Agnes Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri adapted Alan Ayckbourne successfully in Smoking / No Smoking thus arguably setting a precedent of sorts . For all its comedic implications Smoking was rooted in reality whilst here we have a sort of fictional no man's land which is neither really English nor French but meets all the requirements of the genre from the slightly eccentric brace of retired sleuths to the supporting cast of assorted fruitcakes they meet on their travels . The plot , if you can call it that , needn't really detain us since it's merely a hook to hang some superior acting on . There's hardly a dull moment from beginning to end and half the fun is trying to determine which is which . Diverting ? Oui . Entertaining ? Oui . What are you waiting for .
WHAT A Drag !	Given the German origins of this film and the fact that the plot was right down his strasse I'm surprised that the great Billy Wilder never tackled a remake ; be that as it may , Victor Saville directed Jessie Matthews in the initial remake one year - 1934 - after the original was released and then Blake Edwards threw his own hat in the ring in 1982 . There's a lot to like here , Hank Mancini's lovely evocative - of both Paris and the time - opening wordless music leads us effortlessly into the milieu and a short time later Robert Preston delivers the best song in the movie , a very clever Leslie Bricusse stressing the GAY in Gay Paree . There is also some tasty dialogue , again most of it delivered by Preston but just after halfway it begins to sag a little and we get the feeling it's rushing to tie everything together . Overall a very enjoyable romp .
Laugh Like A Drain	Leconte followed this with Une Chance sur deux as if to emphasise his versatility and mastery of all genres . On the one hand an ultra modern piece involving two over-the-hill iconic ' hard ' men taking on the highly organized Drug Barons with all the car chases , technology and explosions that go with that territory and on the other the ultra sophisticated world of Versailles where the biggest crime is to utter a sentence that falls flat . Out of a premise that finds a Nobleman caring about the peasantry enough to journey to the Court and attempt to gain the ear of the King in order to win Royal investment to underwrite an engineering project to drain marshland Leconte has concocted a confection to delight both the eye and the ear in a world where the ultimate goal is neither money or sex but the perfect epigram . There are four principals and all shine and if Fanny Ardant and Jean Rochefort come out marginally ahead of Charles Berling and Judith Godreche well , she IS drop-dead gorgeous and he IS an all-round consummate Actor's Actor . Not for everyone but even here the usual excuse of not speaking French is flimsy given the excellent subtitles on the DVD . A soufflé prepared exclusively with Faberge eggs .
Versailles In The Sunset	We've been here before , of course ; Versailles , Sun King , decadence versus squalor , etc but having said that this is a painless way to expand - if you're not French - your knowledge of the era in which Comedy Francaise was born . Though that isn't really touched on here two of the principal characters are Moliere and Racine and they are linked economically by sharing the eponymous Marquise ( Sophie Marceau ) as a mistress - in this case Marquise is a Christian name rather than a title . Thierry Thermitte weighs in as a competent if unlikely Sun King and fellow Splendid alumnus Anemone is also on hand as what might be called Toxic Adviser . Vera Belmont handles a large cast well and has an eye for visuals . On balance an enjoyable romp .
If I Had To Watch It Again . . .	. . . and probably find more ways in which French movies differ from those of Hollywood . In Hollywood the chocolate boxes are mostly empty and the actresses look like Bette Davis , Joan Crawford , Ann Bancroft etc . In France the actresses look like Michele Morgan , Micheline Presle , Edwige Feuillere , Danielle Darrieux , Manu Beart etc . And it's a pretty safe assumption that only in France would we see Catherine Deneuve and Anouk Aimee sharing a bed WITHOUT being lesbians . In some ways this is the Davis / Crawford movie that they never made . Consider : Davis is drugged and raped by her boss ; her boyfriend decides to give him a thrashing that gets out of hand so much so that the boss runs out of breath ; Davis and the boyfriend are sentenced to prison and the boyfriend kills himself . Davis decides the only way to assuage her grief is to have a child and prevails upon her lawyer to oblige ; he declines so she seduces a male nurse in the hospital prison . Sixteen years later she is released and travels to see the son she has not seen since he was born . She gets a job , makes a new life , the boy accepts both her and the situation with equanimity then , out of the blue an old cell-mate , Crawford turns up , seduces the son , who meanwhile has selected his own father-figure in the shape of one of his schoolteacher and sets him up with his mother . You're absolutely correct , Hollywood would NEVER have done something like that but in France . . . Claude Lelouch has a sweet tooth and a penchant for chocolate-box settings and though he never came close to equalling his breakthrough Un Homme et une femme he racked up an impressive tally of good-to-look-at movies . He also loves the camera as is evident in a scene towards the end where Deneuve is standing at a very long bar in conversation with her son's teacher ; against the wall at the far end of the bar the son ( Jean-Jacques Briot ) is monitoring events with mom's old cell mate Sarah ( Anouk Aimee ) and Lelouch lets his camera Zoom in to Anouk and Zoom out to Deneuve several times , effectively splitting the screen in an unorthodox fashion . What began in the confines of a prison ( we begin with Deneuve's release then flashback to the rape , killing , impregnating in prison ) ends in the vast space of the Alps with four figures skiing out of sight and the camera registering freedom and fresh air . A young Jacques Villeret has a fine cameo as an estate agent and rounds out a very satisfying movie .
Hold The Phone	After a weak opening in which a cop is shot by two would-be robbers in a speakeasy the action moves on eleven years and develops into a fine semi-documentary - a mini-genre that enjoyed a short vogue in the late forties . I do , however , have one cavil and it's this : We are told that the cop killing occurred in 1932 towards the end of Prohibition and THEN we are told that the bulk of the action - the efforts of the mother of one of the convicted killers serving a 99 year jail sentence to clear her son's name - takes place eleven years later . I don't know about you but I make that 1943 , slap bang in the middle of World War Two , yet there is nary even a whisper that there is a world war taking place . The fact that reporter James Stewart takes an interest in the case serves only to draw attention to this as we are shown several newspaper stories he has written on behalf of the convicted man and even THEN there is no mention of the war on the same page - and this at a time when the war would have been dominating the headlines , certainly at the expense of a ' human interest ' story . Not only this but we never see a uniform from frame # 1 to the end and no one mentions the war even in passing . Apart from this bizarre omission it's a fine effort from journeyman Henry Hathaway that stands up well after 60 years with lead Jimmy Stewart and support Lee J . Cobb and Richard Conte weighing in with solid emoting .
Life Without Father	Sandrine Bonnaire has matured into one of the finest French actresses of her generation - and incidentally directed a fine documentary about her handicapped sister , Sabine - yet this is only early promise fulfilled as this movie illustrates . Just sixteen when it was shot Bonnaire exudes the confidence of someone twice her age and easily dominates the film against fine support including Oliver Reed lookalike director Pialat himself as the father , absent during the central section of the movie , who is clearly responsible for Bonnaire's drifting from man to man . Dysfunctional families are seldom the basis for ' entertaining ' stories be they on stage or screen but this is highly watchable and can support multiple viewings .
Four For Taxes	This has to be something of an oddity - a ' Continetal ' film about four hookers with NO nudity and No sex . Quite a trick but Pietrangeli pulls it off with the help of a fine cast led by Simone Signoret - by now no stranger to the oldest profession having played hookers in Dedee Of Anvers and La Ronde - as the eponymous Adua and Marcello Mastroianni as the waste-of-space she falls for . All four of the hookers - Caterina ( Gina Rovere ) , Lolita ( Sandra Milo ) and Marilena ( Emmannuelle Riva ) are the other three - are excellent and contrive not to LOOK like what they are or rather were for the story begins when the Italian government closed the legal brothels effectively putting them out of work . They pool their money and open a restaurant and make a decent stab at leaving their old lives behind them but problems mount up in the form of red tape requiring a ' patron ' to unravel . Such a patron is found and he's more than happy to do the necessary with the proviso that in the fullness of time , say two months , the girls revert to their old trade via turning tricks in the upstairs bedrooms of the restaurant . For various reasons only one of the four is happy with and prepared to do this and so the film has a realistic rather than a conventional happy ending . Signoret towers above the others and even Mastroianni seems lacklustre in comparison but it remains an engrossing film and well worth seeing .
Pass The Portemanteau	Julien Duvivier was not only one of the best Directors who ever came out of France but also one of the most versatile being more than adept in several genres . Try telling that to Hollywood : Having prevailed upon him to remake his masterpiece Un Carnet de bal as Lydia they next got him to follow it with Tales Of Manhattan and then yet another episodic piece Flesh and Fantasy . To dispense with pedantry first of all ; it seems that one reviewer mistakenly attributed the second segment to Noel Coward when it was , of course , the work of Oscar Wilde ; in correcting the initial reviewer the person who did so claimed erroneously that both Wilde and Coward were English and gay ; only 50 per cent of that statement is true ; Oscar Wilde was Irish , a native of Dublin , who settled in England . Stuff like this tends to distract from the film which , in this case , is as good as one might suppose with anything to which the name Duvivier is appended . There are three basic segments linked loosely by Robert Benchley anchored in a Gentlemen's Club more than likely located in Pall Mall . The first segment reunites Robert Cummings and Betty Field who had starred the year before in a similar multi-storied adaptation King's Row ; Field plays the Ugly Duckling who convinces Cummings via a little sleight-of-hand that she is a Swan . The second segment finds Edward G . Robinson initially bemused then increasingly terrified by a palmist's prediction that he will commit murder whilst the final segment sees tightrope walker Charles Boyer dreaming of falling from the high wire watched by a Barbara Stanwyck he has yet to meet . None of the segments is especially original but the combination of stylish direction and fine acting lifts it out of the rut .
The Only Catch That Beat This . . .	. . . was the one made by Willie Mays for the Giants . Max Ophuls in his Hollywood period turned out some classy stuff and right after this he returned to France and gave us La Ronde . Given that the two male leads are Robert Ryan and James Mason we could be forgiven for anticipating a snarling contest but as it turns out they share only two scenes which total perhaps two minutes tops . Although we tend to remember both for their villains they did in fact embody different kinds of villainy ; Ryan was at his best as the slightly out-of-control psychotic with built-in snarl whilst Mason was more the suave sniffing - the - carnation - as - he - watches - the - torture type . Essentially this is little more than a conventional meller with starry-eyed virgin landing the millionaire only to discover his dark side and then finding the nice guy but unable to marry him but Ophuls used Lee Garmes camera to produce his signature brooding light-and-shadow and sweeping shots , several in deep-focus . Amateur analysts may speculate that Mason and Ryan represent the two side of Barbara Bed Geddes ' psyche and that's harmless enough . Nice to see Curt Bois , the dip from Casablanca , in a longer role and Frank Ferguson is equally solid as Mason's doctor partner . Well worth a look .
Hide In Plain Sight	I've never much cared for this director who has always seemed bent on shocking and sickening his audiences into submission with every graphic image in the book but here he gets his effects much more . . . well perhaps subtly is the wrong word but certainly in a more subdued way so that when the graphics come they genuinely surprise the viewer unlike say The Piano Teacher where the viewer is merely waiting for him to do something even more outre . The film is full of nods to technique and manipulation as in the scene where Daniel Auteuil is ' editing ' the TV programme he hosts by removing large chunks of dialogue as if to remind us that we HERE in the cinema watching this film are seeing ONLY what the director WANTS us to see in order to make his points . Virtually every comment I've read here mentions the subtext involving the French treatment of Algerians and it is probably no accident that Daniel Auteuil , himself born in Algeria , was approached - and obviously agreed - to play the lead . Fine performances abound with even what amount to cameos by Annie Girardot , Bernard Le Coq and Denis Podalydes scoring heavily . Juliette Binoche is clearly happy to appear deglamourized and slightly zaftig and for all of that delivers a performance only a notch below that of Auteuil . This is definitely a film that both requires and will reward multiple viewings .
The Same Old Song And Dance	This is arguably the perfect film for this time of year . Boy Meets Girl , Boy Gets Girl . . . well , you know the sort of thing . Despite racking up about sixty films between them neither of the leads is really known outside France ; Jean-Paul Rouve had a small role - a postman - in A Very Long Engagement and in the film he made before this he was Edith Piaf's father in La Mome but neither role marked him out as a romantic lead and his features do nothing to help . Melanie Doutey on the other hand IS a looker and may best be described as an Auèdrey Tautou lookalike with backbone . In terms of story what can I tell you ; they meet , have a relationship , part and you don't need to know the rest except for some reason it's the second romantic comedy currently playing the salles in Paris where the ending takes place in Manhattan . If feel-good is your thing , go see ; you'll feel good . Trust me , I'm a play doctor .
Kids Tough	William Wellman - especially in his early sound films - excelled in telling stories economically thus packing a great deal into 7 or 8 reels . Here he even squanders a whole reel plus in establishing the leading characters as what in England would be called middle class before pulling the rug out from under them via the domino effect of the Great Depression . Grant Mitchell , who made a specialty of parenting - see , for example , Orchestra Wives / Ann Rutherford - is again quietly effective as the matriarch laid off in middle age , but it is Stanley Clements look-alike Frankie Darro who gets top billing as the Andy Hardy type teen who cuts out the Life Lessons from Judge Hardy and gets them instead from the horse's mouth as he takes to the road . This is very much in the Warner Bros ' straight from the headlines ' style and Wellman proves yet again how accomplished he was .
Get Carter	Those who read and enjoyed the novel Carter The Great will be predisposed to enjoy the prestige . I hesitate to employ the phrase ' rip-off ' but no one writes in a vacuum and the similarities between the novel and the film are akin to those that would obtain at a convention of Siamese Twins . Both are ' period ' works , Carter is set roughly eighty years ago , Prestige roughly one hundred ; both revolve around rival magicians - or ' illusionists ' - a rivalry so intense that even murder is countenanced ; in both novel and film a magician loses a wife ( in the film , as if anxious to avoid rip-off claims , each magician loses a wife , albeit the second one is a suicide ) . For that matter we could also be in David Mamet country , specifically the Mamet of The Spanish Prisoner . These cavils to one side The Prestige does entertain with solid performances - even the ubiquitous and over-hyped Scarlett Johannson turns in a half-decent performance and is certainly worth two hours of anyone's time .
The Sound And The Glory	It's a fact universally acknowledge that some writers work better with some directors than others and vice versa . Working separately director Marcel Carne made one great film ( Hotel du Nord ) , several decent films ( Therese Raquin , Julia ou le cle des songes ) and several ho-hum entries ; also working separately Jacques Prevert fared slightly better writing Le Crime de Monsieur Lange , Les Amants de Verone , Voyage Surprise , Un oiseau rare among other but TOGETHER they made seven of the most distinguished movies in French cinema and if you want me to list them you clearly stepped in here to get out of the rain , the Multiplex is three blocks down . Terry Rattigan worked best with Puffin Asquith and David Lean with Noel Coward yet here we have Lean directing a Rattigan screenplay . You can see Lean's thinking ; he didn't want to go through life riding on the coat-tails of Coward , what Rattigan didn't know about constructing a play could fit in an eye-dropper and still leave room for an eight-to-one martini , he'd served in the RAF during the war and had written one of the two finest British war films actually produced during the war , The Way To The Stars - the other was In Which We Serve , written , produced , starring and co-directed by Coward with Lean . On paper this was great , get some stats about supersonic flight , turn them over to Terry and let him flesh them out and humanise them . Mostly it's good but it COULD have been great - think Sinatra and Lawrence Welk ; put these two together and you'll get an album that neither has to be ashamed of but team Sinatra with Billy May , Gordon Jenkins , Nelson Riddle and we're talking Hall of Fame . So : We have a lyrical opening sequence in which a plane is ' stooging ' about over the channel with the cliffs of Dover prominent ; there's a carefree , buoyant , waltz-time feel that sets us up for the revelation that this is wartime . Pilot John Justin goes into a dive and when the plane begins to shudder he finds it difficult to throttle back , an experience he discusses with chum Nigel Patrick back on the aerodrome ; Patrick , however , is in love and not interested but the object of his affection , Ann Todd , just happens to be the daughter of a leading aircraft manufacturer , Ralph Richardson , who offers Patrick a job as test pilot after the war . Rattigan gets this over economically so that we can cut to the chase , which , in this case , is the quest for fire i . e . designing and building a plane capable of supersonic flight . In only his second film Denholm Elliott unveils the prototype for his series of weak , callow youths , in the role of Todd's kid brother who funks his first solo and winds up on the menu . Leslie Phillips , sans moustache gets twice as much screen-time as Elliott but is totally forgettable leaving the real acting to the big boys . Nigel Patrick had just come off Rattigan's The Browning Version - with Puffin Asquith at the helm - and played essentially the same role if schoolteachers were piloting jet planes or pilots were flying desks . Nigel Patrick was one of the old school stage actors , shoot cuffs first , ask anyone for tennis later and enhanced virtually every film in which he played . This is a film you want to like and mostly do if only . . .
Art Of Darkness	About the only thing I know about Armenia is that it gave the world William Saroyan , Ross Bagdavarian and Alvin And The Chipmunks . Now Marseilles born but , it turns out , Armeniian extracted Robert Guediguian has shot his latest movie there so that theoretically we get a chance to learn something about the place . Essentially this is our old friend Heart Of Darkness under another name and instead of Kurtz we have that superb actress Ariane Ascaride ostensibly searching for her father and journeying of course not just geographically but spiritually to respectively Armenia and her own soul . Long thought of as a filmmaker dealing exclusively with his home town Guediguian has also produced lighter fare such as Crustaces et Coquillages and here he takes yet another tack with a vehicle designed for and co-written by his wife supported by regular Gerard Meylan and Jean-Pierre Larroussin the latter albeit in a cameo prior to the journey . Once again Guediguian and Ascaride deliver despite the fact that this may not be everyone's cup of tea . Whichever way it's a welcome addition to the canon .
The Only Hand That Can Beat This . . .	. . . is a misdeal . Chabrol does it again . This time the colours tend more toward rich oil than the pastel water he invariably favours but maybe the rich stew of the plot dictated the palette . The basic premise is a mixture of The Postman Always Rings Twice / Double Indemnity and / or any of the rip-offs in which a young , virile wife is saddled with an older and / or sexually dormant husband , finds a young stud and what begins as healthy lust graduates to ' let's murder rich husband and spend his money ' . Chabrol merely uses this as a jumping-off point and is soon introducing more twists than a hairpin bend on that very Riviera that forms the setting ( St Tropez ) . The strongest factor is Romy Schneider as the wife and Chabrol has had the good taste to include her in virtually every scene . Rod Steiger as the husband plays Rod Steiger but that isn't necessarily bad but the weakest link is definitely Poalo Giusti , who has to be the most wooden actor since Laurence Harvey , as the stud cum assassin and for good measure Hitchcock buff Chabrol has thrown in a comic couple who clearly had their genesis in Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne in Hitch's The Lady Vanishes but are now transformed into a Greek Chorus of cops . You may not want to see it again for a decade or so but it's diverting enough for a couple of hours .
Dance In The Old Fashioned Way	SPOILERS SPOILERSThis is Leconte in his Francis Veber-Billy Wilder mode and no worse for that , indeed an early - and arguably the best - gag has Wilder written all over it . After one of the leisurely openings he favored at that time ( see also Tandem ) Leconte introduces Vincent Baradoc ( Richard Bohringer ) , a somewhat reckless driver , albeit he seems to be in a remote area of rural France . If we wonder why he is wearing a flying helmet we learn quickly that he is a pilot for , after driving to a small airfield he climbs into a small two-seater biplane , the kind with open cockpits , and ' buzzes ' his house where his wife , the gorgeous Michele Laroque , waves to him from an upstairs window and as we move closer we see that she is moving er . . . rhythmically ; she is , in fact , being ' serviced ' by her lover even as Bohringer ' skywrites ' her name above the house . This is the kind of gag that Wilder would have loved but would not have got away with in his prime but there's a topper . The next scene finds husband and wife at home with Bohringer letting us share his suspicions via some standard ' what did you do today while I was flying ' dialogue . In the next scene Laroque is again entertaining her lover but this time in the missionary position which still allows her to look out the window . All at once she stops what she is doing and advises her lover to take it on the Jesse Owens . When he asks why she replies ' That's not his writing , it's someone else up there ' . Okay , you had to be there but that is a pure Wilderian moment . Lover takes her at her word and drives off , only to be pursued by Bohringer and drive off the road terminally . Laroque is by now also driving away but Bohringer pursues her by air , drops a bouquet in front of her car asking her to meet him at the airfield . When she does he proclaims his love and offers her a spin to celebrate their anniversary . He straps her carefully into the front seat and once airborne announces he is going to loop the loop , adding that he has cut he harness so that at the top of the loop it will be goodbye , Charlie . In court an unseen judge ( whose voice we recognize as belonging to Phillipe Noiret ) pronounces him a free man . And this is where the story really starts . In a restaurant Noiret's nephew Paul ( Thierry Thermitte ) is busy seducing a young woman oblivious to his wife Marie ( Miou-Miou ) sitting behind him . He returns home to find her in , or rather on the marital bed , sitting astride a stranger and in yet another Wilder-Veber moment Vincent takes a seat beside the bed and discusses the situation with his wife . She is adamant that she is leaving him , gets up , pauses at the door to say to the stranger , ' goodbye , monsieur , sorry we didn't finish ' and powders . Paul tells his uncle what has transpired and they decide that as long as Marie is alive he will not feel free to pursue other women . This is where Vincent comes in for the judge puts it to him that unless he agrees to kill Marie the dual murder case will be reopened . And still we have barely started . The three take to the road and bond and dozens of verbal and sight gags follow before Noiret utters a last line that is only a notch behind ' nobody's perfect ' . Another of the joys - if you like French movies , that is - is seeing Miou-Miou , Carole Bouquet and Jean Roquefort , all unbilled , turning up for decent sized cameos for which they are thanked in the end credits . Road To Zanzibar it's not but Road To A Million Laffs it most certainly is .
Everything Stops ( Or It Should In This Case ) For Tea )	If you like 1 ) Nostalgia , 2 ) great acting , 3 ) loving period detail and 4 ) lavish location shooting then you can't not like this wallow in pre-war sentiment . If , on the other hand , you go wild , simple wild , for Multiplex fodder then you'll seriously wonder what is the point , in any , of this subtle , graceful charmer . No one is going to be bowled over to discover that Judi Dench , Joan Plowright and Maggie Smith are great actresses but many of us may have dismissed Lily Tomlin and Cher as lightweights before this . Judi Dench's husband , the late Michael Williams contributes one of his rare - and never less than excellent - screen performances as the English consul and Franco Zeffirelli directs this semi-autobiographical account of his early years with a sure touch . The film is something of a contradiction in terms in that despite the rise of fascism , the outbreak of war and it's conclusion , not much happens ; by that I mean that the movie is more interested in the small group of expats and the small , motherless boy , who plays a role in all their lives than the World stage . Can't really be praised enough .
Tchao , Tchao , Bambino	Little known outside France but beloved in it Coluche , like Bourvil ( of whom the same may be said ) excelled at comedy but was more than competent at drama as he demonstrates here . Those who know Claude Berrit mostly and / or if only for his international successes Jean de Florette and Manon des Source will perhaps be surprised at the radical change of milieu , from the sunny , well-lit and wide-open spaces of southern France to the dark , murky narrow enclosed world of demi-monde Paris small-time drug-dealers . Coluche is Lambert-no-last-name who is measuring out his life in the litres of gas he pumps as night man at a small filling station ; one night a young man of mixed blood , some of it Arab , wanders in to avoid the police - he has an endearing habit of stealing mopeds and motorbikes - and an unlikely bond is slowly forged between the two , easier to understand later with the disclosure that Lambert is an ex-cop whose teenage son died of an overdose . The kid ( Richard Anconia ) falls foul of his own dealer and gets it where the chicken got the axe and Lambert is moved to avenge him and is himself killed for his pains . Slow to gain momentum it slowly tightens its grip on the viewer and is well worth a look .
Les Acteurs or . . .	. . . Hawk Heaven for lovers of French cinema and by extension French Screen actors / actresses . At its worst it's an indulgence , actors getting to bitch about other actors , question the validity of acting as a profession at all , etc whilst at its best it's a glorious celebration / send-up of some of the finest actors currently working . From a simple premise - Jean-Pierre Marielle's request for water being ignored in a restaurant - Blier spins off in all directions and allows the cream of French cinema to strut their stuff before the camera even throwing in nods to those no longer around ( Jean Gabin , Lino Ventura ) including the Director's father , Bernard , one of the great stalwarts of French cinema , from whom he fields a celestial phone call at the end of the film . Discursive and prolix , yes , guilty as charged but also something of a guilty pleasure .
High Hat	For Wilder buffs - and what serious film fan isn't - his penultimate film is a referentialists dream . The setting , Corfu , is not a million miles from Ischia , the setting for Avanti and where Avanti boasted two stiffs Fedora boasts one in a literal sense and one in a symbolic sense . The casting of Bill Holden in the lead invites direct comparison with Sunset Boulevard where a young Holden ( Joe Gillis ) lucked into an ageing movie star by chance and exploited the situation to the full ; here , an older Holden ( Barry Detweiler ) contrives to get next to an ageing movie star who , he hopes , can rescue his flagging career . Wilder manages some pertinent barbs at the ' new ' schools and practitioners of film-making , makes some risible casting choices in minor roles - Ferdy Mayne , Michael York , Marte Keller - but generally pulls off another minor gem . Well worth a place in any Wilder DVD collection .
The Brightest Heaven Of Invention	Let me say at once that I find Olivier vastly overrated - if not actually INferior to his great contemporaries , John Gielgud , Ralph Richardson and Michael Redgrave , he was equally far from SUperior - as both a stage and film actor and if somehow he lucked into a self-perpetuating hype out of all proportion to his talent then so be it . Having said that this particular film is a very fine effort and if it is a bad second to THE great Shakespeare film adaptation , Orson's Chimes At Midnight , it IS second with all other Shakespeare adaptations orbiting uneasily in a different galaxy . But it is Olivier the director rather than the actor that scores here for he tells his story in a visually effective manner from the slow opening pan across London finally homing in on the Globe - a shot replicated in reverse at the end echoing the opening and closing of David Lean's adaptation of Coward's This Happy Breed - to the Brechtian device of reminding us that we are watching a play and are NOT part of the performance . It must have been that much more magical to see this on its initial release in 1944 when its propaganda content was that much more potent but even sixty years on with the colour now inevitably muted the lyricism of Shakespeare's verse has not lost a single pentameter . It's also tempting to play the reverse-oracle game and say I told-you-so in respect of 1 ) George Cole would turn out to be a fairly decent actor and 2 ) Jimmy Hanley would turn out to be a joke . In a fairly adept ensemble solo acting honours go to Bobby Newton who was born to play Ancient Pistol and shows Olivier what great acting is .
Dark Fair	It's strange to realize that Pierre Chenal was also responsible for Clochemerle , a farce about a public toilet that went down well in England where public toilets are anything but . He had also worked with Stroheim earlier in L'Alibi ( now available from Rene Château ) and indeed it may be argued that Stroheim did some of his best work in his ' French ' period in such movies as La Grande Illusion , Les Disparus de St Agil etc . This time around he's a disfigured banker turned forger in the cause of love . It is , of course , debatable whether an International banker would actually patronize a fair ground but assuming he would then he's all set to meet a beautiful girl who's also blind which may be just as well given that she earns a crust by allowing a kife-thrower to use her as a target - shades of La Fille sur le pont . Chenal is working on multi-levels here so that we get part fantasy , part poetic realism , part melodrama . Hardly believing his luck Stroheim marries the girl and that could have been the cue for a happy ending but we don't want to give you that , do we , so how about the girl recovers her sight and doesn't like what she sees ; at around the same time Stroheim is getting in over his head in the counterfeiting dodge and Chenal is stirring a heady brew . With something for everyone this is truly an undiscovered gem .
Danielle In The Lion Cub's Den	Danielle Darrieux was just 21 years old with 27 films behind her when she went to Hollywood for the first time . She or her connections chose well and she lights up the screen in this charming screwball comedy which cast her opposite Douglas Fairbanks Junior and Louis Hayward with outstanding comic support from Helen Broderick , Mischa Auer and Harry Davenport in a smaller but significant role . Screwball comedy did , of course , have its own rules and was not designed to stand up to scrutiny under a strong light but if we accept improbabilities as gospel then this is one of the most deft examples of the genre and a personal triumph for Darrieux who proved she could carry a Hollywood movie as well as she could a French - and in that same year she shot Abuse de Confiance with her then husband Henri Decoin ( the third of nine films they would make together both during and after their marriage ) . At 21 she had still to develop from the delightful ingenue to the fine dramatic actress she became ; in France she churned out stuff like this by the yard , all of the highest quality and in her first At Bat in Hollywood she showed non-French moviegoers just what they had been missing . A near-great movie . Catch it if you can .
Dead Meat-Cute	Perhaps the highest praise one can heap on this film is that despite it being obvious what is going to happen within the first twenty minutes we still keep watching with silly smiles on our faces basking in the warmth of Wilder's genius and licking the cream of his jests off our metaphorical whiskers . Wilder was , of course , a master of the meet-cute and one could even argue that he had a childlike preoccupation with them unless , of course , you appreciate the thought that goes into them . Some filmmaker's careers - notably Orson Welles - are littered with unrealized projects , Wilder left a list of unrealized meet-cutes behind him like the two psychiatrists who both send their couches out for reupholstering and guess what . . . This time around the protagonists rather than meeting over a couple of stiff drinks do so over a couple of stiffs ; his ( Jack Lemmon ) father and her ( Juliet Mills ) mother who have enjoyed a same-time-next-year extra marital fling for the last ten years on the photogenic island of Ischia and might be doing so still had their car not run off the road . We learn this relatively quickly which was what I meant about knowing how it's going to pan out from reel # 1 . The trick is , of course , to start with a pair of antagonists and watch and wait for them to realize what we've known all along . The Italian setting is apposite because this kind of love-hate thing arguably began with Beatrice and Benedek who might , also arguably , have had a better scriptwriter than Wilder and Izzy Diamond ; on the other hand . . . The film is replete with Wilder ' touches ' such as the official in the morgue meticulously arranging forms , stamps and pads or the nonogenarian dancing with his young nurses - and recalling Lemmon himself dancing with ' senior citizen ' Joe E . Brown in Wilder's Some Like It Hot . Music was a great love of Wilder's life and whilst very few of his films are totally music free in others it plays a significant part - think of , in no particular order , Love In The Afternoon , Sabrina Fair , One , Two , Three , etc - and here he uses a background of evocative ' mood ' music notably the lovely Senza Fine which does double duty translating as it does to ' without end ' . Wilder has again turned for his source material to a play by Samuel Taylor who also wrote Sabrina and again Taylor has conceived a soufflé , the epitome of Romantic Comedy that is only enhanced by Wilder's mordant wit . It may be late-blooming Wilder but the bloom is definitely on this rose . One to cherish .
Chamber Of Horrors	World War One has been enjoying something of a vogue recently and not least in French Cinema , which on balance is currently the best in the world . Only a couple of years ago we had the superb Les Ames Grises and a couple of years before that Francois Dupeyron adapted a best-selling novel into this wonderful movie . Following a brief scene-setting sequence in which the leading man , Eric Caravaca , is shown to be flawed , he is badly wounded whilst on a recce to find a suitable spot to build a bridge . The ordinariness of this - as opposed to wounds sustained in actual combat - serves to accentuate his terrible facial injuries which are so bad that for the next hour of screen time we see only the reactions of others rather than a head-on shot of his face . The pace is slow , stately even and none the worse for that although they'll give it short shrift in the Multiplexes , and Dupeyron succeeds in drawing us in to this singular world where eventually Caravaca is joined by three other officers with similar wounds . The acting is beyond praise but then so it should be with actors of the caliber of Sabine Azema , Andre Dussollier , Denis Podalydes and relative newcomer Gregoire Derangere who has since done sterling work in Bon Voyage , L'Equippier and Le Passagere d'Ete . As anti-war statements go this belongs right alongside La Grande Illusion , Paths Of Glory , All Quiet On The Western Front , in other words , amongst the cream .
The Bad Shepperd	Ophuls plants a bold visual clue at the very beginning of this masterpiece that alerts us to the fact that things are not always what they seem ; as a narrator's voice-over sets the scene , Balboa , a small town 50 miles from Los Angeles , Joan Bennett emerges in a HEAVY WOOLLEN TOPCOAT and gets in her car to drive to Los Angeles for a rendez-vous with the ' older ' man who has been dating her teen-age daughter . You don't wear this kind of clothing even in Winter in Southern California and Bennett's son is invariably naked to the waist out of doors and when top-billed James Mason appears - after half an hour of a 79 minute film - he too is attired in a topcoat . The older man is played by Shepperd Strudwick , a competent journeyman actor on both stage and screen and one who could do solid , dependable family men as well as smooth con men as he does here . Inside two reels Strudwick is dead and Bennett's daughter is looking good for a murder rap but this is a Max Ophuls film - it was , in fact , the last of his Hollywood films and followed closely on the heels of Letter From An Unknown Woman and Caught . European directors had a penchant for making ' noir ' films set in daylight and out of doors and around the same time Jacques Tourneur made Out Of The Past set largely in Northern rather than Southern California ; I wouldn't like to choose between them but The Reckless Moment is a tad more cerebral and Ophuls ' celebrated fluid camera is on hand to help the story along . The main thrust has Mason's blackmailer being smitten by Bennett and ultimately crossing his ' partner ' and paying the price but with Ophuls it's not so much the story but the technique and this is a gem .
What Price Class	Alexandra Leclere is clearly going to become yet another French female director to reckon with ; she followed the Short Bouche a bouche with the full-length Les Soeurs fachees for which she secured the services of Isabelle Huppert , Catherine Frot and Francois Berleand and did them all proud with a fine light comedy . For her second full-length entry she has cast Nathalie Baye and Christian Clavier - who knows a thing or two about writing and directing himself if anyone asks you - as an affluent husband and wife , complemented by Gerard Lanvin and Geraldine Pailhas as their working-class - Lanvin is Clavier's chauffeur , Pailhas a shop assistant - counterparts . It turns out that both husbands have the same problem ; neither is getting any . Clavier's immediate solution is to withdraw Baye's Gold Credit Card but all that buys him is a reluctant statue . The two men bond after a fashion and Clavier moves into the front seat , takes Lanvin to five-star restaurants for lunch and invites the chauffeur and his wife to dinner without informing Baye . There's a lot of product placement going on which helps enhance the values that Baye lives by ( sorry about that ) ; Ferragamo and Dior are both shown via their bags and also the establishments whilst Pailhas is a salesperson at Galleries Lafeyette - when Baye is browsing there Pailhas accosts her and they play a long scene outside a sign saying Galleries Lafzyette Staff Entrance whilst for good measure Pailhas has the store's logo on her uniform . Another fine actor , Patrick Chesnais also turns up around the middle as ' other man ' material for Baye and it all ends happily as films of this sort should do . A worthy successor to Les Soeurs fachees and highly recommend .
Into The Woods	For a man whose first love was the theatre - where he distinguished himself as both actor and director especially in the works of Jean Giradoux - and who only took on film roles to bankroll his theatre company Louis Jouvet appeared in some pretty classy movies not least Un Carnet du bal , La Kermesse Heroique , Drole de Drame , La Fin du jour , Quai des Orfevres not forgetting Hotel du Nord where he and Arletty , in what were intended as supporting roles , completely outclassed the nominal leads Anabella and Jean-Pierre Aumont . Jouvet appeared twice for director Henri Decoin , one of the best-kept secrets of French cinema who also had the great fortune to be married for six years ( 1935-41 ) to Danielle Darrieux , with whom he made the classic Battement de coeur , in Entre onze heures et minuit and this wonderful low-key entry a sort of Intermezzo with a French accent written by the great Henri Jeanson . Jouvet , who seemed to have been born middle-aged , plays a renowned composer deeply in love with his wife who ' discovers ' a gifted young pianist and grooms her for the concert stage . In time the ' usual ' rumors begin to circulate and his wife takes them seriously enough to make for a tragic ending . Decoin liked to shoot in the classical style ; master-shot , medium shot , close shot , two-shot , three-shot , Reverse angle etc but he was also capable , as here , of fluid montage carried entirely by the voice-overs of Jouvet and his wife . There's a charming Prologue - and bittersweet Epilogue - set in an inn deep in the forest . In the Prologue , Jouvet , who is completely unknown to the guests at a local wedding , is prevailed upon to play ' pop ' and folk tunes on the piano , after which a hat is passed round . The Prologue has overtones of ' enchanted ' forest , the sort of place that Shakespeare liked to ship his characters to enjoy a break from the everyday world , a place , in fact , where a prestigious composer can play pub pianist and let his hair down for a magic moment or two . In the Epilogue however all bets are off and in a closing shot that echoes Casablanca , Jouvet and friend walk off into a forest no longer enchanted which swallows them up . Not a masterpiece but a charming forgotten gem .
The Crain Is Flying	Thanks to Fox celebrating its 70th anniversary by issuing many of its 40s / 50s titles on DVD it's now possible to build up a reasonable library of what is undoubtedly the cream of writer-director Joseph L . Mankiewicz including this gem which is often overlooked . It's doubtful if No Way Out will make it to DVD in this ridiculous PC era but Five Fingers would certainly be welcome . Mank's tragedy was to write and direct two all-time classics - A Letter To Three Wives and All About Eve back to back so that other titles such as Dragnonwck tend to be brushed aside . Here he takes as his jumping-off point a little-known German play and wearing his Rumpelstiltskin hat weaves it into a hugely enjoyable movie which can - and probably will be - read on many levels . In retrospect the central premise - Hume Cronyn's envy of his much more successful , loved and respected colleague ( Grant ) which leads him to ' investigate ' Grant's background which culminate's in a ' hearing ' which could lead to dismissal - is ridiculous but crucially it centres on Grant's past , long before he was employed by the university and equally crucially the film was made in 1951 when HUAC was also ' investigating ' the collective pasts of several people who had gone on to distinguish themselves mostly in the Arts and , like Grant's Praetorius , earn the love and respect of others . The film is packed with wonderful cameos beginning with Margaret Hamilton and taking in Will Wright . Walter Slezak and Sydney Blackmer also weigh in with sterling support and even Jeanne Crain , Mank's bete noir , manages not to disgrace herself . This is an asset to any DVD library and is one to watch at regular intervals .
Sister Act	It's almost inevitable that some smart-ass is going to dismiss this as Rain Man with tits and equally inevitably the remainder of his / her comment can safely be ignored on the grounds that he / she knows as much about film , life , the human condition as George Doublya knows about nuclear physics . In a remarkably short space of time , some 75 minutes in the DVD version , director Lieven Debrauwer sets the scene , a small town in Belgium , and the back story of four sixty-something sisters , Martha ( Julienne De Bruyn ) who has taken it upon herself to provide both a home and tlc for Pauline ( Dora van der Groen ) who is described as a 66 year old child given that she is retarded ; a third sister Cecile ( Rosemarie Bergmans ) has long since quit the small town for Brussells where she lives with her latest boyfriend whilst the fourth , Paulette ( Ann Petersen ) runs a ladie's haberdashery in the town . Whenever she is sent by Martha to the local butchers Pauline is unable to refrain from calling in to Paulette's shop and invariably embarrassing her . Barely has this been established than Martha dies leaving the problem of what to do with Pauline . Clearly a student of human nature or maybe just knowing her sisters too well Martha leaves a will that divides her home and money equally between Cecile and Paulette with the proviso they look after Pauline , alternatively they can institutionalize Pauline in which case she , Pauline , gets everything . We could have the makings of a mini King Lear here with Pauline being ejected from each cruel sister in turn but instead we get a rich , warm , comedy drama about love and families . Highly recommended .
Seems Two Into One DOES Go	In musical terms this is , in many ways , two separate films ; in one we have Doris Day singing the kind of sunny , feel-good songs she was recording successfully at that time - the mid fifties - and in the second we have Sinatra singing songs for Adults - with one exception ' standards ' - as only he can . The story itself is , of course , our old friend the catalyst or what happens when an outsider is obliged by circumstances to join , usually temporarily , an existing social fabric and test its tolerance . In some ways this is a remarkably accurate musical version of Fannie Hurst's old potboiler ' Four Daughters ' which back in 1938 introduced John Garfield to Hollywood . Fresh from the Group Theatre and weaned on Clifford Odets ' machine-gun vitriolic dialogue Garfield had much the same impact on Hollywood and moviegoers as his character did on the all-American family headed by Claude Rains . For the remake Warners dropped one of the daughters , switched the locale to New England and turned Sinatra loose on father Alan Keith , aunt Ethel Barrymore and sisters Doris Day , Elisabeth Fraser and Dorothy Malone . If you watch Four Daughters immediately before Young At Heart you will hear that much of the dialogue - especially that originally spoken by Garfield - has been retained . Okay , it's a meller through and through but all hands are on the top of their game and Sinatra has seldom sung better on screen . The fact that he doesn't appear for a good half hour merely adds to the feeling of two separate films because we've had that half hour to adjust to the ' homeliness ' of the Tuttles and Doris Day has laid most of her ' cute ' songs on us so that the whole effect is to lull us into cosy expectation of a ' nice ' movie and then Sinatra explodes into the frame and hijacks the movie . This is one to see again and again .
ForEVER Gonna Dance	There are three strong contenders for the best Astaire-Rogers film ( excluding the Barkleys of Broadway ) of the nine they made at RKO , Top Hat , Shall We Dance and this one which may just have the edge . The success of Top Hat the previous year led to a similar approach - Helen Broderick was again on hand to dole out the wisecracks , Astaire had another comic sidekick , Victor Moore depping for Edward Everett Horton ( he even has the first name Everett though is known as Pops ) , Eric Blore appears in the first couple of reels and lays a handful of his slow burns on us and a Latino-flavored love rival for Astaire , this time around George Metaxa instead of Erik Rhodes . The script also is a tad - no more than that - more credible than the others but ultimately it's all about the singing and dancing and this score is again just a little more varied than the others from the feelgood Pick Yourself Up through the romantic ballad The Way You Look Tonight to the best number in the score the dark Never Gonna Dance . Rogers could barely carry a tune and her voice lacked timbre but she was always given at least one number and here she is heard on Pick Yourself Up and A Fine Romance whilst Fred , as befits one for whom all the Great Songwriters lined up to have him sing their songs , gets the lion's share of vocals and turns in unforgettable readings of Bojangles , The Way You Look Tonight and the standout Never Gonna Dance , an erroneous title if ever there was one for this duo is forever gonna dance in our hearts and memories .
The ( Folk ) Lore Is An Ass	This is at once ravishing , enchanting and sumptuous , a fairytale told the way fairy tales should be told with a cast of heavy-hitters led by Catherine Deneuve and featuring Jean Marais , Micheline Presle , Jaques Perrin and Delphine Seyrig . To those who only know him as the top-and-tale narrator of both Cinema Paradiso and Les Choristes Perrin will be a revelation as a handsome leading man , a genuine Prince Charming as called for . As a lyricist Demy made a great director but one can't have everything and banal lyrics are a small price to pay for a gem like this which cleverly contrasts the fabulist setting of the castle - looking strangely like the one in Les Visiteurs du soir - with the Breughel-like crowds in the second kingdom where Deneuve finds work as a scullion . One to own on DVD .
Golden Baule	This was the fifth of the nine films Diane Kurys has so far directed and the third of three ( Diabolo Menthe , Coup de Foudre being the others ) that deal with her own experiences in childhood and adolescence . In the second film , Coup de Foudre , the character based on Kury's own mother and fictionalised as Lena was played by Isabelle Huppert whilst here Nathalie Baye assumes the role opposite Richard Berry as husband / father Michel . The action has moved on from the war and post-war years in Lyon ( Kury's own home town ) to the late 1950s when thirteen year old Frederique ( Julie Bataille ) , the closest character to the young Kurys herself and her eight year old sister Sophie are taken by their Nanny Odette ( Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi ) to the seaside for the summer vacation . A pre-credit sequence reveals to us the gulf ( explored first in Coup de Foudre ) that now exists between the parents and which the sisters are perhaps subconsciously aware . At the last minute - literally at the railway station itself - they realize that Lena will not accompany them . Once established at the resort they take out their frustration on Odette as a ploy to force their mother to join them but when she does so she spends more time with a lover Claude ( Vincent Lindon ) than with them . Also on hand are Leon ( Jean-Pierre Bacri and the highly fertile Bella ( Zabou ) and when Michel shows up he deliberately destroys the car that symbolised Lena's independence and engages in a verbal and physical quarrel with Lena that is so intense that Frederique threatens to kill herself with a shard of glass broken during their fighting . This is an outstanding film in which the pain of adolescence is once-removed through the filter of nostalgia and replete with the tiny ' touches ' - popular songs of the day , etc - that we use as signposts to lead us back into the past . Fifteen years on it's fascinating to see the younger versions of six exceptional French actors two of whom ( Zabou with Se Souvenirs des belles chooses , and Bruni-Tedeschi with Il est plus facile pour un chameau . . . ) would go on to direct outstanding films themselves . I can't recommend this one highly enough .
The Spy Who Loved Me	First off I haven't seen the Hollywood remake nor have I any plans to do so ; for one thing Arnie's kind of movie is not my kind and for another you're never going to get me to believe that Arnie is as good an actor as Thierry Thermitte , actually you're not going to get me to believe Arnie is an actor period . Okay , they gave Claude Zidi a writer credit and apparently used a good 70 to 80 per cent of La Totale in True Lies but the central premise requires an actor who can convince as an average Joe , a Jack Lemmon say , and Arnie tips his glove from Frame # 1 whilst Thierry Thermitte is right on the money . The main thrust of the plot is vintage Billy Wilder and it may be that Zidi came across it in Wilder's waste basket after he rejected it . Thermitte is excellent as the Caspar Milquetoast who is really an Agent and Miou-Miou is equally good as the wife who finds him so dull she entertains thoughts of an affair with a used-car salesman who PRETENDS to be an agent . Great dialogue , great performances , forget True Lies and check this one out .
Madness In Great Ones . . .	. . . should not unwatched go . Shakespeare came up with that line some 400 years ago yet he might have been referring to Isabelle Carre's tour de force in this movie . Carre IS without doubt a Great actress and seems to have made a speciality out of sickness ; her portrait of a young woman stricken with Alzheimer's in Zabou Breitman's Se Souvenirs des belles choses was unforgettable and it would have been unthinkable had any other actress copped the Best Actress Cesar that year . In Anna M she does it again but this time without the self-awareness of her character in Se Souvenirs . Okay , we can't drag the story into a strong light less the flaws hit us in the face - for example a woman like Anna would never in a million years secure a job as a nanny to two young girls seemingly without a single reference and based on a five minute interview , nor would a locksmith be prepared to break into an apartment on the say so of a barely plausible young woman claiming to live there . We're prepared to overlook this sloppy writing solely because the performance of Carre IS so towering , so majestic . We know that Americans don't do irony but can we , I wonder , say as much for the French ; in A la folle . . . pas de tout Isabelle Carre played the wife of doctor Samuel L Bihan who was stalked by a deranged Audrey Tautou , convinced he was in love with her ; in Anna M Carre plays the stalker and Anne Consigny has Carre's old role as doctor Gilbert Melki's innocent wife . The films even share a final moment when in each case the seemingly ' cured ' leading lady shows the audience that this is far from the case . Tautou is , of course , a fine actress but Carre is a Great one who gives a performance here , only the sloppy plotting mentioned above drags the rating to .
Oh , What A Tangled Webb . . .	This is arguably Otto Preminger's finest hour albeit he inherited the project from Rouben Mamoulian . In my case the jury's still out on whether or not it was wise to jettison the several points of view that Vera Caspary employed in her novel but so long as we're stuck with a more or less straight-ahead narrative structure this example is as good as any with the necessary flashback element - to introduce us to Laura as she was in life - being placed up front where it will do the most good . With little to do other than look hauntingly enigmatic Gene Tierney scores heavily in the eponymous role and probably never equalled it again despite several notable At Bats . Dana Andrews has Mark McPherson down to a fare-thee-well and even well-know lesbian Judith Anderson almost convinces as Laura's love rival for Shelby Carpenter , Vincent Price . David Raksin's score , not least that stand-out theme has become undoubtedly as well-known as the film and those who know it only via the brilliant lyric supplied by Johnny Mercer after the film was in release and packing them in will be pleasantly surprised and maybe even a tad disconcerted by the pace at which it is first laid on us . This was shown on TV earlier today and it holds up remarkably well .
The Right Note	This is a prime candidate for They - Don't - Make - Them - Like - That - Anymore nostalgists with several key ingredients present and accounted for ; it was released in 1940 , as close to the heart of the ' Golden Age ' of Hollywood as makes no difference ; it top-billed Bette Davis at the height of her fame and with not one but Two Oscars under her belt ; it featured an exotic location - okay , it was shot on the Sound Stages and Backlot at Warners , but they specialized in creating illusions of exotica , remember Casablanca ? ; it was helmed by one Willie ( Wyler ) and adapted from the canon of another ( Maugham ) and it was a melodrama in the best sense of the word . Wyler sets the mood impeccably letting his camera explore the humid tropical night that could be anywhere South of Pago Pago then nailing it specifically with a shot of a rubber tree dripping its liquid gold into an applicable container . This image is more subtle than you might suppose because it is a visualisation of the first line of Cole Porter's great hymn to obsessive love ' like the drip , drip , drip of the raindrops . . . ' ( Night And Day ) and it leads us into a story of obsessive love whose strength is that nowhere are we SHOWN this affliction ; where most movies would begin as this one does with Leslie Crosbie ( Bette Davis ) emptying all six chambers into a guy who was dead after the first shot and THEN treat us to a flashback showing just what led Davis to that ultimate step , here Wyler is content to let us IMAGINE the one-sided passion between Crosbie and Geoffrey Hammond . This is a world that Maugham made his own , where English expats feel naked in the tropics unless attired in full evening dress with a Pink Gin welded on to their hand . Poor Bart Marshall didn't fare too well with Davis ; he was her ( literal ) long-suffering husband in Wyler's The Little Foxes and here he is the poor sap who she's been cuckolding - ironically , in a previous ( 1929 ) version of the same story Marshall played the victim , Geoffrey Hammond . On paper the acting honors should be Davis's by divine right but here she's given a run for her money by James Stephenson - who made only three more films , released the following year , before dying prematurely - and Gale Sondergaard who has the cards stacked against her by speaking only Malay and Chinese and is forced to rely on her face and eyes which luckily are the most expressive on display . Trivia buffs will relish the names Robert ( Marshall ) and Leslie ( Davis ) Crosbie though to be fair Leslie Townes ( Bob ) Hope had made only one ' Road ' picture with Bing Crosby the previous year yet ironically it was The Road To SINGAPORE , and equally not too many people would have been aware of Bing's younger brother Bob ( Robert ) Crosby who led his own band . This is Davis at her considerable best and is a must-see .
Son Of A Gun	Overall the Cesars get it right in terms of Best Film and if they occasionally make a complete dog's breakfast of it - as they did with L'Esquive - they have a large backlog of rewarding films as fine as this one . Robert Enrico dealt with War memorably in Au Coeur de la vie and here he does so again ; different war , age-old tragedies . Superficially this comes under the ' last straw that broke the camel's back ' heading crossed with what may be described as the Destry Rides Again syndrome , the protagonist finally driven to take up the gun once cast aside . Enrico begins with an idyllic sequence as the Dandieu family complete with dog cycle through a countryside in which God is in his heaven and all's right with the world . The image freezes and a caption supplies the date : 1944 . We then meet the family again in wartime ; Julien ( Phillipe Noiret ) , Clara ( Romy Schneider ) and young daughter Florence . Even in wartime this is a HAPPY family and unprepossessing men everywhere are thinking they could do with a drop-dead gorgeous wife like Schneider whilst kids in the wake of mild chastisement wish they could belong to a family like THAT . Indeed Julien is so laid-back he makes Bing Crosby seem riddled with tension and the film hinges on what makes this worm turn . With the Germans advancing Julien prevails upon a friend to drive wife , daughter and dog to a country retreat he owns in a fairly isolated spot . When he gets a minute he drives up there himself just in time to see his daughter shot and his wife incinerated by a flame-thrower making a full set of dead villagers . This , of course , is when he feels the need for revenge and so breaks out his old hunting rifle . This is where we may wonder why it has taken so much to rouse this peaceful man ; it is , after all , 1944 , the fifth year of a world war and one in which France has been occupied for most of it ; surely even as a civilian he has seen sufficient horrors and as a surgeon has dealt with them at first hand . The next question we find ourselves asking is why he is content to go up against men armed with pistols , rifles , machine guns , grenades and flame-throwers with only a shotgun rather than picking off one man and appropriating his weaponry . If we don't dwell on these logical questions it is because the performances are so compelling as is Enrico's narrative style which switches back and forth in time but not necessarily chronologically and keeps well in reserve such relevations as the fact that Schneider already had the daughter when she met Noiret and was well aware of his plainness . This is nothing short of superb ; beautifully written , directed and acted , and more than worthy of its Best Film Cesar .
And God Created Arletty	For reasons largely involving elitism , snobbery and a deeply-rooted belief amongst academics that Craftsmanship , Accessibility and Entertainment are negative qualities plus a childlike faith that New equals Better the name of Roger Richebe has been unjustly neglected . On the other hand the ordinary film fan who wouldn't know a diegesis from a mimetic if one or both walked up and bit him in the ass but does know what he likes has no quarrel with the professionalism of Richebe and actually responds favourably to Richebe's movies when and if given the chance . By 1941 Arletty had appeared in some 32 movies most of which - Fric Frac , La Chaleur du sein - were immensely popular and two of which - Hotel du Nord , Le Jour se leve - were undisputed classics so presumably she had sufficient clout to reject a director she thought incompetent and select one for whom she had respect so the fact that Roger Richebe was on bullhorn for Madame Sans-Gene speaks volumes . Dating back to the turn of the century Victorien Sardou's warhorse is a play which continues to fascinate French actresses well into the 21st century being in some ways a French equivalent of A Streetcar Named Desire inasmuch as its leading role is seen as a yardstick to distinguish actresses from stars . As someone once might have said Cometh The Role , Cometh The Actress and here Arletty and Catherine are one . Richebe masterfully runs the directorial gamut from excellent crowd scenes - including a walk through a crowded street that would be echoed by Arletty / Garance four years later in Les Enfants du Paradis - sumptuous balls , to small intimate scenes with no more than two actors and for good measure throws in a lyrical carriage ride in the Bois . In other films Arletty had sometimes appeared austere and stiffly formal but here Richebe allows his camera to caress her face like a lover and coax forth all her warmth , charm and humour indeed had it not already been used two years earlier in connection with Garbo this film could have been sold with the tag : Arletty Laughs . For any Arletty fan this represents not so much a feat as a banquet to be initially devoured and then savoured .
Design For Leaving	The winning two-men-one-woman formula has been around a long time . Three quarters of a century ago Noel Coward wrote Design For Living as a stage vehicle for himself and the Lunts and it reached the screen soon afterwards albeit greatly rewritten by Ben Hecht and directed by Ernst Lubitsch . MGM got lots of mileage out of the format in such titles as San Francisco , Boom Town and Test Pilot , all pairing Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy with respectively Jeanette MacDonald , Claudette Colbert and Myrna Loy . One of the tricks , of course , is to put spin on it so that in San Francisco Tracey played a priest therefore not a serious sexual rival for MacDonald ; about five years ago Patrice Lecomte gave the formula an airing in Une Chance sur deux and his twist was to have the female - in this case the dreaded Vanessa Paradis - trying to decide which of two middle aged men , Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo , was her biological father and involving both in some heavy duty mayhem with the Russian mafia . Les Aventuriers features a younger Delon this time around teamed with Lino Ventura with Joanna Shimkus forming the third link . I have to confess that this one passed me by until I was alerted to it by a French friend who went one better by supplying a DVD . I've now watched it and read most of the comments here , including a perceptive one as lyrical as the movie itself from another friend , Galina . I can only endorse everything that's been said here . This is simply a Stunning and Beautiful film celebrating friendship and children playing at being grown-ups . All three principals are outstanding as is Serge Reggiani who has a supporting role . One of the film's strengths is its refusal to take what is essentially a fairy story to its happy-ever-after logical conclusion and illustrate the heavy price tag that comes with being eternally young at heart and refusing to grow up . A wonderful antidote to the New Wavelet and a reminder that movies were conceived to bring joy and pleasure to the masses rather than ego trips for wanna-be academics .
Here Be Dragons	This is as fine an illustration of the saying be careful what you wish for . . . as any I can think of . Bruno , the eight-year old protagonist , wishes to be an explorer and explore he does albeit without being totally aware that that's what he's doing . I did have a problem with Bruno's Jewish counterpart , Smuel , being able to spend almost unlimited time at the perimeter fence of the Camp ( unnamed but apparently Auschwitz ) chatting to Bruno on the other side but I accept that for the story to work - essentially we are seeing a microcosm of the holocaust through the innocent eyes of an Aryan child - there had to be a way to bring the two boys together long enough to compare tattoos . Okay , it may be simplistic and a tad pat but its heart is in the right place and it is acted superbly not least by the American actress Vera Famigla as the mother . Try not to miss it .
A Touch Of Class	It seems that once again all the superlatives have been exhausted while I was out watching lesser fare - I have seen this one a few years ago but I make it a rule not to rely on my memory and post a comment only when I acquire a DVD and / or catch a given title on TV or at a Revival house . At first this feels like Kane Revisited with Joseph Cotton , Harry Shannon , Gus Schilling and Ray Collins all turning up albeit uncredited - Cotton , Schilling - in the wake of that classic opening . The maestro himself is unrecognizeable and seems to delight in coming on like a giant toad squatting on a soiled lily pad in the centre of a swamp . Most of the Welles schtick is on display from the brooding camera work to the low-angles and overlapping dialogue he pioneered in Kane and he even manages to extract a half-decent performance out of Cardboard Cutout Chuck Heston , which is quite a trick if anyone asks you . At heart , of course , it's a Doris Day movie with corruption , extortion and betrayal all on the menu . Nobody does it like Welles and we shan't see his like again .
Diamond Is A Boys ' Best Friend	This is a gem that stands up to repeated viewings . It manages to blend the sleazy , small-time world of fringe lounges , clubs with the affluent Resort Hotels seamlessly . Jeff Bridges plays his role not unlike a down-at-heels private eye - think Paul Newman in Harper , for example - while real-life brother Beau contrives to be pompous and nerdish at one and the same time . The score is typical of the sort of music you hear in cocktail lounges and realistic , as is the mood of Jeff Bridges who hankers to dispense with schmaltz and play cool jazz . Add catalyst Michelle Pfeiffer and we're talking near perfect . Definitely stands up to repeat viewings .
Bullseye	As black comedies go this is right out of the top drawer . A year before ( 1972 ) Michael Winner's ' The Mechanic ' featured a hit-man , Charles Bronson , who takes on an apprentice but that movie played it straight as opposed to this one in which ace hit-man Victor Meynard ( Jean Rochefort ) decides to teach a delivery boy , Antoine ( Guillaume Depardieu ) the tricks of the trade rather than kill him when he is a witness to Meynard's latest hit . Simultaneously flimmer Renee Dandrieux ( Marie Trintignant ) is conning the mob out of nine hundred thou and when she pulls it off Meynard is given the contract to take her out . Had he done so there would have been no movie or else it would have been a different one altogether so the three of them go on the lam and hole out in the Meynard family seat where they are finally discovered by Dremyan ( Charlie Nelson ) , the second-best hit-man currently working . Writer-director Pierre Salvadori has come up with the delicious concept of a family of hit men - one of the most droll moments occurs when Victor , having cooked a roast and set it down on the table produces not a carving knife but a garotte which arguably does the job better . When Renee enquires where he acquired such an implement he replies dryly ' a present from my mother ' . Mother , in the shape of Patachou is quite a dab hand herself , equally at home with gun , knife , or poison and there's a nice dark gray tagline involving the now-married Rochefort-Trintignant's infant and a missing family cat . A notable addition to the genre .
Carolina Moan	I took delivery at an early age of a healthy dose of cynicism and as I grew older and saw more and more movies I added a strong wariness of and aversion to the over-hype all of which makes it more refreshing and satisfying to discover a movie that fully justifies both its hype and word-of-mouth . There's nothing new , of course , in the basic premise which , in this case , is our old friend the catalyst whose arrival in a small community is equated with an anthropologist disturbing a rock and exposing the lives beneath it to a strong dose of daylight . As a student of irony I relished the fact that in many ways this is a ' New Wave ' type of film - shot on location on a stick of gum budget with mostly un or little-known actors - that embraces all the techniques - dissolves , fade outs / fade ins - condemned by Truffaut and the other pseuds at Cahiers du Cinema as old hat or cinema du papa . Writer Angus MacLachan and director Phil Morrison are either Chekhov devotees or else have absorbed a Chekhovian ' feel ' by osmosis telling their tale in long , leisurely set ups punctuated by equally leisurely Dissolves and / or Fades . Scott Wilson might be playing the namesake he played in The Great Gatsby but thirty years older and he , in fact , is the only actor in an exceptionally fine cast that I actually recognized . Amy Ashley has rightly seized on a gem of a role as the very pregnant Ashley and parlayed it into a Best-Supporting Actress contender and winner if there's any justice but this shouldn't detract from the outstanding contributions from Wilson , Celia Weston as Peg , the matriarch , Benjamin McKenzie as the sullen brother , Johnny , Embeth Davidtz as Madeline , the catalyst among the pigeons and Alessandro Nivola as George , the one who got away and like Eliza Doolittle now doesn't quite belong in his native home in NC nor in his adopted Chicago . It is , of course , quite possible that a second viewing may disappoint but then it will have to live up to the initial viewing .
Devil's Claw	Trivia buffs may like to note that even as Maurice Tourneur was shooting this Gothic tale for Continental in Paris his son Jacques was shooting Cat People in Hollywood . This is a very superior piece of Gothic if anybody asks you ; it bows to convention insofar as in a lonely inn subject to power failure a stranger narrates the story of how he , as a struggling artist was persuaded to ' buy ' for peanuts a ' talisman ' in the shape of a severed human left hand from a restauranteur . Of course his fortunes did improve dramatically and equally inevitably the piper came round one day to collect the payment for calling the tune . In a masterstroke the ' devil ' takes the shape of a Caspar Milquetoast , a bowler-hatted bailiff who informs our hero that the ' price ' doubles every day he keeps the hand . Naturally his mistress chooses that moment to take it on the Jesse Owens with his savings leaving him to face a mounting bill . In a second masterstroke the artist ( Pierre Fresnay ) comes face to face with previous ' owners ' of the hand , beginning with a monk who declined to use his artistic talent for the good of God . Our artist finds that he must stump up - if you'll forgive the expression - the collective tab for all of these previous owners . Made under German occupation it would not have been hard in 1943 to locate a hidden ' message ' here but sixty years on it still works as a psychological horror story . Excellent .
Wolf In Ship's Clothing	Seasoned film buffs will hardly need reminding that both Robert Siodmak and Billy Wilder worked on Menshen am Sonntag in Germany but it may be useful to remind ourselves that both arrived in Hollywood via France and both of them directed at least one exceptional film there ; in Wilder's case it was Mauvaise Graine which was , as it turned out , his only French film whilst Siodmak made several but would have had his work cut out to improve on this terrific effort which reunited him with Eugen Shufften and for good measure had sets by Sandy Trauner and Pierre Prevert as Assistant Director . Non-French film buffs tend to think that in terms of leading men in thirties French cinema there was Jean Gabin and then all the rest whereas in truth Raimu was Gabin's equal as an actor but didn't take on the flashy ' outsider ' roles in which Gabin specialized and as a rule neither did Harry Baur , another who , with Michel Simon and the other two made up a formidable quartet . Here , in something of a change of pace Baur plays a gun-running sea captain - his vessel is aptly named , Minotaur - who comes home to Dunkirk and a shrew of a wife played magnificently by Gabrielle Dorziat , dies and is given the next best thing to a Viking funeral by his first mate , Albert Prejean , and crew . Siodmak and Shufftan contrive to great camera movements like the eye-glass shaped mirror - reminiscent of the billboard in The Great Gatsby in which Marcel Dalio is reflected as Baur comes looking for him - and director and cameraman are not above their own Shanghai gestures when , in a nod to Joe Sternberg they give us a cluttered waterfront half in shadow half in light . The last nod must go to Charles Spaak who turned in yet again a script liberally sprinkled with mordant dialogue . Add it to your list of must-sees .
No Comebacks	The first thing that impressed me about this - I saw it earlier today on TV - was how well it stands up after exactly 50 years . Whichever way you look at it 1947 was something of a bumper year for Gadg ; he directed both Arthur Miller's All My Sons and Tennessee Williams ' A Streetcar Named Desire on Broadway and as if that weren't enough he shot Sea Of Grass , Gentlemen's Agreement and Boomerang all in one year . One could b forgiven for thinking that Gadg had something of a Repertory company going ; Arthur Kennedy , cast as the innocent suspect John Waldron here , was playing Chris Keller in All My Sons and would play Biff Loman two years later in Death Of A Salesman , also directed by Gadg , whilst the original Willy Loman Lee J . Cobb ( who had acted with Gadg in the Group Theatre on Broadway ) was cast here as the Chief of Detectives and Karl Malden , the original Mitch in Streetcar ( a role he would repeat and again under Gadgs ' direction in the film version ) played a detective . This semi-documentary benefits from strong performances right across the board and even Jane Wyatt in the somewhat thankless role of devoted wife brings lustre to the part . From lead actor Dana Andrews through those already mentioned to Ed Begley as a corrupt businessman the cast turn in some fine ensemble acting and this is one I'd definitely buy on DVD .
The Little Madeleine	At first glance you could be forgiven for assuming that Christian Jacque was revisiting L'Assassinat de Pere Noel which he made for Continental three years earlier ; remote setting , wintry landscapes , etc but actally there is much more on offer , not least Madeleine Robinsion who , as a previous poster has rightly said , was one of the finest French actresses of her generation ; it was her misfortune to appear in films that were aimed at domestic rather than international markets so that unlike Danielle Darrieux , Edwige Feuilliere , Micheline Presle , Arletty , etc , all of whom were , of course , equally gifted but contrived to be seen and / or work outside France , Robinson remains one of the best-kept secrets in French cinema . A script by Jacques Prevert doesn't exactly impair a film either if anybody asks you and here he is right on top of his game ; add some stunning images , a horse against the snow , etc , and we're talking another winner .
Philly When It's Silly	I saw this earlier today in a double bill with Bringing Up Baby , made two years earlier ( 1938 ) with the same two stars Grant and Hepburn . In both cases the prints were bad , full of sparkle , bad sound and missing frames so that occasionally a word was lost but despite this both films oozed the style and class that informed them from day one . ' Baby ' was totally screwball but ' Story ' is a comedy of manners , a term that arguably has no meaning today . Watching with hindsight and a knowledge of High Society it's often easy to see how the ' spots ' suggested themselves as song opportunities . Above all it is a well-made play , author Philip Barry was himself a member of an elevated social class and Grant and Hepburn had already appeared in an adaptation of one of his plays , ' Holiday ' which was equally adept . The play - and by definition the screenplay also - is so well constructed as to be actor-proof though that isn't necessary with actors of this calibre , not just the three leads but also Ruth Hussey , Virginia Weidler Roland Young et al . In short , a joy .
Swings And Roundabouts	It's going to be difficult to discuss this film without sounding like an Academic manque ' so if I start throwing in jargon like ' metonyme ' , ' diagenetic ' , ' mimentic ' , etc give me a solid nudge , flash me a snapshot of the Accatone and send me to bed without any supper . One of the reasons for an Academe feeding frenzy are the parallels with Ophuls earlier film La Ronde ; both are circular and both feature a carousel-like progression ; in La Ronde it is venereal disease that passes from one person to another in Madame D . . . it is a pair of diamond heart earrings , given to her by her husband ( Charles Boyer ) on the day after her wedding , which , in order to settle some considerable debts incurred we know not how , Madame D . . . ( Danielle Darrieux ) sells to a friendly jeweller . When she reports them stolen to account for their disappearance the case is reported in the press and the jeweller approaches Boyer , who buys them back and gives them to his own mistress who in turn sells them in Constantinople to cover her gambling debts . There they are bought by Dantoni ( Vittoria de Sica ) who meets Darrieux in Paris and embarks on an affair with her and , in the fullness of time , presents her with her own earrings . This is merely a frame on which to hang some stunning camera work and what is striking is the way that Ophuls keeps both his camera and the lovers continuously spinning around in three-quarter time . This is a sumptuous movie with timeless performances from the three principals , a feat of black and white photography and an undisputed French classic .
Riding For A Fall	This may be Yves Allegret's finest hour and it's unquestionably the first really Great performance from Simone Signoret , who would , of course , go on to give dozens more . Younger brother of Marc , Yves Allegret is often dismissed as little more than a Journeyman director but here he gives us one of the first important post-war French films , black as night and featuring a mother-daughter combination targeting vulnerable ' nice ' guys that anticipated Duvivier's Voice Les temps des assassin by some six years . If Signoret walks - or perhaps rides would be more appropriate , given the setting - away with the movie she is well supported by Jane Marken as her mother and Bernard Blier as the unsuspecting sap she marries and exploits . This is a key film in the development of post-war French Cinema , leaves the New Wavelet for dead and should be taught in Film Schools everywhere .
Town On Trial	The element of the burnt-out case who discards the bottle to pursue justice was used much later by Paul Newman in The Verdict but Raimu got there first in this excellent movie which may be Henri Decoin's finest hour . There's a fantastic opening which establishes the provincial town and manages to convey the feeling of a rotten centre ; the rain-lashed streets and glistening cobblestones are the very essence of noir and it could be argued ( but not by me ) that Decoin lingers a tad too long on something that will not be seen again given that the bulk of the film is set in Raimu's large , decaying mansion and / or the courtroom where Decoin shows he's been influenced by Welles by including the ceilings in the frame . Raimu was rarely seen as a full-scale urbanite ( at least I've never seen him in a role that calls for collar , tie and suit ) but shows he's just as effective as a white-collar worker than a peasant / tradesman . His response to his wife's departure is to remarry immediately taking as his bride the bottle and is measuring his life with Claret when death comes to call in the shape of a stiff he finds in one of the rooms . His daughter runs with a pretty fast crowd and in nothing flat her boyfriend is tapped for the killer and despite any discernible paternal feeling Raimu takes the case and in proving the boyfriend's innocence accuses the whole town , fabric of society etc of being culpable . Like so many movies before and after the source material is a novel by Georges Simenon but the standout adaptation is the work of Henri-Georges Clouzot , on the verge of making his own mark as a first-rate director with a trio of Classics in Le Corbeau , La Salaire de la puer and Les Diaboliques to his name . All in all this is one of the finest French movies released during the Occupation and that's saying something .
Woodman , Woodman , Spare That Three Year Old	A good friend of mine has a built-in aversion verging on phobia against manipulative movies to the extent that it blinded her to the brilliance of Million Dollar Baby and I'm dreading what she will make of this . On the other hand she could reply that I am overly susceptible to manipulation at the hands of skilled , professional movie makers and both of us may be right . However like the man said difference of opinion is what makes horse races so we can take this one right to Aqueduct . From her point of view there's manipulation in spades . Walter ( Kevin Bacon ) is just out of the Joint after drawing 12 years for , in his own words , molesting little girls . He takes a job in a lumber yard ( heavy use of title symbolism although THAT woodsman is the one in the fairy tale who cuts the girl out of the wolf's stomach . Right off he rejects the advances of Mary-Kay - played by an actress known simply as Eve and if THAT isn't an omen what is - who is one of those egoists who figure that any guy who rejects them must have a secret that needs exposing . Adding to Walter's burden is Sgt Lucas ( Mos Def - where do the GET these names from ? ) who's a graduate of the give-a-dog-a-bad-name school of detection and enjoys nothing more than hassling Walter and delivering sloppy script points like asking Walter where he was at such a time and such a day when a girl was molested and THEN telling Walter that every move he ( Walter ) makes has been observed since he left the slammer , illustrating that by definition Walter could NOT have been involved in the alleged molestation . Just by way of an extra handicap Walter can only find a room right across the street from a school playground , which is not unlike a compulsive gambler taking a room at Caesar's Palace . The Book of Job isn't in it as Walter is denounced anonymously by Eve to add to the rest of his troubles . All the reviews I read in the National Press - unqualified raves to a man - made the same point , that we are being asked to empathize with a paedophile and wind up actually doing so . The film resembles nothing so much a a Wounded Bird Convention beginning with Walter himself then taking in Vickie ( Kyra Sedgwick , Bacon's real-life wife ) who has a tale of her own to trade for his , as a girl she was sexually abused by not one but THREE brothers , and winding up with Robin ( Hannah Pilkes ) the eleven year old girl befriended ( if that's the right word ) by Walter , who reveals obliquely that she is being abused by her father . There's not a bad performance in the whole film but I'm reminded of the now notorious comment by critic Brooks Atkinson when reviewing the first performance of Pal Joey on Broadway . After noting the excellence of the Rodgers and Hart score and the fine singing and acting on display he concluded by asking ' can you draw sweet water from a foul well ? ' From the comments I've seen posted here I'd have to say Yes .
Chips With Everything	Jean-Pierre Melville has a lot to answer for ; had he not turned out such a great professional low-budget-shot-on-location movie as this then amateurs like Godard may have been content to watch instead of attempt to MAKE movies . That to one side this remains , at more or less fifty years old , a great film ( though the print I've just viewed has clearly seen better days and actually ignited during the screening . Melville was heavily influenced by American ' gangster ' movies and didn't care who knew it and it's arguable that the bulk of his stick-of-gum budget went on cigarettes as virtually no character is seen without one for the duration . In those innocent days all Melville had to do was put Roger Duchesne in a trench-coat and snap-brim hat and the audience could have written the ' back-story ' for themselves . A great percentage of Melville's triumph in his first polar is in the atmosphere , the ' feel ' of the milieu - I know the area in question quite well but I didn't get there for a good thirty years or so after Decae's camera had shot this valentine and though recognizable it was definitely a victim of progress , like Bob himself , who epitomizes the thirties of Gabin , Prevert and Carne and finds himself in a world of Vadims . So many posters have itemized the plot line that it would be superfluous to do so again , suffice it to say it is highly recommended .
Station Master	It's always a pleasure to see someone who has gone through a bad patch return to form so I'm glad to be able to salute this new - albeit now two years old - entry from Claude Lelouch . There are elements of both David Mamet and Harlan Coben in the labyrinthine plotting that's hard to second guess - indeed Lelouch seems to be playfully teasing the viewer by deliberately offering instant solutions that are clearly red herrings . A newsflash recounts the escape from prison of a paedophile / murderer who charms his victims via magic tricks and minutes later Dominic Pinon accosts a child and her parents , ' produces ' a bunch of flowers from nowhere and bestows them upon the child encouraging the viewer to make four from a two and two that in truth total seventeen . Meanwhile Audrey Dana , en route to her parents ' remote and primitive farm , is driving her boyfriend to distraction so much so that he dumps her in the gas station where Pinon is hanging around for no discernible reason and soon performs a card trick for her . But this is only the beginning , hardly has the viewer decided that Laclos ( Pinon ) IS the magician / killer than a husband reports her teacher husband missing and Pinon , who has mentioned to Dana that he was once a teacher , is being tapped for a new role ; when Dana tells him she is both a hairdresser / manicurist and fan of novelist Fanny Ardant , whose nails she recently buffed , Pinon claims to be Ardant's ghost-writer . And so it goes , layer upon layer so much so that Lelouch might as well have written it on onionskin parchment . What it is is not a thriller , not a romance , not a suspense , not a drama but a Total Delight . See it .
Fathers Day	There's a lovely symmetry in a movie that was made in defiance of the new wave has been screened again in a year when a lot of people who should know better are growing orgasmic ' celebrating ' - if that is the right word - an anniversary that can't really be pinned down but which the pseud / academic axis have decreed is this year , that of the new wave . One of the factors that got up Truffaut's nose was the idea of real filmmakers adapting works of literature for the screen and here again Berri scored heavily for not contented with taking Truffaut's nursery insult and making it the title of a real film he went on to ' adapt ' two of Marcel Pagnol's finest novels , Jean de Florette and Manon des Source and enjoy International success with both , a good thirty years after the new wavelet had been tsunamied out of existence by people like Berri . This is a wonderful celebration of a typical Jewish family in post-war France , Father , Mother , Son and Daughter and a chicken soup you can almost taste . Yves Robert is outstanding as the patriarch who dreams of son Claude following him into the rag trade , bowing gracefully to Claude's show biz aspirations and turning out to be a closet ham . Breathless ? You've got to be kidding ; this is worth a hundred Godards .
All The Kingsley's Men	The concept of an environment rather than a specific character as the focus of a drama is not exactly new ; personally I can trace it back to Maxim Gorky who set The Lower Depths in a Russian tenement , though it may well have existed before that . In the 20th century Elmer Rice located Street Scene in a New York tenement around the time Vicki Baum was examining the personnel and guests of a Grand Hotel and in 1949 Sydney Kingsley created the concept of a Precinct House as protagonist in his play Detective Story , filling the stage with detectives , uniformed cops , a crime reporter and an assortment of victims , victimized and associated members of the public . In 1956 Salvatore Lombino who had become Evan Hunter and published a best-selling novel , The Blackboard Jungle , signed a contract to write three paperback crime novels and in order to distinguish these from the mainstream fiction he intended to keep on writing he took on yet another persona , Ed McBain . In the first of the three paperbacks , Cop Hater , he elaborated on Kingsley , creating a full squad of detectives representing a cross-section - WASP , Black , Jew , Bigot , etc - supplemented by uniformed cops , families , associates - lawyers , DAs , laboratory technicians etc all of whom came into regular direct and indirect contact with the 87th precinct . McBain went on to write more than 50 87th precinct novels and was justifiably teed off when Steven Bocho blatantly ripped it off when he ' created ' Hill St Blues . Fascinating though this may be the task in hand is to report on the film version of Detective Story which , in a word , is excellent . Horace McMahon , Joseph Wiseman and Lee Grant had all appeared in the play and were supplemented by Paramount regular Frank Faylen , Cathy O'Donnell , George McReady , William Bendix , Eleanor Parker and top-billed Kirk Douglas in a role played on Broadway - though it's hard to believe - by Ralph Bellamy . The ensemble playing is as good as it gets but for various reasons three of the finest performers , Lee Grant , Joseph Wiseman and Michael Strong didn't work subsequently half as much as they should have but only one , Lee Grant , understandably - she was a victim of the notorious blacklist in the wake of an appearance in front of HUAC in which she refused to give evidence against her husband . Douglas has one of his finest roles and seizes it between those trademark teeth and shakes it in that equally trademark jaw . On paper there was a real danger that his energy and barely contained violence would unbalance the movie but in reality his is just one of many outstanding performances in a truly ensemble effort . I've just bought the DVD more than half a century after it was released in the cinema and it's as fresh as paint . I doubt very much whether it can be overpraised .
A Fine , Feathered Friend	After establishing a small , bleak town the camera moves to open farmland before closing in on three old crones . After a moment a man emerges from a building with bloody hands which he proceeds to wash in a bucket . If this makes you think of Macbeth you're either 1 ) reasonably erudite , 2 ) the kind of academic incapable of saying a given film is good , bad , or indifferent without masking opinion beneath layers of jargon - diegesis , semiology , metonymic , semioclasm , syntagma , morpheme , etc - , 3 ) the kind of person who ENJOYS reading that kind of academic or 4 ) Me , an ordinary Joe who read a book once and can't quite get over it . In his great play ' The Big Knife ' Clifford Odets had leading character Charley Cass say " Macbeth is an allegory , one by one he kills his better selves " and if we pursue my Scottish play analogy we could argue that the Raven's poison pen is killing the townspeople's better selves in a similar fashion . It was , of course , Lady Macbeth who felt compelled to wash the blood off her hands but in St Robin the blood is definitely on the hands of Dr Germain ( Pierre Fresnay ) both physically as in the opening scene where the blood belongs to a woman patient and metaphorically when , by remaining aloof and indifferent to the accusations of which he is in part guilty , he encourages the Raven to continue the campaign until very real deaths occur . This is a great film any way you look at it and the fact that there are so many ways to do so only adds to its appeal .
Cast A Cold Eye	Having begun like most directors with small subjects Jean-Paul Rappeneau seems to have acquired a penchant for the crowded canvas given that his last three films - including this one - comprise Cyrano de Bergerac and Bon Voyage . My knowledge of the period - 1830s - is skimpy to say the least so I have no basis for questioning the authenticity or otherwise of the storyline involving both Italian patriots hiding in France and an outbreak of cholera in the Provence region but this is really academic because authentic or not it provides both a dramatic and colourful backdrop to a well-told story in which for once the Romantic element is understated . Olivier Martinez is sufficiently athletic to carry out lots of Errol Flynn-like engagements with a dozen assailants at once and come off incredibly best but he is woefully lacking in Flynn's abundant charm / charisma so it's just as well that leading lady Juliette Binoche has enough for both . Not least of its assets is the support , never more than ten or fifteen minutes in each case , from some of the finest actors in France from Isabelle Huppert to Jean Yanne to Francois Cluzot to Pierre Arditi . A fine film from a fine director .
Cue Heavy Mitting	I've just seen this movie days after Paul Newman died ; it is , perhaps , inevitable and certainly fitting that the television channels will be screening tributes in the near future and if they are all of this quality then I for one will be content . Like all actors of the first rank Newman made his share of turkeys and we needn't be reminded of them at this time . The Hustler works on every level to which it aspires including furnishing an idea of the life of a professional pool player which was way down its list of priorities for first and foremost it is our old friend the Morality Tale in drag . Newman takes his character , ' Fast ' Eddie Felson all the way from callow , arrogant punk to mature , sadder-but-wiser man in the space of a few months in real time and Piper Laurie must have been a revelation to those who knew her only as cheesecake in Universal programmers of the early fifties . It is difficult , in fact , to nominate even a mediocre performance and if George C . Scott draws the flashier and lengthier of the supporting roles Myron McCormick , Vincent Gardenia and Murray Hamilton can certainly not be overlooked and , like the credits , I save Jackie Gleason as Minnesota Fats for last . A gem of a performance in a gem of a film .
No Time To Kill ? Make Some And Check Out This Gem	When you post as many comments on this site as I do the Law of Averages dictates that you receive a certain amount of feedback in the form of PMs and I guess I've had my share both pro and con . A little over a year ago I posted a comment on a French film made during the war and largely forgotten certainly outside France . Shortly after it appeared a received a PM from a French guy who was very pleased that someone had mentioned this film . Since that time we corresponded spasmodically then out of the blue he wrote and asked if I would like him to tape any French films from French TV and if so which . Naturally I jumped at the chance and asked for anything directed by Henri Decoin , Julian Duvivier , Claude Autant-Lara and anything written by Jean Aurenche , Pierre Bost , Charles Spaak , Henri Jeanson and Jacques Prevert and the upshot is I have just received several great French movies including this late masterpiece by Julian Duvivier . I won't reveal the guy's name lest he is inundated with those both anxious and willing to trespass on his kindness but I am delighted to use this forum to record what positives can come from IMDb which has , alas , many things wrong with it . Now for the movie . There are those who may find it referential - Gabin's mother runs a dance hall on the banks of the Marne and a decade earlier Gabin himself as one of Duvivier's Belle Equipe built a similar establishment in a similar location ; In Rene Clair's Le Silence est d'Or a young girl prevailed on an older man to take her in and here Daniel Delorme prevails on the older Gabin in much the same way - but not to its detriment . Gabin runs a restaurant in Les Halles , the wonderful market in Paris which has gone the way of London's Covent Garden but which was very much alive in 1956 when this film was made , he's a genial sort , always ready to see the good in people rather than the worst so when Delorme , the daughter of his estranged wife , turns up claiming orphan status he is happy to take her in despite the fact that he has an adoptive son already . Of course the mother is not really dead and Delorme is not half so naive or angelic as she lets on ; we get our first glimpse of her darker / colder side when she coolly rejects an old lover and watches dispassionately as he throws himself under a camion , barely registering the impact before hurrying to a rendezvous with her very much alive and drink and drug-raddled mother where they fine tune plans to seduce Gabin and divvy up his money . The black and white photography complements the story perfectly and reminds us at times of that other classic Les Diaboliques and there are some lovely touches like Gabin's mother's mastery of a whip which she uses with equal dexterity for despatching chickens and chastising Delorme . In short this is one of the finest films that ever got right up Truffaut's nose and if only he'd tried to make something one tenth as good instead of slagging off these films we'd all have been a lot happier . Not to be missed .
Marcelle Wave	If Marcel Pagnol had made Le Corbeau it might have turned out like this great movie of provincial life which is not so much warts and all as a surfeit of warts . There's a lovely irony at work here inasmuch as when a travelling circus visits the village in question - which it does every thirty years or so - instead of the circus putting up a sign saying ' Bearded Lady ' it's the unfeeling villagers who erect a sign pointing the way to its resident centenarian ( a standout performance by Marcelle Geniat ) . Full of age , wisdom and regret , this wonderful lady brokers a marriage between the lion-tamer and a village girl in lieu of the one she lacked the courage to undertake in her own youth and in so doing lends a symmetry to a movie in which the first shot shows the circus approaching the town from Right to Left whilst the final shot shows it leaving from Left to Right . This for me is a major discovery and puts me deeper in debt to my very good French friend .
Atmospheric	As if Arletty weren't enough - and she is , of course , more than enough - we get sound-bites from Henri Jeanson and Jacques Prevert , both of whom wrote for Arletty ( it was Jeanson , of course , who wrote the ' atmosphere ' speech for her in Hotel du Nord whilst Prevert wrote not only three of Arletty's finest movies but also three of the finest French movies ever in Le Jour se leve , Les Visiteurs du soir and Les Enfants du paradis ) . This is a wonderful tribute - and not before time - to one of the most luminous of French actresses ever to grace the screen and this is not to minimise the efforts of Danielle Darrieux , Edwige Feuilliere , Simone Signoret , Madeleine Robinson , Micheline Presle , Michele Morgan , etc , whose careers overlapped with hers , as much as to record the extraordinary wealth of French screen actresses . This may be something of a scissors-and-paste job linked by a live interview in her later years but it provides a lustrous and fascinating glimpse of French cinema at its best . Unmissable if you're a fan and if you're not you're either dead or insane .
Let Me Entertain You	Make way for yet one more dysfunctional family and this one's a doozy . No one , but no one is anything but totally fouled up . We get to meet each one in an economical opening sequence which establishes that father is heavily into WINNING which means , of course , that he's a Loser , right . Teenage son hasn't spoken for several months , Mom's brother is recovering from a failed suicide attempt after being given the air by his gay lover , dad's father has been kicked out of a retirement home for substance abuse and is obsessed by sex whilst pre-teen daughter has eyes to be a Beauty Contest winner despite being as homely as a mud fence . Because of a technicality the daughter is suddenly eligible for the finals in LA so dad decides that the whole family will drive the 800 or so miles . Naturally everything that can go wrong does go wrong and there's a nice satirical swipe at this kind of contest in general . Alan Arkin's grandpop dies half way there and it is him who has been coaxing the girl in her dance ; astute members of the audience will probably not be too surprised when they see her ' act ' but the husband-wife director team play down the clues so it will be a revelation to some . This is one of those movies like Sideways , The Station Agent , Garden State , etc , that score heavily on initial viewings but may not hold up subsequently .
Eat Your Heart Out , Alec	It would be both incorrect and foolish to suggest that Alec Guiness was anything less than a fine actor but in the area where he is arguably best remembered , multiple roles , Fernandel can give him cards and spades as well as illustrating that less is more . In Kind Hearts And Coronets - as fans never cease of reminding us - Guiness ' played ' eight roles whilst here , playing only six , Fernandel wipes the floor with him . Perhaps we shouldn't be too harsh on Guiness , he was , after all , only as good as the script and all too often the script of Kind Hearts required him only to drag up , get his laugh and move on to the next cardboard character . Here , eschewing the cheap laughs of disguise , Fernandel offers more than superficial portraits of five quintuplets as well as their father . The father in question is an irascible vintner , miffed that his five sons long ago took it on the Jesse Owens and haven't darkened his door since and apparently haven't the least desire to do so . Given that they'll be forty years old any day now the local mayor senses welcome PR if they should be publicly reunited with the old man and to that end the local doctor is tapped to locate them . We're now in Duvivier territory and in fact Fernandel played one of the characters in Un Carnet du bal , another film comprised of sketches in the wake of a quest to find several - in this case - dance partners and it hardly needs to be said that Duvivier does it better but that is not to sneeze at Verneuil who turned out some decent stuff over the years . Most would agree that the second and third segments are slightly better in which Fernandel plays respectively a window washer with his own quartet of kids becoming slowly hypochondriac as the result of an agreement he struck with undertaker Louis de Funes , and the captain of a freighter gambling the cargo , to say nothing of his girl friend , on the perambulations of a fly . The last character , a cure , is largely a topical ' in ' joke in which the cure has gone into virtual hiding because of his resemblance to the actor currently portraying Don Camillo in a series of movies based on the Giovanni Guareschi novels . The other characters are a ' Miss Lonleyhearts ' journalist and a beautician , not a million miles away from the gay hairdresser played by Fernandel in Un Carnet du bal . This is arguably - together with L'Auberge rouge - Fernandel's best post-war film although The Cow And I , also directed by Verneuil is also in the running . An excellent comedy from an old Master .
Communists Are From Mars , Petainists From Venus	Claude Berri seldom lets you down whether as Producer , Writer , Actor or Director and if he has a signature when Directing it is in the beautiful compositions he delights in even if dealing with a serious subject as he is here . Although he is no slouch as a writer of Original Screenplays himself some of his finest works have been adaptations of existing material such as Marcel Pagnol's Jean de Florette , Emile Zola's Germinal and this work , based on the novel by Marcel Ayme . It is now a good sixty years since the end of World War II but it remains a sensitive issue to the French for the simple and obvious reason that for several years ( 1940 - 1944 ) they were an Occupied nation and that brought out the very Best ( Resistance ) and very Worst ( Collaboration ) in the population . Berri's masterstroke is to set his film in the immediate aftermath of the war in a small town still strewn with the rubble of bombing , a backdrop against which the citizens are attempting to resume their lives but in doing so they merely applied a bandage but no dressing to the raw wounds of guilt and retribution allowing them to continue to fester beneath the surface and occasionally erupt into violence and as always it is the essentially gentle giant ( Gerard Depardieu ) , a poetry loving saloon keeper , who pays the highest price . The acting is of the very highest standing throughout with Depardieu , Michel Blanc , Philippe Noiret and Fabrice Luchini beyond praise , as is the film itself if anyone asks you .
A Bell For Camillo	Sequels don't often deliver though people who should know better keep doing them - see Claude Lelouch and the sequel to A Man And A Woman for example - but one almost foolproof way to ensure they come off is to entrust them to an expert like Julien Duvivier , who manages effortlessly to continue the episodic life of that wonderful contradiction in terms the childlike strong-arm priest Don Camillo who finds nothing strange in chatting with God . He begins the film in exile but we know it's not going to last because Peppone needs Don Camillo like Laurel needs Hardy and so the stage is set for more conflicts and Lessons In Life Andy Hardy style with Peppone in the Mickey Rooney role and Don Camillo standing in for Lewis Stone . A more than satisfying film enhanced by the black and white photography .
Look After Lulu	It's unfortunate that at first glance the leading character Lulu ( Didier Bezace ) looks like someone wearing a Groucho Marx mask in order to rob a bank but once you realize that that's how Bezace actually LOOKS you can settle down to enjoy what is essentially a lightly fictionalized documentary chronicling the uphill struggle of a Parisian narcotics squad who can do little more than shovel sand against the tide . Tavernier recently spoke about the backlash against this film on its release at a Masterclass he gave in London during which he said that the very police who had condemned him in public later came to him in private and told him they had been coerced by their superiors into attacking the film whilst actually in watching it they felt as if they had done two hours of overtime . That is , of course , a fine testimony but it doesn't necessarily mean that the non-professional viewer will echo it . As it happens it IS a very entertaining and involving movie that shows just how frustrating police work can be in a modern society . Lacking a real storyline it builds its effects by portraying the routine , form-filling , small triumphs , large disappointments . Another great film from a great filmmaker .
Think Stink . . .	. . . to paraphrase the opening number in another Paramount movie , Funny Face , released that same year . The fifties were bonanza years for fans of Cliff Odets with no less than five good-to-great movies either adapted from his theatre productions ( Clash By Night , The Country Girl , The Big Knife ) adapted by Odets himself from a novel ( The Sweet Smell Of Success ) or an Original Screenplay ( The Story On Page One ) which , for good measure , he also directed . Although Ernie Lehman gets a co-writer credit ( and it was , after all , his original novel ) his contribution is a bad nowhere to Odets and aficionados of the plays recognize instantly the unique brand of Odets dialogue . Lancaster turns in another sterling job as a thinly disguised Walter Winchell and Tony Curtis is surprisingly adequate as Sidney Falco the desperate and amoral PR man living off J . J . Hunsecker's handouts . Martin Milner was equally good playing his second hot-headed musician ( drummer Joey Firestone in Pete Kelly's Blues , guitarist Dallas here ) in two years . Sam Levene , Barbara Nichols and Emile Meyer are also effective as is Susan Harrison , making her debut - that strangely led nowhere - as Lancaster's catalyst sister . From the opening shot of night-time Manhattan overlaid with Elmer Bernstein's quintessential ' fifties ' jazz-inflected soundtrack the film never lets up , telling its story in visual and oral - ' the cat's in the bag and the bag's in the river ' - shorthand . One to see again and again .
Wicked	Some sixty plus years after it was released ( in that extraordinary year for Hollywood movies , 1939 ) The Wizard Of Oz is back ( albeit temporarily ) where it belongs , on the Big screen and digitally remastered to boot . It's sad to think that the children of today will probably scorn its simplistic message and computer sophisticates to a man laugh it ' effects ' off the screen but that is their loss and the current re-release only serves to remind us how modern children have been deprived of childhood on virtually every level . The film does a nice line in irony ; after kicking off with one of the most potent ' want ' songs ever written , Somewhere Over The Rainbow with its built-in yearning , longing for a better world the movie then negates this with its famous epitaph ' There's no place like home ' . Arlen and Harburg didn't write a song to cover this and had they attempted to do so they may have found it a tad difficult because it had already been written : Back In Your Own Backyard . All that remains is to sit back and delight in the familiar story , performances , music and recall the first time you saw it and how far away you have journeyed from the child you were in the years between .
La Belle Equipe	Imagine you've got a hard-on for thirties Hollywood - Fred , Ginger , the Golddiggers , Bill Powell , Myrna Loy , Frank Capra , Carole Lombard , Jean Arthur , Screwball Comedy , Katie Hepburn etc - and you check out your local Multiplex and damned if someone hasn't turned out a perfect pastiche . Alas , you'll have to make do with imagination because , let's face it , you just can't get the staff ; no one currently writing and / or directing out of Hollywood has the affection , empathy , love and let's call a spade a spade , Respect for yesterday . This is not to say that Clint Eastwood , for example is a bad director , far from it , but he's not interested in that kind of stuff and there's no reason he should be . If , on the other hand your hard-on is for French films of the thirties , if in other words you lapse into drool mode at the mention of Arletty , Gabin , Prevert , Carne , Duvivier , Darrieux , Carette , Dalio , Raimu , Qai des Brumes , Hotel du Nord , Spaak , Jeanson , Aurenche et al then , mon amis , you have just died and gone to heaven , Hog Heaven yet because four years after his international hit Les Choristes , Christophe Barratier has come up with a Faberge egg of a movie that evokes all that's best about the era . The plot - a Music Hall is forced to close and the employees decide to run it themselves - is a nod to Prevert's Le Crime de Monsier Lange when it was a publishing house that got made over and indeed the Popular Front ( in which Prevert was active ) is very much in evidence . Gerard Jugnot is excellent as is Pierre Richard and Clovis Cornillac is be-capped a la Gabin albeit light years away from him in talent and charisma . Did I say there were songs as well ? You better believe it . All in all a gem .
Dorks Rift	This is just one more example of why French cinema is the best in the world . No real story , no suspense , no sex , no violence BUT ! also no cgi , no slasher movie # 24 , no Hollywood Formula - The Sequel . In short just two of the finest actors on the planet running with a situation in which virtually out of the blue the wife tells the husband she is in love with another man . It's never that quite out of the blue of course and one of the strengths of this movie is the writing on the wall which is in turn projected onto the screen ; the smallest hairline fractures in what , on the surface , is a perfect marriage complete with child . Juliette Binoche is a fine actress , no question , but it is virtually impossible to picture anyone other than Isabelle Huppert in the role of Anne and the same applies to Daniel Auteuil as Pierre , each of them fully inhabits the role in which they have been cast and although there is outstanding support from Jerome Deschamps and Karin Viard it is really superfluous . One of the finest films of the 90s , not just from France but from anywhere but it helps if you go to movies to check out the Human Condition rather than to spray popcorn at each other .
Spinning Jenny	In retrospect it's fascinating to note that one of the elements that launched what is arguably the greatest writer-director team in French cinema would be responsible for its demise exactly one decade later . Within that decade - - Jacques Prevert and Marcel Carne ' jointly wrote and directed Jenny , Drole de Drame , Quai des Brumes , Les Visiteurs du Soir , Les Enfants du Paradis and Les Portes de la nuit . The last title , released in 1946 included an element of fantasy in the shape of a ' pure ' romance set in the ' real ' world of black markets , racketeering , collaboration etc which audiences found unacceptable in that firs full post-war year . In Jenny their initial collaboration which has long eluded me and which I have at last been able to view thanks to the generosity of the altruistic IMDb contributor I have had occasion to thank previously , a similar element is present via another ' pure ' love between the ' innocent ' daughter of a night club / bordello manager and a gangster who , somewhat improbably , starts behaving like an adolescent - picnics in the country , lover's games etc . On paper the story is pure melodrama - Carne had been an Assistant to Jacques Feyder on four movies and when Feyder wanted a ' vehicle ' for his wife , Francoise Rosay , Carne ' was given his chance behind the camera - the eponymous Jenny ( Rosay ) manages a night club which is little more than a bordello with a liquor license on behalf of the owner Benoit ( Charles Vanel ) ; inevitably she has a daughter ( Lisette Lanvin ) whom she packed off to London lest she discover Mommy's real job but who returns to Paris as the film starts . Around this time Jenny gets romantically involved with Albert Prejean a mobster to the chagrin of Benoit who tells his henchman Dromadaire ( Jean Louis Barrault ) to have a ' talk ' to Prejean . Equally inevitably the daughter 1 ) discovers Jenny's secret and 2 ) falls for Prejean herself making for conflict all round . Like I said we're talking meller here BUT we're also talking Jacques Prevert who was incapable of writing anything but shining , pithy , poetic prose and his screenplay plus Carne's sure-footedness with a large cast lift this out of the rut and turn it into a Major League entry . And oh for those far-off days when PC was unheard of and Prevert could call the hunchbacked Barrault Dromedaire ( dromedary ) with no one thinking anything of it ( note : in the IMDb credits they've changed Barrault's name to Camel , presumably reasoning that IMDb readers wouldn't know what a dromedary was ) .
Now You See Them . . . .	You can get a great Trivia question out of this movie : In which film did Charles Aznavour and Serge Reggiani have uncredited roles and Jacques Prevert supply uncredited dialogue . Dix sur dix . You got it in one . This would probably be a great film even without Prevert's linguistic touches because all the elements are in place ; a cloistered setting which serves as a microcosm for the world outside , a story that holds the attention with just the right amount of suspense / mystery and an exceptional and , dare I say it , SYMPATHETIC performance from that man you love to hate Eric Von Stroheim who goes toe-to-toe with Michel Simon and is still standing at the end of fifteen rounds . Stroheim - with hair yet - is a member of the faculty at a boarding school for boys or , to put it another way , a German actor is playing an English teacher ( teacher OF English ) in a French school , quite a trick which he pulls off despite his French being about three times as slow as that of the natives . The film reeks of atmosphere and has perhaps been unfairly overshadowed because it was produced at a time - 1938 - when France was turning out really classic drama such as Hotel du Nord , Quai des brumes , Le Jour se leve , Carnet du bal etc . The good news is that there's an excellent print now available on DVD so what are you waiting for .
Uneasy Money	It's possible that it was me who misled the previous poster when I mentioned - erroneously as it happens - that I had identified 31 Continetal releases when in fact there were only 30 so for the record this was released by S . P . D . F . Some four years later Lance Comfort remade it in England as Temptation Harbour and made a pig's ear of it if anybody asks you . This is the real deal with Henri Decoin's sure-footed direction coaxing sterling performances from Fernand Ledoux , Jules Berry and Suzy Prim - in England ' prim ' is used largely in connection with strait-laced spinsters so it may well generate mild amusement to find it appended to a prostitute , albeit one with the almost obligatory heart of gold . Decoin was a fine director whom I rate only a tad behind Carne ' , Duvivier , Pagnol , Renoir , Clair and alongside the likes of Clouzot , Tourneur , Valentin , Cayatte , etc and here he allows his camera to set the scene roaming freely along the mist-shrouded quay where Ledoux , from his vantage point in the signal box has a bird's eye view of Berry killing an accomplice and tossing a suitcase full of francs into the harbour . Having recovered it the film becomes an exploration of his conscience a sort of psychological noir if you will which scores heavily in all departments . One to savour .
White Comedy	A remake , some 56 years after this one , is now in Post Production with a screenplay by Christian Clavier - who also plays the host played here by Carette - and co-starring Gerard Jugnot and Josie Balasko . This trio were , of course , founder members of Splendid and all have several tasty writer-director-actor credits on their cvs . In other words none of them are exactly chopped live but then neither were Fernandel , Julien Carette and Francoise Rosay and the Autant-Lara version also had something the new version can only dream of ; Yves Montand singing the plot over the opening and closing credits - something ' borrowed ' by High Noon the following year . Autant-Lara was noted for his satiric stance on the Church and he doesn't disappoint here , encouraging writers Jean Aurenche and Pierre Bost to include touches like the chestnut grille that stands in as a confessional ' screen ' when hostess Francoise Rosay is moved to reveal to Fernandel's monk how she and her husband , Carette , ritually poison the soup they serve to guests at their remote inn , and then , once the victims expire , rob them . This sets up neatly the central dilemma ; how can Fernandel save the current guests without betraying the secrets of the Confessional ( this could well be where Hitchcock got the idea for ' I Confess ' ) . This is French cinema at its best , which is saying something . The scene where the murderers are just about to dig a grave for their latest victim when they spot Fernandel approaching and quickly convert stiff to snowman was way ahead of its time half a century ago . There's been quite a lot of talk about the atmosphere on the set between the two Johnny-One-Names Fernandel and Carette ( Carette vacillated , as did Dalio , between billing as Carette and Julien Carette / Marcel Dalio ) with Fernandel , rightly or wrongly , feeling hard done by at the hands of Autant-Lara to whom he allegedly never spoke again , but after half a century surely we can forget that and just delight in a minor masterpiece .
Hands Off This One	Ann Fontaine doesn't like to repeat herself . This is as different from Nathalie as that was from How I Killed My Father and equally good . It would be easy to describe this as a cross between Brief Encounter and Le Boucher because it displays elements of both , the former inasmuch as it features a young , fairly unremarkable wife and mother who enjoys - if that's the right word - an unconsummated affair with an equally unremarkable medico , the latter because there's a serial killer on the loose and Claire ( Isabelle Carre ) slowly comes around to suspecting her medical friend . There are , of course , concessions to the modern world , unlike Laura Jesson , who was a full-time housewife and mother Claire has a job and for that matter her passion is kindled by a vet as opposed to a doctor , albeit one who treats lions rather than hamsters . It's a real delight to see Isabelle Carre building on the success of her breakthrough role in Se Souvenir des Belles Choses and earning co-star ( Holy Lola ) and now sole star billing which she more than justifies . This is a real gem and should not be missed .
Speaking Volumes	This fine film has a lot to answer for : when , in 1949 , Jean-Pierre Melville shot it he did so with virtually no formal training in film making and , as a non-union member he employed other non-union members , specifically cinematographer Henri Decae , who went on to enjoy a distinguished career . Finally Melville did not shoot in studio conditions , filming the bulk of the action in author Vercors own home - the home in which , he had in fact written the novella which Melville adapted . The quality of the finished product is beyond dispute but the downside is that he gave the Cahiers crowd the idea that anyone could do it , thus indirectly Melville has to take the rap for foisting the untalented semi-amateur Godard on the world of film . That apart this is a stunning debut - Melville had previously shot only a short about a clown - with three ( Howard Vernan , Nicole Stephane and Jean-Marie Robain ) exceptional performances , all the more so because the latter two speak less than a dozen words between them . Later Melville returned to the Resistance with L'Armee des ombres , arguably the finest film about the Resistance ever made and taken together they make formidable viewing .
I Leica	Another brilliant movie from genius Billy Wilder . Aspiring screenwriters would do well to analyse the painstaking construction of this great screenplay from the way the principals are introduced - Lemon as the CBS cameraman covering a football game , docilely moving up and down the touchline as instructed , freezing cold but asking for coffee only half-heartedly ; in short , a decent guy , easily controlled and not self-assertive ; next up is Matthau and even seen from the back , as he is in his first appearance , he is a coiled spring of cynicism , quite happy for his own child to break a leg in a hospital and already bullying a young doctor ( William Christopher , later to become Father Mulcahy in MASH ) ; last up is Judi West as Lemon's ex wife , seen initially in a sleazy apartment , telephoning for news of her ex husband while her new lover sleeps in the background and leaving us in no doubt that her prime interest is in the possibility of compensation - to the brilliant ' planted ' gags that pay off later - for example Willie ( Matthau ) , explaining about new breakthroughs in surgery which are written up in Time Magazine says ' don't you think doctors don't read Time magazine ' and about one and a half reels later one doctor says to another about a new technique ' I read about it in Time magazine ' . This is not to overlook the brilliant double-meaning lines , for example when Harry ( Lemon ) finally realizes that Sandy ( West ) has only been pretending concern in order to gain the $25 , 000 to mount her ' act ' at the Persian Room , he says , almost as an aside , ' yes , you can put on a pretty good act for $25 , 000 ' . The screenplay is liberally laced with solid observations like these so that the acting is just the frosting on a beautifully baked cake .
They Were ' Sisters '	This is a fine movie any way you look at it in fact I'll amend that to Fine / Great and I'd love to own it on DVD so that I could run it just before La Baule-les-pins ( which I do own ) and which covers the same autobiographical data from another angle . For the record both films are based on the early life of writer-director Diane Kurys and both concern the unhappy marriage of her parents - a character based on herself appears in both movies . Coup de foudre begins before she was born with the meeting of her parents in a ' camp ' in Occupied France during World War II . A guy whose release is already guaranteed spots Isabelle Huppert , falls in love on the spot ( hense the title ) and smuggles her a note proposing marriage . Somewhat bemused she agrees only to become angry because his name reeks of Jewishness . Somewhat improbably they remain together , have two daughters and settle in Lyon . Simultaneously we are introduced to the second leading character ( Miou-Miou ) , an artist whose husband is shot by the Germans and dies in her arms . She too ' settles ' for something less than love and marries an actor ( Jean-Pierre Bacri ) whose life is a succession of get-rich-quick schemes that backfire . The two women meet by chance in 1952 and form a friendship that soon eclipses anything they feel for their respective partners whilst stopping short of overt lesbianism . Huppert and Miou-Miou have their parts down cold and it's fascinating to see Bacri with a full head of hair looking remarkably like Louis Jordan . This is a wonderful film on our old friend the Human Condition illustrating just how easy it is to screw up our lives . The pertinent questions - like why did Huppert stay with someone she didn't love once she was clear of the Camp , let alone after the war , don't raise their quizzical heads til long afterwards such is the strength of both movie and performances . In La Baule-les-pins the Huppert character , Lena ( now played by Nathalie Baye ) is still with her husband but clearly only for a matter of time and the two girls are still in the thick of the misery . Both are highly recommended .
Two For The Road	This was the ' old-fashioned ' film that finally sunk the New Wave in 1966 and has gone on to become - with more than 17 million paid admissions - the most successful / popular French film ever . It proves , if proof were needed that Truffaut was full of merde when he attacked so viciously just this kind of film and film maker in his infamous essay ' A Certain Tendency . . . ' and it leaves his own pathetic efforts like the 400 Yawns dead in the water . Actually if you hold it under a strong light there's nothing here that we haven't seen before indeed its roots stretch extend deep under the Atlantic and surface in Hollywood in the Silent Era . It's secret is possibly no more than it came at the right time ; in 1966 French moviegoers had had enough of the anti-films being ground out by the Godards and Truffauts and were staying away from the box-office in droves . But give them two superb comedians ( Bourvil , Louis de Funes ) at the top of their game , a ' professional ' script by Daniel Thompson ( her first , and what a debut ) and equally professional direction by her father ( Gerard Oury ) and it didn't much matter that the rest of the cast were fifty per cent wood , fifty per cent plastic - to get an idea one has only to think of Terry Thomas , a so-called comedian who was about as funny as an AIDS outbreak in a monastery . William Marshall inherited none of his mother's ( Michele Morgan ) talent and even less from his half sister , Tonie Marshall but that doesn't really matter because the momentum is kept aloft by Bourvil and de Funes . The plot , for what it's worth , has an English bomber crew baling out over Paris and attempting to reach the Free Zone aided by Bourvil's house painter and de Funes's orchestra conductor . I doubt if any of the gags , whether verbal or physical are really that new but , like the man said , it's the way you tell ' em . Timeless comedy .
Masked Ball ( For Viewers )	There is , as the Good Book tells us , nothing new under the sun but old wine in new bottles occasionally has a lot going for it . In 1981 Spielberg let it be known he was harking back to the serials of his youth when he created Indiana Jones but Georges Franju beat him to it by almost twenty years when , in 1963 , he remade Louis Feuillade's silent 12-episode Judex ; nothing new squared . The story begins at a masked ball and the entire film is a ball for the viewer with a real magician , Channing Pollock , cast as the eponymous superhero , Robin Hood with a French accent whose life is one long crusade to right wrongs , to , as it were , take injustice from the wealthy and redistribute it as justice to the poor . The film is beautifully shot in black and white which allows for poetic effects hard to achieve in colour and cat-suited Francine Berg , who is also a mistress of disguise , makes a worthy opponent for Judex ; the climactic roof-top fight with Sylva Koschina - a passing equestrienne - is ten times more effective in black and white than it would be in colour . Overall this is a wonderful nostalgic romp which helped see off the pretentious new wavelet once and for all and if that weren't enough ( which it is ) Judex is a superb and unmissable film in its own right .
Lilac Wine	It was reasonable to suppose that poetic realism had had its day by 1957 but clearly Rene Clair thought otherwise and turned out a masterpiece to prove it . In some ways it is reminiscent of a pre-kitchen-sink English film of about ten years earlier called It Always Rains On Sunday ; the English movie was set in the East End of London and featured as a catalyst an escaped convict . Clair's film is set in the East of Paris and features as a catalyst a convict on the run but that's where the comedy ends as Howard Dietz once wrote . If seen today It Always Rains On Sunday would be risible and embarrassing whilst Porte des Lilas WAS seen today and proved more than durable . Its great strength is that NOTHING seems to be happening ; life humdrums its way to the grave in a down-at-heel quartier , two or three people hang out in a bar , one of them strums a guitar and sings timeless songs ; a convict breaks out of the slammer and holes up in the singer's house , the neighborhood bum saves his life , the daughter of the saloon-keeper falls for the gangster , he fills her heart with misplaced love and her ears with lies about a new life together requiring only the takings from the cash register to kick-start it , the bum , in love with the girl himself , kills the hood when he realizes he's merely been stringing the girl along . Life in ten reels , but WHAT life . Brilliant .
Padua - West	Given the success of You'll Never Get Rich the previous year it would have been foolish to say the least for Columbia not to rush into production with another vehicle for the dream team of Fred Astaire and Rita Hayworth ; often , of course , this can be a mistake but in this case the follow-up movie eclipses the first . For one thing the plot is just a tad less ludicrous as well it might be ' borrowing ' as it does from Shakespeare's The Taming Of The Shrew . Hollywood , of course , was always prone to exaggeration so while TWO sisters were sufficient for the Bard Harry Cohn reasoned that FOUR would be twice as good so here we have the four Acuna sisters who , in his wisdom , father Adolphe Menjou has decreed must be married in order of age . Okay , it's eccentric but no big deal . . . UNLESS . . . next in line Rita Hayworth has little desire for romantic involvement and a penchant for ' freezing ' any man who gets close enough to hand her a corsage . Cue Fred - Petruchio - Astaire , who , having dropped a bundle at the track needs a dancing job like yesterday and as Senor Acuna just happens to own a fashionable hotel and lacks any taste whatsoever - witness his hiring the musical joke Xaviar Cugat to supply entertainment - who else to approach for work . From here on in you can write it yourself but leave plenty of gaps for the great score by Jerry Kern and Johnny Mercer ; a title song that is really charming and somehow got lost in the shuffle in the face of a brace of winners like I'm Old Fashioned and Dearly Beloved . Loaded with class , charm , style and great songs this is the perfect antidote to the Baz Luhrmann school of musicals aka trash .
Good Deeds Shines in a naughty world	Sometimes it all comes together , writer , director , cast , and this is as good an example as most . It's a while since I saw it on television - I wasn't even around when it was released - and remembered it as being not bad , I'd also read quite a bit about ' Capracorn ' , which appeared to be an excess of sentimentality cocooned in pure schmaltz , so when I found it on the shelves of my library I wasn't expecting too much . I was mistaken . I was totally engaged by its blend of cynicism and charm , by the performance of Gary Cooper , who I can take or leave , and especially by Jean Arthur , with whom it's relatively easy to fall in love . There was excellent support all round and the current economic situation even makes it relevant . Truly a classic .
Hams On Wry	Carlo Rim is one of those writers who don't really register until one day you realise he was involved in several films you enjoyed watching ; he started out with Marc Allegret on the Josephine Baker vehicle Zouzou and just before this one he wrote Justin de Marseille for Maurice Tourneur and went on to write three of the lesser-known Continental entries , Simplet , Ferme aux loups and Val d'Enfer - again for Tourneur . This time he's writing for two of the finest second-string actors in French cinema ( let's face it , no one was going to eclipse Raimu or Gabin but there were lots of excellent actors right behind them , think Harry Bauer , Pierre Fresnay , Julien Carrette , Saturnin Fabre , Charpin , Pierre Brasseur for openers , to say nothing of these two , Jules Berry and Michel Simon . The plot involves our old friend the scam and what begins as a simple one-thought idea - Simon will off Berry who will then reappear when the publicity has turned them from ham actors into stars - spins further and further out of control until Simon winds up on Death Row with minutes to live even as Berry is facing a Polish Court ( don't ask ) . This is yet another little-known gem and is more than worth seeking out .
The ( Big ) Cat's Pajamas	Even with a bad print - like the one I've just seen - the class shines through . It's mind-boggling to think that just after she made this gem Katie Hepburn acquired her infamous sobriquet ' box-office poison ' so quit Hollywood and persuaded Philip Barry to write a vehicle in which she could appear on Broadway ( the result , ' The Philadelphia Story ' was such a smash that MGM bought it and the film version was shown in a double bill with ' Baby ' earlier today . In his first screen writing credit Hagar Wilde ( who shared a writing credit with Dudley Nichols ) hit one out of the park . The script follows the Rules of farce ; an introductory scene , more or less ' straight ' which makes as many plot points as possible followed by a rapidly spiralling series of off-the-wall incidents that have their own demented logic . The opening scene establishes David Huxley ( Cary Grant ) as a zoologist who's spent several months assembling a creature from the Jurassic Age who even as we watch receives news that the final piece , an intercostal clavicle , has been located and is in the post . We learn also that he is engaged to Alice Swallow ( Virginia Walker ) who we know he will never marry if only because Katie Hepburn is Grant's co-star , they will marry on the morrow but tight-haired eyeglass-wearing Walker makes it clear that there will be no conjugal relations and reminds Huxley that he is due to play golf with the lawyer of a possible benefactress who may very well donate a sorely needed million dollars to the museum . From here we can go either way and Grant did just that in North By North West which he began as an equally normal citizen but this time became embroiled in dramatic rather than screwball progressions . Those first few minutes are the only thing even remotely resembling normality . At the golf course Susan Vance ( Hepburn ) plays Grant's ball and holes it on the 18th green and not content with that gets into his car instead of her own and writes it off before they both drive off leaving the lawyer - on the first hole - to his own devices . They meet again that evening in a night club and a third character , the ' crazy ' psychiatrist ( Fritz Feld ) is woven into the plot and we still haven't got to ' Baby ' , a leopard that Susan's brother has sent her from Brazil . It's easy to see why the French have so much time for Howard Hawks ; in his time he proved himself a master of several genres with such credits as Only Angels Have Wings , I Was A Male War Bride ( Grant again ) , Ball Of Fire , Red River , Rio Bravo , etc . Here he keeps all the balls spinning in the air as the likes of Walter Catlett ( Constable Slocum ) , May Robson ( Aunt Elizabeth ) , Charlie Ruggles ( Maj Horace Applegate ) and Barry Fitzgerald ( Gogarty ) keep the plot spinning just this side of out of control ( for good measure future names Jack Carson and Ward Bond make uncredited appearances . Though we may question exactly how much the usually sombre Nichols ( The Informer , Stagecoach , etc ) contributed to this zaniness it's really academic ; we have the finished product , that's all that matters .
This one WON'T Give You The Hump	It's difficult to believe that no one has seen fit to comment on this charmer - that word does double duty here for it's equally applicable to triple-threat writer-director-star Valeria Bruni Tedeschi in her first time at bat on bullhorn . Tedeschi is a fine actress and has illuminated many films with her quiet , understated beauty that leaves most of the ' glamor ' girls dead in the water . She doesn't make it easy on herself opting for an intricate storyline requiring both a large cast and ensemble playing and allegedly basing her screenplay loosely on her own life . If I were producing a screenplay that called for an actress who could convey guilt about being very wealthy convincingly I'd be unable to come up with anyone other that Bruni-Tedeschi . At close to forty she can still do gauche and make it come out charming and more than this she is able to extract equally fine performances from the likes of Yvan Attal , Denis Podalydes , Chiara Mastroianni and not least her own mother playing the mother of the fictional - but - lightly - based - on - Valeria herself Federica . She brings it off superbly and takes her rightful place alongside such other distinguished female directors as Agnes Varda , Diane Kurys , Ann Fontaine , and Agnes Jouai . Roll on her second trip to the plate .
L'Homme du taxi	With L'Homme tu train Patrice Leconte strayed into territory that Francis Veber has more or less made his own , the conceit of two mis-matched guys being thrown together and forced to bond , but where Veber contrives situations in which they must remain together - often they are on the run - Leconte had the protagonists of L'Homme du train CHOOSE to remain thus . Now , in My Best Friend he gives us a wonderful bittersweet tale of diametrical opposites ; Daniel Auteuil is a prosperous antique dealer with all the trimmings and lifestyle to match but one thing he doesn't have is a friend , let alone a best friend so when he bids - against the advice of his business partner Julie Gayet - two hundred thousand euros for a Greek vase he stands to lose it if , in ten days he can't introduce his colleagues to a genuine best friend . Cue Danny Boon as a trivia-buff cab driver who also has what Auteuil lacks , the gift to make people respond to his natural warmth . Boon ( who ironically played opposite Auteuil in Veber's last mis-matched movie La Doublure ) tries to coach Auteuil in social skills to no avail so Auteuil begins to think in terms of Boon filling the bill . When Boon realizes what Auteuil is up to he smashes the vase in front of all the colleagues who have come to see Auteuil win the bet and that seems to be that until a short time later Boon is a contestant on the French version of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire . Unless the French version is radically different from the British version which is recorded and friends likely to be phoned are asked to remain at home at the relevant time , we have to assume that Leconte has altered the format in the interests of drama : Auteuil is actually watching the show live when Boon is faced with the million euro question which , as luck would have it , is about artists . Boon uses the fifty-fifty option which leaves him with a choice between Manet and Monet ; he asks the audience , who are indecisive so , should he phone Auteuil who , remember , he has not nominated and can't be sure if he's even at home . If he DOES call Auteuil and Auteuil IS at home will he 1 ) even answer the phone - remember WE know he's watching the show - or 2 ) if he does answer will he give Boon the right answer or not . The film has only been playing since Wednesday last so I won't spoil it for those yet to see it . Suffice it to say I have rated this and I'll definitely buy the DVD . This is Leconte on top of his game .
You'll Be Glad To Be Behind THIS 8-Ball	This was Billy Wilder's last ' writer only ' credit in Hollywood ; Ball Of Fire opened in 1941 when he was already working on The Major And The Minor , his first ' writer-director ' credit . He had written the screenplay before leaving Germany but it was greatly revised to accommodate the American vernacular which forms its cornerstone . Wilder had something of a penchant for fairy stories and had already re-written Cinderella as Midnight a couple of years earlier . This time around he took Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs and added his own inimitable spin . Some people have chosen to read the Barbara Stanwyck character , Sugarpuss O'Shea as Snow White whereas I tend to favour Gary Cooper's Bertram Potts ; Snow White was young , naive , pure in heart and shared a home with seven dwarfs and the Cooper role ticks all the boxes though on the other hand Snow White also acted as housekeeper and surrogate mother to the seven and in the film THAT role is taken , then again , a dormant Snow White is awakened by a kiss and Wilder has certainly included such a moment in the celebrated ' Yum ' , ' Yum ' and ' Yummy ' scene . We could spend hours nominating and rejecting parallels - one example would be to read Dana Andrews ' Joe Lilac as the wicked stepmother trying to kill Cooper's Snow White but such speculation is academic ( sorry about that ) and what is important is simply ' is it any good ' , to which the answer is a resounding ' YES ' . Apart from the story , direction , star performances , which are all out of the right bottle the film offers a feast for the fans of vintage Hollywood movies who will relish appearances from the likes of Elisha Cooke Jnr , Allen Jenkins , Richard Hearne , Oscar Homolka , S . Z . Zakall , Dan Duryea etc . Dana Andrews may not QUITE convince as a supposedly ruthless gangster and we are asked to accept a 180 degree volte face from the Stanwyck character but the writing , directing and acting are so solid that we happily ignore this . A true classic .
Gallows Humour	Trust a Frenchman to make a classic of film noir shot mainly in daylight and wide open spaces . At the time the casting was probably unremarked on but in retrospect what we have here is a couple of icons in their salad days , like young stags trying out their first pairs of antlers on each other . There's more than a nod to Hemingway's The Killer's - the original version rather than the remake - in the frame constructed around the flashback ; obvious city-bred street-wise tough guy living the life of a Caspar Milquetoast in the middle of East Jesus . This time around Mitchum's Jeff Bailey has moved one grade up from Burt Lancaster's short-order cook and is the proprietor of a modest filling station where , natch , he is spotted by someone from his past and dragged inexorably back into a world he hoped but didn't really believe he had left behind , there to be framed by Kirk Douglas as the mini-tycoon who had hired him in his days as Private heat to find Jane Greer . Most of the classic elements are present and accounted for , low-key dialogue , voice-overs , trench-coats , cordite at midnight . A classic of the genre that more than stands the test of time .
Grocer Jacques	Those who seek to compare and contrast , trace lineage etc will cite as distinguished forbears of The Grocer's Son such titles as Une Hirodelle a fait le printemps , Le Grand chemin etc on the grounds that all three titles feature an urban protagonist either choosing or being obliged to move to a rural setting . Writer-director Eric Guirado throws us a curve inasmuch as HIS protagonist Antoine ( Nicilas Cazale ) had it up to here with Rural some ten years before the story starts and lit out for Paris where he has been drifting from dead-end job to dead-end job although Antoine would probably argue ' okay , I'm getting nowhere but I'm doing it in Paris , man . Things change when his autocratic father , Daniel Duval , suffers a heart attack and Antoine very reluctantly agrees to return home and help his mother run the family grocery business , specifically by driving the mobile grocery van to the outlying hamlets that rely on it . His intitial contempt for the customers gradually turns to respect , admiration , affection and yes , even love , end of story . It is , of course , so much more than that and Guirado brings his documentary experience to bear and draws his cast from professional actors - none more distinguished than Paul Crauchet - and ordinary people thus creating a seamless blend of docu-drama replete with sub-plots like the brother who conceals from his family the fact that his wife has left him for some time and is now pregnant by another man , and the love interest , Clotilde Hesme , the divorcée of whom Antoine is enamoured . Purists may argue that Guirado tends to ' sell ' the virtues of rural living and ignore the harsher realities explored so brilliantly in the recent documentary La Vie Moderne , and they would be correct so far as it goes but this remains a wonderfully lyrical film that should not be missed .
Two Sevens But Not One Weak Link	This is arguably the most virile musical in screen history and chock full of brilliant songs and choreography . I was a tad bemused to note that a poster writing from Johnny Merecer's home town , Savanna , Ga , dismissed the songs as ' forgettable ' when in fact they are the exact opposite . Therein lies an irony : Mercer was a master of the stand-along song whether written for the juke-box or the screen but he always felt a failure because he had never written a ' hit ' Broadway show , despite several attempts , some solo , some in tandem with the likes of Hoagy Carmichael , Harold Arlen and Robert Emmet Dolan . In the end he did write a perfect Broadway score inasmuch as every song advanced the plot and had little or no life outside the show but it was a MOVIE , this movie and not a Broadway show . Every single number ( all EIGHT of them - why do people keep speaking of Seven songs ? ) is both wonderfully melodic and lyrically memorable from Bless Yore Beautiful Hide through to Spring , Spring , Spring and they get performances to match , from Howard Keel and Jane Powell downwards . A timeless gem .
Two For The Road	Another great movie from Leconte and one that marked a departure from the strictly laugh-filled movies he'd done up to this point . This one has everything , comedy , certainly , but seasoned with a dash of pathos and honest sentiment . Rochefort is outstanding as usual - not for nothing does Leconte use him time and time again - but the revelation is Gerard Jugnot , also best known at this time for strictly comedy roles , displaying a wonderfully sensitive side and limning a real ' human ' being foreshadowing by some fifteen years his standout performance in Les Choristes ( still , disgracefully , unshown commercially in London almost a year after its release in France and some six months after being released in HONG KONG ! ) . Jugnot plays Rivetot , mechanic , engineer , sidekick and general dogsbody to Rochefort's Mortez . Mortez is the host of a radio quiz show with which he has been touring France for several years but his penchant for gambling means there is very little in the kitty so that the two men are obliged to share twin-bedded rooms in each town they play . The radio station have effectively axed the show but Rivetot keeps the news from Mortez , knowing it would metaphorically kill him . This is a wonderful melange of laughter and tears and warm , human friendships and shows Leconte emerging as a consummate film maker .
( Don't ) Shoot The Pianist	Clouzot followed Le Corbeau , where no one knew who was penning the poison thus everyone was suspected , with another masterpiece , Quai des Orfevres four years later in which we know from the outset ( or think we do ) whodunnit . Top-billed Louis Jouvet doesn't appear for forty minutes by which time Clouzot has established a rich milieu of Music Hall , music publishers , etc and a fine cast of colourful characters ; Angela Lansbury lookalike ( Lansbury appeared in Woman of Paris that same year ) Suzy Delair scores as the chanteuse whose desire to improve her lot inspires the jealousy of her husband / accompanist Bernard Blier who follows her to the home of an elderly letch only to find he is already dead . From here things go seriously wrong , his car is stolen before he leaves the premises so his pre-arranged alibi is out the window whilst meanwhile , unknown to him , his wife confesses to the murder to the photographer neighbour , a closet lesbian in love with her , who volunteers to return to the crime scene and retrieve Delair's scarf and as long as she's there , thoughtfully wipes her prints of the murder weapon , a champagne bottle . At this point investigator Jouvet gets involved and from then on it's a case of keeping the plates spinning in the air . Clouzot's output was relatively small but virtually all of it was , as Spencer Tracey said in another context , ' cherce ' , with Le Salaire de peur and Les Diaboliques still to come . In short this is a must for French cinema buffs .
Blanc Check	Yet another French actress has turned , via screen writing , to directing and turned out a minor gem first crack out of the box . Inasmuch as it's set on a farm and involves an older man and a young woman it is reminiscent of The Girl From Paris - and that's not a criticism ; Mathilde Seigner and Michel Serrault were both excellent - and shows that it is possible to put a spin on this type of story . Michel Blanc farms what seems a touch too many acres for someone working with only a wife and a simple hired hand . Within minutes his wife expires off screen via the electric milking machine leaving Blanc with no one to cook , sew , scrub , do the milking etc so he takes the Dating Agency route and winds up in Bucharest interviewing lots of gorgeous young girls who have all mastered the same mantra ' you're so handsome ' . Only one girl , the lovely Medeea Marinescu ( who actually hails from Bucharest ) has the wit to effect an interest in farming and winds up his best of a bad bunch mate of choice . We've been here before , of course , notably in Rachel And The Stranger , when it took stranger Robert Mitchum to make William Holden see Loretta Young as something else besides a mail-order bride , but this is none the worse for that . This is all about relationships and how difficult they are to both establish and maintain and how people CAN change the habits of a lifetime - a sequence where Blanc , who doesn't like parting with a buck , lays a few thousand euros on Elena and tells her she's cracked the lottery would normally want some swallowing but here we're more than happy to accept it . Two exceptional leads , a low-key story with just the right amount of sentiment ; highly recommended .
Last Of Six , First Of Two	The thirty one feature films produced by the German-run Continental Films between 1941-43 were a fairly mixed bag ranging from the two sub-standard Fernandel directed titles ( Adrien , Simplet ) to the wonderful Decoin-Darrieux Premiere Rendez-vous but luckily there was quite a bit of very good indeed stuff including the three titles in which Henri-George Clouzot had a hand . Here he provided only the screenplay - adapted from a novel by Stanislaus Andre Steeman - for Directes Georges Lacombe but the success of the film enabled him to direct not only a sequel ( L'Assassin habite au 21 ) but the sometime notorious Le Corbeau , arguably the best-known of all the Continental titles . There's not a great deal new in the story of six friends who make a pact to go their separate ways for five years and then reunite and divvy up whatever fortunes they have made between them , nor would any seasoned thriller-reader / watcher be very surprised that one of them coveted the entire proceeds with the inevitable result that the remaining five started dropping like shares in Betamax after VHS won the rental war . There's a lot to admire here not least the teamwork between Pierre Fresnay's cop and his love interest Suzy Delair ; Clouzot had clearly taken the Bill Powell-Myrna Loy relationship in the Thin Man series as a template and it is a great pity that the pairing petered out after two films . Definitely one to keep .
French Polish	The triumph of this film is that it DARES you to find fault with a plot that makes a Swiss cheese resemble a block of granite . Take the protagonist , Karol Karol , this is a wimp who makes Mr Bean look as hard as Clint Eastwood yet a gangster hires him on the spot as a bodyguard ? This is the same guy who smuggled himself into Poland concealed in a suitcase that was clearly exempt from airport security as we know it . A guy who hasn't got change of a match one day yet the following day turns up at a bureau de change with a sackful of zlotys to be converted to dollars ; who is then able to buy a piece of land from a peasant and sell it back to his gangster boss for a handsome profit . The gangster's first instinct is just to kill Karol but changes his mind when Karol mentions a will leaving all his property to the Church . What happened to our old friend coercion ? Surely all the gangster had to do was ' torture ' Karol into making a new will on the spot which he , the gangster , would witness . So much for the flaws . The fact is we keep watching , admiring and even Loving this superb film - though the Polish Tourist Board may take exception to the picture Kieslowski paints of his native country ; one looks in vain for a touch of green , a glimpse of sun , a blue sky , a ' touristy ' view that would ' sell ' the country . The three principles are uniformly excellent and the support is first-rate . Much has been and will continue to be made of symbolism , etc but that to one side this is simply a great movie .
Towering Achievement	To be able to see this rare gem at all is fortuitous ; to be able to see it in time for it to be my 1 , 000th review for IMDb is a new definition of serendipity and once again I am deeply indebted to the guy in Norway who has supplied me with so many great French movies . Well over my 1 , 000 reviews are French movies and many of those were the work of Julien Duvivier who is still , alas , awaiting his rightful recognition as one of the truly Great French film makers whose career began in the Silent Era and ended abruptly in the 1960s . This gem dates from 1927 and as I watched it I seriously thought that the screenplay must be the work of Harry Stephen Keeler , an almost forgotten American novelist whose surreal off-the-wall plots were like those of no other writer and had titles like The Man With The Magic Eardrums , The Skull Of The Waltzing Clown etc . Here we have a heady brew indeed ; faux Siamese Twins , one of whom is cheated out of an inheritance by his double , a bizarre sect known as Ku-Klux-Eiffel who go around in Black hoods as opposed to the White hoods of the original Ku-Klux Klan , and exist apparently to jam French radio broadcasts by means of a secret code . When the impostor is installed in his château the sect - who are ' advised ' by someone glorying in the name Li-Ho-Ha - ' haunt ' him until he leaves and prevails upon the real heir , Achillis Saturnin , to take his place in return for 500 , 000 francs . Still to come is a bizarre fight on the Eiffel Tower itself before the obligatory happy ending . Duvivier employs what for the time was a very fluid camera cutting from Master Shot to Close Up to Cutaway adroitly and injecting the free-wheeling plot with consummate pacing . A soundtrack of sorts supplements the title cards from time to time with FX such as a plane buzzing the protagonists and music and song elsewhere . This is a film that cries out for reissue and rediscovery and is a must-see for Duvivier buffs and admirers of French cinema in general .
The Great Racist	This is from the first great flowering of Mank the writer / director ; in 1949 he made House Of Strangers and A Letter To Three Wives , in 1950 he made this one and All About Eve , after that came People Will Talk and Five Fingers . This falls well within the Fox series of late forties films addressing social problems - Pinky , Gentlemen's Agreement , etc - and in many ways it's the strongest and most hard-hitting of the bunch . Widmark - the most mild-mannered of men in private life - was perfectly cast as Ray Biddle , the small-time hood spewing racist vitriol practically every time he opens his mouth , perhaps only Joseph Wiseman and Robert Ryan among his contemporaries could have even tackled such a role . Sydney Poitier , in his first film as anything more than an extra gave us his first essay in the ' noble savage ' role he must have grown bored with by the next decade and arguably Mank loaded the dice by having the Black man be not only intellectually and educationally superior to the White but also morally . Stephen MacNally moved fluidly between hero and villain - that same year he played ' heavy ' Dutch Henry Brown in Winchester 73 - and it was a pity his career stalled before the decade was out . Here he plays the senior doctor who has faith in and respect for Poitier whilst the fourth member of the leading quartet is Linda Darnell , a Fox contract artist who Mank had already used to good effect in A Letter To Three Wives . As the ex-wife of Widmark's brother , whom Poitier is unable to save , she gives a quietly effective performance . For its time this was bold , imaginative film-making and even today it holds up well . Certainly one for the DVD collection .
Child's Play	The Dardenne brothers make it look easy . Their films have simple story lines , basic photography , little or no music and certainly no cgi but they do have exceptional acting which is , in the main , free from the kind of histrionics that some actors assume IS great acting . Once again they offer a simple plot ; Man meets Baby , Man sells Baby , Man finds Baby . On paper , so what , but on film this becomes absorbing . We are introduced to the protagonists economically ; Sonia ( Deborah Francois ) , holding her newborn son , searches for the father , Bruno ( Jeremie Renier ) and finally locates him ' at work ' i . e . in the middle of a scam . Bruno's idea of making a living consists of supplementing Sonia's State help with petty crime and spending the money as fast as he makes it . His new-born son is just something else off which he can make money . Only when Sonia collapses on hearing that Bruno has sold their child do we , the audience , become aware that there is actually something besides himself that Bruno cares about and that is Sonia . I can only echo the accolades that I have read in previous comments here . Despite its downbeat subject this is a wonderful film and fans of the Dardennes will no doubt savour the cameo by Olivier Gourmet , who appeared with Renier in La Promesse . Go see .
Capital Letters	Clint Eastwood is like a fine wine in that he improves with age . A couple of years ago I found myself crying as I watched Million Dollar Baby , the last thing I expected from a Clint Eastwood movie and now he has equalled if not surpassed MDB with Letters From Iwo Jima . It's not exactly a novel idea to portray war from the enemy's perspective ; arguably it was done first in All Quiet On The Western Front , I never saw that one but from what I know about it American actors portrayed Germans , apparently very well , and later , in The Young Lions and None But The Brave we were given both points of view in one movie but here we concentrate solely on the Japanese perspective and Eastwood uses bona fide Japanese for all the roles with apparently several non-actors which adds an extra authenticity given that real wars are fought by non-actors in the main . There is , of course , one superb actor involved in the shape of Ken Watanabe who deserves to win every honor for which he is nominated . Perhaps the most remarkable thing of all is that the film says something that has been said a thousand times before , most famously by General Sherman in The War Between The States , namely War Is Hell , and Eastwood not only reiterates this cliché but does so over two and a half hours and , wonder of wonders , he makes this hackneyed sentiment seem new-minted . The smart money says that Eastwood won't win a Third Best Picture Oscar if only because he's already won two whilst Scorcese - who in my opinion is vastly overrated - has yet to win one , but if there really IS any justice Eastwood will be honored yet again and deservedly so for bringing honor to the Art of film making .
Straight And Narrow	This was the last film of Bernard-Deschamps and only his third Sound film at all in a career largely spent in Silents . It was also the last film of the tragic young actress Jacqueline Prevot , who had been rising gradually since her debut in 1936 and finally it was the last film of Erich Von Stroheim's first great French period and I haven't even mentioned Julien Carrette or Arletty . Not every actress is fortunate enough to appear in four masterpieces in eight years but not all actresses are Arletty . In between the second Le jour se leve and third Les Visiteurs du soir she also managed to rack up some terrific minor masterpieces like Fric-Frac , Circonstances Attenuates , Madame Sans-Gene and this one which may just miss being a minor masterpiece but will do until a valid contender comes along . If you loathe the PC Brigade you'll love the breathless conceit on offer here ; Eric Von Stroheim blacked up like a Mammy singer ( though showing no signs of pre-Minstrel tension ) to sell hair straightener to the denizens of Harlem and making a cool million bucks along the way . But this is only the beginning . He returns to France with another scam this time involving the Sahara and non-existent shares . On his trail is his own father-in-law and in between is Marcel Dalio playing both ends against the middle and caught up in the whole thing is Arletty , a chanteuse in a night club and the girl friend of Dalio who clearly has great taste , not that taste is much good against an irate Von Stroheim . There's a melodramatic finale but with acting like that on offer you can overlook that minor detail . Seek it out .
Adam Had Four Sons	this was the last film that the great Harry Baur made in France and the next-to-last film he made anywhere for having completed it he was conned into travelling to Germany to shoot what would prove to be his 79th and last movie after which he was tortured to death by the Nazis . Given these tragic circumstances one may be tempted to praise the final French film irrespective of whether or not it was up to snuff but I'm delighted to say that it is an excellent effort even if a tad derivative - a few years earlier Julien Duvivier had made one of his finest films as well as one of the finest of the thirties , Un Carnet de bal , in which a middle-aged woman sets out to trace the partners on her first dance card ; now , with a little spin Harry Baur , acutely aware of time's winged chariot drawing near , sets out on a similar quest but in this case his quarries are the four sons he fathered by four separate women in his salad days . Predictably things don't go to plan but we do get four well-crafted stories for the price of one and as if that weren't enough the ubiquitous Gabrielle Fontan is on hand to add a touch of class . Baur was a credit to the French film industry and is as irreplaceable as Raimu , Michel Simon or Gabin and his final French film leaves an enduring memory
Ham On Ruy	Writing yet another screenplay for her father , Gerard Oury , Daniele Thompson went to Victor Hugo's Ruy Blas , used it for a door-stop and fashioned a glorious romp out of it ( incidentally her own third film as writer-director , Fauteuils d'orchestre , opens in Paris next month and I for one can hardly wait ) . There's one sad note surrounding the production ; the great comedian Bourvil had signed to play opposite Louis de Funes but shortly after completing a straight role ( as Andre Bourvil ) in Le Cercle Rouge he died and was replaced by his co-star in Cercle , Yves Montand , switching from drama to slapstick comedy without missing a beat . This movie has all the elements of that Dreadful word we mustn't mention in the groves of Academe or among that small , rapidly dwindling band of Godard buffs , Entertainment . Only see it if you want a good time and a laugh a minute .
The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face	I suppose it's natural for non-French admirers of French cinema to define it by those titles that achieved international distribution such as Pepe Le Moke , Hotel du Nord , Les Enfants du Paradis , Le Jour se leve , etc but I would prefer to define it in terms of what in England we would describe as the ' second eleven ' , the largely domestic French films that seldom played outside France yet were consistently high quality , soundly constructed , directed and acted . Titles that spring to mind include La Belle equipe , La Bandera , Le Dernier des six , Boule de suif , Les Inconnus de la maison and this entry from the unsung writer-director Henri Decoin and starring his then wife , Danielle Darrieux . The plot is gossamer-thin ; Darrieux lives in an orphanage and as a form of escape answers a ' personal ' which results in a lengthy correspondence with a young ( she thinks ) man . On their first date ( a literal translation of the title ) he turns out to be a middle-aged Professor of Literature , Fernand Ledoux ( who , incidentally , starred in yet another fine domestic film Goupi mains rouges ) . Technically , of course , she's AWOL from the orphanage and so she moves in , strictly platonic , natch , with the Professor and it isn't too long before his nephew shows up in the shape of Louis Jordan ( yes , that same Jordan who went on to feature in several Hollywood movies such as Letter From An Unknown Woman and Gigi ) and you can guess the rest . These bare bones are simply that , a skeleton outline and convey nothing of the charm and style of the thing ; Darrieux virtually personifies joie de vivre and even throws in a charming rendition of the title song - which in its day ( 1941 ) was a big hit in France . This was produced in the interval between the German invasion in 1940 and their assuming control of the French film industry via Continental films in 1942 but there's little or no indication of the domestic crisis so one could argue that it really defines escapism . A minor gem .
The Eyes Have It	Over and above the technical brilliance , sure-footed storytelling and top-class acting on display here is the fact that this film was released in 1960 , a defiant nose-thumb from a real filmmaker to those petulant schoolboys , Godard and Truffaut , so busy with their hand-held Arris , Sun-guns and Nagras , playing at being directors , that they had no time and / or inclination to stop and see how the Big Boys do it , this being a prime example and it's nice to think that it's quality product such as this that tsunamied the new wavelet out of existence . It's probably not just coincidence that Franju employed Eugen Shuftan as his cameraman . Shuftan's roots were in the German Expressionism which informs every frame of Eyes Without A Face and ironically in borrowing from an earlier era Franju has done what all good filmmakers do and created a world of his own replete with genius verging on madness , Gothic horror and the obligatory ' secret ' room where unspeakable deeds are done and Franju has been imitated both in Art ( Corps a corps ) and Life - I write this as the tale of the Austrian monster who imprisoned his own daughter in a dungeon for 24 years is filling the headlines . He is well served by his actors , Pierre Brasseur , Alida Valli and Edith Scob and for good measure his son , Claude ( now a respected actor in his own right and still going strong ) has a supporting role as a flic . A key work in French cinema .
Raising Cain	Chronologically this was the fourth adaptation of a James M . Cain novel and the second from Hollywood ( the first two were European ) and it definitely raises Cain a notch higher than the previous years ' Double Indemnity - and given the Indemnity was a collaboration between Billy Wilder and Ray Chandler that is quite an achievement . I note there are a large number of comments on IMDb and I haven't had time to read them all so it's possible that I may replicate some points . One of the things I enjoyed was the fact that the plot was so ' meaty ' as well it may be with three major male and three major female roles plus another half dozen strong supporting characters including the uncredited - even here on IMDb - Butterfly McQueen . For a Hungarian Michael Curtiz had a surefooted grasp of American mores and keeps the movie rolling along at a fast clip . Crawford was at the height of her powers and her performance was well worthy of an Oscar ; Eve Arden turned in her usual ' wisecracking broad ' performance - always a delight , whilst Zachary Scott made the most of the dubious charmer . One to justify the ' they - don't - make - 'em - like - that - anymore ' tag . More's the pity .
This One Breaks Both Legs	This is a brilliant ensemble piece that more than holds up after seventy years . Trivia buffs will have a field day asking which movie finds Ann Miller and Giner Rogers dancing together but they are only a small part of a great cast that includes Eve Arden , Lucille Ball and Katie Hepburn . There's also a nice touch of irony when Hepburn , who had been a successful Broadway actress prior to going to Hollywood , has to come on like an amateur for plot purposes . Although radically altered from the stage version the film does retain the main setting , Foolights , the boarding-house for aspiring actresses which , on Broadway , comprised the principal set , the film , of course , allows us to accompany the girls to casting offices etc . This is absolutely first-rate entertainment and somewhere out there I hope there's a DVD with my name on it .
Over Capricorn	This is an excellent film whichever way you look at it and it certainly didn't feel like two and a half hours . I have to say that I knew nothing about the real events which the film depicts except for reading a couple of reviews since it opened her on Friday and catching a screening on Sunday . There are elements of All The President's Men in the painstaking and often frustrating piecing together of information and unlike All The President's Men the issue here is never resolved satisfactorily . The thing that stands out is not so much how many people Zodiac killed as how many lives he impaired amongst his pursuers in the police force and media . The actors are excellent right across the board and it would be unfair to praise one or two at the expense of another half dozen or so . The usual suspects in Multiplexes across the land may possibly de disappointed at the lack of gore , sex and violence and excess of intellectual content but everyone else should enjoy it thoroughly .
Magical Mystery Tour . . .	. . . and I DO mean magical . But then why not , the script is the work of Jacques Prevert who enjoyed nothing more than dabbling in fantasy - see : Les Portes de la nuit , Les Visiteurs du soir if you don't believe me - and the direction is by his kid brother , Pierre . This was the third and last time the brothers worked together and Voyage Surprise is a worthy follow up to Adieu , Leonard , three years earlier . With the possible exception of Martine Carol - who featured in the odd soft-porn like Caroline Cherie and later played Lola Montes for Ophuls - virtually the entire cast is unknown outside France and that is the world outside France's loss because every last eccentric is worth ten Tom Cruises . If I told you the plot you wouldn't believe it ( as I wouldn't if you told it to me ) so suffice it to say that an old man realizes a lifelong ambition to host a ' Mystery Tour ' in a custom-built bus that might have been designed by the guests at the Mad Hatter's tea party to transport the denizens of Wonderland through the looking glass and into the ' real ' world of 1947 . That should be sufficient to tell you if this is your kind of movie or not ; if ' yes ' then you'll Delight in its myriad wonders , if ' no ' get well soon .
Hell Is Other People's Screenplays . . .	. . . brought lovingly to fruition . For those living until yesterday in a remote Galaxy on the Dark side of the Milky Way maybe I should explain that the late and Great Polish writer-director Krystian Kieslowski left among his papers three Screenplays , Heaven , Hell and Purgatory and now the fine Bosnian ( No Man's Land ) director Danis Tanovic has shot the second part so that what we have is a Polish screenplay directed by a Bosnian with a ( largely ) French cast . The result is harrowing but richly rewarding and Bergman buffs will feel right at home with the doom and gloom which is present in both the story and dark interiors . With actors of the calibre of Carole Bouquet , Manu Beart , Karin Viard , Jean Rochefort and Jacques Gamblin you'd have to work at screwing it up ( okay , Godard could make a pig's ear of it without trying but luckily he's unrivalled at ineptness and incompetence ) and Tanovic has scrupulously and perfectly captured the writer's intention . This is a film of nuances and ' moody ' to the nth degree with three sisters united by a common tragedy but distanced from each other in the present ; Karin Viard is the only one who visits mother ( Carole Bouquet ) long institutionalized and reduced to communicating via pencil and paper . Viard turns in a career-best performance as a bruised , repressed spinster , longing for companionship and Bouquet is not far behind completely deglamorized in straggly gray hair and a wonderful way with a curtain line . Marie Gillain is perhaps the most conventional character as the youngest sister who allows herself to become pregnant by a married Sorbonne Professor - played by Jacques Perrin finally escaping his fate as a top-and-tailer ; he played the narrator in both Cinema Paradiso and Les Choristes and is on on view currently in Le Petite Lieutenant - who kills himself rather than deal with the situation , and Manu Beart is the terminally unhappy wife of Jacques Gamblin . There's not a lot of joy on offer here but there are some beautifully realised cameos like the porter on the train who finally plucks up courage to approach Viard romantically after years of punching her ticket as she travels to the institution and accepts defeat of a sort - he chooses the day when the sisters have reunited and are travelling together - philosophically and Jean Rochefort as a fellow inmate of Bouquet who does little but sit on a bench but HOW he does it . If your idea of a great movie is American Pie you won't last five minutes with this one but if you value fine acting , directing and storytelling you'll want to go again .
The Sky's The Limit	This is a brilliant example of the kind of well-crafted Professional film that had those overgrown children at Cahiers du Cinema throwing their toys out of the pram and mounting a weak resistance via the New Wavelet that was shipping serious water within a decade . Julien Duvivier left more Craftsmanship on the Cutting Room floor than Godard managed to include in his total output and Sous Le Ciel finds him on top of his game in the kind of multi-strand story he gave us in his classic Un Carnet du bal . This time around he concentrates on a single day , dusk to dawn in Paris and moves deftly between a group of people who may or may not have cause to remember this one day . It's arguable that Duvivier and / or his writing collaborator ex-actor Rene Lefevre ( who , by complete coincidence , I saw acting in Les Musiciens du ciel less than a week ago ) got the ' idea ' from Norman Collins ' novel London Belongs To Me , which reached the screen in the late 1940s but the characters there had in common the rooming house in which they all lived and the action spanned several months but wherever the idea originated it's adaptation is masterful . Color would have been detrimental to this story which takes in an industrial strike where one of the characters spends the day - his wedding anniversary - on the picket line , a training hospital where a student has no problem with practicalities but sucks at passing exams , a boat ride on the Seine ending in a quarrel between the two children concerned , a photo-shoot which allows for some spectacular shots through fountains plus three people wandering the city , one old spinster who hasn't got change of a match trying in vain to scare up some food for her home full of cats , one young girl just arrived from the provinces and perhaps most significant of all the young sculptor slowly becoming manic enough to plunge a knife into a stranger . Some of these lives will connect , some will just miss , some of the characters will have problems erasing this day from their memories , some will forget it in a moment , a month or a year , but we won't be amongst them .
Eat Your Heart Out , Baz	What a pity that flavor-of-the-month darling of the Arrested Development Set Baz Luhrmann didn't take a look at this when he first got the idea to deal with the same era and steal the title ; had he done so he may have cut his throat and abandoned that piece of drek he foisted upon a naive public . Here John Huston demonstrates how the big boys do it in a sumptuous - albeit largely fictional - well-constructed and beautifully shot screenplay which captures the Authentic fin-de-siecle Paris in a way that Luhrmann couldn't even aspire to . The opening is masterful and Huston keeps us waiting for the star attraction , Toulouse Lautrec ( Jose Ferrer ) and even then introduces him obliquely via shots of a hand sketching rapidly the teeming life around him . When we finally do see Lautrec Huston keeps him seated at the table til the end of the scene and seated , of course , Lautrec looks like anyone else . Only at the end of the evening as the waiters are clearing up does Lautrec stand up and reveal himself in all his four and a half feet . Perhaps we should remember that in 1952 there were still many cinema-goers , certainly in the Middle West of America who knew next to nothing about Lautrec least of all how diminutive he was so Huston pulled off what in another medium would be described as a coup de theatre . Good as Ferrer is he is effortlessly eclipsed by the wonderful French actress Suzanne Flon who makes a late appearance as the one person - apart from his mother - who truly loves Toulouse for what he is rather than what he looks like and perhaps his greatest tragedy is that he is unable to see this . Inevitably comparisons with Larry Hart , another diminutive genius unable to find true love , surface pointless though they may be . It's possible that the early flashback showing how Lautrec became crippled was more or less obligatory at the time and whilst I lack the knowledge and / or expertise to dismiss it I have the feeling it is total fiction - an ordinary child suffering a fall may not regain the use of his legs but such an accident would hardly stunt his growth , Cole Porter to cite arguably the most famous example , suffered a horrible riding accident in which both his legs were crushed and though he was never again to have the full use of them he did retain his normal height - but this is really academic . What we have is a gripping story , exceptional color photography , a fine central performance plus an outstanding supporting performance and a real ' feel ' of a specific era . Classic .
Like Raindrops On Roses . . .	. . . a few of My favourite things are the films of Claude Sautet such as Cesar et Rosalie , Vincent , Francois , Paul et les autres , Nelly et M . Arnaud and The Things Of Life , the film that marked both a change of direction and a maturity in Sautet's career . The premise is hardly original ; a man is involved in a car crash and as he nears death his life flashes before him . In other hands this could be maudlin , gauche , embarrassing or all three but writers like Jean-Loup Dabadie ( who worked with Sautet on two of the exceptional films he made with Yves Montand , Cesar et Rosalie and Vincent , Francois , Paul et les autres ) and directors like Sautet don't do maudlin , gauche , etc and as if the technical credits weren't enough we have actors like Michel Piccoli and Romy Schneider to put the icing on the cake . This is one that stands up to repeated viewings .
Hagen Dazzler	No one ever accused Hollywood of Doing The Right Thing or of having even heard of integrity so if , after creating the role of Eliza Doolittle and playing it for more than five years in both New York and London Julie Andrews was thought unfit to play it in the film version then there was no way Paramount was going to let Uta Hagen - who picked up a Best Actress Tony Award for her portrayal of Georgie on Broadway - replicate her role in the film version of Clifford Odets last great Broadway play , nor , if it comes to that , would they even consider allowing Paul Kelly - by then a veteran of 166 films dating from the Silent era , and who had himself won a Best Actor Tony for Command Decision - to recreate his Frank Elgin when they had a CROONER lined up for the lead . As it turned out both Bing Crosby and Grace Kelly turned in fairly decent performances though William Holden left both of them dead in the water . Incredibly - in a realistic sense - Grace Kelly beat out Judy Garland in A Star Is Born for Best Actress Oscar for this role in which Academy Voting members clearly mistook a set of old clothes and ' dowdy ' make up for Great Acting . Clifford Odets started with a bang with his One-Act play Waiting For Lefty and followed it with some great full-length items such as Awake And Sing and Rocket To The Moon before being seduced by Hollywood . Beginning in 1941 with Clash By Night he wrote three of the finest plays in both his own career or indeed anyone's , following Clash By Night with The Big Knife in 1949 and The Country Girl in 1950 before ending his theatre career with The Flowering Peach in 1954 . It's ironic that George Seaton , utilising a fair percentage of Odet's dialogue from the play picked up a Best Screenplay Oscar for The Country Girl and we can only assume that it was given for his rewriting the main role of Frank Elgin to make him a singer who learns to act rather than vice versa . If you never saw the play then you won't be too bothered about this and if you have seen the play you'll probably concede that Seaton makes a decent enough fist of the transition but if you have seen the play what you will relish most of all are the unmistakable Odets virile lines that fight their way to the surface through the morass that Seaton has fashioned . In sum : a Great play rewritten into a Very Good film with a Great performance from Holden and two half-decent ones from Kelly and Crosby .
Fools Gold ( en ) Gloves	It's quite possible that had he been given the choice Bogie would have selected this movie or one of the same quality for his swan song . His Eddie Willis embodies the qualities he'd been exhibiting for years but which first attracted scholarly notice in Casablanca , i . e . the outwardly tough cynic who somehow contrives to do the right thing . If you step back a pace or two it's clear that this battle of good versus evil tends to extremes in that as personified by Rod Steiger the Evil is upper-case whilst as personified by Mike Lane the Good verges on the saintly but Mark Robson's direction allows little time for this kind of reflection . Bogie is simply superb with Steiger not far behind albeit displaying all his ' method ' tricks and to some extent replicating his performance as Marcus Hoff in Cliff Odets ' The Big Knife , produced that same year , and there is strong support from Harold J . Stone with non-actor Jersey Joe Walcott being especially effective as George , the soft-spoken ex-champ who ' handles ' Toro . One that kind stand multiple viewings .
On Song	Classical muso turned writer-director Denis Dercourt hit the ground running with this brilliant debut that contrives successfully to make Classical music both palatable and highly amusing to a mass audience . The premise is simple enough ; one of a group of freelance classical musicians is asked to put together an ensemble to play a New Year's Eve gig at a château in Northern France . He assembles it from amongst colleagues with whom he works regularly with the exception of the clarinet chair which will have to be filled locally . Everything that can go wrong does go wrong , natch , from the internecine rivalry centering on who is going to be leader to the slightly enceinte female member of the group choosing her moment with metronomic precision to the local clarinet player who mentions casually mid-rehearsal that he can't actually ' read ' reed music . Utilising his own experience and inside knowledge ( he teaches Classical music in his day-time job ) Dercourt brews a heady wine guaranteed to intoxicate the senses . Highly recommended .
The Last Noel	Though he wrote several plays and the screenplay for the David Lean version of Hobson's Choice Wynyard Browne's main claim to fame was that he was at Cambridge with Michael Redgrave . The Holly And The Ivy was arguably his most successful play and his adaptation for the screen reflects - despite some misguided ' opening out ' - its peculiar ' English ' quality . I haven't seen the play but I HAVE seen enough plays to make an educated guess that it was a one-set effort with Act One setting the scene , a parsonage / vicarage in rural Norfolk , and bringing in the family members piecemeal to celebrate Christmas with those members in turn bringing their emotional baggage . The patriarch , Ralph Richardson on top of his game , is a widower with three children , one , Celia Johnson , the stay-at-home devoted daughter prepared to sacrifice her own happiness to take care of the elderly clergyman , one , Margaret Leighton , a high-flying career woman in London , and one , Denholm Elliott , a callow youth doing his ' National Service ' in the British army and these three are supplemented by two aunts , Maureen Delaney and Margaret Halston . Arguably Browne originally wrote a tight , well-made family drama which benefited from the one set but he - or the producer - has seen fit to introduce us to the children / aunts prior to their arrival for the Christmas celebrations which involved creating supplementary characters i . e . , Elliott's superiors in the army who place him on a charge and grant him a pass for the holidays . That cavil to one side the bulk of the film is yet another cross between a time capsule and a valentine to an England long gone the way of the dinosaur except of course that in 1952 the England depicted still existed . Browne offers a basic conflict ; Celia Johnson is in love with John Gregson who in turn has a job opportunity abroad . She would dearly love to go with him but feels unable to ask her successful sister to give up her career and return home - the aunts are themselves elderly and set in their ways and Mick ( Elliott ) is a non-starter . Someone has remarked on these boards that Celia Johnson is too old to play a thirty one year old and whilst that's probably - and certainly biologically - true she's such a fine actress that the gets away with it easily though she is hardly being extended here in which she basically reprises her Laura Jesson in ' Brief Encounter ' , in love with one man but bound to another , the difference being that in the former she was bound to a husband and here she is bound to a father . John Gregson , who plays her potential husband , was never much more than a personable leading man of the solid , dependable kind , the tweedy , pipe-smoking stock character so beloved of British dramatists and here he's required to do little more than offer his impression of a mahogany sideboard . Margaret Leighton turns in yet another variant of the beautiful ice-maiden longing to show her cuddly kitten side and it is her character - obliged to conceal an illegitimate child that today she would flaunt - that perhaps illustrates the gap between life half a century ago and today . Somehow it all comes together and makes for a warm , nostalgic viewing experience .
Meilleur Humaine	One sign of good writing is how they deal with the Exposition and it's not necessarily how Quickly but how Smoothly . Seamless is good . This is an excellent example ; the credits roll over a small seaside town telling us all we need to know about the kind of town it is and come to rest naturally on the hairdressing salon of Yvon Rance ( Gerard Jugnot ) whose clientèle , virtually all blue-rinse matrons is established equally quickly whilst the main exception , a teenage boy who wants only Laetitia to cut his hair establishes that there is a daughter of the house and presumably a looker . Within minutes Yvon begins to fret about the absence of this daughter to the extent of leaving his salon and asking the patron and teenage customers of the neighboring bar if they have seen her - there is even time for the wife of the patron to arrange a tryst with Yvon who leaves with no concrete knowledge of his daughter . Through all this there has been no talk , hint or suggestion of a Madame Rance and without being told we know that there isn't one . In less than five minutes screen time we have come to know a middle-aged man who is still virile and worries / is over protective of a 17 year old daughter . Within a few minutes more we meet the daughter herself who , instead of sitting exams at school has not only been for an audition but has landed the lead in a major film . Now the stage is set for comedy , drama , the whole nine yards . There seems to be only one other comment on this film which makes a point that I will second , namely that this is not the funniest film you'll ever see but neither is it the most dramatic or tragic . Yes , there ARE laughs , lots of laughs and yes , there ARE tears , perhaps not so many but enough . Mostly these are REAL people not cardboard and we ARE able to care about them , to laugh or even perhaps wince at the way a single father's concern manifests itself , and to cry a little when the chick flies the nest and , just as we know she will , gets her wings burned before maturing and leaving us with a warm feeling by reel # 10 . The more I see of Geral Jugnot the more I find myself thinking of him in terms of a French Jack Lemmon , a man who exudes decency from every pore yet can induce tears of laughter and happiness effortlessly and still make us cry dramatically if necessary . The fact that he writes and directs as well as acts is all the more remarkable . This movie won't set the world on fire but it will warm the occasional heart which is no bad thing .
Courting Disaster	If anyone could make the creaky Agatha Christie plotting work it had to be Billy Wilder . Or , if you will , it takes a cinematic genius to make Agatha Christie work and Billy Wilder is just such a genius . Alas , not even Wilder could fully restrain arch-ham Laughton from taking the odd king-size bite out of any available scenery but by and large Laughton IS restrained and all the better for it . Co-stars Ty Power and Marlene Dietrich are their usual pro selves and the supporting cast which has the feel of being hand-picked - Ian Wolfe , Henry Daniell , John Williams plus Mrs Laughton , Elsa Lanchester are all right on the money . Though he barely ' opens up ' the play on which it is based Wilder has no problem retaining interest even in black and white and with his usual no-nonsense camera angles - he clearly saw no point in tracking Tyrone Power down the street and back up again , content to leave no-brainers like that to the Godards of this world . I've never been much of a Dietrich fan , she's always seemed a tad mannered to me but if I have one cavil it is that Power would dump someone as substantial as Dietrich for the totally vapid ' other woman ' with whom he went off at the end . Apart from that this is another vintage Wilder .
Cry Woolf	There's a certain type of ' art ' film the English do very well and likely as not Vanessa Redgrave won't be far away - I can't wait til someone has the good sense to release A Month By The Lake on DVD so that I can write about it without having to rely on the memory of having seen it twice within one week on its initial and limited release . This is no exception and virtually everyone is to be congratulated for ' visualizing ' a novel employing the ' streams-of-consciousness ' technique at which Woolf was a a dab hand . It's a given - or it should be - that Vanessa Redgrave illuminates any stage or screen she cares to grace and here she catches beautifully the light-as-air slightly ethereal quality of Clarissa Dalloway in middle age preparing , at one level , for a party she will hold in the evening whilst reminiscing on another level about her youth and , among other things , the suitor she let get away in favor of the ' safer ' Mr Dalloway . Redgrave is supported more than ably by some stalwarts of British TV and stage , oliver Ford Davis , Michael Kitchen , Amelia Bullmore , John Standing and Rupert Graves who , for once , is not so much precious as actually watchable . Surprisingly someone has put some thought into decor and color so that the overall result makes for a pleasant wallow in Charm , Sophistication and Style .
Taking The Mike	This is the movie that Mike Leigh ripped off in Vera Drake and it's on view again as part of the Isabelle Huppert season at London's National Film Theatre . The overriding impression is the magnificent central performance from Huppert , definitely one of her best and that's saying a lot ; one wonders at the folly of asking Imelda Staunton to go up against Huppert ; this is something you just don't do unless you happen to be Nathalie Baye , Catherine Frot or Carole Bouquet and even then you make sure your affairs are in order . Chabrol hits almost every target at which he aims and he aims at a lot , the fact that the film is more or less true - based on the story of the last women to face the guillotine in France - is largely academic . In a nice touch for a tale of a woman who treated abortion casually Huppert's own five year old daughter appears as her fictional offspring . The towering central performance is only one strength of a film that is greater than its parts .
Cat Among The Pignons	Now that Billy Wilder has gone it's nice to know that Francis Veber is still here to remind us of the Wilder style , charm and class . This is not to say that Veber is in the same league as the Master but he's definitely in the same ballpark ; let's put it this way , if Wilder was a fifteen-to-one martini then Veber is a ten-to-one and if you've ever sampled an EIGHT-to-one martini you'll know just how potent a ten-to-one can be . Wilder delighted in sight gags and meet-cutes and here Veber offers both . It is , in fact , a sight gag that kicks us off ; two top-of-the-line sports cars pull up at a stop light and the two drivers , Gad Elmalah and Danny Boon , exchange compliments . Then the lights change and we follow them to discover that both are Parking Valets for a tony restaurant at Chatillon . Next comes the meet-cute : Daniel Auteuil is the multi-millionaire honcho of a large corporation , married to Kristin Scott-Thomas but putting in heavy duty sack-time with an International model Elena ( Alice Taglioni ) ; ultra discreet he has minders to check the street before venturing into and leaving the communal love-nest but when Elena storms out in the wake of a quarrel he throws caution to the wind and confronts her on the sidewalk where , natch , he falls victim to a strolling paparazzo but who should be passing at that very moment but Francois Pignon ( Gad Elmalah ) so , doing some very fancy dancing Auteuil convinces Scott-Thomas that it is Pignon , not himself , who is the item with Elena . The next step , of course , is to get Taglioni and Elmalah to shack up together to look convincing - see what I mean about Wilder ? Taglioni is , let's face it , a world-class beauty if you like that sort of thing but Pignon happens to be dating Virginie Ledoyen who leaves Taglioni dead in the water but it makes for some nice complications . Also on hand are Michel Aumont - who also has a nice line in sight gags - and Danny Boon and given that Veber is now lacing his comedy with heart - a la The Apartment - the result is the perfect Saturday night movie .
Cold Steele	Bogie's Dixon Steele suffers the same affliction as Gabin's Jacques Lantier in La Bete Humaine ; both are prone to unexplained violent rages that may ( in Steele's case ) and do ( in Lantier's ) lead to murder . The flaw in both films is the failure by the writer and / or director to offer an explanation for the outbreaks - actually Emile Zola , author of the source work for La Bete Humaine , did offer an explanation but you had to read the nine-novel cycle to be aware of it and how many moviegoers are prepared to do that . Putting that aside this remains a terrific movie with Bogie right on top of his game - in some aspects it's a dress rehearsal for his Queeg a couple of years later in The Caine Mutiny - which means the best there is and there's even the odd ' inside ' joke like the uncredited appearance by Mike Romanoff , proprietor of the Hollywood restaurant where Bogie was a habitue ' . Indeed the Hollywood setting allows for metaphorical readings if you're so inclined and it is a masterstroke to have a director , agent , actress , actor-on-the-skids and screenright as prominent characters yet remain a million miles away from a studio . This is almost certainly the pick of the crop of Bogie's Columbia years which coincided with his last great period . any day of the week .
Love Among The Ruins	This has the Wilder stamp all over it ; cynical , trenchant , classy , stylish . It was common practice for Hollywood studios to use music associated with a given studio as background in subsequent films yet who but Wilder would select Isn't It Romantic as a background to sleaze and squalor , love among the ruins indeed . Jean Arthur excels as uptight Congresswoman Phoebe Frost , carefully finishing off a report before taking a look at Berlin from the air - reminding us of a previous character written by Wilder , Garbo's Ninotchka , who failed to be impressed by Paris initially . Frost is bringing a chocolate cake on behalf of one of her constituants in Iowa to Captain John Pringle , John Lund , and Arthur's performance is truly the frosting on this particular cake . The menage a trois is completed by Marlene Dietrich as Eric Von Shutelow who sings in a shady club called the Lorelei and was the mistress of a high-ranking Nazi currently in hiding . The only false note is the fact that with all the austerity on view - and not even owning a decent mattress til Lund trades his cake for one - Dietrich is able to boast three different expensive dresses , one for each of the three numbers she performs , accompanied , incidentally , by the uncredited Frederick Hollander , who composed all three . Even weakest link Lund , wooden at the best of times and not helped by having to utter such lines as ' you blonde flame-thrower ' , can't bring this down to less than . It was Wilder's last film of the forties and stands beside Double Indemnity and The Lost Weekend as the very cream of his output - not that The Major And The Minor or Five Graves To Cairo were chopped liver if anyone asks you , but this was just the right note with which to follow the disappointing The Emporer Waltz .
Van Cleve And ( H ) Arp ( H ) ells	Lubitsch was on a roll in 1943 ; since 1938 he had made Bluebeard's Eighth Wife , Ninotchka , The Shop Around The Corner , That Uncertain Feeling and To Be Or Not To Be , five classics one after another and although he would complete two more movies and leave one unfinished Heaven Can Wait was his last undisputed masterpiece . Only watch this if you value Style , Wit , Charm , Sophistication and gentle storytelling but if you do respond to those qualities you'll adore this story of a lovable roue ' who is quite content to wind up in hell with no regrets , an attitude that intrigues Laird Creagar's devil , so much so that he prevails upon Henry Van Cleve to recount his life on earth . As Van Cleve the normally wooden Don Ameche actually gives a performance under the tuition of Lubitsch , one that is matched by leading lady Gene Tierney but this duo is only the tip of an iceberg comprising the cream of Hollywood supporting actors from Charles Coburn through Spring Byington , Clarence Muse , Eugene Palette , Marjorie Main and Allyn Joslyn . An utter delight .
Teachers Pet . . .	. . . or at they would if Judi Dench had her way . I'm slightly bemused at the critical comments I've read in the Press inasmuch as they seem almost startled that Judi Dench is playing Evil . Come on , fellas , she's an ACTRESS for God's sake and that's what actors DO . ACT . It appears she's paying the price for years of playing roles that enhance her natural Warmth , decency and , yes , Goodness , but she's only done Lady Macbeth so we shouldn't be - and I , for one , am not - surprised to discover that her individual spectrum is impressive . Surrounded by other fine actors of the calibre of Cate Blanchett and Bill Nighy she dominates the screen to the extent that Patrick Marber's screenplay , adapted in turn from a novel by Zoe Heller , gets lost in the shuffle as does the direction of Richard Eyres . I suspect that a second viewing would reveal the richness of both the screenplay and the principal co-stars but the initial viewing belongs to Dench , who is beyond Magnificent .
Hi , Spirits	The mid-forties saw something of a vogue in ' ghost ' films ; 1945 brought a film adaptation of Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit , with David Lean at the helm , 1947 yielded Mank's The Ghost And Mrs Muir ( with Rex Harrison as the ghost rather than the object of the ghost's desire ) and in the middle was Claude Autant-Lara's Sylvie et le fantome with a screenplay by Jean Aurenche . At 32 Odette Joyeux was arguably a tad old to play a teenager and it may be more than coincidental that she later married her lighting cameraman here , Philippe Agostini , though at the time she was still married to Pierre Brasseur - their ten-year old son , Claude , would turn out to have as distinguished an acting career as his father . Despite a fairly respectable acting CV - she appeared in both Douce and Le Marriage de Chiffon around this time - Joyeux never really enjoyed star status and soon branched out into writing for both big and small screens but this time around she is both effective and charming as the endearingly naive teenager with a romantic attachment to the ' white hunter ' in the life-size portrait in her château . Alas , times are hard and head of the family Pierre Larquey is obliged to sell the portrait on the eve of Sylvie's birthday and in an effort to make some sort of amends he hires someone to impersonate the White Hunter as a spirit and one becomes three when the elderly actor supplied by an Agency is supplemented by a shy suitor and a criminal , all of whom are out-spirited by the REAL ghost in the ( spectral ) form of Jacques Tati . This is nothing less than a delight , a wonderful confection , exactly the kind of film despised by the spoilt children of the New Wavelet and far superior to any of the bile they vomited onto the screen a decade later . A worthy .
Memories Are Made Of This	Billy Wilder began Sunset Boulevard with a shot of the morgue in Hollywood ; one by one the stiffs started talking amongst themselves explaining how they wound up with tags on their toes but when they sneaked it the punters didn't get it and started laughing so they junked the whole sequence . That same year , 1950 , Christian Jacque began his Souvenirs Perdus in a Lost Property Office ; the camera pans the objects and eventually four of them - a statue of Osiris , a funeral wreath , a scarf and a violin - relate their own stories of how they came to be there . The compendium movie enjoyed something of a vogue in the late forties / early fifties ; technically it had its roots in Dead Of Night , in 1945 but it was about three years later that the success of ' Quartet ' led to a couple of sequels , ' Trio ' and ' Encore ' which , like ' Quartet ' were adaptations of short stories by Willie Maugham . There was also something called ' Easy Money ' and over in Hollywood Fox weighed in with ' Full House ' five stories by O'Henry . Not to be outdone Max Ophuls adapted three stories by Guy De Maupassant into ' Le Plaisir ' but it was Christian Jacque who prevailed upon two of the greatest screenplay writers in French cinema , Jacques Prevert and Henri Jeanson , to come up with a compendium film and the result was ' Souvenirs Perdus ' , four stories , the first and fourth by Prevert , the second and third by Jeanson ( or LARGELY by Prevert and Jeanson inasmuch as others were involved . After establishing the Lost Property Office the camera pans along the rows and rows of lost and / or discarded items and , as stated , four of them become verbose and lay their stories on us . First up is a statue of Osiris , a reproduction of the one in the Egyptian Room of the Louvre who was minding his own business one day when two old lovers happened to meet in front of it and proceed to lie to each other . Pierre Brasseur is not , as he claims , an architect , but scrapes a living hustling ' dirty ' French postcards to gullible tourists whilst Edwige Feuilliere may be dressed to the nines and dripping with diamonds but it is only on loan for a fashion shoot . Nevertheless they spend a bittersweet night together and then part . It was a masterstroke to cast Feuilliere , one of the shining lights of French cinema at that time along with Micheline Presle , Arletty , Danielle Darrieux , et al , though Pierre Brasseur isn't exactly chopped liver if anybody asks you . Next up is a funeral wreath , utilised for the final journey of a not-much-missed uncle of playboy Francis Perier . Shortly before the funeral a discarded girlfriend , Suzy Delair , in whom he has no further interest , shows up at his apartment and Perier gets his manservant , Armand , to let on that the wreath is for his own funeral . A reasonable ploy but naturally it backfires when Delair turns up at the graveside and floods the joint giving the mourners pause as the corps was anything but a ladies man . The third object , a scarf , was used to strangle a young girl , Daniele Delorme ; Gerard Philippe was reasonably wealthy and was blessed with a bunch of relatives who couldn't wait for him to croak so had him committed to an asylum the easier to get at his money . Managing to escape he makes it his business to track them down one by one and ensure that they get it where the chicken got the axe . In the midst of all this he meets Delorme on a bridge from which she is about to Brody . Perhaps foolishly he prevents her , she takes him home , he falls asleep , wakes to find her gone , figures she's blown the whistle on him and when she returns with the provisions she's been to buy he loses it and strangles her . This sequence is all quirky angles and mirror shots and is , by far , the most dramatic of the four . Last up is ' The Violin ' and for me this was the selling point for it features not only Yves Montand but an uncredited Henri Crolla , who was Montand's personal guitarist until his tragically early death . Montand plays a street singer always falling foul of the law in the shape of Bernard Blier who offers him a deal . Blier is in love with a widow but he has a rival ; the widow has a young son who plays - and I use the word loosely , the violin . Blier figures if he gets Montand to coach the kid he'll score brownie points with the widow and leave his rival with egg on his face . Naturally once Montand hears the kid all bets are off . Bizarrely Prevert allows Blier to begin singing his ( Prevert's ) own ' Les Feuilles Mortes ' before Montand , in goal at the time , finishes it . Later Montand gives us Prevert's Tournesol . Thirty one at the time Montand's voice was in its prime and for buffs this is a real standout - I , for one , as arguably the number # 1 Montand buff would cheerfully ( if necessary ) forfeit the other three segments and keep just The Violin despite it being essentially fluff . In its wisdom Rene Château have just released this on DVD and it is now an integral part of my collection .
The Joker Is Wilde	This is , hands down , the definitive film version of Wilde's finest play rendering all others superfluous . Puffin Asquith made something of a specialty of adapting stage plays and his resume ' includes Pygmalion , Quiet Wedding , Cottage To Let , French Without Tears , plus the definitive film version ( the Albert Finney remake was a joke ) of the finest One-Act play ever written , Terry Rattigan's The Browning Version , in which Asquith and Redgrave teamed up yet again . Michael Redgrave was the outstanding Stage actor of his generation despite strong competition from Ralph Richardson , Johhny Gielgud and the overrated Larry Olivier but for better or worse he was associated with ' weighty ' roles , especially Shakespeare yet he possessed the lightest of touches when playing comedy as he demonstrates here where he leads a cast that would be difficult if not impossible to eclipse . From all accounts Edith Evans ' Lady Bracknell was one or two notches below her stage version in the ' classic ' John Gielgud version of the play some years earlier and if that is so then the stage performance may well have been out of this world . The other Michael in the cast ( Dennison , as Algy ) is not someone immediately linked with Wilde yet he brings it off exceptionally well which may be hardly surprising given it was his impetus that got the project off the ground . Miles Malleson and the ' amateur ' ( when Redgrave dared to praise her standout performance as Madame Arcati at an out-of-town preview of Blithe Spirit to the author , Noel Coward , he was taken aback when Coward seethed ' amateur ' and changed the subject ) Margaret Rutherford complement each other perfectly whilst Joan Greenford and newcomer ( in her film debut ) Dorothy Tutin round off a cast in which everyone has grasped the concept of speaking the Wildean epigrams with which it is studded as if they were the most banal clichés . Definitely one to savor .
Think Ink	Daniel Duval has some fifty acting credits to his name not least the father in Will It Snow For Christmas and this is by far the best of the handful of films he's directed overflowing with warmth and charm . In some ways it covers similar ground to Le Grand Chemin inasmuch as a young boy is initially a fish out of water in the countryside but learns to adapt . This time around he's an orphan adopted by Jean-Paul Rouve and Ann Brochet who take him back to their farm half a century ago . There seems to be something of a vogue at the moment for lost Ruralism in France and perhaps it takes a townie like me to revel in lyrical scenes of ploughing , haymaking etc from a seat in the cinema where I don't have to rely on a well for water or a kettle to make it hot . The icing on the cake is Annie Girardot and the touching and loving relationship between her and our young hero is at the very core of the film and Denis Podalydes is also on hand as the local schoolmaster who thinks nothing in those far off days when PC meant only a Police Constable of grabbing a boy by the ear and marching him to the front of the class or even out the door . If , like me , you enjoy nostalgia once-removed then this is surely for you .
Alice Doesn't Live There Anymore	For a film that embraces Alice In Wonderland logic it's appropriate that it starts as a man ( Alphonse Tram ) descends into a hole in the ground and by extension into a subterranean nightmare . Having reached the train level of La Defense metro station Tram ( Gerard Depardieu ) ignores the acres of empty space and chooses a seat alongside the only other person there ( Michel Serrault ) pursuing him and engaging him in surreal conversation . At one point Tram produces a flick knife , offers it to Serrault who declines it and places it on an adjacent seat . Moments later it has disappeared despite there being no other person present . La Defense is a terminus so when a train appears , Serrault boards it and it moves off in the same direction it travelled to get there ( in other words into the buffers ) this is confirmation that we are in an unreal world which is perhaps a figment of Tram's imagination . A little later as Tram leaves the station he finds Serrault slumped against a wall wearing a knife that turns out to be the knife that Tram offered to Serrault which disappeared mysteriously . Serrault is philosophical about his condition and urges Tram to take his money for which he will have no further use . Tram returns home - a high-rise apartment block in which he and his wife WERE the only tenants but now , his wife tells him , there is a new tenant . Tram pays a social call and learns that the new tenant is Inspector Morvandieu ( Bernard Blier , the director's father ) who is not too concerned about a stiff in the subway . Then Tram's wife turns up dead and the killer ( Jean Carmet ) visits Tram to confess his guilt and ask for a souvenir of the dead woman . All three men share a drink when a fourth man appears , and tells Tram he knows that Tram killed Serrault , the Inspector cautions him against blackmail and the murderer asks for the new arrival's sympathy on the grounds that Tram has just lost his wife . But they needn't have worried , the new arrival merely wishes to hire Tram to kill someone else . And so it goes . All hands play this dead straight which strengthens the nightmare aspect . Eventually the fourth man is killed and his wife has already packed and is anxious to go with the other three . In a reference to Minnelli's Some Came Running she asks Tram if he ever removes his coat ( he hadn't up to that point , just as ' Bama ' Dillert ( Dean Martin ) never removed his hat in the Minnelli film ) . There's also an aside in which Tram and Morvandieu visit a very Charles Addams house where a classical concert is taking place . Morvandieu speaks of his aversion to classical music whereupon the hostess takes him to a bedroom , urges him to get into bed on the grounds that he isn't looking well then summons five very Charles Addams characters to play Brahms with a nod to Francois Sagan with the question ' Do you like Brahms ? ' . Morvandieu promptly shoots the entire quintet and later says his wife was a violinist who drove him crazy with her practicing . Watching this film is like peeling an onion soaed in lsd ; layer after layer more surreal yet normal than the last . After the darkness of the urban jungle it finally emerges into full daylight for the final nightmares . The only way to approach it is on its own terms which will bring its own rewards .
Czech Mates	The old saying if you're going to steal , steal from the best rings true in this case which is essentially In Which We Serve in khaki ; both feature men in confined spaces reminiscing about their lives in Civvy Street with the main difference being that instead of a lifeboat we have a prison camp where a similar cross-section of Upper , Middle and Working Classes learn to rub along more or less amicably . For good measure they even ripped off the celebrated scene from Casablanca where the German singing is drowned out by 1 ) the Marseillaise and 2 ) Roll Out The Barrel , but the most blatant rip-off from the Coward masterpiece is in the two married couples , respectively Bernand Miles / Joyce Carey / John Mills / Kay Walsh and Jack Warner / Gladys Henson / Mervyn Johns / Rachel Thomas , who were friends before the war so much so that the two wives move in together for the duration ; in each film one wife is killed and the news is broken to the widower via a letter from home to the other man so here Jack Warner gets to tell Mervyn Johns that Rachel Thomas is dead . This to one side The Captive Heart remains a compelling film because at its heart ( sorry about that ) is the wonderfully low-key love story between Michael Redgrave and his real-life wife Rachel Kempson of which 95 per cent is played out via under-stated letters which only mention love between the lines . The support is largely sound and trivia buffs will be interested to note that two years earlier ( 1944 ) Meriel Forbes had married Ralph Richardson so that the film boasted the real-life wives of two future theatrical knights . One to buy on DVD .
One Happy ( Easter ) Bunny	I'm gradually putting together a fairly respectable DVD collection of Fred Astaire movies and this is up there with Top Hat , Swing Time , The Bandwagon etc . In the forties it must have been one of the best examples of the genre which is saying something as during the war years for example the studios went into overdrive on escapist Musicals . This one gets off to a flying start just watching Fred Astair WALK as he embarks on a shopping trip which culminates in his first Great solo Drum Crazy . This is a movie where Everyone - even the inept Peter Lawford - gets to perform a number although the lion's share , as is right and proper , are divvied up between the two co-stars , both Giants . When thinking about songwriters in general I always gravitate towards Porter sophistication , Hart cynicism and wit , Loesser cleverness etc leaving Berlin a bad nowhere but when I actually come face to face with a Berlin score as here or Top Hat , I have to acknowledge just how good he was . Here they ransack his back catalogue but supplement it with some tasty new material - It Only Happens , Couple Of Swells which makes for a very satisfying package . One to cherish .
Clerk Watching	This , despite not being the original - it began life as a play in Central Europe - has weathered the several incarnations that followed ( MGM's own remake with period songs In The Good Old Summertime , the Broadway show She Loves Me , even the excellent theatre revival in Paris a couple of years ago ) and remains the definitive version and the one they all have to beat . Several previous commenters have identified the contributing factors that make it so successful and memorable not least being the prevailing fashion in 30s and 40s Hollywood for lavishing attention and detail on ensemble playing rather than just two leads as so often happens today - try , for example , removing Ugarte , Ferrari , Renault etc from Casablanca and yes you'd still have Rick and Ilsa and Viktor Lazslo but they'd just be frosting without the rich cake mixture below . Jimmy Stewart and Maggie Sullavan WERE both ideal and irreplaceable leads but how much brighter they shine when their performances are reflected in those of Frank Morgan , Felix Bressart , Joseph Schildkraut and Andy Hardy's Sara Haden and this is BEFORE we factor in that Lubitsch ' touch ' . Okay , maybe they WERE a tad more naive , innocent even , in that Jurassic Age but how many genuine film lovers , sated with scatology , screwing and in-your-face sex , turn back to those days of Stories , Style , Slickness and Skill and wallow in great movies like this one . By far the best thing about this technological age is not CSI but DVD that can at one and the same time make these classics available to nostalgics and show the Matrix freaks how the big boys used to do it .
Many Happy Returns	A full decade ahead of the New Wavelet Christian Jacque , Louis Jouvet and a belle equipe were showing the Godards and Truffauts how the Big Boys do it and neither Godard nor Truffaut ever made anything even remotely as good as this and Godard never will . It all comes together like clockwork from Henri Jeanson's caustic script , written at times with a quill dipped in vitriol , to Christian Jaque's perfect direction which coaxes performances close to perfection from Louis Jouvet on down . Ludmilla Tcherina is especially effective in her very first film which gives her lots of chances to remind us that she was first and foremost a great ballerina and Francois Perier shines as the callow youth besotted with her to the point of attempted suicide . Louis Seigner was still popping up fairly regularly in films at this time ( 1946 ) and etches a standout portrait of a ruthless businessman prepared to sacrifice his son on the altar of Mammon and let us not forget Marguerite Moreno adding yet another unforgettable portrait to her gallery of grotesques . If ever a film needed a major revival it is this one . .
pmt	Let's face it , you can't copyright a title so let's be clear that this is sparkling Wilder not insipid Rohmer . The two are , of course , chalk and cheese ; whilst Wilder epitomises wit , sophistication , urbanity , style , class to name only a handful of qualities Rohmer epitomises slow-drying paint . Like Rodgers and Hart and Astaire and Rogers Audrey Hepburn and Paris is a match made in heaven and having sent her there for a couple of reels in Sabrina three years earlier Wilder now has her domiciled there and living life to the wide-eyed full or , to put it another way , we're talking chaste , which is what she is both by fellow music student Michel and ageing lech Gary Cooper . In one sense Wilder has come full circle here for back in 1938 when he was - in terms of Hollywood at least - just a writer he wrote a script for Ernst Lubitsch called Bluebeard's Eighth Wife in which Gary Cooper played a much-married millionaire until Claudette Colbert fixed his wagon . Here he plays much the same role without the marriage part until . . . yeah , you guessed it , Audrey Hepburn fixes his wagon . Where Audrey Hepburn is concerned I would happily purchase a wagon if she'd promise to fix it even though I'd be in back of a line stretching from here of Mindanao . The great thing about Wilder is that he doesn't just do brittle dialogue he also does sight gags - there was a doozy in Bluebeard - and here he has a lot of fun with a drinks trolley and four gypsy musos . He's also a great craftsman and constructs screenplays as solid as Dutch barns and this is no exception . For good measure Maurice Chevalier is on hand as Hepburn's father and I suppose she considered herself lucky he wasn't playing the Cooper role - one could argue that having cast her opposite Bogie in Sabrina and now Cooper Wilder was probably more than a little in love with her himself and living , as they say , vicariously . Whatever this is one of his very best which makes it unmissable .
Pawns In The Game Of Love	This movie proves that a wonderful film will overcome a stupid title that can only attract the wrong kind of audience . From the very first frame it's clear that the two protagonists who met only in the interests of pure unadulterated ( sorry about that ) sex are going to fall in love and it's just a question of watching it happen and seeing if it ends in tears . Once you get past the basic flaw - the kind of people who resort to sex magazines to look for partners usually do so because conventional methods have failed . They are either too old , too ugly , too short , too fat ( short AND fat will usually do it every time ) in fact the LAST thing they are is as gorgeous and desirable as Nathalie Baye and as handsome as Sergi Lopez - this is a wonderful film and I'm delighted to add my voice to all those others who have praised it on this board . I saw it on release some six years ago , long before I even knew of this website and I've just seen it again and admired it even more . A definite .
Seamless Seamstress	To revisit this exquisite performance from Isabelle Huppert is to forgive her the sleaziness of some of her recent choices . Like the other posters I have just read here this film - or rather this performance - has remained vivid in my memory since I saw it first on television some years ago . I bought the DVD in Paris last March and have just got around to playing it . Unfortunately it is offered without subtitles but dubbed into several languages so that any non-French speakers who have yet to see it will almost certainly lose out . There's one semi major hurdle to get over but when and if that is accomplished this is a semi-masterpiece . The film was made in 1977 and there is nothing to say that it is not also set at that time yet we have a pretty 18 year old girl who admits to being a virgin and a courtship which would do credit to a repressed English couple of the 1930s / 40s / 50s rather than a FRENCH couple in the 1970s . There is an equal lack of Passion between Huppert and Yves Benyeton , in fact Kevin McCarthy lookalike Benyeton is SO wooden we can't help wondering if he is REALLY a pod who somehow strayed from the set of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers on to THIS set . Throughout the acting of Huppert is Magnificent and leaves everyone else for dead . Huppert is not only one of the most beautiful but also one of the most Intelligent actresses working today and the way in which she suppresses her natural intelligence to play a colorless , unambitious , low self-esteemed teenager is little short of incredible . Goretta has chosen to end with a shot of Huppert looking straight into camera with a completely expressionless gaze reminiscent of Garbo in the last shot of Queen Christina . Whether by accident or design it's a comparison that Huppert can more than justify . One of the all-time great film performances .
The Singer Not The Song	The London Film Festival is only three days old and already we've had the finest film , this one . Not that the pretentious pseuds who actually run the BFI will agree - if they did I'd be seriously frightened - even as I write they've probably got scouts out scouring the world for something from the Galapogas Islands shot from the point of view of a turtle and redolent with her inner torment as she watches her offspring being picked off by scavengers as they make for the sea but those of us who actually LIKE film as , dare I say it , Entertainment and think it is at its best exploring the Human Condition with tenderness , sensitivity , wit , etc will respond to this entry as positively as last night's packed audience i . e . with applause and cheers . It scored heavily at Cannes and on its release in France last month there was agreement amongst the critics and punters that this was Depardieu's best role in a long time and I am pleased to endorse that opinion . The problem with someone as versatile as Depardieu who can do anything is that he's frequently prevailed upon - and too often consents - to do Everything . Here he is inch perfect as a middle-aged third-rate singer - the English equivalent would be Vince Hill with charisma - making a living in clubs and discos and waging a war against karoake . It's a measure of his charm that his ex-wife , now his manager and living with a new partner , still loves him and watches over him like a mother . Short of a mid-life crisis he hits upon - both literally and figuratively - Cecile de France , half his age , a single mom and ' troubled ' as they say in the soaps . As a rule Cecile de France is asked to light up the screen with her faux Audrey Hepburn smile as she did so winningly in her last outing Danielle Thompson's brilliant Fauteuils d'orchestre but here she is allowed to do ' serious ' and save the smile for isolated moments which is , of course , doubly effective . At best the relationship is doomed and both parties know this deep down but the joy for the audience is how they get to that good place that we all covet . This is the kind of wonderful movie that those BFI mandarins probably used to love themselves when they were kids and thought that if they went to work for the BFI they'd be able to watch stuff like this all day long and get paid for it then , having joined , they realised that pleasure is no match for pretension . For film lovers only .
The Worst Years Of Our Lives	This film has just opened in London and I attended one of the first screenings . I wish I could add something to the whole host of superlatives made by previous posters . This is a truly awesome film , at the very least a mini masterpiece and possibly even a fully-fledged one . With the best will in the world people in the West can never really KNOW what it was like to live in a state of constant long-distance supervision but this film - made by a native of West Germany who , by definition , has never known it either - comes as close as any to making us privy to that sensation . All the credits are impeccable from Writing , Directing down to the smallest ' extra ' and it is wonderful to see Martina Gedeck , so great as Bella Martha , and Sebastian Koch , equally good in Black Book , once more but excellent as both are they are outshone by Ulrich Muhe as the Stasi official charged with monitoring their lives . Weighing in at a little over two hours and with no sex or violence to speak of the film nevertheless rivets the attention by - if not in spite of - the very grayness which informs it with Muhe , himself a victim of Stasi surveillance , outstanding as he mutates from automaton to human being but totally from WITHIN ( no dramatic histrionics here to symbolize his volte-face , just acting of the most subtle kind ) . A film incapable of being overpraised and one that should be seen by every discerning film-goer .
I Remember Mama	I'm delighted to find that every single comment on this beautiful movie is Positive , indeed , it would be difficult if not impossible to find anything negative to comment on . If you've ever been a child , if you ever had a beautiful but fragile mother , if you ever danced and skipped through a Golden childhood - or just wished you did - then this is for you ; it's Meet Me In St Louis without the songs , It's I Remember Mama without the Norwegian accents , The Happy Time without the Canadian overtones and any other film you can think of that evokes those fleeting days of enchantment When We Were Very Young . Above all it's a wonderful antidote to the angst , stress , violence etc that comprise the fabric of the modern cinema - and don't even mention the anti-cinema brigade as personified by Godard who could no more shoot even one Frame as lyrical as this than he could master Mandarin in 24 hours . It would be churlish to single out anyone from the superlative cast and the only thing better than watching it for the first time is to watch it for the twentieth . Magnifique .
MEET you ? I'll Be There With Bells On	At one level this is what any Andy Hardy film would have looked like had they thrown a budget at it and shot it in colour - an impossibly perfect Americana that existed only in the rich imaginations of serial nostalgics . Like most , if not all , of the great Hollywood movies I missed them first time around and caught up with them years later via TV or Revival houses . All I really knew about this was that it was the movie with ' The Trolley Song ' so when it played for three days only at a Revival house I went along on the first night not expecting too much . I wound up returning for the next two performances , completely blown away by EVERYTHING about it . Okay , put it under a strong light and it may look just a tad twee , we might even apply the Two H label - Homey , Heartwarming and squirm awkwardly as we do so but in the darkness of the cinema and a willingness to surrender to its irresistible mixture of Charm , Sentiment and Craftsmanship / Professionalism it's unbeatable . In retrospect it's easy to see that Judy Garland had two ' Esthers ' in her uneven career that bookend it perfectly , Esther Blodgett in the definitive version of ' A Star Is Born ' and Esther Smith in the screen adaptation of Sally Benson's memoirs of her life in St . Louis at the turn of the century . Minnelli's painterly eye has seldom been better than in his Currier & Ives set pieces of the four seasons and Ralph Blane and Hugh Martin contributed what has to be a very strong contender for the PERFECT musical score to ANY film , brief though it was , from the wistful The Boy Next Door and Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas to the exuberant Trolley Song . It's doubtful if a better cast has ever been assembled from the Head ( Judy Garland ) down to the toes ( Chill Wills as Mr Neely , the Iceman ) . In between we have the wonderful Mary Astor , limning a stereotypical ' mom ' a scant two years after her femme fatale Brigid O'Shaughnessy in ' The Maltese Falcon ' , complemented perfectly by Leon Ames , the ' temporary ' villain of the piece by virtue of not only thwarting a romantic phone call but also planning to uproot the family from St . Louis to New York . St . Louis itself is equally important and THIS St . Louis is light-years away from the one that Tennessee Williams would immortalize only one year later ( 1945 ) in ' The Glass Menagerie ' when , in complete contrast to the Smith family the Wingfields could't get out of town quickly enough . This HAS to be not just one of the best Musicals but also one of the best Movies ever and a if ever I saw one .
Right On The Money	This is a very welcome release in the Masters of Cinema series and whilst academics will no doubt seize the opportunity to use it as a tool in the ' teaching ' of film the admirers of French Cinema will relish the chance to view and / or even own a genuine early masterpiece . Marcel LHerbier made some 58 films between 1917 and 1975 and by 1921 he had already explored the world of finance with Promethe , banquier but he trumped that fine effort three times over with this adaptation of Zola in 1928 . The technique on display is awesome in its ambition and staggering in its execution as time and again L'Herbier pulls off brilliant effects not least a sumptuous party that was possibly inspired by Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby which had been published some three years earlier . Though there is a substantial plot involving rival financiers , publicity stunts , solo flights , deceptions and seductions this is merely a peg on which to drape some of the most outstanding directorial flourishes in French Cinema . Unmissable .
Three On A Match	Another 5 star entry from Mank ( in passing could I point out that it was Joe's older brother Herman who co-wrote Citizen Kane with Awesome and not Joe himself as at least one poster seems to think ) and what irony that the actress who steals everything that isn't nailed down , the great Thelma Ritter , isn't even Credited . Unquestionably one of the best writers in Hollywood Mank sets the scene with his usual efficiency via the voice-over of the unseen catalyst Addie Ross ( voiced by Celeste Holm who would have a featured role in Mank's standout follow up All About Eve , as would Ritter ) who shows us first the town and then five of the six principals . Although Mank can't take credit for the premise - it was adapted from a published source - he surely put a generous amount of top spin on it ; in a nutshell the unseen narrator kick-starts the story proper via a letter written jointly to three of her married friends stating that she has run off with one of their husbands . The letter is delivered as the three wives embark on a pleasure boat at the start of a day trip for under-privileged children which means that each has plenty of time to reflect on her respective marriage , all of which are prime candidates for Addie to sever . Mank being Mank he has already shown us the cracks in the first two marriages ; in the first - and weakest - Jeffrey Lynn is leaving on a business trip and warns his wife , Jeanne Crain , that he may be away overnight ; in the second Kirk Douglas behaves out of character by wearing a suit on a Saturday , something which is not noticed by his wife , Ann Southern , until Jeanne Crain points it out to her . These scenes precede the receipt of the letter so that only in retrospect do we realize how masterfully Mank has crafted his story . He disliked Jeanne Crain intensely yet was forced to use her again later by the studio in People Will Talk opposite Cary Grant . As noted the Lynn-Crain pairing is the weakest of the three but because the other two - Ann Southern / Kirk Douglas , Linda Darnell / Paul Douglas are so strong we're prepared to tolerate Lynn and Crain . One of the revelations is Darnell , largely used as cheesecake because of her undeniable good looks but here given some acidic one-liners by Mank she lobs them unerringly where they will do the most good . Connie Gilchrist also weighs in with strong support as Darnell's mother whilst Paul Douglas has seldom been better . As a writer himself Mank throws a lot of his better lines to Kirk Douglas , playing a dedicated schoolteacher who despises commercial radio which is a shame because his wife , Southern , writes for it . All in all this is a great movie full of wit , charm , great writing and direction so what are you waiting for , get down to Blockbuster on the double .
With Old Waves Like This Who Needs New or : Eat Your Heart Out , Godard	Class , Style , Brilliance Is Alive And Well - or at least it was in 1952 when top writer Henri Jeanson collaborated with top director Julian Duvivier on this Faberge egg of a movie which incredibly provided the basis for the dire Paris When It Sizzles a decade later . On paper the premise is simple ; two scriptwriters who have run up against censor trouble improvise a new scenario on the hoof and we cut between the actual brainstorming / dictating to clips of what will be the finished product which switches genres on a dime . Jeamson's script is lethally funny and laced liberally with Billy Wilder-type mordant wit and all hands acquit themselves with more than distinction . This reaffirms Duvivier's place in the pantheon of not just great French directors but Great directors period . Unmissable .
I C'est Magnifique And The Hell With It	This is , of course , Old Awesome's follow-up to Kane and several forests have been decimated arguing the toss about whether or not and if ' yes ' how MUCH was it butchered . Like any committed film buff I too weep for what might have been but I also rejoice for what IS and what is is really something . Awesome's voice-over narration sets the tone perfectly striking exactly the right nostalgic note and slipping in the subtextual message that continuity and change is the topic for tonight . The film is replete with subtle touches like the store-fronts slowly expanding as the town does and Awesome allows us to read them from right to left - if we've a mind to - as they form a backdrop to buggy / automobile rides and then with gorgeous irony from right to left as Tim Holt and Ann Baxter WALK down a street in a town now grown out of all recognition . Elsewhere the deep focus is used both sparingly and effectively and the maestro knows exactly when to let gossiping heads fill the frame and when to wax lyrical . The acting is superb throughout and for 86 minutes this is as good as it gets and even the final two minutes which flies in the face of everything that Welles had been building towards is at least tidy . Flawed Masterpiece ? It floored me .
Game On	Yet another truly outstanding French film about childhood and featuring a performance by a child to rival that in Poil de Carrotte . The brilliant script is the work of Jean Aurenche and Pierre Bost , shortly to be savagely pilloried by the inferior Francois Truffaut . Rene Clement's sure hand behind the camera keeps a fine stew - elements of a Hatfield / McCoy peasant feud blend seamlessly with drama , pathos and satire - simmering perfectly in the story of a five year old girl who , whilst fleeing with her parents and hundreds of others from the Paris of 1940 is orphaned dramatically when her parents are strafed as she lies in their arms . The same fate befalls her dog and Clement does not shun from realism as another traveller , noting the dog's condition , brutally snatches it from the child and hurls it unceremoniously into a river . Paulette ( Brigitte Fossey ) retrieves the dog and eventually takes up with Michele ( Georges Poujouley ) a couple of years older who in turn takes her to his peasant family amongst whom she stands out like a sore thumb . Together the two children create what can only be describes ( long before Stephen King even came on the scene ) a pet cemetery in a local mill , beginning with the dog which is supplemented by the odd chicken , worm , etc and for which they steal real crosses inadvertently aggravating a long-standing feud . This is a film that has it all , laughter , tears and everything in between and cannot be praised too highly and will be around long after Truffaut's ouevre has been turned into banjo pics .
I'm confessing That I Liked It	More often than not it's disappointing when an elusive film finally turns up and often the disappointment is in direct proportion to how badly one has looked forward to seeing it but I'm delighted to say that this one lived up to my expectations . Bowing as I do to no one in my love , respect and admiration for Yves Montand both as singer and actor I have , not unnaturally read all the books by and about him , bought all the albums but not , alas , seen all the films and of those elusive titles this one was the most sought-after . I knew by definition of Montand's strong Left-wing convictions - the son of an active Communist with a brother equally active and eventually high-ranking in the party - which if anything intensified after his marriage to Simone Signoret so that their life together was punctuated not only by concerts and film making but also by pro-Communist crusading ( over the years they signed literally dozens of petitions ) yet despite that background he agreed to make a film based on the real-life experience of Artur London , a high-ranking Communist in what was then Czechoslovakia , who , in a Kafkaesque nightmare was arrested and tortured - both mentally and physically - by fellow Communists with the end result of obtaining a confession ( L'Aveu is , of course , French for confession ) that he had betrayed the party . I'm about as far from a political animal as you can get whilst conversely I'm the nearest thing to Montand-For-President and that , pretty much is how I approached the film . Montand is fantastic . Let me put it another way : Montand is FANTASTIC . Required to run a gamut from suspicion at one end to mental and physical exhaustion at the other he inhabits the part completely . Considering that films are shot out of sequence and over a period of several weeks or months the manner in which he not only sustains a performance but builds it piece by piece like Jacques Villeret building an Eiffel Tower of matches in Diner du Cons is masterful . As a take on the way in which the Communist mind works ( or worked ) it is illuminating and full of wry touches in the dialogue as when Montand , urged to confess his mythical crimes argues quite naturally that if he IS a traitor then how can they believe anything he says , if he is NOT a traitor why is he in prison . The only negative is that I saw it in a small Art House in Paris as part of a Costa-Gavros retrospection and it's unavailable on DVD . Highly recommended .
Anatomy Of Melancholy	This was , with Les Parrains , the joint last film appearance of Jacques Villeret and although his performance is only one of several reasons to see this exceptional film it is a more than fitting swansong . I doubt very much whether Villeret has ever played someone so wicked - evil may be just a tad too strong - as his Juge Mierck , certainly I have never seen him in anything approaching the blackness of this soul - the title translates directly as Grey Souls . He starts the way he means to go on when , in the opening scene as one of several local officials gathered round the body of an angelic child found strangled on the banks of a canal Mierck calmly takes delivery of a boiled egg , cracks it open and eats it right there in the open air whilst gazing dispassionately at the corpse . This is a surprisingly effective twist on the scene where the villain strokes a Siamese / Persion cat , sniffs delicately at a rose etc , murmuring suavely in accompaniment as a few feet away his minders are castrating the hero . times we groan or laugh outright in this spot but Villeret merely fascinates . World War One is enjoying something of a vogue lately ; at the end of last year it featured heavily in A Very Long Engagement , Paths Of Glory is lined up for revival in London and Paris next month sees the release of Joyeux Noel which addresses the well documented incident of Christmas Day in the trenches when the two sides called a truce and shared food and drink before returning to their respective trenches . Although we don't see any actual combat World War One informs every frame of this outstanding movie . The setting is a small town literally a few miles from the front - so close in fact that one character whose fiancé is engaged in combat actually walks to the edge of the town from where she can clearly hear the gunfire on the other side of the hill that forms a natural barrier between town and Front . It's not a place you'd want to settle in ; the schoolmaster suffers shell shock and commits suicide , the policeman's wife dies in childbirth leaving him distraught , the replacement schoolteacher is the character whose lover is at the Front and when he is killed she too commits suicide to say nothing of the young girl who is strangled . Despite all these negatives this is a truly enriching film with fantastic performances from everyone and not just the three top-billed actors - Jean-Pierre Marielle as the Procuriere , Denis Podalydes as the policeman and Jacques Villeret as Juge Mierck who has spent a lifetime suffering implacably the disdain of the Procuriere and retaliates by intimating that the Procuriere may be the murderer . Every shot is muted so that even the rich bindings on the impressive books lining Marielle's walls seem bereft of their high gloss . I have no hesitation in rating this a ten .
Well Of Loneliness	I've already commented on the first part of this timeless story ( Jean de Florette ) and sought to embrace both parts in one comment but always in the back of my mind has been a thought that I didn't do right by this second half so here I am again to give it equal time . Whilst it's true that the films are to a certain extent self-contained the optimum way to see them is one right after the other as some enterprising theatres show them . Quibblers will mourn the absent Depardieu but if viewed chronologically his presence is felt in every frame of Manon and rightly so . I've been reading just a few of the previous posts and I have absolutely no argument with those who hail these as the Best Films of the 1980s ; as a richly rewarding viewing experience they are unmatched even in France where great films are as ubiquitous as hot dogs as Coney Island . The acting in both is outstanding led by an Yves Montand at the very top of his game but it would be churlish to isolate him , magnificent as he is , from the brilliant support he gets from the likes of Depardieu , Daniel Auteuil and in this second part Manu Beart who somehow contrives to invest Manon not just with heart-stopping beauty but also an other-worldliness so that she seems part of the landscape she inhabits rather than a human being and , if you will , a belle dame sans merci , given her actions . I've seen them singly and together several times and each time I discover something new to marvel at . Truly the test of greatness .
Babes In Arms	This is one of those films that are released in January and the critics say en masse that it is destined to be one of the best films of the year . In this case they are right on the money . Like Germany Roumania is turning out some world-class films and this is arguably the cream of the recent crop . It's already attracted several positive comments that have covered the storyline in detail so it would be superfluous to say it again ; over and above what is essentially a simple story about an everyday problem the recent regime is being harshly examined ; it is not for a non-Roumanian to comment on this but I can and will echo the praise heaped on the director and two lead actresses , Laura Vasilu and Ana Maria Marinca ; all three are superb as is their film . Ten Out Of Ten .
Timeless Capsule	It's very difficult to watch this masterpiece without a lump in the throat . Noel Coward and Terence Rattigan , two homosexuals , produced between them ( The Way To The Stars and this film ) THE two definitive British films of World War Two which must surely give students or irony pause . To watch this film in the 21st century is to get the feeling that the ' ordinary ' people depicted here were living not in England but on another planet , one where decency , honesty and moral values were taken for granted and not the joke they have become in the subsequent years . Coward , of course , was a master of the well-made play and his screenplay is as technically sound as a Louis The Fourteenth commode and as visually stunning as a Faberge egg . With hindsight it is possible to identify Coward ' signatures ' - in This Happy Breed John Mills was the sailor next door in love with the flighty Kay Walsh who he lost only to find again ; this time around Walsh is more grounded , they meet , fall in love and marry ; Joyce Carey , the tyrant of the Tea Room in Brief Encounter , is here portrayed far more sympathetically as the wife of Petty Officer Bernard Miles and her ongoing war with her mother replicates that of Celia Johnson in This Happy Breed , etc - that only enhance the watching experience . We watch the Torrin from birth to death - a brilliant opening montage begins with a skeleton of the hull and ends with the champagne bottle striking it - and focus on the survivors in or clinging to one of the lifeboats . This is , of course , our old friend the Hollywood Bomber Crew syndrome but Coward's artistry and craftsmanship transcends the mundane and gives us a cross-section of flesh-and-blood characters spanning the social spectrum of an England at war . Like Rattigan's The Way To The Stars this is a film in which EVERYTHING works superbly , writing , acting , direction and frankly is woefully inadequate to rate such a magnificent effort .
Baker's Dozen	This one comes with a rep that almost dares you NOT to like it for none other than the Great Orson Welles declared it the greatest movie ever made and star Raimu the greatest actor . Welles is no slouch himself and many there are , including myself , who consider his own Citizen Kane to be in the all-time No # 1 spot but , let's face it , old Awesome knows a thing or two when it comes to judging celluloid . This is , of course , a Marcel Pagnol production which presupposes several things ; it will be set in the South of France barely a Long Shot from Marseille and it's twelve to seven to feature Raimu heading an ensemble cast of Pagnol regulars . So it is here with Raimu as the eponymous baker who has barely sold his first batch than his wife takes it on the Jesse Owens with the local stud . The smiles , if not outright belly laughs , on the faces of the villagers freeze pretty damn quick once they realize that no wife equals no bread which means that they set about locating and returning the wife . End of ( very simple ) story . But as someone once said it's the way you tell them and Pagnol has Scherezade beat seven ways from the middle ; once again as in his celebrated trilogy ( Marius , Fanny , Cesar , in case you just got here via a wormhole ) he evokes an entire community with just a few strokes of the pen or , in this case , lens , so that what we have is a lovingly painted portrait of a small town not a million miles from the one Jack Ford devised for The Quiet Man and complete with a richly assorted set of residents . The closing scene where the errant wife ignites the fire in the oven may be a tad symbolic but when it occurs in such a warm film who cares .
Frailty , Thy Name Is . . .	This is a stunning early sound film from Max Ophuls which deservedly won a ' technical ' award at Venice . It's difficult to imagine that old Awesome did not include this in the dozens of films he watched before making Kane because Ophuls uses , some seven years earlier , many of the techniques , not least overlapping Sound , that crystallised in Kane . The plot verges on the melodramatic but the Style is something else ; flashbacks within flashbacks , lush tracking shots , montages , dissolves , everything in fact from what those academics love to call the ' grammar ' of film making is present and correct . A film in 1934 that begins with a wipe of the label on a 78 rpm record and ends on a static shot of the face of the heroine on a poster has to be out of the right bottle and this is vintage . Dix sur dix going away .
Deep Waters	I am in total , full and absolute agreement with all the praise that has been lavished on this film . It is simply terrific . Cognizant of the subject matter going in I was prepared to be depressed or possibly bored - let's face it , how many ways can you show a man in total paralysis - and as a lifetime fan of French films I knew how good they can be at even their most mediocre compared to Hollywood but I was still totally enthralled and found it as entertaining as , say , Ne le dis a personne , though they are , of course , completely different movies . As a director - he has seven behind-the-camera credits - Mathieu Almaric is a hell of an actor and I can't honestly recall seeing him give a bad performance and here he is superb and gets outstanding support from Ann Consigny , one of the loveliest French actresses in her age group , Patrick Chesnais , Anne Alvaro and Manu Seigner as the neglected wife . This makes something like the over-hyped Atonement look like the cynical Award chaser it is and it would be a wonderful poetic justice if this actually won all the Awards Atonement aimed at . Outstanding .
Throw This One Back	I can't believe I saw the same movie as all those who have already posted comments . Basically it's a crock . The expression mish-mosh springs to mind . Ewan McGregor is off the credibilty scale followed closely by Albert Finny . There's scarcely a believable character / situation from beginning to end . It's like a bad trip after finding some mescalin left over from the 60s . If Burton was fishing for compliments he sure fooled lotsa folks . Give us a real movie , Timbo , fish or cut bait .
A Film For All Seasons	As a dedicated Bill Goldman buff I read the novel long before he adapted it for the screen and just as the novel had everything plus spin so too does the movie . I've checked out sufficient of the previous postings to realize that virtually everyone rejoices in its blend of irreverence and wonder , likewise enough posters have described the storyline to make another description superfluous . What we have here is a wonderful time-capsule comprising the best elements of the Errol Flynn Robin Hood plus the 30s version of The Prisoner Of Zenda ( Goldman's own favorite movie is Gunga Din of the same vintage ) with extra added ingredients . Charming , Irreverent , Quirky , Fantastic . It's all of these and more . What can I tell you , a ten in anyone's book .
Aces Back To Back	As if to rub viewers noses in his versatility Billy Wilder shot Sunset Boulevard and this one back to back with Sunset being released one year earlier in 1950 . Not surprisingly a failure on its release this movie is as good a definition of Wilder as any in his vast and impressive repertoire indeed the words cynic , cynicism and cynical might have been invented to describe the typical Wilder film . As always he had no time for ' fancy ' shots and angles - in Wilder everything is couched in ' traditional ' Long , Medium , Close and the standard variations , Medium-Close , etc , but he does shoot a couple of low angles sparingly here and uses Chuck Tatum's body walking toward and blocking the camera and then walking away again to illustrate a time-lapse , the twelve months that Tatum has been cooling his heels in New Mexico . The exposition is equally brilliant with Tatum ( Kirk Dougles ) flaunting his journalistic CV and explaining to his protégé that one story is all it takes to make it back to the big time and how , when such a story appears , a smart reporter will milk it to the full and then , of course , he proceeds to do just that when Leo Mimosa gets trapped in a cave and Tatum works the angles to keep him there . For those caring to look for them there are parallels with Sunset Boulevard - the audience who flock to see a Norma Desmond and / or a Leo Mimosa and then , once the novelty has worn off , turns away from them and in both cases it was skillful PR work and / or intrepid reporters who brought them to the attention of the audience in the first place . Wilder liked to use actors more than once and both Porter Hall and Richard Gaines appeared in both Double Indemnity and this one . Religious overtones abound both overtly in Leo's conviction that the ' Gods ' are angry with him because he ' steals ' their artifacts and a tad less overtly in Jan Sterling - as Leo's floozy wife Lorraine - taking a bite out of an apple whilst trying crudely to tempt Tatum , and Sheriff Ray Teal's pet rattler . Just as Bill Holden's Joe Gillis thought he'd landed on the gravy train only to wind up on the wrong end of a bullet so Chuck Tatum in Wilder's very next film winds up on the wrong end of a pair of scissors ; like Crime , Cynicism Does Not Pay . A small masterpiece .
The English Disease	This is , quite simply , the Best One-Act play ever written , any time , any place ; it's a Faberge egg with a Swiss movement and the fact that as I write , June , 2005 , a French translation has just picked up a couple of Molieres is indicative of its wider appeal . It was Terence Rattigan who first identified and named the ' English Disease ' as repression and he explored it in play after play such as Separate Tables and this one . A consummate scriptwriter as well as a Dramatist Rattigan handled his own adaptation and though he ' opened it out ' a little he still maintains the tension and his dramatic skill is evident in every frame . Michael Redgrave is simply magnificent as the repressed Andrew Crocker-Harris , so much so , that he makes the excellent supporting actors , Jean Kent , Nigel Patrick , Wilfrid Hyde White , etc seem merely competent . This is a film that cannot be praised too highly
The Land That Time Forgot	Over and above any quality in the Writing , Directing and Acting departments this film is a must for Nostalgics . To anyone under 50 who lacks a degree in or a highly developed passion for Social History the social landscape against which the story plays out will appear all but incomprehensible , as remote from the world of today as Atlantis . Over 50s on the other hand will navigate effortlessly via such long forgotten landmarks as lunch at the Kardomah , tea at Fuller's and in between a trip to Boot's Lending Library . In common with Andy Hardy's Carvel the Milford Junction of Laura and Alec is an idealized concept that fits the real world where it touches . This leaves the story and the name of Noel Coward , who adapted his own one-act play ' Still Life ' for the screen should tell us all we need to know . Coward , in common with Terence Rattigan and Arthur Miller , was above all a craftsman ( not for nothing did Arthur Miller spend his spare time making furniture ) and were this a piece of furniture and not a piece of celluloid it would be a Louis X1V commode - I speak as one whose own furniture goes back to Louis the fourteenth ; I don't pay by the fourteenth it goes straight back to Louis , but that's another story . In many cases films that began life in the theater don't ' open out ' well but this is at least one exception to the rule . Although Coward wrote an extremely ' tight ' one-acter set entirely in the buffet of a railway station he has constructed skilfully ' extra ' scenes set in a tea room , a boating lake , a hut by the lake , a cinema , a ' borrowed ' flat and Laura's home to say nothing of creating extra characters , not least Laura's husband ( Cyril Raymond and Alec's ' friend ' ( an uncredited Valentine Dyall ) . Howard , who actually began his career in comedy ( Terence Rattigan's French Without Tears ) is now much better known for his ' rugged ' military types but though Celia Johnson was an equally accomplished actress and scored heavily as the cockney wife in Coward's own ' This Happy Breed ' she scored equally highly as Coward's upper-class screen wife in ' In Which We Serve ' and never really strayed far from Laura Jesson , solid , dependable , quietly attractive , perfect ' wife and mother ' material . The acting throughout is almost beyond praise and it seems somehow anachronistic to watch it on DVD via a plasma screen with surround sound which makes Alec and Laura seem so far away they might as well be dwelling in caves as Mock-Tudor semis in a world full of Acacia Avenues . The real way to watch it is surely at the local Odeon where you could enter halfway through Reel # 4 and leave at exactly the same place three and a half hours later having seen in the interim one ' B ' picture , one newsreel , one cartoon , plus the ' trailer ' for next week's film , possibly Basil Dearden's ' Frieda ' ( 1947 ) set in an identical ' Neverland ' in the Home Counties . A true classic .
Timeless	I saw this first on TV some twenty years ago and was blown away by everything about it from the black and white photography to the strong support from the likes of James Gleason and his real-life wife , Keenan Wyn , Chester Chute , Marshall Thompson , etc to the utterly captivating performances by the two leads and I couldn't wait to acquire my own copy . I now have it on DVD thanks to the Norwegian guy to whom I am so indebted but somewhere along the way the Colorizers got to it and I had reservations as I watched the credits unspool but once underway the inherent magic and enchantment shone through and it remains the ultimate Chic Flic from a time when the term was unknown . What makes it more poignant is our Hindsight that the two leads who are so Perfect and seemingly indestructible fell so far from the sublime they created here - maybe if they had really married each other things would have been different . It's impossible to look at gauche , naive yet charming Robert Walker and imagine him as the psychotic Bruno in Strangers On A Train or visualise Judy as the tragic Vicki Lester of A Star Is Born . Helmer Minnelli was unable to resist replicating the scene from Meet Me In St Louis in which Tom Drake runs after the trolley on which Judy - and all the gang - are riding , here substituting a bus and Walker but for such an exquisite movie we can forgive him that .
Great Scott	I think it's fair to say that the serious film buff has a set of yardsticks by which to measure newer titles and these of course are of necessity individual . With English speaking films one tends to use Brief Encounter , The Browning Version , Citizen Kane , Casablanca , Shane just to cover a reasonable genre spectrum . If I attempted to give examples from French cinema we'd be here all day so take as a given several Pagnols , Prevert / Carnes , Duviviers etc but in recent years I tend to use Brodeuses as the one all later releases have to beat and less than an hour ago the end credits rolled on Claudel's directorial debut which is certainly fit to be mentioned in the same breath as Faucher's Great movie . Whether on stage ( where I've seen her in Three Sisters and As You Desire Me ) or screen ( too numerous to mention ) Kristin Scott Thomas is someone I've tended to admire rather than warm to and I have to confess I never thought she would one day reduce me to tears as she did within the hour . Claudel wrote the novel - and adapted it for the screen - on with Les Ames Grises was based so I knew him to be a fine writer and with Il Ya a longtemps je t'aime he has fulfilled the promise he showed . It's not important that anyone of average intelligence can figure out just why Scott Thomas did what she did fifteen years earlier , what matters is the small details that Claudel employs to tell his story , much the same way as Faucher used embroidery as a motif to unfold the story in Brodeuses . Outstanding though she is Scott Thomas has excellent support from Elsa Zylberstein as the sister who offers unconditional love and Frederic Pierot as the Captain to whom Scott Thomas , as an ex-prisoner , must report every two weeks . Though it is an entirely different role Scott Thomas deserves to sweep the Best Acress Awards just as Marion Cotillard did with La Mome and Zylberstein should do the same in the Supporting Actress category . I urge anyone who loves cinema at its finest to see this movie .
Where The Rainbow Ends	To all intents and purposes THIS star ( Garland ) was born when she sang a plaintive Black and White Somewhere Over The Rainbow in ' The Wizard Of Oz ' and now , fifteen years later after a lifetime of ups and downs that unique talent flowered for one last , glorious time and dazzled anyone with eyes to see . In some ways it's a great pity that she was artistically active both before Oz and after Star because together these two movies make the perfect bookends to a spectacular yet ultimately tragic career . This definitive version of A Star Is Born boasts no less than four standout performances from - in alphabetical order - Charles Bickford , Jack Carson , Judy Garland and James Mason and we shouldn't overlook Tommy Noonan's contribution to the general excellence . Playing her second character named Esther - the first was Esther Smith in the third outstanding Garland feature , Meet Me In St Louis - Garland hits every stop on the gamut and joins fellow singers Frank Sinatra and Yves Montand in displaying a superb emotional acting range . She didn't need to show how well she could SING , we knew that going in but what we didn't know - but would see reinforced in both Judgment at Nuremberg and A Child Is Waiting - is how well she could ACT . In MMISL she performed three great numbers that all transcended the film but none of the three was a Torch song and here she addresses that omission with The Man That Got Away which rightfully takes its place firstly beside The Boy Next Door , The Trolley Song and Have Yourself A Merrly Little Christmas and secondly among the all-time-great Standards of the 20th century . James Mason was an actor first and a star second and he has seldom been better than his washed-up alcoholic actor Norman Maine and Mason's artistry is such that he permits us a glimpse of just how GOOD an actor Maine really was in his heyday or to put it another way , BEFORE we , the audience , met Maine . Bickford slightly underplays Oliver Niles which makes his studio boss the more effective and Jack Carson oozes insincerity from every pore . This is really a first-rate melodrama which just happens to have some great songs in it , either way it's top drawer .
The Pajama Game	For some perverse reason best known to themselves these IMDb boards seem reluctant to credit the great Billy Wilder as co-scriptwriter on at least two ( this one and Ninotchka ) of his early classics when any buff can detect the Wilder hand at work . As it happens this represented the first time he was teamed with Charles Brackett ( who DOES get a credit ) and it was a great start . One commenter has noted how satisfying it is to see these type of films in old-fashioned cinemas and I couldn't agree more . In Paris one of the smaller Revival houses shows in one of its salles a more or less continuous Lubitsch retrospective and I'm pleased to report that this played to a very appreciative audience right across the age spectrum though I doubt whether any were actually alive when it was first released in 1938 . The famous Wilder schtick the meet-cute is particularly tasty here when millionaire but-careful-with-it Cooper attempts to buy half a set of pajamas in a department store on the Riviera and meets with sales resistance until Claudette Colbert turns up and agrees to buy the other half . The gag is milked even more when , having exhausted the chain of command at the store itself the manager places a call to the owner , who is in bed and leaves it to reveal that he , too , is only wearing the top half of pajamas . The film is full of sight-gags like this balanced with verbal wit which makes it just about perfect . Claudette Colbert is only terrific and gets great backing from Edward Everett Horton as her impoverished titled father . David Niven in fourth billing has some funny ' business ' as does Franklin Pangborn and if Gary Cooper is not up to his role lacking as he does the verbal dexterity and sophisticated persona that Wilder scripts called for at this stage of his career well , you can't have everything and what you DO have is darned near perfect .
What A Night	The beauty of this stand-out collaboration between Jacques Prevert and Marcel Carne - in the middle of their great hitting streak - is that it works even without the ' coded ' references which were a necessity at a time of German Occupation in France . So even when you watch Jules Berry as just the Devil and not a symbol for Hitler and likewise view the two visitors not as symbols of the Resistance but merely two wandering minstrels it still plays and you'll go a long way to find a more poetic image / symbol than Prevert's finale in which the Devil turns the lovers to stone before our eyes yet their hearts keep on beating . Not least of the pleasures on offer is future icon Simone Signoret as an extra but the whole schmeer , complete with some tasty lyrics by Prevert , is a total delight .
Gateau For Galatea	There are 142 comments for this movie and the handful I've read all address divers points . This seems to make a strong case for Musicals with strong ' Books ' and songs written specifically to further the action as opposed to the Amateur fumblings of the Baz Luhrmans of this world and their inept attempts to quart of one era into the pint pot of another . MFL scores highly in all departments ; strong book , strong score , strong acting , strong sense of period / costume etc . On the other hand it's arguably the Only and certainly one of a very few - in fact I can't think of another offhand - to throw its two Love songs away . The second one WAS intentional because it was written for the leading man , the non-singing Rex Harrison but the earlier example is mystifying . ' On The Street Where You Live ' is a PASSIONATE love song in the best Cole Porter tradition , with a soaring melody by Fritz Loewe and though far from his best certainly adequate lyrics by Alan Lerner . This song is the musical equivalent of the person in the first flush of love who can't Contain his desire to tell the world about it and usually bores his / her friends to death . As performed by Jeremy Brett ( dubbed by Bill Shirley ) it is stripped of all passion and is rather insipid , THIS is someone saying ' Well , I've met this girl and she's . . . all right , I suppose . Not bad , certainly . . . interesting , I suppose you'd say . Not bad looking really , in fact I quite like her ' . Several mainstream singers recorded the song , not least Vic Damone , with whom it has become closely associated so WHY couldn't Warners stretch to a singer who could do it justice . As it stands Jeremy Brett / Bill Shirley between them have managed to snatch a suet pudding from the jaws of a soufflé . The second love song , ' I've Grown Accustomed To Her Face ' is , in many ways the PERFECT love song inasmuch as Lerner and Loewe were faced with writing a love song - and one which doubled as an ' eleven o'clock ' number for a non-singing misanthrope . This is the ' self-discovery ' type of love song and perhaps it needs an Actor as much as if not more than a Singer . Essentially it merely illustrates in words and music the well-documented phenomena of someone ' growing ' on us surreptitiously . This is the perfect song with which to end our story ; a simple end to a sumptuous show . This is definitely and unequivocally one of THE Best Musicals - Broadway and / or Hollywood - of all time .
All In The Golden Afternoon	Though I love Chekhov the better a production of one of his masterpieces I see the sadder I am that I am still missing wonderful nuances because 1 ) I don't speak Russian and 2 ) I have no Direct , or Primary Source if you will , knowledge of Russia and so have to rely on reasonably extensive reading which is , of course , no substitute . So in effect I know no more of Stalinist Russia than I do of , say , Wonderland , the Wonderland from which I selected my Summary for this critique but the fact that I cannot speak Jabberwock doesn't prevent me from enjoying Alice In Wonderland and nor does my lack of Russian prevent me from savouring this wonderful evocation of a totally corrupt regime viewed largely through a prism of innocence if not ignorance . In many ways there is a feeling of late Chekov here in the scenes of a languorous summer afternoon viewed through the eyes of an ex-aristocratic family gathered on a Chekhovian dacha in which they have succeeded in keeping reality at bay . Those with a taste for metaphor will find it in the delivery driver going around in circles before eventually being shot and those with a taste for acting of the highest quality will find it in the Writer-Director and Leading Man , Kotov , in his nemesis Mitya , and even in his own real-life daughter , Nadya . Love , Death , Pain , Laughter , Tears , Joy , Anguish , Bitterness , Despair are all present and correct in this exceptional melange which is too rich to savour at one sitting and requires multiple viewings . Did I say masterpiece ? In spades .
The Wilder Shores Of Love	It seems to be not just stating but over stating the obvious to say yet again that Billy Wilder was a writing-directing genius , that Audrey Hepburn was not only drop-dead gorgeous but also a gifted actress , that Bogie and Bill Holden were consummate professionals who were virtually strangers to bad performances but I'm being constantly reminded that there are people reading these Boards whose parents may not have been born in the era when Sabrina was made and I guess you could argue that those of us a tad longer in the tooth have some kind of moral obligation to discuss artistes whose work is now becoming available on DVD in an effort to help them distinguish the wheat from the chaff . Virtually all the books about Wilder - and possibly Hepburn and Bogie as well - mention the tension on the set between lone wolf Bogie and cosy threesome Wilder , Holden and Hepburn and the amazing thing is that this doesn't show on screen . Wilder makes a big thing out of the fact that the ' Baron ' - an outstanding cameo by Marcel Dalio - is making souffles at Hepburns Cooking School in Paris as if to reinforce what he ( Wilder ) himself is doing from beginning to end in this delightful confection . Everyone was on top of their game and boy , does it show . This is one of those films that no one should even DREAM of remaking because that's like trying to reconstitute as an adult a snowflake that enchanted you as a child . Untouchable , unmissable . As another poster said , this is why we go to the movies , for moments like this . Magic .
Shadow Waltz	This is one of the Great ones : In terms of French cinema in the first full decade of Sound it belongs right up there with Marius , Fanny , Cesar , Quai des Brumes , Le Jour se leve , La Femme du boulanger , La Grande Illusion and you can't put anything higher than that though Duvivier's own La Belle equipe and Pepe Le Moko both come within a whisker . It's the kind of film that would be difficult to make today as would , for example , Dial M For Murder . Frederick Knott wrote Dial as a play in the early fifties and the Hitchcock film version was released in 1954 BUT the entire plot ( our old friend the ' perfect ' murder ) hinged on the fact that in those days only the upper and middle classes had telephones at all and those were in fixed locations and in this era of jack points and cell phones the idea of someone obliged to answer a telephone located on a desk in front of heavy drapes behind which a murderer was lurking ready to strike when the phone was answered would be ludicrous . Carnet is similar inasmuch as ' dance cards ' are unheard of today belonging as they do to a world of stately dancing and courtly manners where even a ' nice ' girl would as soon turn up to a dance totally naked as without a ' full ' dance card - many of us will remember how , in Meet Me In St Louis , Judy Garland and Lucille Bremner ' marked ' the dance card of an out-of-towner loading it with every dead-beat in town . So , yes , it is archaic but fortunately those of us who care to can have archaic and eat it courtesy of the Art / Revival House , Movie Channels on TV and / or the DVD . Living by a lake a widow comes face to face with what today we would call a mid-life crisis ; vaguely melancholic and slightly wistful lest she did , as she suspects , marry the wrong man , she allows her thoughts to drift to her first dance and the names on her very first dance card who , on a whim , she decides to trace . WE know of course that you can't go home again even if we've never even heard of Tom Wolfe let alone read him but thankfully Christine feels otherwise . It was a nice touch to find that the first name on the card is dead - but try telling that to his mother , the great Francoise Rosay - as if to say right from the word go that love dies , baby , if you neglect it . One by one via a night-club semi racketeer , a monk , a ski instructor , the mayor of a small town , an epileptic doctor with a lucrative sideline in abortion and a gay hairdresser the scales fall and / or are stripped from her eyes leaving her sadder but wiser . Some of the top names in French cinema step up to the plate , Harry Baur , Louis Jouvet , Fernandel etc and no one strikes out . Henri Jeanson and Julien Duvivier brought honour to the French cinema with this one that remains a must-see and before I sign off let me acknowledge a genuine altruistic contributor to these boards who , with exceptional kindness , sent me not only this gem but seventeen others . Watch this space .
Russian Buffaloed ( courtesy D . Mamet )	I sympathise with the Russian poster who took exception with Mamet's tampering with Chekhov but I still admire this film a great deal . As a non-Russian and non-Russian speaker I have loved Chekhov since the time I was able to distinguish great writing from mediocre and I have always felt that no matter how fine a given translation I was still losing the occasional untranslatable nuance to which Russian speakers have access . Vanya is also one of my favourite Chekhov plays and I just wallowed in this wonderful version . It's magical the way that once inside the rehearsal space with the actors schmoozing Wally Shawn stretches out on a bench almost imperceptibly and Larry Pine asks Phoebe Brand casually how long they've known each other and unless you really know Chekhov you'd think this was just actor small-talk instead of the first lines in the play between the Doctor and Nanny , or , to put it another way , Malle has led us both artfully and seamlessly into the performance and then , having done so , he throws in a touch of the Brechts by deliberately reminding us we're watching actors acting and not people living . The first time he tips his glove is via Wally Shawn's cup which has I Love NY written on it then later Andre explains to the visitors ( who , I suspect , have been planted there for just that purpose ) that it's now a different time . The acting throughout is beyond praise and a wonderful high note for Louis Malle to end his career . going away .
Hix Trix Pix Clix	It's one thing to come up with a great title and quite another to write a novel that lives up to it and Robert Penn Warren more than succeeded with his Pulitzer Prize winner All The King's Men ; it's possible that not too many people in England were aware that Huey Pierce Long was also known as the ' Kingfish ' and that one of his most potent slogans was ' every man a king ' but even so the notion of a Humpty Dumpty figure falling from a great height and being unmendable was still a great metaphor bearing in mind that the ' men ' in question were Long's close circle of powerful friends . Robert Rossen was able to extract the juice of this great novel albeit condensing its richness and he was well served by an exceptional cast from Brod Crawford down ; Bilko fans , for example , will relish Paul Ford , albeit uncredited , in a ' straight ' role and mediocre actors like John Ireland , Shepherd Strudwick and Joanne Dru ( Mrs John Ireland ) all did their best work here but ultimately it is Crawford's charismatic role that carries all before it . Don't even consider the trashy remake .
A ( Bad ) Taste Of Honey	It's difficult to know which to celebrate first ; the laugh-til-you-cry jokes or the glorious finger it extends to the PC brigade . Even the most liberal among us have had it up to here with extremists who want , for instance , to ban Christmas in English schools in case it offends Asian terrorists and in that respect this is a gem and illustrates the age-old concept , where do you go to hear the best Jewish jokes , where else but to a Jew and who else but Mel Brooks could concoct a delight such as this good ' old fashioned ' entertainment . A movie like this shows just what a joke Moulin Rouge was - that's the Baz Luhrman version not the far superior John Huston film - and reminds us what a joy movies USED TO BE . Okay , I could have done without Uma Thurman whose appeal / talent ( if any ) has always eluded me but that's really a minor quibble . Okay , the academics and Sight And Sound pseuds aren't going to find much analytical meat on these funny bones but that's their tough luck . For the rest of us , See ; Kvel .
Is It A Masterpiece ? Natch , Gloria , Natch	Wilder strikes again . Although it's swell to be the first to laud a NEW movie and have that opinion endorsed by later posters it's equally swell - for me at least - to endorse a truly great movie like this one - and indeed most of the Wilder canon . My self-imposed rule of not writing about an old movie until I see it again applies to virtually every Wilder movie ; I saw the later ones initially in the cinema and the earlier ones on TV or in Revival houses before I became active on these boards and I don't like to trust my memory but the NFT is running a complete Wilder retrospective which is a great chance to revisit genius . All I can add to what is here is YES . IT'S GREAT !
Ah , yes , I Remember It Well	This is a lovely , gentle satire that comes across even to Westerners who know next to nothing of Romanian politics and must be exquisitely rich to Romanians themselves . There's a lovely air of the quiet desperation that Thoreau claimed informed the lives of the majority . The setting is a small town in Romania where the owner of a small television station ( he has a staff of one , reminiscent of those ubiquitous one-man radio stations in thirties America ) is obliged to telephone invitees from his home to ascertain if he can rely on them to show up for his talk-show and then has to use his beat-up car to take them there . For his talk show this December 22nd he has opted to pose the question was there a revolution in THIS small town BEFORE 12 : 08 on this day in 1989 . The fact this this is the SIXTEENTH anniversary of the downfall of Nicolae Ceaucescu and not a rounder number like 20th also smacks of desperation . To debate this with the Host / Station owner Virgil Jderescu ( Teodor Corban ) are History teacher and serious alcoholic Tiberiu Manescu ( Ion Sapdaru ) and a retired Santa Claus Emanoil Piscoci ( Micea Andreescu ) and for good measure the audience are encouraged to telephone with live on-air comments . On paper this is not exactly riveting stuff but writer director Corniliu Porumboiu proves adept at capturing the quirkiness and small-time score settling of , presumably , a small Romanian town . In some ways it is reminiscent of The Fireman's Ball with the same Eastern-European flavored humor and observation . I'll certainly buy the DVD once it becomes available .
Tenderized Comrade	When I saw this film first , perhaps twenty years ago , I was so ignorant of things Russian that I thought the Garbo character had actually been christened Ninotchka and / or it was a genuine Christian name . Since then I've learned that Russians have a charming habit of ' tenderising ' names by adding a suffix so that Nina , for example , can be ' tenderized ' to Ninotchka . I saw the film again recently in Paris where one Art House in particular seems to run virtually continuous Lubitsch retrospectives . When I saw it recently I knew that Ninotcka had been christened Nina and you know what ? It didn't make that much difference . It was a GREAT movie when I saw it first and it's STILL a Great movie , tenderizer or not . I'm also slightly astounded that on the credits on this Board the name of Billy Wilder is omitted ( unless , you click on ' more ' ) which is not unlike omitting the names of Lubitsch and Garbo because apart from the Lubitsch ' touch ' the Wilder touch is evident in every frame . On this board you will find a large selection of ' quotations ' from the film , arguably as many if not more than yielded by Casablanca and in every one the caustic tongue of Wilder is clearly detectable . In fact the whole film reeks of Wilder and his penchant for what we might call the cyanide soufflé , the light-as-air romantic comedy laced with cynical barbs directed - in this case - mostly at the Russia of Stalin . I've looked in vain for a dull moment , every observation is right on the money , the characters are flesh and blood as opposed to cardboard and the leading character undergoes the obligatory volte face two thirds of the way through . The thirties provided some of the all-time great movie comedies - not least two of Wilder's own in Bluebreard's Eighth Wife and Midnight - but this is the one they all have to beat . Rating ? Off the chart .
We SHALL Go To The Ball ( And Have One )	With the NFT poised for a major Wilder retrospective next month I've been getting out my Wilder collection , a mixture of dvds and taped-from-TV videos to remind myself , as if I NEEDED reminding , of a unique and fantastic talent . Most people on this board have said it for me , it IS inexplicable why this gem got lost in the shuffle when all that fuss was being made of what an exceptional year 1939 was for Hollywood movies . Even the pedestrian journeyman director Mitchell Liesen , Wilder's bete noir , couldn't louse this one up and after sixty six years it's still as fresh as it was on its first sneak preview . Colbert was , of course , a class act and could make anyone look good which was just as well because Done Ameche was prime Sequoia 99 per cent of the time but with Colbert he raised his game . It's also more than a bonus to find Jack Barrymore firing on five out of eight cylinders and five Jack Barrymore cylinders leave eight of half the leading men in Hollywood dead in the water . As the title implies this is Wilder and Brackett's take on Cinderella with Barrymore playing the fairy godmother who makes it possible for Cinderella Eve Peabody to go to the ball albeit for more selfish reasons than his fairytale counterpart . As usual with the Wilder of this vintage - see Bluebeard's Eighth Wife , Ninotchka , etc - we're treated to a rich , nay heady mixture of sight and verbal gags . Genius at work . Not to be missed . Watch , Treasure .
Sophocles And Sundance	Over a span of exactly 10 ( 1949 - 1959 ) years journeyman director Henry King shot five films starring Gregory Peck ; two of them , The Snows Of Kilimanjaro and The Bravados were pretty ho-hum whilst the last one , Beloved Infidel with Peck as Scott Fitzgerald ( King's next and final film was Fitzgerald's Tender Is The Night ) was woefully underrated and has still to find its audience . The first two , shot back to back , 12 O'Clock High and this one remain the pick of the bunch , two early and excellent studies of psychological stress . The Gunfighter is shot through with the air of inexorability that has been with us since Euripedes , Aeschylus and Sophocles were writing out of Athens in the 5th century BC . You are what you do ; you can't reform and hope the Gods will forget your past . Take one false step and you've sealed your own fate . It's hard to think of an actor who , at the time ( 1950 ) could have conveyed an essentially decent killer ( Alan Ladd of course did something very similar three years later in Shane but Ladd somehow lacked Peck's gravitas ) so perfectly . Woefully underrated as an actor Peck was right on top of his game here , as he was in 12 O'Clock High and if they even considered 85 minute movies for Oscars then his Jimmy Ringo may well have preceded his Atticus Finch statuette-wise . William Bowers provided a very literate screenplay and snatches of dialogue have remained with me for years : an arrogant young punk ( Richard Jaeckel ) remarks to his barber-shop cronies that Ringo doesn't look so fast to him , ' I bet I'm faster than him ' , to which a friend replies drily ' if you're not can I have your saddle ' ; and Karl Malden's loquacious bartender , full of reminiscence of earlier encounters with Ringo ' I used to serve you and Bucky Harris all the time ' , to which Peck replies , equally drily , ' did we ever get a drink ? ' . Millard Mitchell was in both movies ( 12 O'Clock High and Gunfighter ) and here he plays outlaw-turned-marshall Strett and serves as an illustration for what Peck's Ringo MIGHT have become if the Gods didn't have it in for him . We cover a lot of ground in 85 minutes whilst perversely seeming to have all the time in the world with King allowing his camera to linger on two-shots . Helen Westcott doesn't have much to do as Mrs Ringo but she lends just the right air of respectability that makes it hard for us to picture Ringo as a cold-blooded killer . As other posters have pointed out for a Western there's not all that much gun-play or even fistfights yet it towers over other Westerns that are packed with action . A real treasure .
Now You Has STYL	This movie comes THAT close to being the Perfect Musical Film - and nothing comes closer . The ingredients were all there - a brittle , social satire penned by socialite and sophisticate Philip Barry and tailored expressly for the talents of Katie Hepburn who , in the late thirties had been branded ' box-office poison ' by mid-west film distributors and responded by commissioning Barry to provide a vehicle for her return to Broadway ; wait sixteen years then turn the story over to another sophisticate who just happens to be the Best songwriter in the business , Cole Porter , throw in the best male singer of the twentieth century , Frank Sinatra and you can really stop there but just for a laugh throw in ANOTHER top singer , Bing Crosby , a great jazz combo fronted by Louis Armstrong and sterling support in the shape of Celeste Holm , Louis Calhern , Sydney Blackmer , Margalo Gillmore and John Lund . Okay , you're stuck with a clothes-horse who trained at the Forestry Commission School of Acting as a Leading Lady but you can't have everything . When he began work on this score Cole Porter had already written and seen produced what would turn out to be his last Broadway score , Silk Stockings , and there would be only one more film , Les Girls and one TV ' special ' Aladdin to come but he excelled himself with the 10 songs he composed for this film ( technically , nine inasmuch as Well , Did You Evah , had been written 17 years previously for the Broadway show DuBarry Was A Lady and the ' extra ' lyrics were the work of Saul Chaplin and not Porter himself but that's to quibble ) . If the classiest number by a mile is the last one , Mind If I Make Love To You , a typical Porter ballad in beguine tempo , there's not too much wrong with Sinatra's other solo , You're Sensational , the Sinatra-Holm duet Who Wants To Be A Millionaire , the Crosby solos Little One and I Love You , Samantha , the other duets , Now You Has Jazz and Well , Did You Evah or in fact ANY of the songs . Apart from switching the location from Philadelphia to Newport , Rhode Island , to accommodate the musicalization John Patrick was remarkably faithful to Barry's original ( maybe it was the Sinatra element ; he had previously starred in a musical version of Four Daughters - Young At Heart - taking the role that introduced John Garfield to the screen and again the musical version was remarkably faithful to the original ) and if , like me , you have both versions on one tape and play them one after the other you'll find a remarkable amount of dialogue remains intact . John Lund had started out as a leading man and in Billy Wilder's great black comedy A Foreign Affair he'd had Marlene Dietrich and Jean Arthur competing for his attention yet here he plays stuffed shirt George Kittridge to perfection . With the possible exception of Grace-mahogany-Kelly there isn't a less than exquisite performance in the entire film . Truly a classic .
The Way To The ( Ten ) Stars	This is one of those ' period ' films replete with the kind of dialogue that we've heard ' sent up ' a thousand times and responded to the send ups by laughing at them but this film that SHOULD be faintly risible holds the attention and inspires tears rather than laughter . This is probably because it is as finely crafted as a Faberge egg or a Louis VIII commode . The screenplay is the work of Terence Rattigan , one of the finest English playwrights of the 20th century - indeed even a cursory glance at the relationship between Joyce Cary and her niece Renee Asherson reveals a blueprint for the Mrs Railton-Bell and daughter Sybil in Rattigan's Separate Tables which lay a good ten years in the future - who could and did turn his hand to the screenplay usually successfully as in The Sound Barrier . Michael Redgrave , destined to star magnificently in Rattigan's The Browning Version ( directed , as here , by Puffin Asquith ) stands out as the dashing and charming pilot who disappears far too soon having flown without his ' lucky ' lighter and gone down in flames . Rattigan's strength as a writer of wartime drama is in concentrating on the people rather than the battles so that the planes are seen taking off and landing at Halfpenny Field and that is all . The ensemble cast complement each other perfectly from John Mills raw recruit maturing into a leader to Stanley Holloway's hotel bore . One of the finest of its kind .
Stairway To Paradise ( Or Not , As The Case May Be )	In my memory I have always rated this higher than the subsequent ( one year later ) Greene-Reed collaboration The Third Man and now that it has just been re-issued I see no reason to amend that verdict . Coincidentally both films turn to the Continent for their love interest , respectively Michele Morgan and Alida Valli and if Morgan was , hands down , the superior actress , both led with expressive eyes and shared the same waif-like build . Here Morgan does wonders with a part that on paper is almost non-existent and gets across wonderfully the anguish of a young girl living away from home in a foreign country and turning for emotional sustenance to a man one step up from a husk by virtue of a shrewish wife who has , over the years , sucked all the spirit out of him . Ralph Richardson turns in one of his finest ever film performances supported by Sonia Dresdel as the shrew and Bobby Henrey as Philippe , the ten-year old catalyst is beyond praise in a role that , like so many child actors , he was never able to replicate or even approach in later years . Sprinkled throughout like hundreds and thousands on a celebratory cake are cameos from the likes of Dandy Nichols , Jack Hawkins , Geoffrey Keene and Dora Bryan phoning in her perennial tart-with-a-heart . For me this is far and away the best thing Reed ever did though others will probably disagree and I've already ordered the DVD .
Donkey's Years	This film belongs right up there with Citizen Kane and it's impossible to rate any film higher than that . Both should be mandatory viewing in every film school in the world where they would serve , with luck , to deter the average and inspire the gifted . Between them they represent everything that is good about the art and / or craft of making films . Citizen Kane chose to say a very simple thing - money can't buy happiness - in an extremely clever and sophisticated way ; Au Hasard Balthazar chooses to say something open to a hundred interpretations in just about the simplest way possible . Au Hasard Balthazar is at once as simple as a glass of water and as complex as a snowflake . Above EVERYTHING it is both Beautiful and Heartbreaking and long after scholars , academicians , theologists and their Uncle Max have exhausted the debate from every permutation of metaphysical , metaphorical and allegorical mathematically possible its simplicity and beauty will remain etched in the memory . Not even Vincent Cassell at his worst inspires more hate and contempt than Francois Lefarge who swaggers through the film like a dysfunctional rooster , taunting , beating , setting fire to Balthazar's tail as the fancy strikes him and not even Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi ( who can do no wrong in these eyes ) has done simplicity and decency better than Anne Wiazemsky , the only person in the entire film who feels any love for or shows any love to Balthazar . Like many people who love film I sometimes despair as the sea of Robocops , American Pies , Matrixes and worse threaten to grow to tsunami proportions and engulf us all in a tidal wave of mediocre merde and all I can say is that next time YOU feel like that slip Au Hasard Balthazar into the DVD and renew your faith in all that's best about film-making .
Outfoxed	I haven't seen Norman Brook's play ' Fragile Fox ' on which James Poe based his screenplay , indeed I doubt if many people saw it but it's reasonable to suppose that Poe has ' opened it out ' considerably and in doing so effectively ' shown ' us what could presumably only be spoken of onstage . What is undeniable is that Robert Aldrich brought out the best of Jack Palance ; this is one of two films they made together back to back in 1956 and both are outstanding . Coincidentally both were adapted from stage plays though Cliff Odet's ' The Big Knife ' enjoyed by far the highest profile of the two in theatrical terms . It's fun trying to speculate which of the several interiors Brooks used in his play but what Poe has done is to weave together seamlessly ' action ' and dialogue and the result is a near-perfect movie . War , of course , is only a convenient backdrop for the exploration of human nature in extremis with , at one end of the spectrum , Costa's ( Palance ) courage and humane love of the men under his command and at the other Cooney's ( Eddie Albert ) moral bankruptcy and cowardice . Approaching the centre of the spectrum from either ends are Lee Marvin's Clyde Bartlett , overall commander of the company who is more than aware of Albert's failings but needs his clout ( Cooney's father is a judge back home ) to further his post-war political aspirations and William Smither's Woodruff , in complete accord with Palance ( and , it must be said ) the entire platoon in both contempt for and hatred of Albert but much prefers to approach things through channels and ' by the book ' rather than take a confrontational ' hands-on ' stance like Palance . This is a great film on any level in which you care to judge it and in tandem with The Big Knife marks the apex of both Adrich's and Palance's careers .
- Wise Guys	This is as close as makes no difference to the very best of Billy Wilder and that is , essentially , the Best of the Best . We'd be here all day if I were to list EVERY great Wilder film but the majority are great on one level - Double Indemnity , The Lost Weekend , Ace In The Hole , Sunset Boulevard , great Drams all ; Some Like It Hot , The Major And The Minor , A Foreign Affair , One , Two , Three , great comedies , but with The Apartment Wilder moves effortlessly from satire ( the four wise guys who monopolise the apartment and see everything as corporate-wise , situation-wise , promotion-wise , Kubelik-wise etc ) . through comedy to drama without missing a beat . The writing is breathtaking and coupled brilliantly to visuals that move the story along like the cracked compact mirror and Wilder isn't afraid to give the most minor character a good line - witness the Santa in the bar who walks into the scene and says ' my sleigh is double-parked ' and later , when the bartender is waiting to close and asks if the drunk realizes what night it is he replies ' I work for the outfit ' . In the same scene , of course , is another fully realized character , Margie , whose jockey husband is in gaol in Havana for doping horses . Virtually everyone puts in top-of-the-line performances ( even Shirley MacLaine is not as hard to take as usual ) from the four horsemen of Baxter's apocalypse to Edie Adams , to Fred McMurray , Jack Kruschen but towering head and shoulders above everyone is the brilliant Jack Lemon running the gamut from A to BEYOND Z . Coming up to half a century old and STILL better than most of the stuff coming out of Hollywood today . A true classic .
